10.2307/3673435|Of the African continent, 45 percent of the land has slopes of at least 8 percent; more than 55 percent is higher than 500 m, more than 20 percent is higher than 1,000 m, and about one percent is higher than 2,000 m. Mountain ranges and massifs, deeply-incised gorges or escarpments, and highlands are huge resource areas of great importance for Africa's growing population. An integrated methodological approach is proposed as a basis for common research and development strategies and for comparative studies in Africa's differing mountain ecosystem. Generally adopted Resolutions opened the way for the foundation of an Association for Research and Development on African Mountains and Highlands or, in short, the African Mountain Association (AMA). /// Sur le continent africain, 45 pour cent des terres ont une pente d'au moins 8 pour cent; plus de 55 pour cent d'entre elles se trouvent  plus de 500 m d'altitude, plus de 20 pour cent  plus de 1.000 m et environ 1 pour cent  plus de 2.000 m. Les chanes de montagne et les massifs, les gorges profondes ou escarpements, et les hautes terres constituent de vastes ressources d'une importance primordiale pour la population croissante de l'Afrique. Une approche mthodologique intgre est propose comme base pour des statgies communes de recherche et dveloppement, et pour des tudes comparatives des diffrents cosystmes montagnards de l'Afrique. Des rsolutions adoptes en majorit ont permis d'tablir l'Association pour la recherche et le dveloppement dans les montagnes et hautes terres africaines, ou tout simplement l'Association pour les montagnes africaines (AMA). /// 45% des afrikanischen Kontinents besteht aus einem Relief mit Hangwinkeln ber 8%; mehr als 55% ist hher als 500 m, mehr als 20% hher als 1000 m und 1% ist hher als 2000 m. Gebirge im weitesten Sinne und Hochlnder sind Gebiete mit Ressourcen, die fr die rasch wachsende Bevlkerung Afrikas von hchster Bedeutung sind. Ein methodisch integraler Ansatz wird postuliert als Grundlage fr knftige Forschungs- und Entwicklungsstrategien, aber auch fr vergleichbare Untersuchungen in den sehr verschiedenen Gebirgskosystemen dieses Kontinents.
mounresedeve.34.4.344|This study investigated summer farming in the Chornohora and the adaptation strategies practiced in summer pasturelands, using field observations, in-depth interviews with local inhabitants, and official data from Ukrainian institutions. The indigenous Hutsul people have developed organizational forms of animal husbandryoften based on family farmingthat they try to follow despite the lack of support from the state. Which of the summer farming types practiced in the Chornohora adapts well to modern challenges? What can be learned from the Chornohora's example for the protection of traditional landscapes shaped by seasonal grazing in other mountain regions? We approach these problems through 5 case studies, chosen from more than 40 farms that were investigated during visits to the study area over 5 years, illustrating a range of practices from traditional transhumance to agritourism and including both private and collective farms, some within protected areas. Chornohora's 40 working farms present a unique contrast to the common pattern of grassland abandonment and afforestation in the Ukrainian Carpathians.
10.2307/3672963|The impact of trampling upon herbaceous vegetation was tested on the west slope of the Andes Range in central Chile at two sites near the ski resorts of Farellones and La Parva, located at 2,300 and 2,800 m above sea level. During the snow-free season, walking upon areas with herbaceous vegetation, caused displacement of stones and compaction of soils, along with a significant decrease in the number and density of species. This damage was slightly greater when the disturbance occurred during the period of maximum vegetative activity. Some effects, mainly reduction in the number of individuals, were still visible a year later. Conservation measures are discussed. /// Les effets des pitinements sur la vgtation herbace a t vrifi sur la pente ouest de la Cordillre des Andes dans le Chili central  deux sites prs des stations de ski de Farellones et de la Parva, situes  2,300 et 2,800 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer. Pendant la saison sans neige, les pitinements sur les endroits couverts de vgtation herbaces ont provoques de dplacements de cailloux et de compactage du sol accompagns d'une diminution importante du nombre et de la densit des espces. Cette dgradation a t lgrement plus importante lorsque le drangement s'est produit pendant une priode d'activit vgtative maximum. Quelques effets, particulirement la rduction dans le nombre des habitants, ont t observs quelques annes plus tard. Des mesures de protection sont prsentes. /// An den westlichen Hngen der Anden in Zentral-Chile wurde untersucht, welche Folgen sich aus dem Zertreten des Krautbewuchses ergeben. Die Untersuchungen wurden in zwei Gegenden nahe den Skigebieten von Farellones und La Parva in Hhen von 2.300 m und 2.800 m .M. vorgenommen. Das Gehen auf bewachsenen Flchen whrend der schneefreien Jahreszeit verursachte ein Loslsen von Steinen und ein Verdichten des Erdreichs. Gleichzeitig ging die Zahl und die Dichte der Pflanzenarten zurck. Der Schaden war noch grer, wenn die Zerstrung whrend der Hauptwachstumsperiode geschah. Einige Folgen, hauptschlich die des Rckganges von Pflanzenarten waren noch nach einem Jahr sichtbar. Massnahmen zur Erhaltung werden diskutiert.
mounresedeve.33.4.463|Glacier tourism, a multimillion-dollar industry in New Zealand, is potentially under threat by ongoing glacial retreat. Surface morphology changes associated with retreat and thinning result in increasingly difficult access for guided walks on the Franz Josef Glacier, but simultaneously, an enlarging proglacial lake is increasing tourism opportunities at Tasman Glacier. Steepening ice slopes, increased debris cover, and an increase in the rockfall hazard are just some of the challenges glacier tourism operators face as glaciers around the world retreat. To date in New Zealand, glacier tourism has kept pace with ongoing glaciological change, often by increasing mechanized access. Focusing scientific research on short-term process studiesfor example, determining thinning rates and assessing hazardswill help tour operators and policy-makers make decisions about future glacier utilization and accessibility.
3674205|The Arctic is a region of spectacular and diverse mountain environments. One example is the Svalbard Archipelago in the Norwegian high arctic. Despite its remote location in the Arctic Ocean, Svalbard has an astonishingly diverse economy based on coal mining, arctic research, and the island's geostrategic importance. In recent years, tourism has become increasingly important, with more than a fourfold increase in tourists from the 1970s to the 1990s. This development poses serious threats to the island's highly vulnerable arctic-alpine environment. A management plan for tourism and outdoor recreation has been prepared in recent years, with a view to safeguarding the unique environment and keeping tourism development within environmentally sustainable and commercially acceptable boundaries.
mounresedeve.36.4.484|Using 2 models, this article illustrates different forms of in-migration in the Alps, the motivations for relocation, and effects of newcomers on their destination areas. Since the 1990s, more and more communities in the European Alps, which had suffered from depopulation for many decades, have become in-migration destinations. This new demographic trend is particularly pronounced in the French and Italian western Alps and on the periphery of the central Alps. Up to the end of the millennium, the western and southern Alps were considered the major demographic problem areas within the Alpine arc. During the past decade, however, the picture has changed significantly: while communities in the western Alps have gradually recovered from massive outmigration, the situation now appears precarious in the eastern Alps. Even though many regions in the eastern Alps are still characterized by depopulation, we can find demographic processes similar to those in the western Alps, where in-migration contributes to population gains in peripheral mountain villages. This article demonstrates 2 models developed to explain these trends by applying the models to 2 villages in the Italian Alps. Model 1 outlines the diverse composition and dynamics of the population, potential migration flows, and the main motivations for relocation. Model 2 depicts the impacts of amenity migrants on socioeconomic, cultural, and infrastructural aspects in a mountain village as well as on the cultural landscape and building stock. In order to allow regional comparisons of individual hamlets, villages, or valleys, the degree of the models abstraction was kept low; this also enables their application to other mountain areas.
mounresedeve.29.3.250|The Atacora Mountain range is an important mountain chain in the West African landscape. It extends from northern Benin to Togo and Ghana. More and more cattle are starting to graze on the Beninese part of this range, although there is a critical lack of basic data on its ecological function. The present study assesses the effects of topography and aspect on the grassland biomass production of these mountains. The results show that annual grassland biomass production averages 5.29 tonnes dry matter (DM)/ha. This biomass production is significantly impacted by aspect (east facing versus west facing). Biomass is lower on east-facing sides (4.97 tonnes DM/ha) than on west-facing sides (6.10 tonnes DM/ha) and hilltops and valleys (6.24 tonnes DM/ha). This effect may be explained by direct exposure of east-facing sides to the harmattan, a northeast dry wind blowing from the Sahara Desert. No significant impact of topography on biomass production is observed.
10.2307/3673600|This paper presents a general account of geomorphic processes effective above timberline in the Spanish Pyrenees with emphasis on the central section of the range. Climatic and environmental factors are discussed in detail as well as the geomorphic responses to lowering of the upper timberline, especially between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries. During this period expansion of livestock grazing reduced the forest cover extensively and caused a substantial lowering of the lower altitudinal limit of periglacial activity. Relic periglacial forms are attributable to the Late Quaternary Period, although many active forms are present today. These include rock glaciers, solifluction lobes and terracettes, and various types of patterned ground. Altitude, exposure, slope gradient, and lithology are shown to be important determinant factors, together with the increasing degree of continentality in the Central Pyrenees compared with areas further west and east respectively. The high mountain region is divided into two altitudinal belts with the 2,400 m level forming the general boundary. /// Cet article donne un aperu gnral des processus gomorphiques qui se produisent au-dessus de la limite des arbres dans les Pyrnes espagnoles, en particulier dans la partie centrale de la chane. Les facteurs climatiques et environnementaux sont examins en dtail, ainsi que les rponses gomorphiques  la descente de la limite suprieure des arbres, en particulier entre le seizime et le dix-neuvime sicles. Au cours de cette priode, l'expansion du pturage de btail a considrablement rduit la converture forestire et a caus une descente sensible de la limite altitudinale infrieure de l'activit priglaciaire. Les formes priglaciaires hrites peuvent tre attribues  la fin de l're quaternaire, bien qu'un grand nombre de formes vives soient prsentes de nos jours. Ces formes comprennent des coules de rocailles, des lobes et terrassettes de solifluxion, et diffrents types de models du terrain. Il est dmontr que l'altitude, l'exposition, l'inclinaison des versants et la lithologie sont des facteurs dterminants, ainsi que le degr croissant de continentalit dans les Pyrnes centrales, compar aux zones plus  l'est ou  l'ouest. La rgion de hautes montagnes est divise en deux zones altitudinales, le niveau 2.400 m constituant la ligne de sparation gnrale. /// Dieser Beitrag gibt eine allgemeine Beschreibung von geomorphischen Vorgngen oberhalb der Baumgrenze in den spanischen Pyrenen, wobei das Zentralgebiet der Gebirgskette besonders hervorgehoben wird. Klimatische-und Umweltfaktoren werden detailliert errtert, ebenso die geomorphischen Reaktionen auf das Absinken der oberen Baumgrenze besonders im Zeitraum zwischen dem 16. und 19. Jahrhundert. Whrend dieser Zeitspanne reduzierte gesteigertes (Vieh-)Weiden die Bewaldung der Hnge nachhaltig, was zu einem betrchtlichen Absinken der unteren Hhengrenze von glazialen Aktivitten fhrte. berreste glazialer Formen werden dem spten Quartr zugeschrieben, obwohl viele aktive Formen auch heute noch vorhanden sind; sie umfassen Gesteinsflsse, durch langsames Abrutschen des Erdreichs geformte Aufstauungen und Terrassen, sowie verschiedene Arten von Bodenoberflchenstrukturen. Es wird gezeigt, da in den Zentralpyrenen Hhe, Lage, Hanggradient und Gesteinsart zusammen mit zunehmenden nderungen zum Kontinentalklima wichtige Bestimmungsfaktoren sind, wenn man diese Region mit Gebieten vergleicht, die weiter westlich oder stlich davon liegen. Die Hochgebirgsregion wird in zwei Hhengrtel unterteilt, wobei die 2.400 m Hhenlinie die Trennungsgrenze bildet. /// El artculo expone un sumario relato sobre los procesos geomrficos operando a nivel supraforestal en el Pirineo espanol, con especial referencia al sector central de la Cordillera. Se discuten con detalle los factores climticos y ambientales, tanto como las respuestas geomrficas causa del descenso del lmite superior del bosque, especialmente del XVI al XIX. Durante dicho periodo de acentuada carga ganadera, se redujo la extensin del bosque y se produjo un substancial descenso del lmite inferior de la actividad periglaciar. Las formas relictas periglaciares se atribuyen al Cuaternario tardo, no obstante hay todava hoy formas activas. Entre ellas: glaciares rocosos, lbulos de solifluccin, terracillas o gradines y varios tipos de suelos poligonales. Altitud, exposicin, lo acusado de la pendiente y la litologa, son los principales factores, agudizados por la continentalidad en el sector central de la Cordillera y atenuandose hacia ambos extremos oriental y occidental. De forma general cabra concluir que la cota de 2.400 m. S/M., constituye un lmite de dos niveles de alta montaa.
10.2307/3673294|The vegetation of the highlands of Papua New Guinea is reviewed. Varied montane rainforests are extensive, but have been (and continue to be) cleared over large areas. Much forest variation can be related to altitude; past disturbances may also have been important. After clearance, forests are replaced by a range of non-forest vegetation types including gardens, both actively used and fallow. Over larger areas, especially in more densely populated parts of the highlands, frequently-burned grasslands also occur, and soils and vegetation are probably becoming progressively degraded. Mountain grasslands occur at high altitudes and their range has been extended by fire. The effects of stress and disturbance upon vegetation (as opposed to individual plants) are discussed. Vegetation responses to stress, disturbance, and combinations of both, involving reduction in stature and structural simplification, are described for the area above 3,300 m on Mt. Wilhelm. /// Cette tude passe en revue les diffrents types de vgtation dans les rgions montagneuses de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine. Les forts tropicales humides y sont tendues et varies, mais elles continuent  tre extensivement dfriches. Les variations sont en grande partie lies aux diffrences d'altitude, mais peuvent aussi rsulter de perturbations passes. Aprs dfrichement, les forts sont remplaces par diffrents types de vgtation non-forestire, y compris les jardins cultivs et en jachre. Des prairies frquemment brles couvrent de grandes tendues, en particulier dans les zones les plus peuples des rgions montagneuses; probablement, les sols et la vgtation s'y dtriorent progressivement. On trouve galement des prairies  haute altitude, gagnes sur la fort en y mettant le feu. Les effets des contraintes de l'environnement et des perturbations sur la vgtation ( l'oppos des plantes particulires) sont discuts. La rponse de la vgtation  ces contraintes et perturbations, et aux combinaisons des deux, mettant en jeu la rduction de stature et la simplification structurelle, est dcrite pour la zone situe au-dessus de 3.300 m sur le mont Wilhelm. /// Es wird die Vegetation in den Hochebenen von Papua, Neu-Guinea, untersucht. Die Berggebiete werden von verschiedenartigen Regenwldern beherrscht, die groflchig gerodet wurden (und weiterhin werden). Die Vielgestaltigkeit des Waldes kann der Hhe zugeschrieben werden, zum Teil ist die Vielfalt auch das Ergebnis frherer Strungen. Nach dem Roden werden die Waldgebiete als baumlose Flchen, teilweise als Grten belassen, die kultiviert werden oder brachliegen. Ausgedehnte Gebiete sind hufig, besonders in den dichtbesiedelten Teilen der Hochebenen, abgebrannte Grasfluren. Hier verschlechtert sich wahrscheinlich die Qualitt der Bden und der Vegetation zunehmend. In noch hheren Lagen haben sich Grasflchen ebenfalls durch Niederbrennen des Waldes vergrert. Auswirkungen von Belastungen und Strungen auf die Gesamtvegetation (im Gegensatz zu einzelnen Pflanzenarten) werden diskutiert. Als Folge von Belastung und Strung und dem Zusammenspiel beider Faktoren werden Vegetationsverhalten, einschlielich verringertem Wachstum und struktureller Vereinfachung beschrieben, so wie es auf dem Mt. Wilhelm oberhalb von 3.300 m beobachtet wurde.
25164159|The government of Colombia has taken a leadership role in facilitating research in high mountain ecosystems to provide a scientific base for understanding climate change and land use impacts on water and carbon cycles. With support from the World Bank and GEF, the Colombian Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology, and Environmental Studies (IDEAM) has undertaken a national pilot project on integrated adaptation to climate change (INAP). A key component of this project has been the development of a protocol for the characterization of carbon and water cycles in high mountain ecosystems. The protocol is designed for use by government, university, and NGO partners interested in climate change impacts, with IDEAM leading the project and consolidating data and results. The present article provides an overview of the protocol design.
mounresedeve.31.4.363|In almost 2 decades of existence the Consorcio para el Desarrollo Sostenible de la Ecorregin Andina (CONDESAN) has experienced institutional innovations in response to the economic, social, environmental, and institutional dynamics of Andean countries and territories. As a result, interinstitutional interventions have been promoted in strategic spaces of the Andean region through local and regional projects in order to contribute to knowledge about the Andes, its provision of natural resources, and the strategies of Andean inhabitants to profit from these resources in a sustainable fashion.
mounresedeve.34.2.131|Household surveys were conducted in 2 representative rural settlements in central and western Bhutan to evaluate differences in cattle raising practices and seasonal variation in the physical characteristics of cattle, and to project future trends in herd management and forest grazing. Results indicated that cattle owners' perceptions, aptitudes, and attitudes are changing and that rural interventions need to take these changes into account. The proportion of households without cultivated pasture was greater in the central Bhutan study village. The settlements also differed in cattle owners' opinions on forest selection and grazing pressure. The only outstanding similarity between settlements was the preference for crossbred cattle, revealing a strong orientation toward small but productive dairy herds and suggesting that a future reduction in forest grazing was likely. Although both settlements rely on forest grazing, there are considerable differences in cattle production practices and type of cattle reared, primarily driven by access to market, topography, and domestic forage resources. Our results suggest that management decisions should be based on site-specific information rather than generic guidelines.
3674581|Bhutan, a mountainous country where 79% of the population depends on agriculture, has a relatively short history of government intervention in the agricultural sector. The first research and extension activities began only 4 decades ago. Developments over this period are generally seen as positive, although it is impossible to separate the influence of social change and the road network from the influence of activities carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture or by development agencies. Despite positive results, farmers are often seen as resistant to change or slow to adopt new technologies. Researchers and extensionists disappointed by low adoption rates often blame cultural barriers, lack of interest by farmers in economic betterment, or, in the worst case, lack of academic training among farmers. Mountain environments are inherently fragile, leaving farmers less room to experiment with risky innovations. Yet this patronizing approach is not limited to agents working with mountain farmers or subsistence agricultural systems. The present article describes 3 examples in which farmers have adopted new technologies at surprisingly fast rates, mainly for economic reasons: 1) potato production, 2) the use of draft animals for mechanized potato production, and 3) fodder pumpkin cultivation. The author's experience, supported by recent research findings and data from published and unpublished records, is used to describe the technologies, the rate of adoption, and factors affecting adoption. The analysis of potato development covers several decades, while the other examples are limited to periods of a few years.
3674320|A comparative study on the impact of pine plantations on soil and vegetation development was conducted in the Ecuadorian Andes (3000-4000 m). Pine plantations of different ages under different types of management were compared with extensively grazed pramo grassland (the most common former land use) and natural forest (the formerly dominant vegetation in much of the life zone). No general impact of plantations was found, although some tendencies were identified that show that soils under pine plantations are drier and less organic. Moreover, the vegetation under pine plantations was similar to pramo grassland, though some examples of regeneration of Andean woody species were observed, as well as examples of plantations where understory was completely lacking. We concluded that the impact of pine plantations cannot be generalized but should be evaluated case by case while care is taken in implementing plantations until more knowledge is obtained about the effects on the ecosystem as a whole, especially considering their ecological importance.
mounresedeve.35.1.16|In the tropical Andes, uncontrolled urban growth and the loss of agricultural land severely affect periurban smallholders who depend on the lease of farmland. In this context, the hinterland of Huancayo, Peru, represents a case in point, given that the urbanization of irrigated land resources on the valley floor endangers agricultural production during the dry season and thus forces agriculturalists to adapt their land usea problem largely attributed to policy failures. If smallholder farmers had been policy-makers in the past, what type of urban growth would have taken place? Which future settlement structure would they prefer? To answer these questions, an easy-to-use and practice-oriented method for visualizing smallholder views on urbanization and landscape change was developed and tested. A combination of photomontage-based visualization exercises and interviews revealed that the interviewees mostly agreed that agricultural areas should remain between a mix of low and high buildings along the existing road. Hence, to a certain degree, their perception toward dispersed urban development seems not to be as negative as one could suppose. Additionally, some peasants argue that urban expansion should be on the steep and nonirrigated slopes adjacent to the city in order to conserve the fertile and irrigated land on the valley floor. Finally, the results of this study point to the potential of landscape visualizations for enabling mountain smallholders to participate in periurban land use planning and lead to the conclusion that photomontages, visualization exercises, and interviews should increasingly be used to improve understanding of smallholders' views, for this method includes an important emotional component that is rarely considered by planners and policy-makers.
mounresedeve.35.3.220|The Chilean water model has been described as a textbook example of a free-market water system. This article contributes to the critiques of this model by showing the effect of its implementation in the Atacameo community of Chiu-Chiu, located in the Atacama Desert in the south-central Andes. In this community, the privatization of water rights ignored local water management practices that had produced a high-altitude wetland (known as a
25164047|Surveys of small farmers in the Bolivian highlands have shown that moisture stress and soil erosion are the two major factors limiting wheat crop productivity. This paper discusses results of the research conducted to increase system water-use efficiency and so help increase productivity. Research began in two highland departments in 1994 to assess the effects of crop residue retention on increasing water infiltration and crop yields. In the Cochabamba high valley, yields consistently have been increased significantly by residue retention, and initial water infiltration rates are considerably higher in plots with ground cover. In contrast, at two sites in Chuquisaca the effects of ground cover have been small or occasionally negative. Direct seeding of wheat into the crop residues was originally undertaken with small single-row ox-drawn no-till seeders brought from Brazil. Although these seed the crop adequately, operator control is difficult. A prototype three-row animal-drawn small grain no-till seeder, therefore, was developed in cooperation with the DFID-funded PROMETA project and the Bolivian research institution, IBTA. Initial results of seeding efficiency and farmer acceptance are positive.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r39|      ,     ()    ,    ,       .           .  2006 .         .         ,     ,        159   2008 .   ,        ,    ,   ,   2010  2011 .,    ,  ,  20- 30%   .   ,              .    ,      ,       -       .               .
10.2307/3673829|Transplant survivorship, growth, and reproductive performance of several indigenous high-elevation legume species grown in unamended spoil were studied at three coal mines in the Canadian Rocky Mountains. Survivorship varied with species but was highest for Astragalus aboriginum (62%), Astragalus alpinus (73-57%), Astragalus vexilliflexus var. nubilus (73-63%), and Oxytropis sericea (77-62%). Mortality was greatest during the first two years for most species. The causes of transplant mortality are considered to be drought stress, deep-seated 'forst-popping'/root exposure, and damage, for example, root exposure and destruction of meristematic tissues by foraging mammals such as bighorn sheep, mountain goats, grizzly bears, and marmots. Survivorship, growth, and reproductive activity were greatest at the two subalpine disturbances. Growth varied with species, but the greatest growth increments (height and diameter) were recorded during the first and second years. Reproductive activity for the Astragalus species began during the first year at one location but, in general, flowering and seed set did not begin until the second or third years. Recruitment from seed was small (<10/year). Several of these species appear to be suitable for revegetation of subalpine and alpine surface mine disturbances. /// La survie, la croissance et l'activit procratrice d'espces lgumineuses indignes de haute altitude, repiques dans des striles non amends, ont t tudies pour trois mines de charbon des Rocheuses canadiennes. La survie a vari selon les espces, la plus haute tant celle d'Astragalus aboriginum (62%), d'Astragalus alpinus (73  57%), d'Astragalus vexilliflexus var. nubilus (73  63%) et d'Oxytropis sericea (77  62%). La mortalit tait la plus leve au cours des deux premires annes pour la plupart des espces. Les causes de la mortalit lie au repiquage sont vraisemblablement le stress de scheresse, l'clatement ou l'exposition des racines par le gel, ainsi que les dommages tels que l'exposition des racines et la destruction des tissus mristmatiques par les mammaires fourrageurs tels que le mouflon d'Amrique, les chvres de Rocheuses, les grizzlis et les marmottes. La survie, la croissance et l'activit procratrice taient les plus leves pour les deux perturbations subalpines. La croissance a vari selon les espces, mais la plus leve en termes de hauteur et de diamtre a t enregistre au cours des deux premires annes. L'activit procratrice des espces Astragalus a commenc au cours de la premire anne  un emplacement, mais en gnral la floraison et la production de semence n'a commenc qu'au cours de la deuxime ou de la troisime anne. Le recrutement  partir des semences tait faible (moins de 10 par an). Plusieurs des espces semblent tre appropries  la restauration de la couverture vgtale des perturbations causes par les exploitations minires  ciel ouvert aux niveaux subalpin et alpin. /// In dieser Studie wurden berlebensfhigkeit, Wachstum und Vermehrung von verschiedenen einheimischen, an Hochlagen angepassten Leguminosenarten, die auf ungedngten Abraumhalden in drei Kohleabbaugebieten in den kanadischen Rocky Mountains angepflanzt wurden, untersucht. Die berlebensraten unterschieden sich von Art zu Art. Am hchsten waren sie fr Astragalus aboriginum (62%), Astragalus alpinus (73-57%), Astragalus vexilliflexus var. nubilis (73-63%), und Oxytropis sericea (77-62%). Die Sterblichkeit war bei den meisten Arten in den ersten zwei Jahren am hchsten. Als Grnde fr die Setzlingssterblichkeit kommen Drre- und Frostschden ('frost-popping'), bloliegende Wurzeln, sowie durch Bergziegen, Grizzly-Bren, Murmeltiere und andere Tiere verursachte Schden wie zum Beispiel Blolegen des Wurzelwerks und Zerstrung des meristematischen Gewebes in Frage. Die hchsten berlebens-, Wachstums- und Vermehrungsraten wurden in den beiden subalpinen Kohleabbaugebieten gemessen. Die Wachstumsraten waren artenspezifisch. Allgemein bewiesen die Pflanzen die grte Wuchskraft (in Hhe und Umfang) in den ersten zwei Jahren. In einem Untersuchungsgebiet setzte Vermehrung bei den Astragalus-Arten bereits im ersten Jahr ein. Im allgemeinen wurden Blten und Samen jedoch erst im zweiten und dritten Jahr erzeugt. Der Vermehrungserfolg durch Samen war gering (<10/Jahr). Einige der untersuchten Arten erwiesen sich als geeignet fr die Wiederbegrnung von durch Tagebau beeintrchtigten subalpinen und alpinen Gebieten.
10.2307/3673090|The northern Andean region has retrogressed from a pre-Columbian state of surplus food production oriented toward domestic consumption to its present status as an extensively worked, predominantly export-oriented area of chronic rural malnourishment. Adequate human nutritional levels were achieved during the pre-Conquest era through the utilization of virtually all suitable land for crop plant production and through the specialized adaptation of a multiple variety of staple food crops to the myriad of local microenvironments. Although the Spanish conquerors introduced numerous Old World crop plants which subsequently were very important in the combined agricultural complex, they stressed an elitist, urban-oriented life-style dependent upon the possession of large, extensively-grazed cattle estates. Intensive, small-scale farming came to be associated with social and economic inferiority. The development of petroleum reserves led to further declines in food production. The small, prosperous, family-operated coffee farms of Antioquia long constituted the principal exception to prevailing land-use patterns. The forested lowlands are being developed rapidly through colonization by highland people and through the introduction of exotic fodder crops and cattle. Green Revolution technologies are transforming large-scale agriculture but the subsistence sector remains largely untouched. /// La rgion des Andes nu Nord est tomb d'un tat pr-colombien de production alimentaire excdentaire visant la consommation domestique  son tat actuel caractris par une exploitation extensive des cultures destines  l'exportation et par une population rurale soumise  des conditions de sous-alimentation chroniques. Des niveaus de nutrition suffisants ont t atteints pendant la priode avant la Conqute par la mise en oeuvre de presque toutes les terres pour la production des cultures et par une adaptation spcialise d'une grande varit des cultures alimentaires de base  une myriade de micro-environments de la rgion. Bien que les conqurants espagnols aient introduit de nombreuses cultures de l'ancien monde, qui par la suite ont jou un rle trs important dans l'agriculture, ils ont men un style de vie citadin de classe lite imposant qu'ils soient propritaires de vastes domaines d'levage de bovins  pturage extensif. Les cultures intensives  petite chelle ont t associes  des classes conomiques et sociales infrieures. Le dveloppement des rserves en ptrole a provoqu des baisses supplmentaires de la production alimentaire. Les petites exploitations familiales de caf prospres reprsentent dupuis longtemps l'exception principale aux modes currents d'exploitation des terres. Les plaines basses en forts sont en voie de dveloppement rapide par une colonisation des montagnards et par l'introduction de cultures fourragres exotiques et de btails. Des technologies de Rvolution des Cultures Vertes sont en train de transformer l'agriculture de grandechelle, mais le secteur de subsistance reste inchang. /// Die nrdlichen Anden produzierten in pr-kolumbianischer Zeit Nahrungsmittel im berschuss; haben sich jetzt aber vorwiegend auf ein Export-orientiertes und extensiv bewirtschaftetes Gebiet zurckentwickelt. Frher war die Produktion fr den Eigenbedarf bestimmt, heute leidet die Landbevlkerung unter chronischer Unterernhrung. Vor der spanischen Eroberung wurde angemessene Ernhrung durch Ausnutzung praktisch aller zum Feldfruchtanbau geeigneter Flchen gesichert. Ausserdem wurde die Auswahl der wichtigsten Erzeugnisse den vielfltigen Bedingungen lokaler Mikro-Umweltsysteme angepasst. Obwohl die spanischen Eroberer zahlreiche Feldfrchte "aus der alten Welt" einfhrten, die in der Folgezeit in der Gesamtlandwirtschaft an Bedeutung gewannen, betonten sie einen elitren, stadtorientierten Lebensstil, bei dem man vom Besitz grosser Lndereien und ausschliesslich zur Rinderzucht benutzter Landflchen abhing. Intensive Landwirtschaft in kleinem Umfang wurde sozialer und konomischer Unterlegenheit gleichgesetzt. Die Erschliessung von Erdlreserven fhrte zu einem weiteren Absinken der Nahrungsmittelproduktion. Die kleinen, erfolgreichen, Familien-betriebenen Kaffeeplantagen von Antioquia waren lange Zeit die einzige Ausnahme von der grossflchigen Bodennutzung. Heute werden die bewaldeten Niederungen von Hochlandbewohnern urbar gemacht und durch den Anbau von besonderem Viehfutter und durch Rinderzucht erschlossen. Agrartechnologie (grne Revolution) verndert die Landwirtschaft im grossen, dennoch bleiben die Kleinbauern davon grsstenteils unberhrt. /// La regin de los Andes del norte ha retrocedido de un estado pre-colombino de produccin alimenticia excedente orientada a la consumicin domstica hasta convertirse en su presente estado en una zona de malnutricin rural crnica con un cultivo extensivo predominantemente orientado hacia la exportacin. Durante la poca anterior a la conquista se alcanzaron niveles adecuados de nutricin humana al utilizarse prcticamente toda la tierra disponible para producir plantas cultivables y gracias a la adaptacin especializada de una variedad mltiple de cosechas de plantas que contienen algodn a los mil y un microambientes locales. Si bien los conquistadores espaoles introdujeron numerosas plantas cultivables del viejo mundo que ms adelante fueron muy importantes en el complejo agrario combinado, enfatizaron un estilo de vida elitista y orientado hacia las ciudades que se basaba en la posesin de grandes propiedades dedicadas extensivamente a pastos para la cra de ganado. El cultivo intensivo de pequea escala se vino a asociar con inferioridad social y econmica. El desarrollo de las reservas petrolferas contribuy todava ms a la disminucin de la produccin alimenticia. Las pequeas y prsperas haciendas de caf de Antioqua cultivadas por familias individuales constituyeron por mucho tiempo la excepcin principal a los modelos de uso de la tierra predominantes. Las tierras bajas forestales se estn desarrollando rpidamente por la colonizacin de la gente de las tierras altas y por la introduccin de cosechas exticas de pasto y ganado. Las tecnologas de la Revolucin Verde estn transformando la agricultura en-gran-escala pero el sector de subsistencia sigue en su mayor parte sin modificarse.
10.2307/3673555|This paper reviews the findings of a field study carried out in the southwest corner of the Arabian Peninsula, known as Arabia Felix or "Lucky Arabia" in ancient times. Despite limited agricultural resources, the Yemenis managed to turn even the steepest mountains, at first glance hostile to any settlement, into a remarkable agricultural landscape. The unique characteristic of this mountainous agro-ecosystem is its terraced arable fields. Millions of conservation bench terraces were erected to keep the artificially accumulated soil in place and to optimize the limited water supply. Today, these man-made terraces, which have been cultivated for several thousand years, still form the basis for much of the country's production of food grains. However, due to the emigration of rural labour, they are no longer maintained over wide stretches of land. Given the severe hazard of natural erosion in these areas, terrace abandonment inevitably leads to accelerated soil erosion and it is very unlikely that terraces, once they have become eroded, can ever be economically restored. /// Cet article passe en revue les rsultats d'une tude effectue dans le coin sud-ouest de la pninsule arabique, rgion dnomme Arabia Felix ou "Arabie Heureuse" dans le pass. En dpit de ressources agricoles limites, les Ymnites ont russi  transformer les montagnes les plus escarpes,  priori impropres au peuplement, en un domaine agricole remarquable. La caractristique unique de cet co-systme montagnard rside dans les cultures en terrasses. Des millions de terraces ont t ralises pour maintenir en place le sol accumul artificiellement et pour optimiser l'utilisation des ressources en eau trs limites. Ces terrasses, cultives pendant plusieurs milliers d'annes, forment toujours une base importante de la production de crales du pays. Nanmoins,  cause de l'migration de la main-d'oeuvre rurale, ces terrasses ne sont plus entretenues sur une grande partie du territoire. Si l'on considre les grands risques d'rosion naturelle dans cette rgion, l'abandon des terrasses va invitablement acclrer l'rosion du sol et il est peu probable qu'une fois rodes ces terrasses puissent tre conomiquement remises en tat. /// Der vorliegende Artikel fat die Resultate einer Feldstudie in der Sdwest-Ecke der arabischen Halbinsel, die seit altersher unter dem Namen "Arabia felix" bekannt war, zusammen. Trotz eingeschrnkter landwirtschaftlicher Ressourcen ist es der jemenitischen Bevlkerung gelungen, selbst an steilen, besiedelungsfeindlichen Hngen eine bemerkenswerte Landwirtschaft zu etablieren. Wichtigstes Merkmal dieses Gebirges sind die terrassierten Felder. Millionen Nutzterrassen wurden errichtet, um den knstlich akkumulierten Boden zu stabilisieren und das beschrnkt verfgbare Wasser aufzufangen. Heute bilden diese Terrassen, die ber Jahrtausende kultiviert wurden, die Grundlage der Getreideproduktion des Landes. Als Folge der Emigration der lndlichen Arbeitskrfte werden sie jedoch ber weite Landstriche nicht mehr gepflegt. Wegen der groen natrlichen Erosionsgefahr in diesen Gebieten, fhrt die Vernachlssigung der Terrassen unweigerlich zu beschleunigter Bodenerosion, und es ist fraglich, ob derart degradierte Terrassen je wieder instandgesetzt werden knnen.
3674177|Approximately 70% of Serbia consists of rolling, hilly and mountainous regions that are prone to erosion. Other natural factors, such as an unstable geological basis, intense rainfall, and poor vegetation cover also contribute to this predisposition to erosion. But the principal factor in accelerated erosion is human activity. The period up to the mid-1950s was characterized by great agrarian pressures and the resulting accelerated erosion. This was followed by rural depopulation and changes in the structure of agricultural production. As younger household members migrated, arable fields were left uncultivated, were invaded by weeds, and were then converted into pastures. Out-migration thus led to reduced pressure on the land, which contributed to diminishing erosion. But this cannot be called development. The revival of degraded regions should be based on people remaining in the area and being able to have decent livelihoods. Sustainable land use can make this possible, as illustrated by the example of the cooperative venture involving the Porecje Company and local farmers in the Porecje region. This venture involves cooperation between farmers and the company, reducing erosion by establishing terraces on steep slopes, improving soil characteristics, and promoting profitable fruit production. Land resources and environmental values are thus preserved without jeopardizing the profitability necessary to keep people in the region.
10.2307/3674006|In the Hindukush, Karakorum, and northwest Himalaya the struggle for subsistence by mountain farmers is based on agriculture and animal husbandry in the form of mixed mountain agriculture. This study analyses the seasonal pastoral migrations to alpine pastures as a strategy for utilizing the natural resources in the Rupal Valley, south of Nanga Parbat (8,126 m). Traditionally, this strategy of resource management was sustainable, but increases of population and livestock as well as external innovations are rapidly effecting change throughout the region. However, the results of this development vary according to the potential for off-farm employment and access to modern infrastructure in each valley. In Hunza, approximately 100 km north of Rupal, the utilization of alpine pastures decreased following a significant reduction of the male workforce and, after the introduction of cash crops and fodder cultivation, cropping patterns changed. Agriculture in the Rupal Valley during the last 20 years is characterized by an increase in animal husbandry and pastoral movements. Although there is also off-farm employment, it is more likely that animal husbandry will remain an important part of the agro-pastoral economy and there is potential for its commercialization. /// Dans l'Hindoukush, Karakorum et l'Himalaya du nord-ouest, la lutte pour la subsistance des fermiers de montagne est base sur l'agriculture et l'levage, sous la forme d'une agriculture mixte de montagne. Cette tude analyse les migrations pastorales saisonnires en tant que stratgie d'utilisation des ressources naturelles de la valle de Rupal, au sud du Nanga Parbat (8 126 m). Cette stratgie de gestion des ressources tait viable dans le pass, mais la croissance de la population et du btail, ainsi que le progrs  l'extrieur, ont entran des changements rapides dans la rgion. Cependant, les rsultats de ce dveloppement varient selon le potentiel d'emploi non rural et l'accs  l'infrastructure moderne de chaque valle. Dans l'Hunza,  environ 100 km au nord de Rupal, l'utilisation des pturages alpins a diminu par suite d'une rduction importante de la main-d'uvre mle, et les modes de culture ont chang aprs l'introduction de cultures commerciales et de la culture du fourrage. L'agriculture dans la valle de Rupal au cours des 20 dernires annes est caractrise par une augmentation de l'levage des animaux et des dplacements pastoraux. Bien qu'un l'emploi non rural existe, il est probable que l'levage des animaux continuera  tenir une place importante dans l'conomie agro-pastorale et qu'un potentiel existe pour sa commercialisation. /// Autochthone Handlungsstrategien zur Existenzsicherung im Hochgebirgsraum von Hindukusch, Karakorum und Nordwest-Himalaya kombinieren den Bewsserungsfeldbau auf Talniveau mit almwirtschaftlicher Nutzung alpiner Hochweiden. Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Formen der Hochgebirgslandwirtschaft und ihre jngere Entwicklung im Rupal-Tal, sdlich des Nanga Parbat (8126 m). Die traditionelle Hochgebirgslandwirtschaft hat bislang eine nachhaltige Nutzung der natrlichen Ressourcen gewhrleistet. Bevlkerungswachstum und die Zunahme der Viehbestnde sind typisch fr den gesamten Hochgebirgsraum. Doch in Abhngigkeit von der Mglichkeit zu aueragrarer Erwerbsttigkeit zeigen sich verschiedene Vernderungen. In Hunza (etwa 100 km nrdlich von Rupal) erfolgte ein Rckgang der Hochweidenutzung infolge einer Arbeitskraftverknappung sowie vernderter Anbauschwerpunkte durch marktorientierten Anbau und Futterbauwirtschaft. Im Rupal-Tal ist fr die vergangenen 20 Jahre jedoch eine zunehmende Bedeutung von Tierhaltung und Almwirtschaft festzustellen. Trotz der einsetzenden aueragraren Einkommensmglichkeiten wird die Viehwirtschaft hier auch weiterhin eine hohe Bedeutung behalten, zumal noch Potentiale zur marktorientierten Viehhaltung erschlossen werden knnen.
mounresedeve.32.3.324|This paper deals with the relations between grazing practices, pasture potential, and property rights in the Eastern Pamirs of Tajikistan 10 years after the privatization of 1999. It provides an overview of the spatiotemporal variability of current pasture use and livestock numbers. Assumptions about pasture potential are reconsidered inrelation to animals' forage needs in order to draw field-based conclusions regarding over- or underuse in particular areas. Data are derived from interdisciplinary research on post-Soviet pastoralism and associated humanenvironment interactions.We show that pastoralists in the Eastern Pamirs face several problems: As the land cover resources are meager and variable and hay meadows for winter fodder are rare, herd mobility or external forage inputs are necessary to compensate for weather-related shortages. The current multiseasonal pastureusea change from the mono-seasonal use of Soviet state farmsdiscourages plant regeneration. Competition between pastoralist groups is exacerbated by unresolved questions about formal user rights. Conflicts seem inevitable, limiting the sustainable use of natural resources. Based on 2 telling examples, we show that pastures close to villages are used year round, particularly in winter, and are heavily overgrazed. There is less grazing pressure on summer pastures, but some distant and hardly accessible summer pastures show high livestock numbers in summer, contradicting former opinions about their underuse.
25578201|The Altos de Chiantla in the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes represents an economic and environmental anomaly compared with areas surrounding it in highland Guatemala and Mesoamerica in general. For example, this cold and remote plateau region is dominated by sheep and potato production instead of maize, with maize being synonymous with surrounding Maya ethnolinguistic groups. Floristically, the area is also unique compared with surrounding areas. The Altos de Chiantla plateau is dominated by pramo grasslands and scattered groves of juniper, pines, and fir forests. Therefore, economically and environmentally, this area resembles Andean South America more than northern Central America. And while long-standing activities such as sheep ranching persist in this region, cultural, economic, and environmental changes are also taking place. The present article discusses general landscape changes in this region, with an emphasis on the various impacts that modernization such as remittances and agricultural development projects have brought.
mounresedeve.32.3.337|Transhumant agropastoralism is a major concern in debates about economic development and food security in Kyrgyzstan. Using the concept of the agropastoral system, this study emphasizes the diversity of existing family farming systems and agropastoral livelihoods at the regional level and their various economic perspectives in a constantly evolving environment. Qualitative and empirical research conducted in the eastern part of Chuy oblast led to establishment of a typology of household farming systems, based on their resources and strategies, showing the agro-economic logic in the increasing socioeconomic inequalities in rural areas. Four farming systems were identified: deprived households involved in kitchen gardening and daily farm labor, risky small crop farming systems that increasingly rely on offfarm jobs to secure their livelihoods, sustainable dairy farming systems, and dynamic meat producers. In the context of increasing demand for animal products in urban areas, the position of each farming system in dairy and beef marketing reveals its ability to seize economic opportunities in the agricultural sector and in competition with off-farm activities.
25163993|Preliminary estimates of the air pollution conditions in a mountainous region can be made by relating features shown on a large-scale topographic map to the climatic peculiarities of valleys, slopes, saddles, and peaks. The inferences must then be verified by a survey of botanical and soil features and, for greater assurance, by collecting meteorological measurements on occasions when the air is calm and danger is high. Crucial factors are the vertical extent and duration of cold air that tends to accumulate in valleys on calm nights and the related night-time and daytime slope and valley winds. /// On peut faire des valuations prliminaires de la pollution d'air dans les rgions montagneuses en comparant les caractristiques montrs sur une carte topographique  grande chelle avec les caractristiques climatriques des valles, des pentes, des crtes, et des sommets. On peut vrifier les interfrences par une tude des caractristiques botaniques et du sol et on peut avoir une vrification plus prcise en faisant des msures mtorologiques aux moments o l'air est calm et le danger de pollution sont leves. Les facteurs essentiels sont l'tendu vertical et la dure de l'air froid qui a tendance  s'accumuler dans les valles par des nuits tranquilles et les vents de jour et de nuit sur les pentes et dans les valles. /// Um die Verteilung der Luftverschmutzung in einer Berggegend in erster Annherung zu skizzieren, knnen mit einer gross-masstblichen Karte der Topographie die klimatischen Besonderheiten von Tlern, Abhngen, Stteln, und Gipfelkuppen zusammengesetzt werden. Die daraus gezogenen Schlsse mssen dann durch eine Bestandaufnahme von botanischen und anderen lokalklima-bedingten Indizien, und durch meteorologische Probemessungen in stagnierenden Wetterlagen mit verschrften Luftverschmutzungsproblemen gesichert werden. Die wesentlichsten Faktoren dafr sind die Dicke und Andauer der Kaltluft, die sich im Laufe von windlosen klaren Nchten in den Tlern ansammelt, und die damit verbundenen Tag- und Nachtwindsysteme an den Hngen und, auf grsserem Masstabe, ber den Tlern und Kmmen.
10.2307/3673220|Small-scale agro-pastoral production in the Central Andes is oriented toward guaranteeing a subsistence livelihood by efforts to attain self-sufficiency in food production and to reduce environmental risks. Production strategies involve the simultaneous use of several ecological zones each with characteristic crops or types of pasture. Households are the basic units of production which allocate land, labour, and capital at their disposal to meet short-term production goals. Supra-household mechanisms support the households within particular communities by limiting access to some lands, managing communal pastures, scheduling agro-pastoral activities, enforcing rotation schedules, and maintaining communal infrastructure (roads, terraces, irrigation canals). Ethnographic research in the last decade permits a detailed description of the workings of these forms of organization in a variety of ecological and economic conditions. Both the complementarity and the tension between household and supra-household claims on land and labour are discussed and some recent changes are reviewed. /// La production agro-pastorale  petite chelle dans les Andes centrales cherche  assurer la subsistance des peuples en orientant les efforts vers la ralisation d'une production agricole autosuffisante et la rduction des risques au regard de l'environnement. Les stratgies de production mettent en jeu l'exploitation simultane de plusieurs zones cologiques, chacune avec ses rcoltes caractristiques ou types de pturages. L'enterprise familiale est l'unit productrice de base qui alloue les terres, la main-d'oeuvre et le capital disponibles pour atteindre les objectifs de production  court terme. D'autres mcanismes particuliers  certaines communauts soutiennent les entreprises familiales en limitant l'accs  certaines terres, en grant les pturages communaux, en dressant le programme des activits agro-pastorales, en faisant observer les programmes de rotation, et en entretenant l'infrastructure communale (routes, terraces, canals d'irrigation). La recherche ethnographique au cours des dix dernires annes a produit une description dtaille du fonctionnement de ces formes d'organisation pour diffrentes conditions cologiques et conomiques. L'aspect complmentaire aussi bien que la tension entre les revendications respectives des entreprises familiales et des mcanismes rgulateurs sur les terres et la main d'oeuvre sont discutes et des changements rcents sont passs en revue. /// Die Produktion in der Land- und Weidewirtschaft in den Zentral-Anden ist darauf ausgerichtet, die Existenz zu sichern. Alle Anstrengungen gehen dahin, in der Nahrungsmittelproduktion unabhngig zu sein und Umweltrisiken zu verringern. Produktionsstrategien basieren auf dem gleichzeitigen Nutzen mehrerer kologischer Zonen zum gezielten Feldfruchtanbau oder als bestgeeignetes Weideland. Husliche Gemeinschaften stehen im Mittelpunkt; sie teilen Land, Arbeit und Kapital nach ihrem Gutdnken zu, um kurzfristige Produktionsziele zu erreichen. Grofamilire Verbnde untersttzen in einigen Gemeinden die Familienbetriebe, indem sie den Zugang zu bestimmten Landflchen einschrnken, das gemeinschaftliche Weideland verwalten, die Bettigungen auf den Land- und Weideflchen planen, den Fruchtwechsel durchsetzen, und die gemeinschaftliche Infrastruktur aufrechterhalten (Straen, Terrassen, Bewasserungskanle). Ethnographische Forschung der vergangenen 10 Jahre lat eine detaillierte Beschreibung der Wirkungsweise dieser Organisationsart unter verschiedenen kologischen und konomischen Bedingungen zu. Die Ansprche an Landflchen und Arbeitskrfte, die zwischen der Klein- und der Grofamilie bestehen, ergnzen sich, knnen aber auch zu Spannungen fhren. Beides wird diskutiert und einige neuere Vernderungen werden beschrieben. /// La produccin agropecuaria en pequea escala en los Andes centrales est orientada para asegurar el mantenimiento de subsistencia atravs de los esfuerzos para obtener autosuficiencia en la produccin de alimentos y para disminuir los riesgos ambientales. Las estrategias de produccin consisten en el uso simultneo de mtiples zonas ecolgicas. Las unidades domsticas constituyen los elementos bsicos de la produccin. Aprovechan las tierras, la mano de obra y el capital a su disposicin para satisfacer sus metas de corto plazo. Mecanismos sociales a nivel extradomstico apoyan a las unidades domsticas dentro de comunidades especficas atravs de la limitacin del acceso a la tierra, el manejo de pastos comunales, la programacin de actividades agropecuarias, la imposicin de programas de rotacin y el mantenimiento de la infraestructura comunal (carreteras, terrazas y canales de riego). Investigaciones etnogrficas en la ltima dcada nos permiten una detallada descripcin de los procedimientos de estas formas de organizacin en una variedad de condiciones ecolgicas y econmicas. Se examina la tensin y la complementariedad entre las unidades domsticas y las unidades extradomsticas sobre el control de la tierra y la mano de obra. Se repasan ciertos cambios recientes.
3674599|The tropical Andes region has extraordinary biological diversity with considerable endemism. The complex topography, climate, geology, and biogeographic history of the Andes have helped create a high turnover in species over distance and along steep environmental gradients. The humid montane and premontane forests of the tropical Andes compete with the lowland Amazonian forests in species richness. Long-term maintenance of diversity in the tropical Andes requires a management strategy that takes account of landscape patterns. Especially in heterogeneous regions such as Andean forests, management of the landscape is more appropriate for biodiversity conservation than management of local sites.
10.2307/3673853|The authors interviewed adults and children in the subtropical montane forests of northwestern Argentina, in an attempt to assess their degree of botanical knowledge. Four localities, representing a gradient of progressive geographic isolation were sampled. One hundred and eighty-one species of different categories of use were mentioned (72 cultivated and 109 wild). The isolation gradient did not show any effect on the number of species mentioned. Except for medicinal plants, children mentioned at least as many species as did adults. The results suggest that the less isolated villages may be as important for conservation of ethnobotanical knowledge as very isolated ones. Children should be considered in ethnobotanical studies because of their potential for obtaining high quality botanical information, with a relatively low sampling effort. /// Les auteurs ont interview des adultes et des enfants dans les forts alpestres subtropicales du nord-ouest de l'Argentine, afin d'valuer leur niveau de connaissance de la botanique. Quatre collectivits reprsentant un gradient d'isolement gographique ont t chantillonnes. Cent-quatre-vingt-une espces appartenant  diffrentes catgories d'usage ont t mentionnes, dont 72 cultives et 109 sauvages. Le gradient d'isolement n'a pas affect le nombre d'espces mentionnes. Les enfants ont mentionn autant d'espces que les adultes,  l'exception des plantes mdicinales. Les rsultats suggrent que les villages moins isols peuvent tre tout aussi importants pour la conservation des connaissances ethnobotaniques que les villages trs isols. Les enfants doivent tre considrs dans les tudes ethnobotaniques du fait qu'ils sont capables de fournir d'excellents informations botaniques sans mettre en jeu de gros efforts d'chantillonnage. /// Die Verfasser fhrten Interviews mit Erwachsenen und Kindern in subtropischen Bergwldern Nordwestargentiniens durch, um das Ausma ihrer Pflanzenkenntnis festzustellen. Die vier in diese Studie einbezogenen Ortschaften lagen auf einem Gradienten zunehmender geographischer Isolation. 181 Pflanzenarten in verschiedenen Nutzungskategorien (72 kultivierte sowie 109 wilde Arten) wurden genannt. Kinder erwhnten mindestens so viele Arten (mit Ausnahme von Heilpflanzen) wie Erwachsene. Die Ergebnisse lassen darauf schlieen, da die weniger isolierten Drfer ebenso wichtig fr die Erhaltung ethnobotanischen Kenntnisse sind wie stark isolierte Drfer. Kinder sollten in ethnobotanische Untersuchungen einbezogen werden, da von ihnen bei relativ geringem Erhebungsaufwand qualitativ hochwertige botanische Informationen gewonnen werden knnen. /// Con el objetivo de explorar su grado de conocimiento botnico se entrevistaron adultos y nios de los bosques subtropicales de montaa del Noroeste Argentino. Se consideraron cuatro localidades que representan un gradiente de progresivo aislamiento geogrfico. Durante el estudio fueron mencionadas 181 especies (72 cultivadas y 109 silvestres) categorizadas bajo distintos tipos de uso. El grado de aislamiento no mostr efecto alguno sobre el numero de especies mencionadas. Los nios, excepto en lo referente a plantas medicinales, mencionaron tantas o mas plantas que los adultos. Los resultados sugieren que poblaciones menos aisladas en esta regin pueden conservar el conocimiento etnobotnico en el corto plazo. Asimismo, el estudio destaca el valor de los nios que deben considerarse en los estudios etnobotnicos por su alto potencial como informantes con relativamente poco esfuerzo de muestreo.
25164151|Poppy production in Guatemala has been embraced by a growing number of people since the end of the civil war in 1996 as one avenue out of poverty. Most cultivation occurs in the department of San Marcos, one of the least developed regions with one of the highest rates of malnutrition and other health issues associated with poverty. While poppy production has led to increased profits for some farmers, there are many direct and indirect negative impacts on the health of local people as well as increased pollution associated with eradication efforts. Defoliant spray to eradicate poppies contaminates soil and water and destroys intercropped licit crops. Illicit production causes deforestation and indirectly leads to a change in people's diet. Additionally, poppy production is accompanied by escalating violence. All these factors are increasing the vulnerability of the local people and jeopardizing their health and well-being. Increased poppy production has to be understood as a symptom of development failures. Only re-establishing faith in the long-term viability of licit development initiatives will encourage local farmers to abandon illicit poppy production and increase the overall security and well-being of the local population.
mounresedeve.35.1.66|Climate changes are having dramatic ecological impacts in midto high-latitude mountain ranges where growth conditions are limited by climatic variables such as duration of growing season, moisture, and ambient temperature. We document patterns of forest vegetative response for 5 major alpine forest communities to current climate variability in the central Himalayas of Nepal to provide a baseline for assessment of future changes, as well as offer some insight into the trajectory of these changes over time. We used mean monthly surface air temperature and rainfall and the monthly averaged normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) to compare relative vegetation productivity among forest types and in relation to both climatic variables. Because changes in temperature and precipitation are directly manifested as changes in phenology, we examined current vegetative responses to climate variability in an effort to determine which climate variable is most critical for different alpine forest types. Our results show that correlations differ according to vegetation type and confirm that both precipitation and temperature affect monthly NDVI values, though more significant correlations were found with temperature data. The temperature response was more consistent because at the maximum increased temperatures, there was still an ongoing increase in vegetative vigor. This indicates that temperature is still the major limiting factor for plant growth at higherelevation sites. This part of the Himalayas has abundant moisture, and some forest types are already saturated in terms of growth in relation to precipitation. Clear increases in productivity are documented on the upper treeline ecotones, and these systems are likely to continue to have increasing growth rates.
25164100| Although the European Union has invested important subsidies in European mountain areas since the 1980s, the influence of these subsidies on the economy and society of these regions has so far not been analyzed. For this reason, we conducted a quantitative analysis of the effects of public policies on the development of the Central Pyrenees from 1986 to 2001. During this period, around 170 million (US$ 226.3 million) was invested in development of the Central Pyrenees through the Common Agricultural Policy and Regional Policy. However, in our analysis of correlations between several socioeconomic factors, we found that the number of inhabitants, farms, and employees in the primary and secondary sectors had decreased, while the tourist sector was becoming a major part of the economy. These findings seem to indicate that public policies had little effect; but although our analyses revealed that the various subsidies did little to promote structural improvement, they were important for supporting inhabitants (for example farmers) in the Pyrenees, because they are a form of complementary income, they allow communities to maintain farming activities, and they favor small enterprises linked to tourist activities-thus preventing depopulation. As the Pyrenees have little capacity for endogenous development, we argue that the current public policies should be maintained for the foreseeable future. 
10.2307/3673066|A stochastic, one-species model of plant establishment on disturbed alpine sites has been constructed in order to gain a better understanding of the natural recovery process and improve predictive capabilities for management purposes. The model is based on life history data for Arenaria groenlandica, a pioneering species of alpine disturbances in the northern Appalachian Mountains. The model closely simulates the age structure and cover values observed at our field sites after three years of recovery. Predictions of natural revegetation over a longer period indicate that the time required to establish 50 percent ground cover on an initially bare plot may exceed 15 years for "average" site conditions. Steps taken to facilitate natural processes in the revegetation of disturbed alpine areas reduce predicted recovery time by as much as 50-70 percent. Management implications of these simulations are discussed. /// Un modle stochastique de l'implantation d'une espce vgtale sur des sites alpins perturbs, a t ralis dans le but d'acqurir une meilleure comprhension du processus naturel de rtablissement et d'amliorer les moyens de prdiction  des fins de contrle. Le modle est bas sur les donnes historiques concernant l'Arenaria groenlandica, une espce volontaire que l'on trouve dans les zones perturbes des Appalaches septentrionales. Le modle simule de prs la structure chronologique et la capacit de couverture observes dans nos champs d'exprimentation aprs trois ans de rtablissement. Des prdictions de re-vgtation naturelle  longue chance indiquent que le temps requis pour rtablir 50 pour cent de la couverture sur une parcelle initialement dnude peut excder 15 ans dans des conditions "moyennes" de site. Les initiatives prises en vue de favoriser les processus naturels de re-vgtation des rgions alpines perturbes rduisent de 50  75% termes de contrle sont discutes. /// Es wurde ein stochastisches Modell zur Wiederbepflanzung zerstrter alpiner Stellen mit einer Pflanzengattung entworfen, um die natrliche Restauration besser zu verstehen, und verbesserte Vorraussagen zu liefern. Das Modell basiert auf Informationen ber die Entwicklungsstadien der Arenaria groenlandica, einer bei alpiner Zerstrung in den nrdlichen Appalachen versuchsweise benutzten Pflanzenart. Das Modell simuliert genau die Altersstruktur und die berwachsung, die man an unserer Teststelle nach drei Jahren Wiederherstellungszeit beobachtet hat. Vorraussagen ber die natrliche Regeneration der Pflanzenwelt ber einen lngeren Zeitraum zeigen, da es unter "normalen" Bedingungen lnger als 15 Jahre dauern kann, bis eine anfangs kahle Stelle zu 50% bewachsen ist. Manahmen, die den natrlichen Pflanzenwuchs frdern, verringern die vorrausgesagte Wiederherstellungszeit u. U. um 50-70%. Die Konsequenzen dieser Simulation werden diskutiert.
10.2307/3673202|Several serious problems impede the task of determining the biophysical impacts of deforestation in the mountainous uplands on the lower reaches of major river systems. Three of these are discussed: (1) the ambiguity of the term "deforestation", which really renders it useless to describe land-use changes so that impacts can be assessed; (2) the prevalence of misunderstanding, or even myth, concerning the role of trees and forests with respect to soil, water, and climate; and (3) the problem of extrapolating or translating observation and research from small plots or small catchments to large river basins. It is suggested, as a small but important step, that use of the term "deforestation" be discontinued in order to reduce uncertainty and imprecision. /// De gros problmes s'opposent  la dtermination de l'impact biophysique de la dforestation dans les rgions montagneuses sur les valles infrieures de systmes fluviaux importants. Trois problmes sont examins: (1) l'ambiguit du terme "dforestation" qui rduit l'utilit de celui-ci pour dcrire les changements de modes d'exploitation du sol et ainsi pour valuer l'impact biophysique; (2) la prdominance d'une conception errone, voire d'un mythe, concernant le rle des arbres et des forts vis--vis du sol, de l'eau et du climat; et (3) l'extrapolation ou l'adaptation des observations et des recherches effectues sur de petites parcelles ou de petites zones de captation aux bassins de fleuves importants. Un premier pas important consisterait  ne plus utiliser le terme "dforestation" afin de rduire les incertitudes et le manque de prcision. /// Die Aufgabe, biophysikalische Auswirkungen der Entwaldung in den bergigen Hochlndern an den Unterlufen grerer Flusysteme zu bestimmen, ist durch mehrere schwierige Probleme erschwert. Drei solcher Probleme werden diskutiert: (1) Die Zweideutigkeit des Wortes "Entwaldung", das ungeeignet ist, Landnutzungsnderungen so zu beschreiben, da man die Auswirkungen beurteilen kann; (2) das gelufige Miverstndnis, oder sogar der Mythos ber die Rolle der Bume und Wlder hinsichtlich Boden, Wasser und Klima und (3) die Schwierigkeit, Schlsse auf groe Flubecken aus Beobachtung und Untersuchung von kleinen Landund Wasserflchen zu ziehen. Als ein erster, aber wichtiger Schritt wird vorgeschlagen, das Wort "Entwaldung" nicht mehr zu benutzen, um Unsicherheit und Ungenauigkeit zu reduzieren.
25164048|The mid-elevation hillsides of the Cochabamba region of Bolivia between 2,500 and 4,000 m asl are characterized by a multitude of microclimates for crop production. Poor productivity of food crops in the Cochabamba region has been associated principally with declining soil fertility. The time for natural fallow has declined steadily as more land for crop production is required. The use of legume cover crops, therefore, to improve the restoration of soil fertility during the brief natural fallow period offers considerable possibilities for improvement. Potential legume cover crops were identified that can germinate, flower, and set seed within the possible growing season constrained by temperature, photoperiod, and rainfall patterns. A photothermal model was calibrated for each of twelve cover crops. Simulations were run using the climate records for three hillside sites near Cochabamba. Six of the more temperate cover crops investigated could mature and provide seed from any sowing date at 2,600 m, and from most sowings at 3,220 m, but few were adapted to 3,490 m. Potential cover crops, not currently grown locally, and adapted for this cropping system, were identified and recommended for further field trials.
10.2307/3673062|The term "Krummholz" is applied to the bush-like growth-forms of Pinus mugo prostrata, Alnus viridis, and some other species which are genetically determined. The term has also long been used by English-speaking botanists to refer to the climatically stunted and distorted trees in the forest-tundra ecotone. Thus, distinct ecological and plant-geographical differences are disguised which, in a more precise differentiation of the mountain plant cover, ought to be accentuated. The author tries to explain this by observation and field studies in the European high mountains and in the Rocky Mountains and suggests restricting the German term "Krummholz" to the genetically controlled shrub-like species; the timberline species shaped by climatic influences should be called cripple-trees. Thus, the elfin wood is nothing but a cripple facies of the upper montane forest. /// En allemand, on appelle "Krummholz" les espces de bois comme Pinus mugo prostrata et Alnus viridis qui sont d'une pousse tordue par voie d'hrdit. En anglais, on appelle "Krummholz" depuis quelque temps aussi les formes des arbres  la limite forestire suprieure qui sont occasiones par le climat. Avec ce transfert, des diffrences importantes en vue de l'cologie et de la gographie floristique sont effaces qui devront tre soulignes pour obtenir la diffrenciation la plus exacte de la vgtation de haute montagne. Cela, l'auteur essaye de dmontrer au moyen des observations comparatives dans les hautes montagnes europennes et dans les montagnes rochenses. Il suggre de rserver le terme "Krummholz" pour les espces de pousse tordue fixe genetiquement et d'appeler arbres deforms les formes de pousse tordue forces par les constraints du climat. Alors, le "elfin wood" n'est qu'une forme tordue de la fort prs de sa limite suprieure. /// Als Krummholz werden im Deutschen die erblich krummwchsigen Holzarten wie Pinus mugo prostrata und Alnus viridis bezeichnet. Im Englischen ist es seit geraumer Zeit blich geworden, auch die klimatisch bedingten Wuchsformen im Waldgrenzbereich "Krummholz" zu nennen. Mit dieser bertragung werden aber wesentliche kologische und pflanzengeographische Unterschiede verwischt, die im Hinblick auf eine mglichst genaue Differenzierung der Hochgebirgsvegetation eigentlich hervorgehoben werden mten. Dies versucht der Autor anhand vergleichender Beobachtungen und Studien in europischen Hochgebirgen und in den Rocky Mountains zu begrnden. Er schlgt vor, den Terminus "Krummholz" den Arten mit genetisch fixierter Krummwchsigkeit vorzubehalten und die klimatisch induzierten Zwangswuchsformen als Krppelwuchsformen oder Baumkrppel zu bezeichnen.
3674209|In the High Andes of Bolivia, sectoral fallow systems are a common from of land use. Fields in the study area (Japo, Department of Cochabamba) are cultivated for 3 years with potatoes as the first crop and then lie fallow for 9 years. Despite the low nutrient content of the soil and the high elevation of the area (between 4000 and 4500 m above sea level), farmers achieve relatively high yields. This is explained by traditional knowledge about soil fertility management. The study focuses on nutrient dynamics over a 12-year cycle. A participatory research approach was applied to obtain information about indigenous knowledge. Soil nutrient content, phytomass, and yields were measured in 72 fields together with the farmers. Subterranean phytomass was identified as the key factor in nutrient storage during the fallow period. A multiple linear regression model shows three main factors that determine potato yields on cultivated fields. Farmers know about the nutrient dynamics of the fields; hence, cultivation measures show an impressive rationality. New elements such as mineral fertilizer have been incorporated in the system in a sustainable way. Participatory research intensifies these processes, stimulating farmers to reflect about their own land use system.
90001376|The 2015 magnitude 7.8 Gorkha earthquake and its aftershocks weakened mountain slopes in Nepal. Co- and postseismic landsliding and the formation of landslide-dammed lakes along steeply dissected valleys were widespread, among them a landslide that dammed the Kali Gandaki River. Overtopping of the landslide dam resulted in a flash flood downstream, though casualties were prevented because of timely evacuation of low-lying areas. We hindcast the flood using the BREACH physically based dam-break model for upstream hydrograph generation, and compared the resulting maximum flow rate with those resulting from various empirical formulas and a simplified hydrograph based on published observations. Subsequent modeling of downstream flood propagation was compromised by a coarse-resolution digital elevation model with several artifacts. Thus, we used a digital-elevation-model preprocessing technique that combined carving and smoothing to derive topographic data. We then applied the 1-dimensional HEC-RAS model for downstream flood routing, and compared it to the 2-dimensional Delft-FLOW model. Simulations were validated using rectified frames of a video recorded by a resident during the flood in the village of Beni, allowing estimation of maximum flow depth and speed. Results show that hydrological smoothing is necessary when using coarse topographic data (such as SRTM or ASTER), as using raw topography underestimates flow depth and speed and overestimates flood wave arrival lag time. Results also show that the 2-dimensional model produces more accurate results than the 1-dimensional model but the 1-dimensional model generates a more conservative result and can be run in a much shorter time. Therefore, a 2-dimensional model is recommended for hazard assessment and planning, whereas a 1-dimensional model would facilitate real-time warning declaration.
10.2307/3673670|A cooperative U.S.A.-China ecological study took place at the Xujiaba Nature Sanctuary on the northern crest of the Ailao Shan (mountains) in central-west Yunnan. By making forest access difficult and keeping human immigration low, the mountainous topography of Yunnan has assisted in protecting forest cover. This project studied the vegetational and bird structure and composition of an old growth and a secondary evergreen broad-leaved forest. The study found that the old growth had better developed layers, canopy stems were wider and taller, and there was a greater diversity of bird species. The secondary forest had a higher stem density in the canopy, more even-aged stems in the canopy, more coppiced stems in the canopy, and a greater canopy and overall basal area. Both forest types maintained a high diversity of woody species, but different species were dominant in each forest type and in the canopy and subcanopy of the forests. Natural forests are rare in China and are dwindling quickly. Most natural forest is found in frontier regions and it is here where research and management efforts are needed most urgently. In the nature reserves more ecological research, conservation education, and greater efforts to understand local demands, use, and knowledge about the forests are needed. /// Une tude cologique a t effectue par les Etats-Unis et la Chine dans le sanctuaire naturel de Xujiaba sur la crte septentrionale des monts Ailao (Ailao Shan), au centre-ouest de la province du Yunnan. La topographie montagneuse du Yunnan a aid  protger la couverture forestire en rendant l'accs aux forts difficile et en limitant ainsi l'immigration humaine. Ce projet a tudi la structure de la vgtation et des populations d'oiseaux, ainsi que la composition d'une fort primaire et d'une fort secondaire compose d'arbres  larges feuilles persistantes. Cette tude a montr que la fort primaire avait des couches mieux dveloppes, que les tiges de la couronne taient plus larges et plus hautes et que les espces d'oiseaux taient plus diverses. La fort secondaire avait une plus haute densit de tiges dans la couronne, plus de tiges d'ge uniforme dans la couronne, plus de tiges en taillis dans la couronne, ainsi qu'une plus grande surface de couronne et de base. Les deux types de fort ont maintenu une grande diversit d'espces ligneuses, mais diffrentes espces taient dominantes dans chaque type de fort et dans la couronne et la sous-couronne des forts. Les forts naturelles sont rares en Chine et disparaissent rapidement. La plupart des forts naturelles se trouvent dans les rgions frontalires et c'est donc l o le besoin de travaux de recherche et de gestion sont les plus urgents. Un accroissement de la recherche cologique et de l'ducation sur la conservation, ainsi que de plus gros efforts visant  comprendre les besoins, l'utilisation et la connaissance des forts au niveau local sont ncessaires dans les rserves naturelles. /// Im Xujiaba Naturschutzgebiet am nrdlichen Kamm der Ailao Berge in Zentralwest Ynnan wurde in Zusammenarbeit zwischen den USA und China eine kologische Studie durchgefhrt. Die bergige Topographie von Ynnan half, den ursprnglichen Waldbestand zu erhalten; der Zugang zu Waldgebieten ist schwierig und menschlicher Einflu blieb gering. Dieses Projekt untersuchte die Vegetationsstruktur und die Vogelbestnde fr den Urbewuchs und fr gemischt bewachsene Waldgebiete mit altem Baumbestand und mit immergrnen Laubbumen als Sekundrbewuchs. Die Studie ergab, da die Flche des alten Baumbestandes eine besser entwickelte Struktur des Laubwerkes hatte, die Stmme waren dicker und hher, und es gab eine grere Vielfalt unter den Vogelarten. Im Sekundrwald standen die Stmme dichter, der Wuchs war gleichaltriger, es gab mehr Unterholz, Blattdcher und ihre Grundflchen waren allgemein grsser. Beide Waldarten hatten viele unterschiedliche Baumsorten, jedoch die Hauptsorte war verschieden fr jede Waldart. Primrwlder sind in China selten und verringern sich stndig. Die meisten Primrwlder sind in Grenzgebieten und hier sind Forschungs-und Managementbemhungen am ntigsten. In den Schutzgebieten sind kologische Forschung und Schulung auf dem Gebiet des Naturschutzes ntig, ebenso mu es verstrkte Bemhungen geben, lokale Bedrfnisse, wirtschaftliche Nutzung und die forstwissenschaftliche Erkenntnis zu interpretieren.
10.2307/3673549|Pressure on land caused by an increase in human and livestock population, particularly since the early twentieth century, has had serious ecological effects in the Mbeya Highlands and surrounding lowlands. Forests and woodlands have been cleared indiscriminately for cultivation, and overgrazing and extensive wood cutting have occurred. The clearing of steep, unstable slopes has caused increased surface runoff, soil erosion, and land degradation. The concentration of people in Ujamaa villages seems to have aggravated the problem and there is annual flooding in the lowlands of Kyela due to increased surface runoff and silting of rivers. The degradation of land has forced many people to migrate to the surrounding lowlands and to other areas where arable land is still available. While efforts have been made by the government to protect the vegetation and conserve the soil, there is still need for more careful and active land management. This calls for the formulation and implementation of strict environmental protection policies, together with a comprehensive plan for development of mountain environments and greater emphasis on integrated scientific research. /// La pression exerce sur les terres par une augmentation de la population, humains et btail, surtout depuis le dbut du vingtime sicle, a eu des rpercussions cologiques srieuses sur les Monts Mbeya et les basses terres environnantes. Les forts et zones boises ont t dfriches en toute libert; un surpturage et un abattage d'arbres extensifs se sont produits. Le dfrichage de pentes raides et instables a entrn une augmentation du ruissellement, de l'rosion du sol et de la dgradation des terres. La concentration de la population dans les villages Ujamaa semble avoir aggrav la situation; les basses terres de Kyela sont inondes annuellement  cause de l'augmentation du ruissellement et de l'envasement des rivires. La dgradation des terres a forc une bonne partie de la population  migrer vers les basses terres environnantes et d'autres zones o la terre arable est encore disponible. Bien que le gouvernement ait fait certains efforts pour protger la vgtation et conserver le sol, une gestion des terres plus soigneuse et plus active est indispensable. Cela ncessite la formulation et l'application de strictes mesures de protection de l'environnement, de concert avec un plan d'ensemble pour le dveloppement des environnements montagnards et une plus grande insistance sur la recherche scientifique intgre. /// Zu Beginn des 20. Jahrhunderts haben in den Mbeya Bergen und den umliegenden Tieflndern Bevlkerungsdruck und erhhter Viehbestand einschneidende Vernderungen im kosystem hervorgerufen. Wlder wurden zwecks Gewinnung von Ackerland, Brenn- und Bauholz wahllos abgeholzt. Der grte Teil des Graslands ist zudem berweidet. Daneben wurden steile, instabile Hanglagen umgepflgt, was zu erhhtem berflchenabflu, Bodenerosion und Landzerstrung fhrte. Die Ballung der Bevlkerung in den Ujamaa Drfern hat das Problem verschlimmert und in den Kyela Tieflanden kommt es zu alljhrlichen berschwemmungen, hervorgerufen durch ungehemmten Oberflchenabflu und Verschlammung der Flsse. Die Verschlechterung des Siedlungslandes hat viele Bewohner gezwungen, in benachbarte Tieflande umzusiedeln, wo Ackerland noch verfgbar ist. Trotz Bemhungen der Regierung, die Vegetation zu schtzen und die Bodenqualitt zu erhalten, bleibt es weiterhin notwendig fr sorgfltiges und aktives Landmanagement zu sorgen. Die Gesetzgebung fr Umweltschutz mu verbessert und ihre Beachtung schrfer berwacht werden. Umfassende Plne fr die Entwicklung der Berggebiete mssen erstellt werden, und zusammenfassende wissenschaftliche Forschung mu strker bercksichtigt werden.
10.2307/3673423|Mountains and highlands account for 26 percent of the territory of the USSR. Over 20 percent of its total population live in these regions. Centralized planning for more than half a century has produced inappropriate mountain resource-use policies leading to serious environmental deterioration, disruption of local cultures, and ethnic unrest. The first part of this paper expands this thesis and provides several examples. The second part gives an overview of the development of Soviet mountain research from the large interdisciplinary expeditions of the 1920s and 1930s, to the introduction of I. P. Gerasimov's "constructive geography" in 1966, to the absorption of MAB-6 principles and approaches in the 1970s and early 1980s. The most recent stage has seen the beginnings of international and interdisciplinary collaboration through close working relationships with the United Nations University, the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, the International Mountain Society, the East-West Center, and the Commission on Mountain Geoecology of the International Geographical Union. The paper concludes with an outline of the new organizational structures required, and an indication of some of the essential approaches, particularly Geographical Information Systems and modeling applications, together with worldwide research collaboration. These approaches will fall within the new spirit of glasnost. The aim will be to achieve fully integrated mountain research and to apply the results to the solution of mountain resource-use problems. /// Les montagnes et hautes terres constituent 26 pourcent du territoire de l'U.R.S.S. Plus de 20 pourcent de la population totale vit dans ces rgions. La planification centralise, applique pendant plus d'un demi-sicle, a engendr une politique inapproprie d'exploitation des ressources de la montagne, qui a entran une dtrioration srieuse de l'environnement, une dislocation des cultures locales, et des troubles ethniques. La premire partie de cette article dveloppe cette thse et fournit plusieurs exemples. La deuxime partie donne un aperu du dveloppement de la recherche sovitique sur la montagne, depuis les grandes expditions interdisciplinaires des annes 1920 et 1930, jusqu' l'introduction de la "gographie constructive" de I. P. Gerasimov en 1966, et l'absorption des principes et approches de MAB-6 dans les annes 1970 et le dbut des annes 1980. L'tape la plus rcente a vu la naissance d'une collaboration internationale et interdisciplinaire, sous la forme de relations de travail troites avec l'Universit des Nations Unies, le Centre international pour le dveloppement intgr des montagnes, la Socit internationale d'tude de la montagne, le Centre est-ouest et la Commission sur la gocologie de l'Union gographique internationale. Cette article conclut avec une esquisse des nouvelles structures requises au niveau des organisations, et une indication de certaines approches essentielles, en particulier les systmes de traitement des informations gographiques et les applications de la modlisation, ainsi qu'une collaboration scientifique  l'chelle mondiale. Ces approches pourront tre mises en oeuvre grce au nouvel esprit de glasnost. Le but est d'arriver  compltement intgrer les recherches sur la montagne et d'appliquer les rsultats  la solution des problmes d'exploitation des ressources de la montagne. /// Das Staatsgebiet der UdssR besteht zu 26% aus Gebirgen und Hochlanden. ber 20% der gesamten Bevlkerung leben in diesen Gegenden. Unzweckmige Politiken zur Nutzung der Gebirgsressourcen durch die zentralisierte Planung der vergangenen 50 Jahre fhrten zu schwerwiegender Umweltverschlechterung, zum Zerfall der ortsgebundenen Kulturen und zu ethnischen Unruhen. Der erste Teil dieses Beitrages erhrtet anhand einiger Beispiele diese Behauptung. Der zweite Teil gibt eine bersicht ber die Entwicklung der sowjetischen Gebirgsforschung von den groen interdisziplinren Expeditionen der 20er und 30er Jahre bis zur Einfhrung der "konstruktiven Geographie" von I. P. Gerasimov im Jahre 1966 und zur Annahme der Grundstze des MAB 6 Projekts und ihren Ausfhrungen in den 70er und frhen 80er Jahren. Die jngste Entwicklungsphase lt den Anfang von internationaler und interdisziplinrer Zusammenarbeit durch ein enges Arbeitsverhltnis mit der United Nations Universitt, dem International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, der International Mountain Society, dem East-West Center und der Commission on Mountain Geoecology of the International Geographical Union erkennen. Abschlieend umreit der Beitrag die neuen, organisatorischen Strukturen, die notwendig sind und weist auf einige wesentliche Lsungsschritte hin, insbesondere die Anwendung von geographischen Informationssystemen, die Benutzung von Modellen und weltweite Zusammenarbeit in der Forschung. Diese Zielsetzungen tragen der neuen Idee von glasnost Rechnung. Die Absicht ist, eine vollstndig integrierte Gebirgsforschung und, die Anwendung ihrer Ergebnisse fr Problemlsungen bei der Gebirgsressourcennutzung zu realisieren.
25164072|More than a decade after the breakdown of a very severe communist regime, Albania is still facing the challenges of a difficult transition to democracy. The lack of a democratic tradition and a rather inequitable redistribution of resources have enabled a minority-often politicians-to thrive, whereas the majority of Albanians are struggling to survive. This is particularly the case in the remote northern mountain areas, where people are dependent mainly on agricultural and other types of land. Poor infrastructure and very weak police and judicial systems have made the region vulnerable to the revival of a centuries-old tradition: the blood feud. This severely hampers development, particularly tourism, and is undermining the country's social fabric.
10.2307/3673204|The population of the Himalayan region has tripled between 1901 and 1981 (from 11 to 33 million) and the rate of increase accelerated after about 1951 (from 1.26 to 2.7 percent per annum). These generalized figures, however, conceal significant sub-regional differences. It is argued that aid and development programmes have so far paid insufficient attention to local socio-cultural institutions and environmental conditions, and especially to the status of women. /// La population de la rgion himalayenne a tripl entre les annes 1901 et 1981, de 11  33 millions d'habitants, et la croissance dmographique s'est acclre aprs 1951, de 1,26  2,7 pour-cent par an. Nanmoins, ces statistiques globales masquent les diffrences marques au sein de la rgion. Cette tude dmontre que jusqu' prsent les programmes d'aide au dveloppement n'ont pas suffisamment tenu compte des institutions socio-culturelles locales et des conditions de l'environnement, en particulier le statut des femmes. /// Die Bevlkerung des Himalaya Gebietes hat sich zwischen 1901 und 1981 verdreifacht (von 11 auf 33 Millionen) und nach 1951 beschleunigte sich die Wachstumsrate (von 1,26 auf 2,7% pro Jahr). Diese allgemeinen Zahlen verbergen jedoch bedeutende Unterschiede zwischen den einzelnen Gebieten. Die Argumentation geht dahin, da bisher Hilfs- und Entwicklungsprogramme den lokalen sozio-kulturellen Institutionen, den Umweltbedingungen und besonders der Rolle der Frau ungengende Beachtung geschenkt haben.
10.2307/3673067|The vegetation of the Andean Cordillera changes its physiognomy with elevation. Seasonal patterns of leaf area increment and annual biomass production were analysed in dominant shrub species growing at foothill matorral (1,000 m a.s.l.) and the montane matorral (2,000 m a.s.l.). Shoot growth occurs in each species within a characteristic period and at a specific rate. In most species shoot growth followed the typical sigmoid curve; however, in Kageneckia oblonga and Kageneckia angustifolia, the leaf area growth curve exhibited two periods of more intensive growth. The growth rates of leaf area varied from <tex-math>$0.06\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{day}$</tex-math> for Valenzuelia trinervis to <tex-math>$1.05\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{day}$</tex-math> for Kageneckia oblonga. In species located at higher altitudes the growth period takes place later in the season and lasts longer. /// La physionomie de la vgtation de la Cordillre des Andes change avec l'altitude. Les cycles saisonniers de l'accroissement du feuillage et de la production annuelle de biomasse ont t analyss auprs des espces dominantes d'arbustes poussant sur le matorral des contre-forts (1.000 mtres au-dessus du niveau de la mer) et sur le matorral montagnard (2.000 m.a.d.n.m.). La croissance de pousses survient pour chaque espce,  un moment prcis et selon un rythme spcifique. Pour la plupart des espces, la croissance de pousses suit la courbe sigmode typique; cependant, pour le Kageneckia oblonga et le Kagenekia angustifolia, la courbe de croissance du feillage prsente deux priodes de croissance plus intensives. Les taux de croissance du feuillage varient de <tex-math>$0,06\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math> par jour pour le Valenzuelia trinervis  <tex-math>$1,05\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math> par jour pour le Kageneckia oblonga. Pour les espces situes  plus haute altitude, la priode de croissance commence plus tard dans la saison et dure plus longtemps. /// Die Vegetation in den Anden verndert ihr Erscheinungsbild mit der Hhe. Saisonbedingter Blattwuchs und der jhrliche Gesamtwuchs wurden fr die vorherrschenden Buscharten, die im Matorral der Vorberge (bei 1,000m .M.) und im gebirgigen Matorral (bei 2,000m .M.) wachsen, untersucht. Die Schlinge jeder Pflanzenart wachsen innerhalb gewisser Zeitrume und mit bestimmten Wachstumsraten. Bei den meisten Arten folgt dieses Wachstum der typischen S- Kurve, bei der Kageneckia oblonga und der Kageneckia angustifolia jedoch zeigte der Wachstumsverlauf der Bltter zwei Zeitabschnitte besonders intensiven Wuchses. Die Wachstumsraten schwankten zwischen <tex-math>$0.06\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{Tag}$</tex-math> fr die Valenzuelia trinervis und <tex-math>$1.05\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{Tag}$</tex-math> fr die Kageneckia oblonga. Bei Pflanzenarten, die in hheren Lagen zu finden sind, ist die Wachstumzeit spter im Jahr und dauert lnger.
10.2307/3673701|Indirect estimates of flood magnitude may be useful for resource management along ungauged stream channels. Such estimates may be developed either from statistical analyses of regional hydrologic data or from physical measurements of channel characteristics. Channel characteristics that record flood magnitude include erosional and depositional features indicative of peak stage. These peak stage estimates may be converted into discharge estimates using step-backwater hydraulic procedures if channel geometry at the time of the flood can be determined. Discharge estimates from scour lines along five study reaches in ungauged mountain channels in Nepal are presented as examples of this methodology. /// Les estimations indirectes de l'ampleur des inondations peuvent tre utiles pour la gestion des ressources le long de chanaux de cours d'eau non jaugs. De telles estimations peuvent tre effectues  partir d'analyses statistiques des donnes hydrologiques rgionales ou de mesures physiques des caractristiques des chenaux. Les caractristiques tmoignant de l'ampleur des inondations incluent les signes d'rosion et de dpt qui indiquent la phase de crue maximale. Ces estimations de phase de crue maximale peuvent tre converties en estimations de dbit  l'aide de procdures hydrauliques indirectes si la gomtrie du chenal au moment de la crue peut tre dtermin. Les estimations de dbit bases sur les lignes d'affouillement le long de cinq tronons de chenaux non jaugs du Npal sont prsentes en tant qu'exemples de cette mthodologie. /// Indirekte Schtzwerte des berflutungsausmaes entlang ungemessener Gebirgsflsse knnen beim Ressourcenmanagement hilfreich sein. Diese Schtzwerte knnen aus statistischen Analysen der regionalen, hydrologischen Daten oder aus den physikalischen Abmessungen der Flurinne abgeleitet werden. Kennzeichen fr die Hhe des Wasserstandes sind die Erosions- und Ablagerungsmarkierungen, die nach berschwemmungen zurckbleiben. Die so bestimmten Wasserstnde konnen unter Anwendung indirekter hydraulischer Vorgnge in Durchfluwerte umgerechnet werden, wenn die Flugeometrie zur Zeit der berschwemmung bestimmbar ist. Schtzwerte der Abflulraten entlang Schwmmlinien von ungemessenen Gebirgsflssen in fnf Untersuchungsbereichen in Nepal werden als Beispiele fr die beschriebene Methode angegeben.
10.2307/3672960|Huai Thung Choa in the Southeast Asian "Golden Triangle" is a typical tropical mountain region which is known for opium poppy cultivation. In addition it is engulfed by problems of deforestation, intensified swidden <tex-math>$\text{agriculture},^{1}$</tex-math> and in consequence, accelerated soil degradation. Several projects, among them the Agro-forestry Project of Chiang Mai University in association with United Nations University, Tokyo, are being undertaken in the region to assist in the solution of the pressing environmental problems. Soil erosion plays a critical role on the actual swidden fields that in this upland region are frequently developed on steep slopes. The analysis of soil erosion damages and a quantitative estimate of their extent in different cultivated fields indicated the occurrence of annual soil losses in the order of 100 metric tons per hectare. Process studies on micro-test plots during the 1980 monsoon are analysed in order to evaluate parameters of the Universal Soil Loss Equation. Soil losses predicted from these analyses are 100 to 150 tons per hectare per year from an average cultivated swidden. This indicates that a 10-20 year fallow period for each year of cultivation is absolutely necessary if adequate soil regeneration is to occur. Alternatives for modification of the swidden systems are discussed critically, and new experiments set up to test their ecological validity in the long term. /// Huai Thung Choa au "Triangle d'or" de l'Asie du Sud-Est, forme une rgion montagneuse tropicale typique, o on trouve les problmes connus de culture de pavot  opium. D'autres problmes viennent de la dforestation par une agriculture  la houe intensifie qui provoque une dgradation acclre des sols. Dans cette rgion plusieurs projets, parmis eux le Projet Agroforestier de l'Universit de Chiang Mai en association avec l'Universit des Nations Unies  Tokyo, s'occuppent de la rsolution des problmes d'environnement.  cause du relief extrme des terres cultives, l'rosion des sols joue un rle central comme rgulateur de la technique de cultivation traditionelle. Des analyses des dgts causs par l'rosion et des estimations quantitatives dans plusieurs champs montrrent des pertes annuelles d'environ 100 tonnes de terre par hectare. Pour valuer des paramtres de l'quation Universelle de la Perte de Terre, des mesurages faits en 1980 pendant la mousson sont analyss. L aussi, les montants de perte de terre annuelle d'un champ moyen vacillent entre 100 et 150 tonnes par hectare. Ceci montre qu'aprs une seule anne de cultivation, le sol a besoin de 10  20 ans de friche afin qu'il se rgnre suffisamment. Pour les annes suivantes on discute et on teste plusieurs alternatives possibles qui permettraient une amlioration de la cultivation, comme par exemple la construction de terrasses irrigues, l'intensification des drainages, ou l'introduction de systmes agroforestiers. /// Huai Thung Choa im sdost-asiatischen "Goldenen Dreieck" ist eine typische tropische Bergregion, in der neben dem bekannten Opium-Anbau vor allem die Probleme der Entwaldung durch intensivierte Hackbau-Landwirtschaft und der dadurch ausgelsten beschleunigten Degradierung des Bodens existieren. Mehrere Projekte, darunter das Agro-Forstwirtschafts-Projekt der Chiang Mai Universitt in Verbindung mit der UN Universitt Tokyo beschftigen sich im Gebiet mit der Lsung der Umweltprobleme. Bodenerosion nimmt auf den aktuellen Anbauflchen wegen des ausserordentlichen Reliefs eine zentrale Stellung als Regler der traditionellen Anbautechnik ein. Schadenanalysen und quantitative Abschtzungen in verschiedenen Anbauflchen ergaben jhrliche Bodenverluste von rund 100 Tonnen pro Hektare. Prozessmessungen auf Mikro-Testflchen im Monsun 1980 werden fr die Evaluation von Parametern der universellen Bodenverlustgleichung analysiert. Auch hier liegen berechnete Erosionsbetrge pro Jahr zwischen 100 und 150 t pro ha fr eine durchschnittliche Anbauflche. Dies zeigt, dass pro Anbaujahr 10-20 Jahre Brache und Sekundrwald erfolgen mssen, damit die Bden gengend regenerieren. Mgliche Alternativen, wie z.B. Nassreis-Terrassen, intensivierte Entwsserungsrinnen, oder agro-forstwirtschaftliche Systeme werden kritisch diskutiert und entsprechende Experimente zur Erprobung in den nchsten Jahren vorbereitet.
10.2307/3673865|Resources of mountain environments are often held and used as commons. This paper examines the use of mountain commons in two villages in the Manali area, Kulu Valley, Himachal Pradesh, India, where the land settlement of 1886 provided the local people with well defined resource rights and allowed a degree of local control. Each village had a resource area which included a series of zones from agricultural land at about 2,000 m to the highest pastures at about 4,000 m. Within this area, ten categories of land use were identified: three kinds of private property agricultural land; four kinds of common-property grazing land; and three kinds of forest land, two of which had elements of common-property. Diversity of land use was due to a diversity of interests based on gender, caste, and ethnicity. Village-based social institutions, mahila mandals and mimbers, allowed these diverse interests a voice in resource management. /// Les ressources des rgions montagneuses sont souvent rserves et utilises comme communaux. Cet expos examine l'utilisation des communaux en montagne dans deux villages de la rgion de Manali, Valle de Kulu,  Himachal Pradesh, Inde, o la colonisation des terres en 1886 a apport  la population locale des droits bien dfinis sur les ressources et lui a permis d'exercer un certain contrle au niveau local. Chaque village possdait une rgion de ressources divise en une srie de zones allant des terres agricoles  2000m d'altitude environ aux pturages les plus levs  4000m environ. Dans cette rgion, dix catgories d'utilisation des terres ont t identifies: trois types de terres agricoles prives, quatre types de terres de pture communes et trois types de terres forestires dont deux possdaient des biens communs. La diversit d'utilisation des terres provenait d'une diversit des intrts en fonction du genre, de la caste et de l'appartenance ethnique. Des institutions sociales organises en villages, mahila mandals et mimbers, ont permis  ces divers intrts de participer  la gestion des ressources. /// Die Rohstoffquellen in Bergregionen werden hufig als Allgemeinbesitz betrachtet und entsprechend genutzt. Im vorliegenden Text wird die Nutzung von Gemeindeland in zwei Bergdrfern der Manali-Region im Kulu-Tal in Himachal Pradesh in Indien betrachtet, wo die Einwohner seit der Landbesiedelung 1886 ber gut definierte Rechte an den Rohstoffquellen verfgten und hierdurch eine gewisse lokale Steuerung mglich war. Jedem Dorf stand ein Nutzungsgebiet zur Verfgung, das aus einer Reihe unterschiedlicher Zonen von landwirtschaftlich nutzbarem Land in 2000 m Hhe bis hin zu Weideland in 4000 m Hhe bestand. Innerhalb dieses Gebietes war die Landnutzung in zehn Kategorien eingeteilt: drei Arten von landwirtschaftlich nutzbarem Land in Privatbesitz, vier Arten von Weideland in Gemeinschaftsbesitz und drei Arten von Land mit Waldbestand, zwei davon mit Elementen des Gemeinschaftsbesitzes. Die Vielfalt der Landnutzung war auf die Vielfalt der Interessen zurckzufhren, die auf Geschlecht, Kastenzugehrigkeit und ethnischer Zugehrigkeit basieren. Durch die im Dorf bestehenden sozialen Institutionen, mahila mandals und mimbers, erhielten diese unterschiedlichen Interessen ein Stimmrecht bei der Bewirtschaftung der Rohstoffquellen.
10.2307/3674020|In Tucuman Province of Argentina, the subtropical moist montane forests, known as Yungas, reach their southern-most limit, occurring between 400 and 2,800 m. The study area is located on the eastern slopes of the Sierra de San Javier where the forest is strongly affected by human pressure. Eighty percent of the annual rainfall in Tucuman falls largely during thunderstorms between October and March. Three recording rain gauges and two fog catchers were installed at 730, 950, and 1,350 m, respectively, to study the effect of altitude on the intensity, duration, distribution, and influence of horizontal precipitation. A stream-gauging station has been constructed to measure discharge, floods, and bed load in a small experimental basin in the basal forest. To measure the amount of surface runoff and soil erosion in the basal forest and piedmont area three experimental test plots were installed. The results confirm that deforestation has notably increased hydrological and erosion risk in summer, but also has led to a reduction of water volumes in winter. It was confirmed that the Tucuman montane forests are actual subtropical montane cloud forests. The additional moisture obtained from passing low clouds during the long dry winter season is important and has not yet been considered in the hydrological budget. /// Dans la province de Tucuman en Argentine, les forts alpestres humides subtropicales, connues sous le nom de Yungas, atteignent leur limite sud entre 400 et 2 800 mtres. La zone d'tude est situe sur les versants est de la Sierra de San Javier o la fort est fortement affecte par l'anthropisation. Quatrevingt pour cent de la prcipitation annuelle du Tucuman provient d'orages entre octobre et mars. Trois pluviographes et deux appareils capteurs de brouillard ont t installs  730, 950 et 1 350 mtres, afin d'tudier l'effet de l'altitude sur l'intensit, la dure, la rpartition et l'influence de la prcipitation horizontale. Une station de jaugeage de cours d'eau a t construite afin de mesurer le dbit, les crues et le charriage dans un petit bassin exprimental situ dans la fort de base. Pour mesurer le ruissellement et l'rosion du sol dans la fort de base et le pimont, trois parcelles exprimentales ont t amnages. Les rsultats confirment que la dforestation a sensiblement augment les risques hydrologiques et d'rosion en t, mais a galement rduit les volumes d'eau en hiver. Il a t confirm que les forts alpestres du Tucuman constituent des forts alpestres ombrophiles subtropicales. L'humidit additionnelle dcoulant du passage de nuages bas pendant la longue saison sche en hiver est importante et n'a pas encore t considre dans le bilan hydrologique. /// In der Provinz Tucuman, Nordwestargentinien, erreicht der subtropische Feuchtwald-auch 'Yungas' genannt-seine sdlichste Verbreitungsgrenze in Hhenlagen zwischen 400 und 2,800 m. Das Untersuchungsgebiet befindet sich am stlichen Abhang der Sierra de San Javier, wo der Feuchtwald einem starken Bevlkerungsdruck ausgesetzt ist. In Tucuman fallen 80% des Jahresniederschlags berwiegend in Form von Starkregen zwischen Oktober und Mrz. Um den Einflu der Hhenlage auf die Niederschlagsintensitt, die Niederschlagsdauer, die Niederschlagsverteilung sowie auf den Wolkenniederschlag zu untersuchen wurden 3 Niederschlagsschreiber in Hhen von 730, 950, und 1350 m sowie zwei Nebelfnger in Hhen von 730 und 1350 m installiert. Zur Messung von Abflu, Hochwassern und Grundfracht wurde ein Abflumekanal mit vorgeschalteter Sedimentfalle in einem kleinen, vollstndig bewaldeten hydrologischen Versuchsgebiet aufgebaut. Um den Oberflchenabflu und den Bodenabtrag whrend Starkregenereignissen im Feuchtwald und zum Vergleich auf landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen am Bergfu zu quantifizieren wurden 3 Erosionsmeparzellen aufgebaut. Die ersten Ergebnisse zeigen zum einen das durch die Entwaldung das Hochwasserrisiko und die Bodenerosion am Bergfu erheblich angestiegen sind und zum anderen, da die Abflsse im Winterhalbjahr zurckgegangen sind. Es kann besttigt werden, da es sich bei dem subtropischen Feuchtwald an den Ostabhngen der Gebirge in der Provinz Tucumn um einen Wolkenwald handelt. Der zustzliche Feuchteeintrag beim Auskmmen der Wolkentrpfchen durch die Vegetation whrend des langen trockenen Winters ist erheblich und wurde bisher noch nicht im Wasserhaushalt bercksichtigt. /// En la provincia de Tucumn, en el noroeste de la Argentina, el bosque hmedo subtropical desarrolla entre los 400 y los 2800 m. Esta zona tambien es conocida como 'Las Yungas'. El rea del estudio del presente trabajo se ubic en la ladera oriental de la sierra de San Javier, donde el bosque esta sometido a una alta influencia antrpica. El 80% de la lluvia anual de Tucumn cae casi en su totalidad en forma de tormentas durante el verano del hemisferio sur, es decir entre octubre y marzo. Para determinar la influencia que ejerce la altura con la intensidad, duracin y distribucin de la precipitacin, asi como con relacin a la precipitacin horizontal fueron instalados 3 pluvigrafos a los 730, 950, y 1350 m y 2 atrapanieblas a los 730 y 1350 m. Con el objeto de efectuar mediciones del caudal, crecidas y carga de fondo se construy, en una pequea cuenca piloto, una estacin de aforo con trampa de sedimentos. Para cuantificar la escorrentia superficial y la erosin del suelo durante las tormentas se demarcaron 3 parcelas experimentales dentro del bosque mismo y en zonas bajo cultivo en la zona pedemontana. Los resultados preliminares muestran que el proceso de deforestacin no slo aumenta el riesgo hidrolgico y erosivo en la estacin deverano sino tambin da lugar a una disminuacin de los caudales en la estacin de invierno. Se puede tambin verificar que el bosque subtropical hmedo de Tucumn es un verdadero bosque nublado subtropical. El aporte de agua por medio de la precipitacin horizontal juega un papel muy importante hasta ahora no considerado en el balance hdrico.
10.2307/3673603|The general biogeographic features of the Pyrenean range are reviewed with particular reference to the distribution of flowering plants, amphibians, and reptiles. The role of the Pyrenees in the past, as a barrier to, or as a channel for, the migration of species between Europe and the Iberian Peninsula is described. The present distribution of species can be related to past climates, especially glacial and interglacial periods. When conditions were inhospitable mountain plants, reptiles, and amphibians achieved physiological adaptations, and in many cases mountain habitats became important refuges. Today the Pyrenean reptiles and amphibians are controlled to a large degree by altitude, especially as it determines climatic variability and temperature ranges. /// Les caractristiques biogographiques gnrales de la chane des Pyrnes sont passes en revue, en particulier en ce qui concerne la distribution des plantes  fleurs, des amphibiens et des reptiles. Le rle des Pyrnes dans le pass, en tant que barrire ou passage pour la migration des espces entre l'Europe et la Pninsule ibrique, est examin. La distribution actuelle des espces peut tre rapporte au climat du pass, en particulier les priodes glaciaires et interglaciaires. Quand les conditions taient dfavorables, les plantes de montagne, les reptiles et les amphibiens se sont adapts physiologiquement, et dans beaucoup de cas les habitats montagnards sont devenus des refuges importants. De nos jours, les populations de reptiles et d'amphibiens des Pyrnes sont en grande partie sous la dpendance de l'altitude, principalement du fait que celle-ci dtermine la variabilit climatique et les amplitudes thermiques. /// In dieser Verffentlichung werden allgemeine biogeographische Merkmale der Pyrenenkette untersucht, besonders im Hinblick auf Verteilungen von Bltenpflanzen, Amphibien und Reptilien. Die Rolle der Pyrenen in der Vergangenheit als Schranke gegen und als Wegweiser fr Artenmigrationen zwischen Europa und der Iberischen Halbinsel wird beschrieben. Die heutige Artenverteilung entwickelte sich aus vergangenen Klimata, besonders whrend der glazialen und interglazialen Perioden. Wenn unwirtliche Bedingungen herrschten, paten sich die Gebirgspflanzen, Reptilien und Amphibien physiologisch an und in vielen Fllen waren Gebirgshabitate wichtige Schutzpltze. Die derzeitige Verteilung von Reptilien- und Amphibienarten in den Pyrenen ist hauptschlich durch die Hhenlage bestimmt, insbesondere da diese klimatische Variationen und Temperaturbereiche bestimmt. /// Les caractristiques biogographiques gnrales de la chane des Pyrnes sont passes en revue, en particulier en ce qui concerne la distribution des plantes  fleurs, des amphibiens et des reptiles. Le rle des Pyrnes dans le pass, en tant que barrire ou passage pour la migration des espces entre l'Europe et la Pninsule ibrique, est examin. La distribution actuelle des espces peut tre rapporte au climat du pass, en particulier les priodes glaciaires et interglaciaires. Quand les conditions taient dfavorables, les plantes de montagne, les reptiles et les amphibiens se sont adapts physiologiquement, et dans beaucoup de cas les habitats montagnards sont devenus des refuges importants. De nos jours, les populations de reptiles et d'amphibiens des Pyrnes sont en grande partie sous la dpendance de l'altitude, principalement du fait que celle-ci dtermine la variabilit climatique et les amplitudes thermiques.
10.2307/3673524|This paper discusses the occurrence of mudflows in the Baksan River basin during the last thousand years. Lichenometric studies indicate several periods of more intense mudflow activity which correlate with patterns of climatic and glacier fluctuations. The data are presented in graphic form. The cessation of mudflow activity in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries coincides with a prolonged cold period. Climatic warming and deglaciation are most conducive to mudflow occurrence. There has been a significant increase in mudflow activity during the present century, which may be due to anthropogenic activities such as mining, tourism, and the intensification of agriculture and, as a result, soil erosion and overgrazing. It is predicted that mudflow activity will continue at its present rate into the next century. /// Cet article examine la frquence des coulements boueux dans le bassin du Baksan au cours des mille dernires annes. Les tudes lichnomtriques rvlent plusieurs priodes plus actives en termes d'coulements boueux, qui corrlent avec des rgimes de fluctuations climatiques et glaciaires. Les donnes sont prsentes sous forme graphique. L'arrt des coulements boueux aux quatorzime et quinzime sicles concident avec une longue priode de froid. Un rchauffement du climat et une dglaciation reprsentent les conditions les plus favorables aux coulements boueux. Le nombre d'coulements boueux a augment sensiblement au cours de ce sicle, probablement par suite d'activits anthropogniques telles que l'exploitation minire, le tourisme et l'intensification de l'agriculture et, par consquent, l'rosion du sol et le pturage excessif. On peut prdire que des coulements boueux continueront  se produire  la mme frquence le sicle prochain. /// Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert die Intensitt von Sedimentflu im Baksan Flubecken whrend der vergangenen 1000 Jahre. Lichenometrische Untersuchungen deuten auf verschiedene Zeitrume mit verstrktem Sedimentflu hin, die mit klimatischen und glazialen Vernderungen in Wechselbeziehung stehen. Die Daten werden graphisch dargestellt. Der Stillstand im Sedimentflu whrend des 14. und 15. Jahrhunderts fllt mit einer anhaltenden Klteperiode berein. Klimatische Erwrmung fhrte dann zu glazialem Abschmelzen, das den Sedimentflu begnstigte. Im derzeitigen Jahrhundert ist ein betrchtlicher Anstieg in der Sedimentfluaktivitt zu beobachten, mglicherweise als Folge anthropogener Unternehmungen wie Bergbau und Tourismus, sowie der Intensivierung der Landwirtschaft, die Bodenerosion und berweidung nach sich zieht. Es wird vorausgesagt, da Sedimentfluvorgnge im gegenwrtigen Ausma bis ins nchste Jahrhundert anhalten werden.
10.2307/3673462|Landslides are a major hazard along Himalayan highways and there is a need for better methods of hazard evaluation. This case study of a 6-km section of the Kilbury Road, Nainital, seeks to select variables that may be used to describe the frequencies of three classes of landslide activity: slumping, landslides involving the deformation and perhaps rotation of mobilized debris, affect 38 percent of the roadbed but no significant environmental correlates for slumping were determined; rockfalling, involving the movement of undeformed blocks of debris, affects 39 percent of the Kilbury Road and is more severe in areas of high road-cuts and roadward-dipping rocks; it is associated with sites of more intense geomorphological activity (the undermining of the roadbed by erosional processes) and with areas where road-derived debris has seriously reduced the forest cover downslope; and debris chutes, of which there are about 24 per kilometre, arise from amphitheatre-shaped scars and involve the disaggregation of mobilized debris; higher frequencies of debris chutes are associated with lower densities of ground vegetation upslope, and with deeper regolith, a favourable rock dip, and topographic sites where water concentrates. /// [Abstract in Hindi. Transliteration and Unicode values will be provided at a later date.] /// Les glissements de terrain prsentent de gros dangers pour les routes himalayennes et il est ncessaire de dvelopper de meilleures techniques pour valuer les risques. Cette tude de cas portant sur une section longue de 6 kilomtres de la route Kilbury, Nainital, essaie de slectionner des variables pouvant tre utilises pour dcrire la frquence de trois types de glissements de terrain: affaissement, mettant en jeu la dformation et parfois la rotation de dbris mobiliss, affecte 38% de la route, mais aucun corrlat naturel important n'a pu tre dtermin; boulement, mettant en jeu le mouvement de blocks de dbris non dforms, affecte 39% de la route, en particulier dans les zones  hautes coupures et roches inclines vers la route; ce type est associ avec les sites o l'activit gomorphologique est plus intense (l'affouillement de la chausse par des processus d'rosion) et les zones o les dbris drivs de la route ont srieusement rduit la couverture d'arbres vers le bas; et couloirs  dbris, environ 24 au kilomtre, qui rsultent de murailles en forme d'amphithatre et mettent en jeu la dsagrgation de dbris mobiliss; les plus grandes frquences de couloirs  dbris correspondent  une densit moindre de la vgtation vers le haut, et  une rgolite plus profonde, une inclinaison favorable de la roche, et des sites topographiques o l'eau s'accumule. /// Entland den Straen des Himalaya sind Erdrutsche eine groe Gefahr, und es ist notwendig, bessere Methoden zur Gefahrenabschtzung zu finden. Diese Fallstudie versucht, an einem 6 km langen Abschnitt der Kilbury Strae, Nainital, Kenngren zu bestimmen, die dazu dienen knnten, das Auftreten von drei verschiedenartigen Erdrutschvorgngen zu beschreiben: Abrutsche, bei denen Erdmassen bewegt und mglicherweise umgewlzt werden. Davon sind 38% der Straenfhrung betroffen, aber keine eindeutigen Umweltwechselbeziehungen lassen sich fr Abrutsche angeben; Steinschlag, bei dem ganze Gesteinsblcke abgehen, beeintrchtigt 39% der Kilbury Strae. Steinschlag tritt hufiger in Gebieten mit Trassen und Felsberhngen auf und hngt mit intensiven geomorphologischen Vorgngen (Untergrabung des Straenbettes durch Erosionsprozesse) zusammen, besonders in Gebieten, in denen Gesteinsschutt von der Strae den Waldbewuchs bergab entscheidend vermindert hat; daneben gibt es ungefhr 24 Gerllhalden pro km mit halbkreisfrmigen Abhngen, die Gestein abrutschen lassen. Gerllhalden bilden sich begnstigt durch sprliche Vegetation bergauf und wenn eine dicke Schuttschicht vorhanden ist, wenn der Neigungswinkel vom Fels gnstig ist und wenn sich Wasser in topographischen Stellen ansammelt.
3674361|According to even the most conservative estimates, at least half of the world's 6500 languages are expected to become extinct in the next century. While the documentation of endangered languages has traditionally been the domain of academic linguists and anthropologists, international awareness of this impending linguistic catastrophe is growing, and development organizations are becoming involved in the struggle to preserve spoken forms. The death of a language marks the loss of yet another piece of cultural uniqueness from the mosaic of our diverse planet, and is therefore a tragedy for the heritage of all humanity. Language death is often compared to species extinction, and the same metaphors of preservation and diversity can be invoked to canvas support for biodiversity and language preservation programs. The present article addresses language endangerment in the Himalayas, with a focus on Nepal, and presents the options and challenges for linguistic development in this mountainous region.
mounresedeve.32.4.390|Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation and enhancing forest carbon stocks in developing countries (REDD+) is heavily promoted in Laos. REDD+ is often perceived as an opportunity to jointly address climate change and poverty and, therefore, could come timely for Laos to combine its prominent national target of poverty eradication with global climate mitigation efforts. Countrywide planning of the right approaches to REDD+ combined with poverty alleviation requires knowledge of the spatial combination of poverty and carbon stocks at the national level. This study combined spatial information on carbon stored in vegetation and on poverty and created carbon-poverty typologies for the whole country at the village level. We found that 11% of the villages of Laos have high to very high average village-level carbon stock densities and a predominantly poor population. These villages cover 20% of the territory and are characterized by low population density. Shifting cultivation areas in the northwestern parts of the country have a higher carbon mitigation potential than areas in the central and eastern highlands due to a more favorable climate. Finally, we found that in Laos the majority (58%) of poor people live in areas with low carbon stock densities without major potential to store carbon. Accordingly, REDD+ cannot be considered a core instrument for poverty alleviation. The carbon-poverty typologies presented here provide answers to basic questions related to planning and managing of REDD+. They could serve as a starting point for the design of systems to monitor both socioeconomic and environmental development at the national level.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s7|The concept of commons is complex; it may relate to property regimes, rules of use and access, recognition of collective importance, or a mixture of these. This paper explores the argumentsdeveloped by a growing epistemic communityto promote mountains as global common goods within the third category. This process may be viewed as starting with the UN Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) in 1992, and continuing, in particular, through the International Year of Mountains 2002. It has been supported and advanced by focused publications, the establishment of global networks, and advances in technology. Specific arguments state that mountains are important because they provide ecosystem services that are vulnerable to climate change, are home to a significant part of humanity, including many who are disadvantaged, and are centers of cultural, religious, and ethnic diversity. Nevertheless, this proposal has been contested within the scientific community, and the implications for mountain people remain to be discussed.
25164178|Tibetan grasslands constitute one of the most important grazing ecosystems in the world. Distributed widely across the high plains and mountains of the Tibetan plateau, these grasslands encompass the source areas of many major Asian rivers. Around 40 percent of the world's population depends on, or is influenced by, these rivers. Tibetan grasslands also support a unique assemblage of flora and fauna with many rare and endemic species. A variety of government policies have been applied in recent years to protect the ecology and biodiversity of China's grasslands. There is growing concern, though, that national and global economic considerations have overshadowed emerging conservation agendas. Additionally, the social dimensions of these policies deserve more attention than they have received to date. The present article critically reviews several key policies affecting pastoralists, with special attention given to the Sanjiangyuan region of Qinghai Province. Plateau Perspectives, an international NGO, has worked in this region for nearly a decade, promoting a more people-centered approach to conservation and development, thus giving a voice to local Tibetan pastoral communities.
10.2307/3673761|Advances in the determination of surface net radiation in mountainous terrain have mostly been directed at the computation of shortwave and longwave irradiance. In general, lack of adequate information regarding the surface variables of albedo and thermal exitance have been the major impediments to mapping the net radiation load at the surface. These variables are typically measured during field campaigns at sites of relatively easy access. These point observations are rarely representative of the diversity of the study area. Remotely sensed data have the potential to provide these fluxes with the necessary spatial resolution. Approaches to the determination of the components of the radiation balance in mountainous terrain are reviewed herein. Each component of the radiation balance, namely shortwave and longwave irradiance (i.e., insolation and atmospheric emittance) as well as surface albedo and thermal exitance, is examined. Current limitations towards more precise estimates of the components of the radiation balance are also given. The review concludes with a series of recommendations for future research. /// Les progrs dans la dtermination du rayonnement net en surface des terrains montagneux ont surtout port sur le calcul de l'clairement nergtique de grandes et de courtes longueurs d'onde. En gnral, le manque de donnes acceptables sur les variables de surface du rayonnement d'albdo et de l'exitance thermique constitue l'obstacle majeur au lev de cartes reprsentant la dose nette de rayonnement en surface. Ces variables sont en gnral mesures dans le cadre de campagnes sur le terrain, pour des sites relativement accessibles. Ces observations ponctuelles reprsentent rarement la diversit de la zone de recherche. Les donnes tldtectes sont susceptibles de fournir ces flux avec la rsolution spatiale ncessaire. Les diffrentes approches visant  dterminer les composants du bilan radiatif des terrains montagneux sont examines dans cet article. Chaque composant du bilan radiatif, c'est--dire l'clairement nrgtique de grandes et de courtes longueurs d'onde (insolation et mittance atmosphrique), ainsi que le rayonnement d'albdo et l'exitance thermique, est examin. Les contraintes actuelles  l'estimation plus prcise des composants du bilan radiatif sont galement examines. L'article conclut par une srie de recommandations pour les futures recherches. /// Fortschritte bei der Bestimmung von Oberflchenstrahlung in gebirgigem Gelnde wurden hauptschlich bei der Berechnung von kurz- und langwelliger Abstrahlung erzielt. Unzureichende Informationen ber die Variablen der Albedo und der thermischen Abstrahlung verhindern im allgemeinen eine Kartierung der Oberflchenstrahlungsintensitt. Diese Variablen wurden typischerweise im Gelnde an leicht zugnglichen Stellen gemessen; wobei die Einzelpunkte aber selten die Vielgestaltigkeit des untersuchten Gebietes reprsentieren. Fernerkundungsdaten dagegen knnen Strahlungs= flsse mit der ntigen rumlichen Auflsung liefern. Fr gebirgiges Gelande wird ein kritischer berblick der Anstze zur Bestimmung der Beitrge zum Strahlungsgleichgewicht gegeben. Jede Komponente im Strahlungsgleichgewicht, besonders lang- und kurzwellige Abstrahlung (z.B. Sonnenbestrahlung und atmosprische Emission) ebenso wie Oberflchenalbedo und thermische Abstrahlung werden untersucht. Derzeitige Einschrnkungen hinsichtlich genauer Schtzungen der Beitrge zum Strahlungsgleichgewicht werden ebenfalls untersucht. Die bersicht schliet mit Empfehlungen fr knftige Forschung.
mounresedeve.29.4.308|This case study explored forest resource-use patterns to understand villagers' dependency on forests in four temperate villages situated in two forested sites in Garhwal Himalaya: Mandal and Khalla in the Mandal area, Chamoli District, and Chaundiyar and Dikholi in the Chaurangikhal area, Uttarkashi District. Although the literacy rate in the villages was quite high, due to lack of employment opportunities people still invariably depend on forests for their livelihood. In all the study villages more than 75% of fodder and fuelwood were extracted from the forest. The pressure exerted by human and bovine populations, coupled with unsustainable management policies, has resulted in the destruction of forest cover and ecological degradation. Agriculture (which is 70% rainfed in the Mandal area and 90% rainfed in Chaurangikhal) and employment as laborers were the main occupations of people in the study areas; in addition, remittance income (8.6% in the Mandal area and 21.3% in Chaurangikhal) and dairy faming accounted for a major portion of total household income. The study revealed a positive relationship between income and livestock population (0.995), which reveals the strong role of animal husbandry in the rural economy. The equally positive relationship between income and fodder consumption (0.930) can be attributed to extraction of large quantities of fodder to sustain dairy farming for commercial purposes. The correlation between income and fuelwood consumption was found to be negative (0.882), the likely reason being poor economic conditions, leading to dependency on the forest for fuelwood as a free source of energy.
25164052|This paper attempts to place indigenous soil and water conservation (ISWC) within overall land management by exploring interactions between ISWC, cropping, and crop protection practices. A diagnostic field study was conducted in Mbeere District, located on the semi-arid footslopes of Mount Kenya. A wide range of land management practices was identified where synergistic effects between ISWC and cropping were exploited. However, a serious drawback with many ISWC techniques is the survival and spread of insect pests and disease pathogens in preserved crop residues. Trash lines, for example, can exacerbate problems with stalk rots and stem borers. Nevertheless, there is a wealth of indigenous crop protection practices that can be combined with ISWC. The study highlights the fact that farmers do not always consider soil erosion to be the chief biophysical problem in hillside environments and it is indicated that the way forward to improve land management lies at the interface between ISWC, cropping, and crop protection.
3674527|The signing of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project treaty in 1986 between Lesotho and the then apartheid government of the Republic of South Africa triggered mixed feelings. In Lesotho and several other countries in the region, the project was seen as a sellout that compromised the struggles of the oppressed, tantamount to Lesotho becoming a province of South Africa. Additional objections grew more vociferous during project implementation. These came especially from the communities affected, where people were removed from their original homes or their pastoral and agricultural lands were swallowed up by the immense water reservoir that now covers valleys and steep slopes of the Maluti Mountains. Lesotho has begun selling water to South Africa, earning about US$44 million annually (October 2001), and Lesotho is now self-sufficient in electricity. The present hydropower output is 72 MW. Major infrastructure has also been put in place, including roads, hydropower plants, administrative centers, and engineering masterpieces such as the 18-m-high Katse Dam and related tunnels through the mountains.
10.2307/3673585|In northernmost Andean Patagonia land use is characterized by the extensive exploitation of high and low altitude seasonal grasslands. Sheep and goat pastoralism, in the form of transhumance, has been structured based on production strategies mainly oriented towards meeting subsistence needs and, most recently and to an increasing extent, market transactions. This European-derived migratory livestock industry resembles practices in the Mediterranean region where little or no cultivation at all is directly associated with goat and sheep breeding. Land remains public, and access to summer pastures needs to be authorized each season anew after payment of a grazing fee. Whereas in northern Patagonia transhumance appears to be under an increasing pressure for change towards a more sedentary, intensive-oriented mode of production, the survival of this long-time successful land-use practice is directly linked to aspects of land tenure, grazing strategies with native and non-native grasses, and livestock diversification. This paper also emphasizes the need for the establishment of cooperatives of producers operating at the production and commercialization levels, as well as for the active participation of pastoralists and regional communities in the decision-making process. /// Dans la partie la plus au nord des Andes patagoniennes, l'utilisation des terres est caractrise par une exploitation extensive de pturages saisonniers  haute et basse altitudes. Les activits pastorales portant sur le mouton et la chvre, sous forme de transhumance, sont bases sur des stratgies de production orientes principalement vers la satisfaction des besoins d'auto-consommation, mais plus rcemment et  une chelle croissante, vers des transactions commerciales. Cette industrie saisonnire mene par les descendants de peuples europens ressemble  des coutumes mditerranennes qui ne ncessitent que trs peu de culture, ou aucune, pour soutenir un levage de moutons et de chvres. Les terres restent publiques, et l'accs aux pturages estivaux ncessite chaque anne une nouvelle autorisation moyennant paiement d'une redevance. Bien que la transhumance dans le nord de la Patagonie semble tre soumise  une pression croissante pour voluer vers un mode de production plus sdentaire et intensif, la prservation de ces vieilles coutumes d'utilisation des terres semble tre directement lie  des aspects du rgime foncier, des stratgies de pturage sur prs d'herbes indignes ou non, et la diversification du btail. Cette article met galement l'accent sur le besoin de coopratives fonctionnant au niveau de la production et de la commercialisation, ainsi que de la participation active des leveurs de btail et des communauts rgionales dans le processus de dcision. /// Im nrdlichsten Andengebiet von Patagonien ist die Landnutzung durch intensive Inanspruchnahme des jahreszeitlich bedingten Graswuchses in den Hoch- und Tieflagen charakterisiert. Schaf- und Ziegenwirtschaft als Wanderwirtschaft basiert auf Produktionsstrategien, die in der Vergangenheit hauptschlich der Selbstversorgung dienten, neuerdings aber mehr und mehr als Ertragsunternehmen betrieben werden. Diese - ursprnglich europische - nomadische Viehwirtschaft hnelt dem System im Mittelmeerraum, wobei mit der Ziegen- und Schafzucht wenig oder berhaupt keine Landkultivierung direkt verbunden ist. Das Land bleibt in ffentlicher Hand, und die Nutzung der Sommerweide wird jedes Jahr nach Entrichten einer Weidegebhr neu genehmigt. Dagegen scheint die nomadische Viehzucht im nrdlichen Patagonien unter stndig wachsendem Druck zu einer sehaften, auf intensive Bewirtschaftung ausgerichteten, Produktion zu stehen. Das berleben dieser langzeitlichen und erfolgreichen Landnutzungsweise hngt direkt mit den Gesichtspunkten des Landbesitzes, der Weidestrategie auf einheimischen und ortsfremden Grasflchen und der Vielfalt des Viehbestandes zusammen. Diese Verffentlichung betont die Notwendigkeit fr die Zusammenarbeit der Erzeuger, die an der Produktion und Vermarktung beteiligt sind und unterstreicht die Notwendigkeit von aktiver Teilnahme der Weidepchter und der regionalen Gemeinden bei der Beschlufassung. /// El uso de la tierra en el norte de la Patagonia andina se encuentra caracterizado por migraciones estacionales de pastores trashumantes, los que, dinamizando los recursos naturales de dos ambientes ecolgicos complementarios, han dado lugar a una peculiar organizacin del espacio agrario. Tanto los campos de veranada, en las tierras altas, como los de invernada, en la estepa patagnica, asientan sobre tierras fiscales, destinadas, casi exclusivamente, al pastoreo extensivo de caprinos y ovinos. Las crisis cclicas que afectan la actividad pecuaria en la Argentina como las polticas de desarrollo implementadas por el gobierno federal han generado situaciones conflictivas comprometiendo el futuro de la trashumancia en el norte de la Patagonia. En este trabajo se describen y analizan estas circunstancias y se presenta una serie de propuestas para el corto y mediano plazo alentando las actividades pastoriles. Entre ellas: la implementacin de estudios que permitan evaluar en detalle la composicin forrajera de los campos, y as, mejorar el manejo de pastizales sobre la base de especies nativas; incentivar la complementacin caprino-ovino-bovino en el sistema de produccin como asi tambin la revitalizacin gentica de los planteles mediante la introduccin de reproductores; mejorar el estado sanitario de los planteles; y fomentar la construccin de instalaciones que posibiliten el manejo de los rebaos en potreros rotativos. Una mayor participacin del criancero en el proceso de toma de decisiones se lograra a travs del establecimiento de cooperativas agropecuarias de productores que operen tanto en las etapas de produccin como de comercializacin.
10.2307/3672990|This paper defines stability or instability for agricultural systems and by introducing "key processes" the evaluation procedure of stability is discussed. The long-term sustainability of yield (2-3 generations) is the predominant criterion of stability in agricultural systems and this is different from natural ecosystems. Between input and output (yield) a balance has to be maintained. This ranges from the closed cycle of matter in traditional self-sustaining agriculture to the spatially dislocated flow of substances in industrialized agro-systems. /// Dans cet xpos est propose une dfinition pour la "stabilit" des cosystmes agraires et est discut un procd pour l'valuation de cette stabilit. A la diffrence des cosystmes naturels, une production constante (au minimum pendant 2-3 gnrations) est le critre principal pour les systmes agraires. Dans le cas des systmes de subsistance cette production est lie  un cycle ferm de matires et, pour les systmes agro-industriels,  des flux ouverts de substances. /// Der Begriff der "Stabilitt" agrarisch genutzter Oekosysteme wird definiert und die Mglichkeit der Stabilittsbeurteilung mit Hilfe von Schlsselgrssen errtert. In Abweichung zu natrlichen Oekosystemen wird hierbei Nachhaltigkeit der Nutzungsmglichkeit und der Ertrge ber mindestens 2-3 Generationen als wesentliches Stabilittskriterium beigezogen. Dabei ist je nach Agrosystem ein Gleichgewicht zwischen Input und Output aufrechtzuerhalten, das variiert zwischen einem rumlich weitgehend geschlossenen Kreislauf in der Subsistenzwirtschaft und einem rumlich weitgehend desintegrierten Substanzfluss (Input/Output) einer industrialisierten Landwirtschaft.
10.2307/3673849|In the tropical Andes, a long tradition exists in the utilization and mobilization of rural resources. In certain periods, agriculture and settlement patterns were well adapted to the specific local environmental conditions; at other times, constraints of the natural environment, of historical burdens, and of current social, economic, and political problems contributed to widespread conditions of poverty and underdevelopment. This paper examines the development issues and the activities of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and a number of affiliated agencies in two representative regions of highland Bolivia: the northern Altiplano and the eastern Cordillera region in the Departamento de Cochabamba. Based on documentation of the agencies and on numerous talks and formal interviews with representatives of the NGOs and the campesinos, an attempt was made to identify the major problems and constraints of specific micro-regions, as well as the perceived development priorities, and the strategies of the agencies and local communities to implement the development process. Although the NGOs may use different approaches and methods, it became obvious that the key to successful and sustained development lies in programs and projects that take into account the specific local environmental conditions, the cultural traditions of the indigenous communities, and the felt needs of the local people. Based on these premises, an effective partnership may be established between NGOs and the campesinos which can lead to a mobilization of local human and material resources and to appropriate sustainable forms of rural development. /// Dans les Andes tropicales, l'utilisation et la mobilisation des ressources rurales constituent une ancienne tradition. Pendant certaines priodes historiques, les modes d'agriculture et de peuplement taient bien adapts aux conditions particulires de l'environnement local; pendant d'autres priodes, les contraintes du milieu naturel, le fardeau historique et les problmes sociaux, conomiques et politiques du moment ont contribu aux conditions prvalentes de pauvret et de sous-dveloppement. Cet article examine les problmes de dveloppement, ainsi que les activits des organisations non gouvernementales (ONG) et d'un certain nombre d'organismes affilis, dans deux rgions reprsentatives des hautes terres boliviennes,  savoir l'Altiplano du Nord et la rgion est de la Cordillre, dans le Dpartement de Cochabamba. Sur la base de la documentation fournie par ces organismes et de nombreuses conversations et interviews officielles avec des reprsentants des ONG et les campesinos, on a essay d'identifier les problmes majeurs et les contraintes des micro-rgions particulires, ainsi que la perception des priorits de dveloppement, et les stratgies des organismes et des collectivits locales pour la mise en uvre du processus de dveloppement. Bien que les ONG utilisent parfois diffrentes approches et mthodes, il s'est rvl que la cl d'un dveloppement fructueux et soutenu se trouve dans les programmes et projets qui tiennent compte des conditions particulires de l'environnement local, des traditions culturelles des collectivits indignes et des besoins perus par la population locale. Sur cette base, un partenariat efficace peut tre tabli entre les ONG et les campesinos, pouvant mener  une mobilisation des ressources humaines et matrielles locales et  des formes viables de dveloppement rural. /// In den tropischen Anden besteht eine lange Tradition in der Nutzung und Mobilisierung lndlicher Ressourcen. Zu gewissen Zeiten waren die Landwirtschaft und Siedlungen gut an die lokalen Bedingungen der Umwelt angepat; zu anderen Zeiten jedoch hat die Verbindung von naturgeographischen Hindernisfaktoren, historischen Erblasten und jngeren sozialen, wirtschaftlichen und politischen Problemen zu weitverbreiteter Armut und Unterentwicklung gefhrt. Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Entwicklungsbemhungen von zwei hauptschlichen NROs und einer Reihe von affiliierten bolivianischen Organisationen in zwei reprsentativen Regionen der bolivianischen Anden: im nrdlichen Altiplano und in der Ostkordillere im Departamento von Cochabamba. Auf der Grundlage einer umfangreichen Dokumentation dieser Organisationen, von zahlreichen Gesprchen und Interviews mit Vertretern dieser NROs und den Campesinos der untersuchten Regionen, werden die hauptschlichen Probleme, die wahrgenommenen Entwicklungsprioritten und die Entwicklungsstrategien der Organisationen und der lokalen Gemeinschaften diskutiert. Obwohl die NROs teilweise unterschiedliche Zielvorstellungen und Methoden haben, wird offenkundig, da der Schlssel zu einer erfolgreichen und nachhaltigen Entwicklung in Programmen liegt, die den spezifischen regionalen Umweltbedingungen, den kulturellen Traditionen der lokalen Gemeinschaften und ihren empfundenen Bedrfnissen Rechnung tragen. Auf dieser Grundlage kann eine wirksame Partnerschaft zwischen den Organisationen und den Campesinos aufgebaut werden. Eine solche gut funktionierende Partnerschaft bietet die Voraussetzung fr eine Mobilisierung der menschlichen und materiellen Ressourcen und fr eine nachhaltige lndliche Entwicklung. /// Existen en los Andes tropicales tradiciones muy antiguas en la utilizacin y movilizacin de los recursos rurales. En tiempos passados, la agricultura y las poblaciones estaban muy bien adaptadas a las condiciones especiales del medio ambiente; sn embargo, en otros tiempos, un conjunto de restricciones impuestas por la naturaleza del medio ambiente, por los obstaculos histricos y adems por los problemas sociales, econmicos y polticos que han contribuido a condiciones de pobreza y subdesarrollo muy extendidas. En este artculo se intenta examinar los problemas de desarrollo rural y las actividades de dos organizaciones no-gubernamentales (ONGs) en asociacin con varias otras agencias en dos regiones representativas de Bolivia: la parte norte del Altiplano, y la regin de la Cordillera Oriental en el Departamento de Cochabamba. En base de la documentacin obtenida de las agencias en cuestin, de numerosas conversaciones y entrevistas formales con los representantes de las ONGs y los campesinos, se ha intentado identificar los problemas y las restricciones de micro-regiones distintas, la percepcin de prioridades de desarrollo y, adems, las estrategas utilizadas por las agencias y las comunidades locales para facilitar el proceso de desarrollo. Es cierto que las ONGs utilizan diferentes mtodos, sn embargo, lo evidente es que la clave para un desarrollo sostenible y prspero est en programas y proyectos que tengan en cuenta las distintas condiciones locales del medio ambiente, las tradiciones culturales de las comunidades indgenas y las necesidades expresadas por las poblaciones locales. En base de estas premisas, se puede establecer una cooperacin eficaz entre los ONGs y campesinos y, en cambio, esta asociacin podr facilitar la movilizacin de los recursos humanos y materiales y una forma apropiada y sostenible del desarrollo rural.
3674649|The appropriateness of targeting conservation landscapes that include biodiversity sanctuaries within a matrix of agricultural and other land uses is being increasingly recognized as a method for achieving both biodiversity conservation and livelihood improvement. An assessment of on-farm tree diversity in the Kigezi Highlands in a transect from Kabale town to Bwindi Impenetrable National Park in southwestern Uganda reveals the current contribution of farming systems to landscape tree diversity and raises questions about various constraints and opportunities for enhancing the role of agroforestry in landscape-based biodiversity conservation.
25164134|Geo-referenced archive databases on mountain organisms are very promising tools for achieving a better understanding of mountain biodiversity and predicting its changes. The Global Mountain Biodiversity Assessment (GMBA) of DIVERSITAS, in cooperation with the Global Biodiversity Information Facility, encourages a global effort to mine biodiversity databases on mountain organisms. The wide range of climatic conditions and topographies across the world's mountains offers an unparalleled opportunity for developing and testing biodiversity theory. The power of openly accessible, interconnected electronic databases for scientific biodiversity research, which by far exceeds the original intent of archiving for mainly taxonomic purposes, has been illustrated. There is an urgent need to increase the amount and quality of geo-referenced data on mountain biodiversity provided online, in order to meet the challenges of global change in mountains.
10.2307/3673401|Recreational developments are occurring in the Rocky Mountains of Canada at an ever-accelerating pace. Kananaskis Country, in the Eastern Slopes region, was developed by the Province of Alberta on public land, using public funds, within a period of five years. It now contains three provincial parks and numerous recreational facilities. The awarding of the 1988 Winter Olympic Games to Calgary and the impacts of the development of sites for the downhill and Nordic ski events in Kananaskis Country have exacerbated landscape change. This paper describes the development and construction that has ensued and the positive and negative effects. Increased use has brought economic prosperity and has relieved pressure on adjacent national parks; however, the environmental impacts may endanger wildlife, especially bighorn sheep. The long-term implications and proposals for the future have yet to be assessed, but attention must be focused on the question of how much development is desirable and how it should be guided and controlled. /// Le dveloppement touristique des Rocheuses canadiennes procde  un rythme acclr. La zone "Kananaskis Country", sur le versant oriental, a t amnage par la province d'Alberta sur des terres publiques et  l'aide de fonds publics, sur une priode de cinq ans. Cette zone comporte maintenant trois parcs provinciaux et de nombreux amnagements rservs aux loisirs. L'adjudication des jeux Olympiques d'hiver de 1988  la ville de Calgary et l'impact de l'amnagement des sites pour les preuves de ski alpin et de ski nordique dans Kananaskis Country ont exacerb la modification du paysage. Cet article dcrit les travaux de mise en valeur et de construction qui ont suivi, ainsi que les effets positifs et ngatifs. Un plus haut niveau d'utilisation a engendr une certaine prosprit conomique et a soulag la pression sur les parcs nationaux avoisinants, mais l'impact sur l'environnement risque de menacer la faune, en particulier le mouflon des Rocheuses. Les implications  long terme et les propositions concernant le futur n'ont pas encore t values, mais toute l'attention ncessaire doit tre porte sur la question de savoir quel niveau d'exploitation est souhaitable et de quelle manire celle-ci doit tre guide et mene. /// In den Rocky Mountains geht heutzutage die Entwicklung der Sport- und Freizeitanlagen in beschleunigtem Tempo vor sich. Das der Provinz angehrende Kananaskisgebiet, an den Abhngen der Rockies gelegen, ist in den letzten fnf Jahren von der Regierung Albertas mit ffentlichen Mitteln entwickelt worden. Es enthlt zur Zeit drei von der Provinz verwaltete Parks und verschiedene Sport- und Freizeitanlagen. Die Auswahl Calgarys als Ort der Olympischen Winterspiele 1988 und die Auswirkung der Entwicklung der Abfahrtspisten und Langlaufstrecken haben das Landschaftsbild negativ beinflusst. Diese Arbeit befasst sich mit der Entwicklung und dem Ausbau dieser Sportanlagen und weist auf die negativen und positiven Einflsse hin. Eine zunehmende Benutzung dieses Gebietes hat einerseits wirtschaftliche Vorteile mit sich gebracht, und den Druck auf die benachbarten Nationalparks verringert, andererseits knnte aber die Auswirkung auf die Umwelt das Wild, vor allen die Dickhornschafe gafhrden. Die langfristigen Folgen und Vorschlge fr die Zunkunft mssen noch bewertet werden, aber man muss sich fragen, inwieweit eine solche Entwicklung wnschenswert ist, und auf welche Weise diese gehandhabt und beaufsichtigt werden soll.
3674047|Mountain areas are faced with a range of new problems in the context of rapid globalization and economic liberalization. There are visible incompatibilities between the driving forces and operational mechanisms of market-driven globalization and the imperatives of mountain conditions. Thus, selective overextraction of resources in response to market signals and narrow specialization that disregard local diversity are incompatible with the fragility, inaccessibility, diversity, and marginality of mountain regions. The negative impacts of globalization and new trade policies on local production systems are already visible in many parts of the Hindu Kush-Himalayan region, and niche markets with comparative advantages for mountain regions are disappearing. There is a need to adapt to the changes brought by globalization. A few key areas in which new approaches could minimize the negative impacts and harness the positive opportunities associated with globalization are outlined below for the attention of policymakers.
mounresedeve.36.4.549|The diversity of membership in the Mountain Research Initiative (MRI) is one of its principal assets. This diversity is now exemplified in MRIs Science Leadership Council, composed of active mountain researchers from around the world and charged with leading the MRI. The first major task of the Science Leadership Council was the development of MRIs Strategic Plan, a document that makes explicit what has been implicit for years in MRIs activities. The Strategic Plan provides a common vision, a focused mission, a set of guiding principles, long-term goals, and more specific and measurable objectives. It provides the framework for MRIs most recent grant application to the Swiss National Science Foundation and similarly guides the progress of the MRI toward its vision.
mounresedeve.35.3.254|The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) can usually be used as a good proxy for evaluating potential variability in regional ecosystems and under climate change. We used 16-day MODIS-NDVI composite satellite data with 250-m resolution for the period 2000 to 2013 to assess the temporal and spatial variation of the NDVI among different alpine grassland classes and groups in northern Tibet. The annual average NDVI of the whole alpine grassland area in northern Tibet generally increased slightly from 2000 to 2003, and the annual average NDVI values ranged from 0.112 to 0.492 across all alpine grassland groups and years. The NDVI clearly decreased from the southeastern to the northwestern areas, with 22.50% of total grasslands significantly having increased or decreased, while 77.50% presented little change during 20002013. Both temperature and precipitation were key factors that controlled the NDVI variations of the entire alpine grassland. However, for different alpine grassland classes and groups, the NDVI displayed different correlation patterns with temperature and precipitation. Our results demonstrate that the NDVI variations of alpine grassland generally increased slightly but differed among different classes and groups. Although temperature and precipitation were the driving forces influencing the NDVI of the entire alpine grassland, it was more difficult to define the driving forces for the individual classes and groups, and more detailed analyses covering prolonged observation periods are still needed.
10.2307/3673197|Before 1961 the isolated Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan had little contact with the outside world. With bilateral (Indian) and international aid, a series of five-year plans has been adopted during the past 25 years. Developments in road construction, education, agriculture, and health care at first led to the "Perpetual Aid Syndrome" but in the mid-1970s changes in the administrative structure have led to development based on self-reliance whereby local districts are responsible and accountable for progress. Recommendations for sustainable, holistic development are given. /// Le royaume du Bhoutan dans l'Himalaya a eu peu de contacts avec le monde extrieur avant 1961. Une srie de plans quiquennaux ont t approuvs au cours des 25 dernires annes, dans le cadre d'un programme d'aide internationale et bilatrale (Inde). Le dveloppement sous forme de construction de routes, ducation, agriculture et sant publique a d'abord induit le "syndrome de l'aide perptuelle", mais au milieu des annes 70 un changement de structure administrative a produit une forme de dveloppement base sur l'indpendance, de telle sorte que les districts locaux sont responsables et doivent rendre compte du progrs. Des recommandations sont faites pour soutenir un dveloppement harmoniuex de la rgion. /// Bis zum Jahre 1961 hatte das isolierte, himalaische Knigreich Bhutan wenig Kontakt zur Auenwelt. Durch bilaterale (indische) und internationale Hilfe wurde in den vergangenen 25 Jahren eine Reihe von 5-Jahresplnen durchgefhrt. Entwicklungen im Straenbau, Erziehungswesen, in der Landwirtschaft und im Gesundheitswesen fhrten zuerst zu dem "Ewigen Hilfssyndrom"; aber nderungen in der Verwaltungsstruktur whrend der 70er Jahre fhrten dann zu einer eigenstndigen Entwicklung, wobei die Bezirke selbst fr den Fortschritt verantwortlich und rechenschaftspflichtig sind. Empfehlungen zur anhaltenden, ganzheitlichen Entwicklung werden gegeben.
mounresedeve.34.1.48|Rainfall erosivity (R-factor) is an important variable used in soil erosion estimation models. In Costa Rica, the R-factor was computed for 106 stations across the country by Wilhelm- Gunther Vahrson in 1990. These results provided the main input information for this study, which used them to estimate the R-factor for Costa Rica. Regression equations were computed to estimate the R-factor for the Caribbean slope, the Pacific slope, and the country as a whole. Forward stepwise analysis and multiple regression analysis were employed to determine the regression coefficients for each developed equation. Elevation and monthly rainfall had a strong influence on the definition of the R-factor equations. The Modified Fournier Index variable was included only in the national-scale equation as a good proxy for the mean annual precipitation effect at each site. Inclusion of elevation in all equations reflects the importance of the transitional effect of high-intensity convective rainfall in the lowlands and low-intensity orographic rainfall in the highlands. This study provides an easy way to estimate the R-factor using regression equations that require only simple and readily available geophysical information. The use of these equations in conjunction with soil and land-use maps as well as digital elevation models will allow the estimation and evaluation of soil erosion on a watershed scale in Costa Rica. This will also improve the application of other hydrological models that require soil erosion as an input variable to estimate sediment yields.
10.2307/3673519|This paper brings together some of the main conclusions from the other papers in the collection. The debate about 'famine relief' is re-examined in the context of changing attitudes, and it is unlikely that the over-reaction of 1972 would be repeated; indeed, new conditions may make it much more difficult for distressed mountain people to obtain aid in the future. Second, it is then argued that exceptional events-not all of which arise from frost and/or drought-need to be clearly separated from the lesser events, which are more frequent. The highland production and social systems in Papua New Guinea are well adapted to the latter, but major events create subsistence crises. In order to be prepared for future crises, a monitoring programme is suggested, together with close attention to the greatly improved reporting on the ENSO phenomenon. The question of 'global warming' and its effects is then briefly reviewed, and it is argued that whatever amelioration might occur at higher altitudes could well be offset by extreme events, at least in the short term. The paper concludes with some discussion of frost, and cultural adaptations to frost, in other montane areas of the low-latitude tropics, particularly in South America. Much less is known about the effects of frost in Africa. There is little literature on the frequency and variability over time of the frost hazard in either area, and it is suggested that information from the three long-settled highland areas of the low-latitude tropics needs to be brought together in a comparative framework. /// Cet article rassemble certaines des conclusions majeures auxquelles les autres articles de cette collection ont abouti. Le dbat concernant le "secours aux victimes de la disette" est examin dans le cadre d'un changement d'attitudes, et il est peu probable que la raction dmesure de 1972 se rptera de nouveau; en effet, de nouvelles conditions peuvent faire en sorte que dans le futur les populations affectes ne pourront obtenir de l'aide que beaucoup plus difficilement. L'opinion est avance que les cas exceptionnels, qui ne sont pas tous causs par la gele et/ou la scheresse, doivent tre clairement distingus des cas moins importants qui se produisent plus frquemment. Les systmes agraires et sociaux des hautes terres sont bien adapts  ces derniers cas, mais les cas majeurs produisent des tats de crise. Dans le but d'anticiper sur les crises futures, un programme de surveillance est propos, qui serait combin avec une utilisation rationnelle des donnes de plus en plus fiables sur le phnomne d'El Nio/Oscillation Sud. La question du 'rchauffement global' et de ses effets est ensuite passe en revue, et l'opinion est avance que toute amlioration possible  haute altitude serait susceptible d'tre rduite  nant par des vnements exceptionnels, tout au moins dans l'avenir proche. Cet article se termine par une discussion de la gele, et des adaptations culturelles  la gele, dans d'autres rgions montagneuses des tropiques de basse altitude, en particulier en Amrique du sud. Les connaissances sont beaucoup moindres sur les effets de la gele en Afrique. La littrature scientifique est peu abondante sur la frquence et la variabilit en fonction du temps du risque de gele dans ces deux rgions, et il est propos que les informations disponibles sur les trois rgions de hautes terres des tropiques de basse altitude, peuples depuis longtemps, soient rassembles dans le cadre d'une tude comparative. /// Diese Verffentlichung fat die wichtigsten Folgerungen von allen Berichten dieser Reihe zusammen. Die Debatte ber das 'Hunger-Hilfsprogramm' wird unter dem Blickwinkel der revidierten Einstellungen neu aufgenommen. Es ist kaum anzunehmen, da sich die berreaktion von 1972 wiederholen wird; vielmehr knnten die neuen Bestimmungen es in Zukunft fr die Bergbewohner schwieriger machen, Hilfe zu bekommen. Auerdem wird darauf hingewiesen, da katastrophale Ereignisse-und zwar nicht nur solche durch Frost oder Drre-eindeutig von hufiger vorkommenden, unterschieden werden mssen. Solch weniger einschneidenden Vorfllen kann sich die Produktion im Hochland und das gesellschaftliche System gut angepassen, nur drastische Vorkomnisse fhren zu Existenzkrisen. Um fr zuknftige Krisenflle gerstet zu sein, wird ein Beobachtungsprogramm vorgeschlagen, das besonders der verbesserten Berichterstattung ber das ENSO Phnomen Beachtung zollt. Dann wird das Problem der globalen Erwrmung und ihrer Auswirkungen kurz besprochen. Es wird argumentiert, da jede Wendung zum Besseren in den hheren Lagen, zumindest kurzzeitig durch extreme Ereignisse berschattet wird. Die Verffentlichung schliet mit Errterungen ber Frost, und ber kulturelle Anpassungen an Frost in anderen tropischen Bergregionen in sdlichen Breiten, insbesondere in Sdamerika. ber Frostauswirkungen in Afrika ist wenig bekannt, und es gibt kaum Literatur ber ihre Hufigkeit und zeitlichen Schwankungen in beiden Gebieten. Es wird vorgeschlagen, von den drei am lngsten besiedelten tropischen Berggebieten in sdlichen Breiten Information zu einer vergleichenden Studie zusammenzutragen.
25164125|The Mt Elgon ecosystem straddles the international boundary between Kenya and Uganda and is a watershed of international importance, feeding the waters of Lake Victoria, the Nile River system, and Lake Turkana. The core ecosystem in the Mt Elgon area is characterized by large montane forest landscapes; it comprises several protected areas. Adjacent is a vast, heavily populated agricultural landscape supporting up to 2 million people, whose livelihoods and economic activities are largely dependent on the ecosystem goods and services of the highlands. The mountain ecosystem of Mt Elgon is thus vital to the social and economic functioning of the surrounding areas, both in the highlands and in the lowlands. To manage this important ecosystem and sustain the multiple functions and services it offers local people and visitors, there is a need for a regional transboundary ecosystem management approach and strengthened institutional collaboration between all stakeholders concerned at different levels. The Mt Elgon Regional Ecosystem Conservation Programme (MERECP) aims to secure the multifunctionality of the Mt Elgon ecosystem and enhance sustainable development in the long term, in order to secure livelihoods and alleviate poverty, both of which are priorities of the governments of Uganda and Kenya. The present article provides insights from experience and lessons learned to date regarding the planning and implementation of such a transboundary regional ecosystem approach.
3674528|The Kullu District is a typical high-mountain environment with valley bottom elevation in the Manali area of about 2000 m and major summits that rise to 6500 m. This topography offers vast potential for hydroelectric development. In recent years the demand for power in India has exceeded supply, especially in the northern region, resulting in rapid exploitation of the hydropower potential of Himachal Pradesh (HP). The government of HP established the HP Energy Development Agency to encourage private sector investment in small hydro projects (3 MW and less) and to assist proponents by smoothing the process of project approval. The present study makes conclusions relevant to environmental asessment (EA) screening based on several cases in the Kullu District.
25164124|The Kangchenjunga landscape in the transboundary region of Nepal, Bhutan, and India has rich forest resources offering a wide range of ecosystem services to local people and habitats for many rare plant and animal species. Despite conservation efforts in several fragmented protected areas in the past, forest ecosystems and their multiple functions have been affected by over-extraction of resources, haphazard land use practices, intensive agriculture, overgrazing, unmanaged tourism, and unplanned infrastructure development. We describe a multi-level and multi-stakeholder transboundary process initiated in 2002 with the overall objective of restoring fragmented and deteriorating forest resources through development of conservation corridors and adaptation of conservation measures, moving from a species approach to a landscape approach. In collaboration with governmental and non-governmental organizations, academics, and communities, the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) has been addressing the conservation issue by promoting participatory reforestation and transboundary collaboration, and linking conservation with sustainable use of resources by local communities.
10.2307/3673646|This paper describes changes in forest condition and forest management practices in a Nepali village between 1980 and 1990, and attempts to identify the factors behind these changes. In 1980-81 the author spent a year studying forest-use practices and forest products in a village in the Middle Hills of central Nepal. Species composition, density (tree/ha), and tree size (basal area) were described. The quantity of forest products collected from forest lands was measured. Weekly accounts were kept from a sample of households on the amount of firewood and fodder collected, and the number of hours animals were grazed. In 1990 the author returned to the same village to resurvey forest lands and to assess changes in forest-use practices. Despite an annual population growth rate of 2.5%, forests were found to be in much better condition in 1990 than they were in 1980. /// Cet article dcrit les changements qui se sont produits entre 1980 et 1990 dans un village npalais, du point de vue de la condition des forts et des pratiques de gestion de celles-ci, et essaie d'identifier les factors qui ont contribu  ces changements. En 1980-81, l'auteur a pass une anne  tudier les pratiques d'exploitation des forts et les produits forestiers dans un village du Moyen Himalaya dans le Npal central. La distribution des espces, la densit en nombre d'arbres par hectare et la taille des arbres (zone basale) sont dcrites dans cet article. La production des terres forestires a t mesure  l'aide de registres tenus pour un certain nombre de familles. Ces registres indiquent la quantit de bois de chauffage et de fourrage rcolte chaque semaine, ainsi que le nombres d'heures pendant lesquelles le btail tait au pturage. En 1990, l'auteur est retourn dans le mme village dans le but d'examiner de nouveau les terres forestires et d'valuer les changements de pratiques d'exploitation des terres. En dpit d'une croissance dmographique de 2,5 pour cent par an, les forts taient en bien meilleure condition en 1990 qu'elles ne l'taient en 1980. /// Dieser Artikel beschreibt Vernderungen in der Waldbeschaffenheit und im Waldmanagement eines nepalesischen Dorfes in den Jahren zwischen 1980 und 1990; und versucht, die den Vernderungen zugrunde liegenden Faktoren zu identifizieren. Der Autor verbrachte 1980/81 ein Jahr in einem Dorf der Middle Hills in Zentralnepal, um Methoden der Waldnutzung und die Waldprodukte zu untersuchen. Die Artenzusammensetzung, Dichte (Bume/ha) und der Baumumfang (an der Basis) werden beschrieben. Auerdem wurden die Waldprodukte, die auf den bewaldeten Flchen gesammelt wurden, quantitativ erfat. Ausgewhlte Haushaltungen legten wchentlich Rechenschaft darber ab, wieviel Feuerholz und Viehfutter gesammelt wurden und wie lange das Vieh weidete. Im Jahre 1990 kehrte der Autor in dasselbe Dorf zurck, um die Waldflchen neu zu inspizieren und Vernderungen in der Waldnutzung zu beurteilen. Trotz einer jhrlichen Bevlkerungswachstumsrate von 2,5%, fand er die Waldgebiete 1990 in besserem Zustand als im Jahre 1980.
3674673|This article presents an empirical interdisciplinary study of an extensive participatory process that was carried out in 2004 in the recently established World Natural Heritage Site "Jungfrau-Aletsch-Bietschhorn" in the Swiss Alps. The study used qualitative and quantitative empirical methods of social science to address the question of success factors in establishing and concretizing a World Heritage Site. Current international scientific and policy debates agree that the most important success factors in defining pathways for nature conservation and protection are: linking development and conservation, involving multiple stakeholders, and applying participatory approaches. The results of the study indicate that linking development and conservation implies the need to extend the reach of negotiations beyond the area of conservation, and to develop both a regional perspective and a focus on sustainable regional development. In the process, regional and local stakeholders are less concerned with defining sustainability goals than elaborating strategies of sustainability, in particular defining the respective roles of the core sectors of society and economy. However, the study results also show that conflicting visions and perceptions of nature and landscape are important underlying currents in such negotiations. They differ significantly between various stakeholder categories and are an important cause of conflicts occurring at various stages of the participatory process.
mounresedeve.36.4.528|The Global Network of Mountain Observatories (GNOMO) is an international initiative seeking to increase communication and collaboration and align methodologies to assess commonalities and differences across the worlds mountain landscapes. Oriented toward sustainable mountain development, GNOMO requires the integration of social and natural sciences, as well as a diverse array of stakeholder perspectives. This paper highlights challenges associated with integrating social sciences because of the inherent paradigmatic differences within the social sciences. The value orientations of mountain researchers, as well as the divergent societal and institutional values regarding mountains, create a need for new approaches to observing mountain landscapes. A framework is presented to organize complex information about mountain socialecological systems based on human conditions (from vulnerability to wellbeing), environmental actions (from degradation to stewardship), and environmental conditions that vary across time, space, and scales. A multiparadigmatic, multimethod approach is proposed to combine theory-driven quantitative indicators, qualitative perspectives from diverse knowledge standpoints, and critical inquiries into power relationships to fully represent dynamic mountain systems.
25164128|Secondary forests in the Lower Mekong Basin (LMB) are increasingly recognized as a valuable component of land cover, providing ecosystem services and benefits for local users. A large proportion of secondary forests in the LMB, especially in the uplands, are maintained by swidden cultivation. In order to assess the regional-scale status and dynamic trends of secondary forests in the LMB, an analysis of existing regional land cover data for 1993 and 1997 was carried out and forms the basis of this paper. To gain insight into the full range of dynamics affecting secondary forests beyond net-change rates, cross-tabulation matrix analyses were performed. The investigations revealed that secondary forests make up the largest share of forest cover in the LMB, with over 80% located in Laos and Cambodia. The deforestation rates for secondary forests are 3 times higher than the rates for other forest categories and account for two-thirds of the total deforestation. These dynamics are particularly pronounced in the less advanced countries of the LMB, especially in Laos, where national policies and the opening up of national economies seem to be the main drivers of further degradation and loss of secondary forests.
mounresedeve.35.4.328|Permafrost conditions in mountain ranges are sensitive to regional land surface temperature (LST), among other factors. To explore that relationship, this study carried out 3 steps: (1) validated Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer 1-km daily LST data using data measured in situ, (2) used the Harmonic Analysis of Time Series (HANTS) algorithm for fitting and removing the influence of clouds, and (3) analyzed the spatial and temporal characteristics of LST dynamics in the central Tien Shan mountain range based on remote-sensing data improved by covariance and empirical orthogonal function analysis. The results indicate that the in situ data present a basic reference for rebuilding invalid values in the retrieved data, and the data gap in daily LST products can be logically reconstructed with the HANTS algorithm. Major long-term and large-scale patterns can be well extracted with the reconstructed LST data. The most dynamic and sensitive LST areas occurred in the buffers around the periglacial areas. Areas above the periglacial line mainly exhibited a decrease in LST, while areas below it showed an increase. This suggests that the periglacial line of the central Tien Shan region has risen during the past decade. These findings can provide a reference for how periglacial areas respond to climate change and how this may affect hydrological and ecological processes.
10.2307/3673454|The Menagesha State Forest is one of the few protected natural forests in central Ethiopia. In this paper, the floristic composition of the forest which is representative of an afromontane forest is compiled, the need to conserve such forests is discussed, and some recommendations on how best to implement forest conservation policies are made. /// La fort domaniale Menagesha est l'une des rares forts naturelles qui soient sujettes  des mesures de protection en Ethiopie centrale. Cette tude passe en revue la composition floristique de cette fort typique des forts montagnardes africaines, illustre le besoin de protger de telles forts en Ethiopie, et prconise certaines mthodes pour mettre en oeuvre une politique rationnelle de conservation des forts. /// Der Menagesha-Staatswald ist einer der wenigen, geschtzten Naturwlder in Zentralaethiopien. Im vorliegenden Beitrag wird die Zusammensetzung der Flora dieses afromontanen Waldes beschrieben. Die Notwendigkeit der Konservierung solcher Wlder in Aethiopien wird diskutiert, und einige Wege werden vorgeschlagen, wie Waldkonservierungsmassnahmen am besten durchgefhrt werden.
10.2307/3674256|Peasant communities in the northwestern Andean Cordillera of Peru utilize an effective tree management strategy which helps to satisfy their principal needs. Trees provide many material goods for the peasants, including wood for home and furniture construction, glue, cords, medicines, soap, and poison. However, weakness of the communal organization means that control of access to forest areas is inadequate, resulting in over-exploitation of forest resources, over-grazing, and soil erosion. An inventory of the major arboreal and shrubbery species in the area was compiled to provide a base for more sustainable management, as well as for better planning of future reforestation in the region. Priority was given to description of each species in terms of its local use, applicability for agroforestry, and position in the soil and landscape context in which it has developed. The genera Acacia, Alnus, Cordia, Erythrina, and Prosopis are proposed as the most effective for improvement of those forest areas that are used for grazing. /// Las comunidades campesinas del nor-oeste de la Cordillera Andina en el Per llevan a cabo una estrategia efectiva en el manejo de los recursos arbreos para satisfacer sus principales necesidades. Los rboles proveen materiales y bienes a los campesinos, incluyendo madera para construccin, goma, cuerdas, medicinas, jabn y veneno. Sin embargo, la debilidad de las organizaciones comunales determina la falta de reglas de acceso en las reas de bosque. Esta situacin causa una sobreexplotacin de los recursos arbreos, sobrepastoreo y erosin de suelos. Un inventario de las principales especies arbreas y arbustivas fue realizado en el rea para proveer una base para un manejo sustentable as como para planificar mejor los futuros programas de reforestacin. En la descripcin de cada especie se enfatiz en su uso, su aptitud agroforestal y el contexto morfoedafolgico. Los gneros Acacia, Alnus, Cordia, Erythrina y Prosopis son propuestos para mejorar las reas de bosque utilizadas como zonas de pastoreo.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r51|          ,              .         ,       ,            .                             .  ,  ,  ,             ,    ,     .          ,        ,      .
10.2307/3673445|The highlands of Uganda, areas above 1,500 m, have a tropical, humid climate and a fragile environment. Although the terrain is steep, historical factors and favourable climate and soils have led to high population densities in certain areas. Increased pressure of the land has caused vegetation denudation and increased cultivation on steep slopes with no appropriate conservation strategies. The natural slope processes have been disrupted giving rise to increased soil erosion and mass wasting problems, especially between 1,500 and 2,500 m. A preliminary case study of Rukiga in the southwestern highlands shows that most slopes are seriously affected by all forms of soil erosion and that conservation measures are needed to prevent irreversible calamity. /// Les hautes terres de l'Ouganda, au-dessus de 1.500 m, ont un climat tropical humide et un environnement fragile. Bien que le terrain soit en pente, des facteurs historiques, ainsi qu'un climat et des sols favorables, se sont traduits par des zones densment peuples. Cette pression dmographique a caus la dnudation du terrain et l'accroissement des cultures sur de fortes pentes, sans politique rationnelle de conservation des sols. Les processus naturels agissant sur les pentes ont t perturbs, entranant un accroissement des problmes lis  l'rosion et au gaspillage de terrains, surtout entre 1.500 et 2.500 m. Une tude prliminaire de Rukiga, dans les hautes terres du sud-ouest, a dmontr que la plupart des pentes sont srieusement atteintes par toutes les formes d'rosion du sol, et que des mesures de conservation sont indispensables pour viter un dsastre irrversible. /// Die Hochlnder von Uganda sind tropisch humid und hatten immer schon eine fragile Umwelt. Mit zunehmender menschlicher Besetzung und Bevlkerungsdruck wird rationale Nutzung zu einer unabdingbaren Forderung. Als Hochland werden die Regionen oberhalb 1500 m .M. definiert, wo zwar reliefiertes Gelnde vorherrscht, aber trotzdem aus historischen, klimatischen und bodenphysikalischen Grnden die Bevlkerungsdichte sehr hoch ist. Diese Situation stellt ein hohes Risiko fr Degradation sowohl von Vegetation als auch von Boden durch Bodenerosion und Massenverschiebungen dar, weil steile Hnge ohne Bercksichtigung von Konservierungsstrategien zunehmend bebaut werden. Gebiete mit hoher Erosion liegen in Hhenstufen zwischen 1500 und 2500 m .M., weil darber das Klima fr menschliche Besiedlung zu kalt wird. Alle Formen von Bodenerosion und Massenbewegungen wurden in einem Testgebiet in Rukiga im Sdwesten Ugandas an fast allen Hngen beobachtet. Wenn nicht sofort geeignete Gegenmassnahmen durchgefhrt werden, kann dieser gefhrliche Prozess, der unmittelbar irreversible Schdigung bewirken kann, zu enormen Kosten fhren.
mounresedeve.31.4.293|The carbon-offsetting scheme Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) has evolved into one of the most important instruments for the funding of renewable energy projects in mountain regions in developing and newly industrializing countries. The CDM allows industrialized states to compensate for greenhouse gas emissions by investing in climate change mitigation activities abroad. These offsetting projects are intended to avoid emissions while simultaneously contributing to sustainable development at the local level. The most common project type under the CDM is hydropower, with the majority of projects being located in the mountain areas of China and India. However, doubts about the scrutinizing methods of the CDM as well as the often controversial impacts of dam building on mountain environments and communities raise questions about the ability of these clean development dams to serve as a sustainable means of mitigating climate change. The objective of the present article is to assess the effectiveness of large CDM hydropower projects in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. Analysis of planning documents and expert interviews revealed that clean development dams in the Himachal Himalaya fall short of achieving the goals of the CDM. Most projects are not in a position to compensate for emissions because they would have been built even without CDM support. Furthermore, it is arguable whether CDM dams contribute to sustainable mountain development, because the consequences of their construction are the same as for many other ordinary large dams, that is, environmental damage and conflicts that arise from the reallocation of land and water resources. Our results suggest that the promotion of large hydropower projects through the CDM in its current form is a highly ambivalent strategy. Shortcomings in the regulatory framework of the CDM may be undermining the environmental and social integrity of the CDM at both the global and local levels.
25164153|Micronutrient problems in the food systems of the Himalaya are wide-spread due to bedrock with low nutrient content, high erosion rates, poverty, subsistence agriculture, and increasing cropping intensity. Agriculturally based strategies for the reduction of micronutrient malnutrition will require knowledge of the scale and spatial patterns of soil deficiencies or excesses of some elements. The present article documents current knowledge about the micronutrient status of cultivated soil in Nepal. Most studies have recorded largely the same magnitude of deficiencies in this country. Some 80 to 90% of soil samples were deficient in boron (B), 20 to 50% in zinc (Zn), and 10 to 15% in molybdenum (Mo). These are important micronutrient deficiencies because they limit agricultural production and affect human nutrition directly or indirectly.
mounresedeve.31.2.112|Five years after the 2005 Pakistan earthquake that triggered multiple mass movements, landslides continue to pose a threat to the population of Azad Kashmir, especially during heavy monsoon rains. The thousands of landslides that were triggered by the 7.6 magnitude earthquake in 2005 were not just due to a natural phenomenon but largely induced by human activities, namely, road building, grazing, and deforestation. The damage caused by the landslides in the study area (381 km
10.2307/3673739|This study examined the relative impact of hikers, horses, motorcycles, and off-road bicycles in terms of water runoff and sediment yield from 108 sample plots on existing trails in or near Gallatin National Forest, Montana. A modified Meeuwig drip-type rainfall simulator was used to reproduce natural rainstorm events. Treatments of 100 passes were applied to each plot. The results confirmed the complex interactions that occur between topographic, soil, and geomorphic variables noted by others, and the difficulty of interpreting their impact on existing trails. None of the hypothesized relationships between water runoff and slope, soil texture, antecedent soil moisture, trail roughness, and soil resistance was statistically significant. Five independent variables or cross-products explained 42% of the variability in sediment yield when soil texture was added as a series of indicator variables. Ten variables combined to explain 70% of the variability in sediment yield when trail user was added as a second series of indicator variables. Terms incorporating soil texture (37%), slope (35%), and user treatment (35%) accounted for the largest contributions. Multiple comparisons test results showed that horses and hikers (hooves and feet) made more sediment available than wheels (motorcycles and off-road bicycles) and that this effect was most pronounced on prewetted trails. /// Cette tude examine l'impact relatif des randonneurs  pied, des chevaux, des motocyclettes et bicyclettes tous-terrains, en termes de ruissellement d'eau et de production de sdiments sur 108 parcelles chantillons de sentiers de montagne situes  l'intrieur ou au voisinage de la fort nationale de Gallantin, dans l'tat du Montana. Un simulateur de pluies de Meeuwig modifi, type dgouttement, a t utilis pour reproduire des temptes de pluie naturelles. Les traitements de 100 passes ont t appliqus  chaque parcelle. Les rsultats confirment les interactions complexes entre les variables topographiques, daphiques et gomorphiques qui avaient t observes par d'autres chercheurs, et la difficult d'interprter leur impact sur les sentiers de montagne existants. Aucune des supposes relations entre le ruissellement d'eau et la pente, la texture du sol, l'humidit antrieure, l'ingalit du sentier et la rsistance du sol n'est statistiquement significative. Cinq variables indpendantes ou produits en croix expliquent 42 pour cent de la variabilit de la production de sdiments lorsque la texture du sol est ajoute en tant que srie de variables indicatrices. Dix variables se combinent pour expliquer 70 pour cent de la variabilit de la production de sdiments lorsque l'utilisateur du sentier est ajout en tant que seconde srie de variables indicatrices. Les termes incorporant la texture du sol (37 pour cent), la pente (35 pour cent) et le traitement par l'utilisateur (35 pour cent) rendent compte des contributions les plus importantes. Des comparaisons multiples des rsultats de tests indiquent que les chevaux et les randonneurs (sabots et chaussures) produisent plus de sdiments que les motocyclettes et bicyclettes tous-terrains (roues) et que cet effet est plus prononc sur les sentiers dj humides. /// Diese Studie untersucht an 108 verschiedenen Teststellen in oder nahe dem Gallatin National Forest, Montana, Nutzungsbelastungen auf Bergpfaden anhand von Abflu und Sedimentfreigabe. Ein abgnderter Meeuwig Tropfensimulator wurde benutzt, um natrlichen Regen zu imitieren. Jede Stelle wurde 100 mal belastet. Die Ergebnisse besttigen komplexe Wechselwirkungen zwischen topographischen, bodenbedingten und geomorphischen Variablen. Dies und die Schwierigkeit, ihre Einwirkungen auf bestehende Bergpfade zu erklren, wurde bereits von anderer Seite festgestellt. Keine der angenommenen Beziehungen zwischen Abflu und Hangneigung, Bodenstruktur, vorhandener Bodenfeuchte, Wegoberflche und Bodenwiderstand waren statistisch bedeutsam. Fnf unabhngige Gren oder ihre Crossprodukte erklrten 42% der Variabilitat des Sedimentertrages, wenn man die Bodenstruktur in die Reihe der Anzeigevariablen einschlo. Insgesamt zehn Variablen erklrten 70% der unterschiedlichen Sedimentfreigabe, wenn die Wegbenutzung als zweite Gre einbeschlossen wurde. Die grten Beitrge lieferte die Bercksichtigung der Bodenstruktur (37%), Hangneigung (35%) und Nutzungsart (35%). Vergleicht man viele Testresultate, dann zeigt sich, da Pferde und Wanderer (Huf- und Trittbelastung) mehr Sediment freisetzen als Rder (Motor- und Gelndefahrrder) und dies war auf nassen Wegen besonders auffllig.
3674668|Livestock production is a key livelihood strategy and a way of life for most small-holders in the Hindukush. Depending on ethnicity, access to land, labor force, and ecological conditions, small to large herds of goats, sheep, cattle and buffalo serve as a primary or secondary source of livelihood. Ongoing deterioration of environmental conditions-frequently due to overgrazing-and the depletion of timber and firewood resources-often linked to demographic and economic pressure both in the highlands and the lowlands-increasingly worsen living conditions. Alternative livelihood strategies and pathways to more sustainable natural resource use are needed. A combined research and development project, based on long-standing local research and participatory development efforts, launched in the North-Western Frontier Province of Pakistan (NWFP), aims to better assess and compare the situations in 3 different valleys, and to test concrete options for improving livestock output. Standard de-worming practices are being combined with a novel method of supplementing locally produced, season-specific, critically deficient nutrients for the animals, based on local environmental needs.
3674270|Conservation of agricultural biodiversity has become an important paradigm in efforts to promote sustainable development throughout the world. This is especially the case in Andean countries, where ex situ conservation of crops has been a focus of attention since the 1970s. In Peru in the early 1990s, researchers and development specialists also focused on in situ conservation and the participation of campesino communities in mountain development processes. They designed the Cajamarca model as a result of several years of experience in rural development projects. This model includes so-called seed fairs (Figure 1) and encourages the creation of local seed banks managed by a conservationist campesino association. The HimalAndes Project, which promotes technical cooperation to support exchange of seeds and local knowledge between mountain agriculture ecosystems, is another recent project with a partial focus on agrobiodiversity conservation in Andean and other countries.
mounresedeve.34.2.107|To address the environmental impacts of tourism in protected areas, park managers need to understand the spatial distribution of tourist use. Standard monitoring measures (tourist surveys and counting and tracking techniques) are not sufficient to accomplish this task, in particular for off-road travel. This article predicts tourists' spatial use patterns through an alternative approach: park accessibility measurement. Naismith's rule and geographical information system's anisotropic cost analysis are integrated into the modeling process, which results in a more realistic measure of off-road accessibility than that provided by other measures. The method is applied to a mountainous United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage Site in northwest Yunnan Province, China, where there is increasing concern about potential impacts of unregulated tourist use. Based on the assumption that accessibility tends to attract more tourists, a spatial pattern of predicted off-road use by tourists is derived. This pattern provides information that can help park managers develop strategies that are effective for both tourism management and species conservation.
3674174|Many types of problems caused by land degradation can be documented worldwide. The main natural resources affected are soils, water, natural vegetation, and wildlife; but cultivated plants are exposed to even greater damage, which poses a threat to food security as well. Soil degradation is one of the most crucial processes of land degradation and environmental change. Over a quarter of the world's agricultural land has been damaged by long-term soil degradation, corresponding to one-tenth of the earth's land surface. As is well known, mountain areas are especially vulnerable to land degradation (Figure 1). Because mountains are also water towers, providing water not only for highland areas but also for the surrounding lowlands, land degradation in the mountains has serious impacts on the global supply of freshwater and on growing water-related conflicts. At the same time, there have been many achievements in sustainable land use and in avoiding and combating degradation (Figure 2). Every day land users and soil and water conservation (SWC) specialists evaluate experience and generate know-how related to land management, improvement of soil fertility, and protection of soil resources. Most of this valuable knowledge, however, is not well documented or easily accessible, and comparison of different types of experience is difficult. The World Overview of Conservation Approaches and Technologies (WOCAT) has the mission of providing tools that allow SWC specialists to share their valuable knowledge in soil and water management, assist them in their search for appropriate SWC technologies and approaches, and support them in making decisions in the field and at the planning level.
mounresedeve.36.3.267|Mountain regions are generally seen as depopulating. However, in the European Alps, a new migration trend can be observed that may represent a reversal of out-migration from these regions. The in-migration of so-called new highlanders brings people from lowland urban and peri-urban areas to mountain regions to live and work. Research on the economic and social contributions of these new highlanders is sparse, and there are no studies that focus on their entrepreneurial activities. This study examined the characteristics and contributions of new highlander entrepreneurs and found that they are unlike traditional amenity migrants who migrate because of quality of life. New highlander entrepreneurs migrate not only for quality of life reasons, they moreover follow business opportunities and contribute to the economic and social life of their chosen locations. Based on attributes such as personal circumstances, recognition and exploitation of opportunities, business strategies, and economic and social contributions, we grouped new highlander entrepreneurs into 4 categories and explored their reasons for migrating and other characteristics. We conclude that mountain regions represent viable locations for entrepreneurs, despite the many disadvantages associated with this peripheral context.
mounresedeve.33.4.404|The Northern Uplands of Vietnam form one of the largest ecological regions in the country, characterized by complex biophysical conditions and a high diversity in ethnic minorities, cultures, and farming systems. The Doi moi (renovation) program has, since the early 1980s, resulted in significant changes in agriculture production and related economic trends. However, poverty, low agricultural productivity, and land degradation are still major problems. This article illustrates the factors that drive these problems by analyzing agricultural land use in Suoi Con, a small agroforestry watershed in the Northern Uplands. We first identified the current land-use systems and analyzed constraints on agricultural production. The results indicate that although low soil fertility and land degradation are considerable problems, availability of household capital, low technology levels, and land fragmentation are major constraints on agricultural development. These constraints were analyzed from different points of view to identify mismatches between the implementation of top-down government policies and specific conditions that may explain why actual land-use change in the Northern Uplands deviates from the government's development plans. Results of landuse analysis in the Suoi Con watershed suggest that participatory and bottom-up approaches are needed to better understand problems and opportunities in household agricultural production in order to develop appropriate landuse plans and policies.
10.2307/3673692|The mountains and highlands of East Africa offer opportunities for both development and conservation. Unfortunately, the potential of the resources of the highlands has been severely undermined by the people who occupy them. The human impact on the natural ecosystems has caused imbalances, some of which may be irreversible, and this has led to a heavy dependence on natural resources and on the government for subsistence. Unless the importance of the mountains and highlands as resource reservoirs is realized and their contribution to economic development is re-examined, these critical regions will cease to be the granaries of the East African peoples. This paper assesses the ecological and socioeconomic impacts in the highland environments of East Africa using vegetation deterioration and soil erosion in northeast Tanzania as an example. /// Les montagnes et hautes terres de l'est de l'Afrique prsentent des possibilits aussi bien pour le dveloppement que pour la conservation. Malheureusement, le potentiel des hautes terres en matire de ressources a t srieusement rduit par les habitants de la rgion. L'impact humain sur les cosystmes naturels de l'environnement des hautes terres a produit des dsquilibres dont certains sont probablement irrversibles; cette situation a entran une dpendance norme vis--vis des ressources naturelles et du gouvernement pour la survie de la population. A moins que l'importance des montagnes et des hautes terres en tant que rservoirs de ressources ne soit reconnue et que leur contribution au dveloppement conomique ne soit rexamine, ces rgions importantes risquent de ne plus jouer le rle de grenier pour les habitants de l'est de l'Afrique. Cet article value les impacts, cologique et socio-conomique, sur les environnements des hautes terres de l'est de l'Afrique, en prenant comme exemple la dtrioration de la vgtation et l'rosion du sol dans le nord-est de la Tanzanie. /// Mglichkeiten fr Entwicklung und Erhaltung der Berge und Hochlande in Ostafrika sind vorhanden. Leider wurden bisher die potentiellen Ressourcen des Hochlandes durch die Bewohner in starkem Mae berbeansprucht. Menschlicher Einflu hat das Gleichgewicht im natrlichen kosystem der Hochlandumwelt gestt, und einige Folgen sind wahrscheinlich nicht wieder gutzumachen. Eine starke Abhngigkeit von Naturressourcen zusammen mit Regierungsuntersttzung waren zum berleben notwendig. Wenn die Bedeutung der Berge und Hochlande als Ressourcenquellen nicht erkannt und ihr Beitrag zur konomischen Entwicklung nicht neu untersucht werden, werden in Zukunft diese gefhrdeten Gebiete als Kornkammern fr die ostafrikanische Bevlkerung verloren gehen. Diese Verffentlichung beurteilt die kologischen und sozio-konomischen Einflsse auf die Hochlandumwelt Ostafrikas und benutzt die Vegetationsverschlechterung und Bodenerosion im Nordosten von Tanzania als Beispiele.
10.2307/3673042|The differences between Imperata cylindrica var. africana and var. major are described. The distribution of the former is outlined and the problems it creates for Nigerian agriculture are discussed. I. cylindrica is considered to have several weaknesses which can be exploited for purposes of control. These are discussed under the headings: Seed characteristics. The seeds are small, with little dormacy and require freedom from competition or disturbance for successful establishment. Susceptibility to shading. The grass grows best in full light and, because of its intolerance of shade, can be suppressed by taller growing grasses, cover crops, legumes, or woody species. Rhizome characteristics. Because of its relatively shallow rhizome system, coupled with susceptibility to the effects of fragmentation or dessication, thorough cultivation can be one effective method of control. Susceptibility to grazing. The grass does not withstand heavy cattle-grazing pressure and, in areas where this is practised, grazing management can be used in association with fire as a means of facilitating the introduction of legumes. Possible means of developing I. cylindrica grassland are discussed with reference to the contrasting situations of Nigeria and the highlands of Northern Thailand. /// Les diffrences entre l'Imperata cylindrica, var. africana et var. major sont dcrites dans cette tude. La rpartition de la premire est indique, puis les problmes qu'elle pose  l'agriculture nigrienne sont passs en revue. On considre que l'Imperata cylindrica a plusieurs points faibles que l'on peut exploiter pour la contrecarrer; ils sont prciss sous les rubriques suivantes. Caractristiques des graines: Les graines, petites, et  brve dormance, ne peuvent s'tablir qu'en l'absence de concurrence et de perturbations. Susceptibilit  l'ombre: L'herbe pousse mieux en pleine lumire et, comme elle ne supporte pas l'ombre, elle peut tre supplante par de plus hautes herbes, des plantes de couverture, des lgumineuses ou des espces ligneuses. Caractristiques des rhizomes: En raison de son systme de rhizomes relativement peu profond, en plus de sa susceptibilit aux effets de la fragmentation ou de la dessiccation, la culture peut constituer une mthode de lutte efficace. Susceptibilit au broutage: L'herbe ne rsiste pas au broutage intensif du btail, et dans de telles rgions, la gestion du pturage peut tre utilise conjointement avec le feu pour faciliter l'introduction de lgumineuses. Les moyens possibles de dvelopper les herbages de I. cylindrica sont passs en revue en se rfrant aux situations opposes du Niger et des rgions montagneuses de la Thalande septentrionale. /// Es werden die Unterschiede zwischen Imperata cylindrica var. africana und var. major beschrieben. Das Vorkommen der ersteren wird dargestellt, und die Probleme, die diese fr die Landwirtschaft in Nigeria hervorruft, werden diskutiert. Man nimmt an, da I. cylindrica eine Reihe von Schwchen besitzt, die zu Kontrollzwecken ausgenutzt werden knnen. Diese werden unter den folgenden Kapitelberschriften behandelt: Sameneigenschaften. Die Samen sind klein und ruhelos und erfordern fr ein erfolgreiches Angehen ein Fehlen von Wettbewerb oder anderen Strfaktoren. Empfnglichkeit fr Schatten. Das Gras wchst am besten in vollem Licht und kann wegen seines Nichtgedeihens im Schatten von hher wachsenden Grsern, Feld- und Hlsenfrchten oder hlzernen Spezies unterdrckt werden. Rhizom-Eigenschaften. Wegen seines relativ niedrigen Rhizomsystems, gepaart mit seiner Anflligkeit gegenber Brchigkeit und Austrocknung, kann eine sorgfltige Kultivierung eine effektive Kontrollmethode darstellen. Anflligkeit als Weideland. Das Gras hlt keinem starken Druck durch weidendes Vieh stand und in Gebieten, wo diese Art der Nutzbarmachung mglich ist, kann das Weiden gemeinsam mit dem Abbrennen als ein Mittel verwendet werden, um die Einfhrung von Hlsenfrchten zu erleichtern. Verschiedene Mglichkeiten, I cylindrica-Weideland zu entwickeln, werden diskutiert mit Bezug auf die gegenstzlichen Situationen in Nigeria und in den Hochebenen von Nordthailand.
3674207|This paper evaluates changes in land use/land cover (hereafter land cover) in a specific area in Kalu District, Southern Wello, Ethiopia, by comparing two aerial photographs from 1958 and 1986. An attempt is also made to discuss possible implications of these land cover changes for land degradation. By applying Geographic Information Systems (GIS), two maps of the study area (for the years 1958 and 1986) were produced. The maps show a decrease in coverage by shrublands, riverine vegetation and forests, and an increase in remaining open areas, settlements, floodplains, and a water body. The areal extension of nine categories of land cover was calculated and, by overlaying the two maps, the percentage of each type of land cover that was converted into other categories was computed. Land cover changes were most noticeable for shrublands, with a decrease of <tex-math>$15.5\ km^{2}$</tex-math> (-51%), and for remaining open areas (ie, excluding cultivated areas and settlements), with an increase of <tex-math>$14.3\ km^{2}$</tex-math> (+333%). Areas under cultivation remained more or less unchanged. By and large, land cover changes observed in this study were the result of clearing of vegetation for fuelwood, grazing lands, new cultivation areas, etc., thus contributing to the current problem of land degradation in the country. If coordinated efforts are not made to rehabilitate degraded hillslopes, further deterioration of shrublands, forests, and riverine vegetation into areas with little or no plant cover will adversely affect the hillslopes and eventually those areas that are currently used for crop production.
mounresedeve.32.2.231|The Centre for Development and Environment (CDE) is the University of Bern's center for sustainable development research. Founded in 1988 as a part of the Institute of Geography, CDE became an interdisciplinary university center in 2009. Its current overall aim is to foster sustainable development-oriented research across various institutes and departments of the University of Bern. In view of this new mandate, CDE devised a new strategy focusing on 6 strategic themes. These are explored and advanced by groups of researchers organized in thematic clusters. Three of the 6 clusters address sustainable development from a comprehensive perspective: global change impacts, innovations for sustainable development, and education for sustainable development. These clusters are complemented by 3 clusters that investigate sustainable development with a specialized perspective: natural resources and ecosystem services, multidimensional disparities, and governance of land and natural resources.
mounresedeve.35.4.392|People's attitudes toward wildlife conservation can significantly affect the success of conservation initiatives. Understanding the factors influencing these attitudes is essential for designing strategies to alleviate humanwildlife conflict. Although this topic has been studied extensively across diverse regions, there has been no such study in the Kashmir Division of Jammu and Kashmir state, India. We surveyed 3 administrative units around Dachigam National Park through semistructured interviews (n = 384) to investigate the socioeconomic status of local people, the extent of economic damage caused by wild animals, and people's attitudes toward wildlife conservation. Results, analyzed using a generalized linear model approach, indicated that about 75% of the respondents suffered crop damage, while 23% suffered livestock predation by wild animals. The majority of respondents expressed favorable attitudes toward wildlife, with only about 16% expressing a negative perception. Gender, crop damage, livestock predation, and total livestock holdings were the strongest variables influencing the attitudes of local people in the study area. The study identified the need to use appropriate mitigation measures to minimize economic damage by wildlife in order to reduce negative local attitudes toward wildlife conservation.
mounresedeve.33.1.103|The Centre for Mountain Studies (CMS) is located at Perth College, University of the Highlands and Islands, Scotland. Since its establishment in 2000, staff and students at the CMS have been active in research and knowledge exchange activities at all scales, from the local, in Scotland, to the global. Projects in Scotland have focused mainly on estates, wild land (see below), and forests. Work across part, or all, of Europe has addressed mountain foods (see below), adaptation to climate change, large-scale regional planning, and the characterization of Europe's mountains. At the global scale, the CMS has been involved in activities relating to sustainable mountain development, global change, interdisciplinary research, and biodiversity conservation. The CMS also runs a part-time online MSc in Sustainable Mountain Development. This article summarizes some recent and ongoing activities. More information, including additional published references, is available on the CMS website.
mounresedeve.31.3.229|The winter tourism industry is facing considerable challenges with climate change; it is increasingly responding with investments in snowmaking facilities. We present a study on 3 tourism destinations in the Swiss Alps that addressed resource consumption of snowmaking, snow reliability, and future snowmaking potential in a warmer climate. The energy consumption of snowmaking in the ski resorts was in the lower range of what could be expected from literature values. It comprised ~0.5% of the respective municipality's energy consumption and was moderate compared with other tourism-related activities. Water consumption, however, was in the higher range with regard to what was expected from literature values and was also high compared with other water uses (eg 36% compared with drinking water consumption in one community). Natural snow cover was partly critical for winter sports at low elevations at ~1200 masl, but uncritical at higher elevations above 2000 masl. Snow cover will become even more critical in a warmer climate but will probably still be sufficient above 2000 masl until 2050. Snowmaking may become critical at lower elevations in the early months of the season (November and December) due to warmer temperatures that can be expected in the coming decades. But, at higher elevations, the potential for snowmaking will probably remain sufficient. Our study provides straightforward and feasible approaches to assess resource consumption and snow cover. Careful consideration of resource consumption and snow cover can foster technical and economical advances as well as more sustainable development in mountains regions. Snow production can represent a valuable adaptation strategy at high-altitude destinations. However, given the increasing economic competition and the changing climate, it will be crucial to use specific regional strengths to provide high-quality winter and summer tourism activities.
25164044|Process-based soil erosion models, such as the European Soil Erosion Model (EUROSEM), have the potential for the extrapolation to the catchment scale of plot scale investigations into the effectiveness of soil conservation practices. Results from plot scale studies on the effectiveness of live barriers for soil erosion control on steep mountain sides in the Cochabamba region of Bolivia, are used to evaluate EUROSEM. The model is then applied to a 3 ha catchment in Pairumani, Cochabamba. The catchment consists of 28 fields of varying sizes and slopes (between 20 and 30 percent). The model was parameterized for the existing conditions using parameter values derived from field survey and from existing experiments in the area. A rainstorm, which would have a return period of five years in Cochabamba, was constructed and soil erosion and runoff dynamics were simulated in the catchment. Grass barrier strips were then introduced into the simulation, at a spacing of 9 m; the simulation results were then compared. Results illustrate estimated reductions in soil erosion of 185 kg at the catchment outlet and up to 1,404 kg for individual fields within the catchment. The potential of process-based erosion models for simulating the impact of soil conservation systems in mountain environments is demonstrated.
25164135|Forests are crucial for the well-being of humanity. They provide foundations for life on earth through ecological functions, by regulating climate and water resources and serving as habitats for plants and animals. Forests also furnish a wide range of essential goods such as wood, food, fodder and medicines, in addition to opportunities for recreation, spiritual renewal and other services (FRA 2003). Forestland covers 21,188,746 ha, which corresponds to approximately 27% of the surface area of Turkey (OGM 2007). Forests are among the most popular ecotourism destinations because of their unique values for tourists interested in nature in local values and culture. It is therefore critical to adopt a sustainable development approach in the management of mountains and forests, where biodiversity must be conserved in the long term to minimize the negative impacts of tourism. This is increasingly being acknowledged by governmental institutions and non-governmental organizations in some areas of Turkey. We report here on the development of ecotourism and the support of local communities and other stakeholders in the Kure Mountains, emphasizing awareness-raising activities and benefits to the local economy.
3674206|Slash-and-burn for pluvial rice cultivation (Tavy) is a predominant component in the land use system on the Eastern Escarpment of Madagascar. It causes ecological degradation and subsequent aggravation of rural poverty. After conducting multidisciplinary research resulting in an in-depth diagnosis of the area's agroecological system, the BEMA (Bilans cologiques  Madagascar) project now aims to propose improvements and alternatives to the land use system. The objective of contributing relevant knowledge to stakeholder discussions and enhancing the choice of development priorities has called for a method allowing aggregation of existing knowledge, in order to constitute an integrated overall picture of the local level. The present article illustrates the application of a sensitivity analysis. This method allows exploitation of existing knowledge with a view to setting priorities among key factors with regard to a postulated development objective and discussion of possible strategies for development activities. For this study, intensification and stabilization, which are common concerns among the region's stakeholders, were chosen as development objectives to be analyzed by example. Analysis of the local land use system has revealed that actions aiming to retard degradation caused by the slash-and-burn technique, as well as to promote self-sufficiency of Tavy, have hindered intensification and stabilization. This paper concludes that the key factors in promoting more sustainable development are the intensification and the spatial concentration of permanent crops (irrigated rice and home gardens), cash cropping, and animal husbandry on the valley floors. Interventions at the socio-organizational level (collective conventions, improved access to land, etc.) and efforts to improve the dynamics of the local market are the most important factors in inducing and perpetuating such changes.
90013234|Forests play an important role in the provision of food and livelihoods across the globe. Thus, forest protection contributes to a diverse set of Sustainable Development Goals. The Yayu Coffee Forest Biosphere Reserve in the southwestern Ethiopian mountains (elevation 11002300 m above sea level) hosts an ancient coffee forest with high biodiversity and a large nutritional potential. It is managed in zones, and smallholder farmers can still use forest resources in the buffer and transitional zones in a sustainable manner. The forest is rarely used as a food source, although a large majority of the population in this area suffers from micronutrient deficiencies. This article investigates whether sustainable use of forest resources can contribute to the achievement of different Sustainable Development Goals by looking, through a gender lens, at which forest ecosystem services the community uses; traditional coffee farmers perceptions of wild edible plants, agricultural territories, and labor divisions; and the constraining factors for forest conservation and sustainable agroforestry on private forest plots. Data for this study were collected through ethnography, transect walks, a sex-disaggregated household survey (n = 334), 32 semistructured interviews, 40 focus groups, and 13 key stakeholder interviews. One reason for neglecting the forest as a food source is that forests are considered a male territory, while vegetable raising and nutrition are female responsibilities. In addition, the collection of wild foods is perceived as a last resort during a famine and as a practice of tribal groups. Because coffee production represents the traditional livelihood source, farmers accept the need to conserve the forest, which is necessary to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. While it may have negative implications for food security, the absence of a tradition of collecting wild plants is positive news for forest conservation.
10.2307/3674009|The problems of late-Holocene, or Neoglacial, climate cooling and the advance of glaciers are discussed with case studies from the main mountain systems of the former USSR: Caucasus, Pamiro-Alai, Tien Shan, Altai, Sayan, Polar Urals, mountains of northeastern Yakutia, and Kamchatka. The greatest uncertainty lies in the difference between palynological and geomorphological assessments. Pollen data reveal increased cooling and humidity during the last 3,000-2,000 yrs BP, but the dating of glacial deposits suggests a reduction in the volume and areal extent of glaciers during the same time period. However, in almost all mountain areas, a general cooling trend prevailed 3,000-2,000 yrs BP, and a similar, but less distinctive trend about 1,500 yrs BP. The Middle Ages climate optimum and the following Little Ice Age were identified everywhere. From pollen data the maximum cooling is attributed to the late-Subatlantic (Little Ice Age) everywhere, except in Kamchatka (Subboreal cooling), but glacio-morphological research suggests that the Neoglacial moraines are situated below the Little Ice Age moraines. /// Les problmes de la fin de la priode holocne, ou noglaciaire, le refroidissement du climat et l'activation des glaciers sont examins  l'aide d'tudes de cas portant sur les principaux systmes montagnards de l'ancienne URSS: Caucase, Pamiro-Altai, Tien-Shan, Altai, Sayan, Ural polaire, montagnes du Yakutia du nord-est et Kamchatka. La plus grande incertitude concerne la diffrence entre les valuations palynologiques et gomorphologiques. Les donnes de pollen indiquent une baisse et temprature et une augmentation de l'humidit 3 000  2 000 ans avant le prsent, mais la datation des sdiments glaciaires suggre une rduction du volume et de la superficie des glaciers au cours de la mme priode. Cependant, dans presque toutes les zones montagneuses, une tendance au refroidissement gnral a domin 3 000  2 000 ans avant le prsent, et une tendance similaire, mais moins marque, 1 500 ans avant le prsent. L'optimum climatique du Moyen Age et le petit ge glaciaire qui a suivi ont t identifis dans tous les cas. Les donnes de pollen indiquent que le refroidissement maximal est attribuable  la fin de la priode subatlantique (petit ge glaciaire) dans tous les cas,  part au Kamchatka (refroidissement subboral), mais la recherche glacio-morphologique suggre que les moraines noglaciaires se trouvent au-dessous de celles du petit ge glaciaire. /// Klimatische Abkhlung und Gletscherbildung in den Hauptgebirgsketten der ehemaligen UdssR: Kaukasus, Pamir-Alai, Tien Shan, Altai, Sayan, Polar Ural und den Bergen des nordstlichen Yakutia und Kamtschatka werden fr den Zeitraum des Sptholozn sowie whrend der neoglazialen Periode diskutiert. Unterschiede zwischen palynologischen und geomorphologischen Auswertungen ergeben den grten Unsicherheitsfaktor-einerseits deuten Pollenwerte auf Abkhlung und Feuchtigkeitszunahme vor 3000-2000 Jahren hin, andererseits lt die Datierung von Gletscherablagerungen Annahmen zu, die Volumen und Oberflche der Gletscher whrend der gleichen Zeitspanne schwinden lassen. Alle Gebirgsgegenden unterlagen vor 3000-2000 Jahren einer generellen Abkhlung; vor 1500 Jahren wird eine hnliche, jedoch nicht ganz so deutliche Entwicklung festgestellt. Das Klimaoptimum des Mittelalters und die folgende Kleine Eiszeit wurden berall erkannt. Pollenwerte dagegen datieren die grte Abkhlung berall-auer auf Kamtschatka (Subboreale Abkhlung)-in der Spt-Subatlantik (Kleine Eiszeit) Periode. Glaziale morphologische Untersuchungen deuten darauf hin, da sich neoglaziale Mornen unterhalb der Mornen der Kleinen Eiszeit befinden.
10.2307/3673143|This paper discusses the mobility of labour in high mountain areas and examines its significance for the integration of these peripheral regions into the economy and society of the respective country. The interpretation is based on concepts of development and migration theory, especially on Friedmann's (1966) centre-periphery model, and on the hypothesis of mobility transition by Zelinsky (1971). Both stress the importance of labour migrations in the incipient process of spatial development. The practical application of these models to certain mountain areas, however, reveals their limitations. In the Alps, for example, labour migrations and integration of the periphery started centuries before the beginning of the phase of industrialization, although these processes have been interpreted in both models as transitional. On the other hand, mobilization of labour is a recent phenomenon in the Hindukush, Karakoram, and Western Himalaya. Here it developed as a consequence of the opening of the mountain valleys since the nineteenth century and with rapidly increasing over-population. Finally, four socio-economic types of high mountain regions are proposed. These have different patterns of spatial mobility instead of phase or stage models. The dynamic Type 4 is emphasized; this is characterized by recreational and daily commuting mobility and, contrary to the other three types, by full integration into a national or even international system. /// Cette tude considre la mobilit de la main d'oeuvre en haute altitude, et examine son importance vis--vis de l'intgration de ces rgions priphriques dans l'conomie et la socit des pays concerns. L'interprtation est base sur les concepts de dveloppement et la thorie des migrations, en particulier sur le modle "centre-priphrie" de Friedmann (1966), et sur l'hypothse "transition de mobilit" de Zelinsky (1971). Les deux insistent sur l'importance des migrations de la main-d'oeuvre dans le processus naissant du dveloppement spatial. Nanmoins, l'application pratique de ces modles  certaines rgions montagneuses rvle leurs limitations. Dans les Alpes, par exemple, les migrations de la main-d'oeuvre et l'intgration des rgions priphriques ont commenc plusieurs sicles avant le dbut de la phase d'industrialisation, alors que les deux modles traitent ces processus comme s'ils taient transitionnels. D'autre part, la mobilisation de la main-d'oeuvre est un phnomne rcent dans l'Hindukush, le Karakoram, et l'Himalaya occidental. Elle s'y est dveloppe par suite de l'ouverture des valles montagnardes depuis le dix-neuvime sicle, et du surpeuplement rapide. Finalement, quatre types socio-conomiques sont proposs pour dcrire les rgions en haute altitude, utilisant diffrent schmas de mobilit spatiale  la place des modles de phase ou d'tape. L'accent est mis sur le quatrime type qui est dynamique et caractris par une mobilit lie aux loisirs et aux dplacements journaliers pour aller et revenir du travail. Contrairement aux trois autres, ce type reprsente une intgration totale dans un systme national et mme international. /// Die Arbeitskrftemobilitt in Hochgebirgen wird in ihrer Bedeutung fr die Integration dieser Peripherrume in Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft des jeweiligen Staates interpretiert, und zwar mit Hilfe entwicklungs- und migrationstheoretischer Anstze. Hierzu werden das Zentrum-Peripherie-Modell von Friedmann (1966) und die Hypothese der Mobilittstransformation von Zelinsky (1971) herangezogen. Beide Modelle betonen die Wichtigkeit von Arbeitskrftemigrationen im beginnenden rumlichen Entwicklungsproze. Ihre konkrete Anwendung auf einzelne Gebirge zeigt allerdings Grenzen ihrer Gltigkeit auf. So setzten in den Alpen schon Jahrhunderte vor dem Beginn der industriellen Phase Arbeitskrftewanderungen und eine Integration der Peripherie ein, die den beiden Theorien zufolge eher als transitional interpretiert werden mten. Dagegen ist die Mobilisierung von Arbeitskrften im Hindukusch, Karakorum und Westhimalaya eine junge Erscheinung, sie ging hier mit der ffnung der Gebirgstler seit dem 19. Jahrhundert und mit deren rasch zunehmenden bervlkerung einher. Abschlieend werden anstelle von Phasen- und Stufenmodellen vier soziokonomische Raumtypen mit jeweils unterschiedlichen Mobilittsmustern im Hochgebirge vorgestellt und diskutiert. Hervorgehoben wird der dynamische Typ 4, der durch Erholungsund Tagespendelverkehr gekennzeichnet und im Gegensatz zu den brigen drei Raumtypen voll in ein nationales oder sogar internationales System integriert ist.
10.2307/3673727|There are two important pre-conditions for the occurrence of large rockslides: first, a long period for rock disintegration on a mountain slope; and second, the long-term persistence of a stable, supporting abutment lower on the slope. Without such temporary support, the increasing volume of the disintegrating material would be prevented by small-scale, downslope mass movements. Typical consequences of the large rockslides are their movement on internal sliding planes and the development of secondary rockslides. The occurrence, size, and number of the secondary slides mainly depend on the available kinetic energy of the primary rockslide. These findings are based on fieldwork experience on major rockslides in the Alps, the Chilean Andes, and Mount St. Helens, U.S.A. /// Deux conditions principales doivent tre prsentes pour que des glissements rocheux importants puissent se produire: une longue priode de dsintgration des roches sur un versant de montagne, et la prsence  long terme d'une bute stable plus bas sur le versant. Sans un tel appui, l'accumulation des produits de dsintgration des roches serait empche par de petits mouvements de masse plus bas sur le versant. Les consquences typiques de glissements rocheux importants sont leur dplacement sur des plans de glissement internes et le dclenchement de glissements rocheux secondaires. L'apparition, l'importance et le nombre de glissements secondaires dpend de l'nergie cintique disponible du glissement rocheux principal. Ces rsultats sont bass sur des travaux de recherche effectus sur les sites de glissements rocheux majeurs dans les Alpes, les Andes chiliennes et le mont Sainte-Hlne aux Etats-Unis. /// Fr die Entstehung von massiven Felsrutschen gibt es zwei wichtige Vorraussetzungen: Erstens, Felszersetzung am Berghang ber einen langen Zeitraum, und zweitens, die anhaltende Wirkung einer Barriere hangabwrts. Solch vorlufiger Halt verhindert, da das Gerll in kleinen Einheiten abrutscht, was eine Ansammlung ausschlieen wrde. Typische Folgen massiver Felsrutsche sind Verschiebungen an inneren Gleitflchen und das Auftreten sekundrer Abrutsche. Die Hufigkeit, Gre und Zahl der sekundren Rutsche hngen von der verfgbaren kinetischen Energie des ursprnglichen Felsrutsches ab. Praktische Erfahrung vor Ort an massiven Felsrutschen in den Alpen, den chilenischen Anden und am Mt. St. Helens, USA, besttigten diese Feststellungen.
mounresedeve.35.2.180|Recent developments in hydrological modeling and biomass retrieval in complex mountain areas have heightened the need for accurate precipitation data at high spatial resolution. The Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) provides rainfall estimates for certain climate models in mountain ranges where rain gauges are lacking. TRMM precipitation estimates, however, inherently have large uncertainties because of their coarse spatial resolution. In this study, we investigate a statistical downscaling calibration procedure to derive high-spatial-resolution (1-km) precipitation maps for the Tibetan Plateau using the satellite-based data set Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer, a digital elevation model from the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission, and the TRMM 3B43 product. Spatial downscaling from 0.25 to 1 km was achieved by using the nonparametric statistic relationships between precipitation and EVI, altitude, slope, aspect, latitude, and longitude. An additive method was used to calibrate the downscaled precipitation data. The best 1-km resolution annual precipitation data for 20012012 over the Tibetan Plateau were generated through downscaling and additive calibration for most cases. The results show that the method improves the accuracy of rainfall estimates. Monthly 1-km precipitation data were also obtained by disaggregating 1-km annual downscaled estimates with monthly fractions of annual total precipitation. Monthly precipitation predictions are in good agreement with rain gauge data. The calibration of the monthly product with rain gauge data significantly reduced the bias value. Overall we conclude that the methodology is useful for areas with varied climate conditions and complex topography. These results have practical implications for calculating hydrological balances, mapping aboveground biomass, and assessing regional climate change.
25164179|As Vietnam has become increasingly integrated into the global economy, internal migration to the highland frontier has been a major driving force behind its burgeoning coffee industry. Examination of migrant experiences in the Red River Delta and the Central Highlands-migrant sending and receiving communities, respectively-illustrates that livelihood opportunities for coffee-growing migrants are accompanied by an increased exposure to risks and therefore a potential for greater livelihood insecurity. Risks emerge from fluctuations in international coffee markets, the perils of environmental degradation, and increasing social instability in the Central Highland region. Migrants manage these risks in various ways, often drawing on resources provided through migrant networks. The research indicates that a reliance on non-migrating family members for support can be beneficial for migrants who farm coffee. However, this "safety net" for migrants can ultimately lead to an increase in insecurity for the entire migrant household.
mounresedeve.36.2.203|This study aimed to determine whether debarking of Norway spruce stumps influences the intensity of their colonization by insects. The observed stumps of
10.2307/3673642|Improved accessibility and attempts for integrated rural development in high mountain regions challenge the economic, social and cultural system of mountain societies. An examination of transformations in the Hunza Valley in the Karakoram shows how external interventions change the internal structure and economic conditions. Following a diachronic approach, the political and economic framework is analyzed and some aspects of recent sources of income are discussed. The decline of high pasturing, change in the traditional pattern of gender-related division of labor, and the impact of development projects indicate that the subsistence component of production has declined while diversification and increase of non-agrarian income sources have occurred. The Karakoram Highway enhances geographical mobility and exchange relations between the mountains and the plains. /// Un meilleur accs et des tentatives de dveloppement rural intgr dans les rgions de hautes montagnes prsentent un dfi au systme conomique, social et culturel des socits montagnardes. Une tude des transformations qui se sont produites dans la valle de la Hunza, dans le Karakorum, illustre la manire dont les interventions externes modifient la structure interne et les conditions conomiques. Une approche diachronique est utilse pour analyser le cadre politique et conomique et examiner certains aspects de l'origine des revenus actuels. Le dclin du pturage d'altitude, le changement dans la division traditionelle du travail parmi les sexes et l'impact des projets de dveloppement indiquent que l'autoconsommation cde la pas  la diversification et  une augmentation des sources de revenus non-agricoles. L'autoroute du Karakorum favorise la mobilit gographique et les relations d'change entre les montagnes et les plaines pakistanaises. /// Verkehrserschlieung und Versuche einer integrierten Entwicklung im Hochgebirge stellen eine Herausforderung fr Hochgebirgsgesellschaften dar. In einer Fallstudie zum Hunza-Tal wird dargelegt, wie von auen gesteuerte Entwicklungsprozesse die inneren Strukturen einer Talschaft beeinflussen und auf die Wirtschaftsverhltnisse rckwirken. Ausgehend von einer diachronischen Analyse der polit-konomischen Rahmenbedingungen werden einige Aspekte der gegenwrtigen Zusammensetzung der Erwerbsquellen diskutiert. Fallbeispiele zum Verfall der Almwirtschaft, zur Geschlechterarbeitsteilung und zum Einflu von Entwicklungsprojekten unterstreichen eine Abnahme der Bedeutung der Subsistenzlandwirtschaft zugunsten einer Diversifizierung und Zunahme der nicht-agrarischen Erwerbsquellen. Der Karakorum Highway verstrkt regionale Mobilitt und Austauschbeziehungen zum pakistanischen Vorland.
mounresedeve.35.4.338|Forest cover change is driven by complex processes that depend on political, conservation, and biophysical conditions. At present, mountain areas worldwide are undergoing intense forest cover change. Local-scale studies exist, but policy makers lack reliable and consistent information at the regional scale about long-term trends, controlling factors, and the success of existing policy measures. Long-term forest cover change data based on advanced image preprocessing procedures have recently become available. This study explores the potential of such data for a regional-scale analysis of forest cover change in mountain areas by analyzing forest cover change in the Romanian Carpathian Ecoregion (about 107,000 km
mounresedeve.33.3.314|The black-necked crane (
mounresedeve.29.3.211|Humla, situated in the north-western corner of Nepal on the border with China, is one of the poorest and least developed districts of Nepal. Constraints are imposed by low agricultural productivity in mountainous terrain under harsh climatic conditions. Food subsidies and other forms of external support have created a state of dependency, stifling local initiative and reducing reliance on local resources. Development efforts were hampered until recently by theMaoist insurgency. It was under such conditions that Humla Development Initiatives was formed to identify problems by conducting a needs assessment and work out solutions in close cooperation with local communities. Introducing improved water mills, promoting local food to substitute for subsidized rice, and cultivating nontimber forest products (NTFPs) on marginal farmland are some of the activities recently carried out to increase food security while reducing dependency on external support. Future activities include the establishment of community-based monitoring systems and cooperatives as the basis for the sustainability of the program as well as for transferring ownership to the villagers.
4096458|Landscapes in the mountainous north of Lao People's Democratic Republic (hereafter Lao PDR or Laos) are undergoing rapid transformation as road access is being improved and the area is integrated into the regional economies of Southeast Asia, particularly China. Rural livelihoods in the upland areas, long based on subsistence agricultural production, are changing as more households engage in the market economy. This study assesses land use changes from 1993 to 2000, as well as agricultural production in 4 northern provinces of Laos: Luang Prabang, Oudomxay, Bokeo, and Luang Namtha. The spatial data available for this region are limited, but several trends are apparent from 1993: the area of traditional upland agriculture and swidden farming (ie shifting agriculture) has decreased, while permanent intensive agriculture has increased. There is some evidence that forest cover has increased since 1997, probably as a result of the succession of abandoned swidden areas to secondary forest, but the quality and extent of this forest cover remains unclear. Agricultural sector analysis in the 4 northern provinces supported the land use data, showing a rise in commercial agricultural production of cash crops (including sugar cane, paddy rice, and maize) at the expense of subsistence agricultural production. All these changes reflect the government's policy of reducing shifting cultivation practices in the upland areas and promoting cash crop production. The new exposure to external market forces has begun to bring about changes in Laotian rural communities, with the development of village collectives to manage resources and negotiate with outside traders. However, it is also envisaged that this commercialization will increase the demand for privatization of agricultural land; this will require a renegotiation of current government land allocation policies.
10.2307/3673632|In the High Andes, much of the traditional knowledge related to natural resource utilization and agricultural practices was lost with the arrival of the Spaniards. That which has survived has been transformed, together with the landscape. Based upon ongoing research on the paleoecology and archaeology of the central High Andes, this paper presents the first results of pollen analysis from late-Pleistocene/early Holocene Laguna Seca (latitude 1811 South, longitude 691430 West) in the Chungara-Cotacotani lake district of Lauca National Park. The Laguna Seca record covers two crucial events in the evolution of high Andean puna ecosystems: (1) the period preceding the earliest human occupation, and (2) the period of change from a food-gathering to a food-producing economy. The results, though preliminary, indicate the contribution that these studies can make to the management and preservation of fragile mountain ecosystems. /// Dans les hautes Andes, une grande partie des connaissances traditionnelles relatives  l'utilisation des ressources naturelles et aux pratiques agricoles a disparu par suite de la colonisation espagnole. Ce qu'il en restait s'est transform de la mme manire que le paysage. Cet article s'appuie sur les rsultats de travaux actuels portant sur la palocologie et l'archologie des hautes Andes centrales et prsente les premiers rsultats de l'analyse du pollen datant de la fin du Plistocne/dbut de l'Holocne en provenance de la Laguna Seca (latitude 1811 Sud, longitude 691430 Ouest) situe dans le district lacustre de Chungar-Cotacotani  l'intrieur du parc national de Lauca. Les donnes enregistres pour la Laguna Seca couvrent deux vnements d'une grande importance pour l'volution des cosystmes de la puna des hautes Andes: (1) la priode prcdant la premire occupation humaine et (2) la priode d'volution d'une conomie de cueillette  une conomie de production de denres alimentaires. Bien que prliminaires, les rsultats donnent une ide de la contribution possible de ces tudes pour la gestion et la prservation des fragiles cosystmes de montagne. /// Mit der Ankunft der Spanier gingen viele der berlieferten Erfahrungen bezglich Nutzung der natrlichen Ressourcen und landwirtschaftlicher Methoden in den Hochanden verloren. Was davon erhalten blieb, hat sich, ebenso wie die Landschaft selbst, verndert. Diese Verffentlichung bringt erste Resultate einer Pollenanalyse aus dem Sptpleistozn/Frhholozn Laguna Seca (geogr. Breite 1811 Sd, Lnge 69 1430 West) im Chungar-Cotacotani Seengebiet des Lauca National Parks. Die Ergebnisse bercksichtigen neuere Forschung auf dem Gebiet der Palo-kologie und der Archologie in den zentralen Hochanden. Die Laguna Seca Aufzeichnung schliet zwei entscheidende Vorgnge bei der Entwicklung des Puna-kosystems der Hochanden ein: (1) die Zeit vor der ersten Besiedelung und (2) die Periode, in der sich die Nahrungserzeugung vom Sammeln zur Produktion vernderte. Die ersten Ergebnisse sind geeignet zu zeigen, welchen Beitrag solche Untersuchungen beim Management und bei der Erhaltung eines fragilen Gebirgs-kosystems leisten knnen. /// El presente trabajo resume la informacin obtenida en recientes investigaciones arqueolgicas y paleoecolgicas en la regin de los Andes Centrales. Se presentan los registros polnicos de Laguna Seca (1811S lat., 691430W long.) que se extienden desde la primera ocupacin de cazadores del sector andino de la puna, desde aproximadamente 11,000 aos A.P., abarcando el perodo de transicin hacia una economa pastoril basada en la cria de llamas y alpacas, y el impacto de esta actividad productiva sobre la cubierta vegetal. Los resultados que aqui se presentan, si bien preliminares, integran y aportan informacin para la preservacin y manejo de recursos naturales en ecosistemas de altura.
mounresedeve.30.2.143|Land cover assessment and monitoring of land cover dynamics are important to understand social and ecological processes in mountain protected areas. However, variations in the use of legends and classification systems sometimes pose challenges. The landscape of Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone (SNPBZ) has seen many changes in the past few decades. Mapping of land cover in SNPBZ was carried out to fill gaps in basic databases for the area. A review of past land cover initiatives and existing data revealed differences in methodologies and definitions that made them incompatible for cross-region applications. For the present study, a legend was developed using the standard Land Cover Classification System (LCCS) methodology developed by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the United Nations Environment Programme, a comprehensive and standardized a priori classification system designed for mapping exercises independent of scales or means. The changes in land cover were analyzed using Landsat Thematic Mapper, Landsat Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus, and Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer images from 1992 to 2006. Land cover maps were generated using object-based image analysis supplemented by ancillary information. Extensive fieldwork was carried out for ground truthing and validation. The use of LCCS was instrumental in bringing general understanding of the classification systems and helping to gain greater clarity and accuracy in the results. About 70% of the SNPBZ area is covered by snow and ice, glaciers, bare rocks, and bare soil. Altitude and its influence on climatic conditions have dominated the distribution pattern of vegetation in SNPBZ. The analysis showed that forest is being converted into shrub at elevations between 3000 and 4000 m, while shrub is decreasing between 4000 and 5000 m. A major decrease in snow cover is seen above 5000 m. Harmonization of the classification system helped to gain more reliable information on changes, as comparisons were made between the classes with consistent definitions.
10.2307/3673020|Extensive areas of the High Himalaya are economically backward. Other areas, such as Khumbu Himal, are influenced by tourism and modernization which thereby affects the way of life of the local people. The traditional subsistence agriculture is being replaced by a transitional agricultural system. Tourist trekking is competing with traditional demands for both human and natural resources. The results include significant changes in the traditional agricultural patterns and exploitation of other natural resources, especially forest for firewood and grazing land. Political, social, cultural, and economic factors affect the processes of change. Traditional Buddhist values are exposed to western influence and this leads to internal socio-economic and socio-cultural re-structuring. Relative self-sufficiency in food is giving way to an economic dependence on the external world. /// Des rgions tendues du Grand Himalaya sont conomiquement arrires, alors que d'autres, telles que le Khumbu Himal, sont touches par le tourisme et la modernization qui affectent le mode de vie de la population locale. L'autoconsommation traditionnelle cde le pas  un systme agraire de transition. Le tourisme pdestre fait concurrence  la demande traditionnelle en ce qui concerne les ressources naturelles et humaines, entranant en particulier des changements importants dans les modes agraires traditionnels et l'exploitation d'autres ressources naturelles telles que les forts pour le bois de chauffage et les pturages. Des facteurs politiques, sociaux, culturels et conomiques contribuent au processus d'volution. Les valeurs bouddhiques traditionnelles sont exposes  l'influence occidentale, entranant un ralignement des structures socio-conomiques et socio-culturelles internes. L'indpendance alimentaire relative volue des plus vers une dpendance conomique du monde extrieur. /// Weite Gebiete des Himalaya sind wirtschaftlich rckstndig. Touristikgebiete dagegen wie Khumbu Himal sind Modernisierungseinflssen ausgesetzt. Dadurch verndert sich der Lebensstil der Bevlkerung. Die herkmmliche, auf Selbstversorgung ausgerichtete Landwirtschaft befindet sich in einem bergangsstadium, denn der Tourismus konkurriert mit den traditionellen Anforderungen an personelle und materielle Ressourcen. Die Folgen sind Produktionsrckgnge in der Landwirtschaft, und eine Ausbeutung der Naturschtze. Wald wird als Brennholz abgeschlagen und in Weideland umgewandelt. Eine Reihe politischer, sozialer, kultureller und wirtschaftlicher Faktoren beeinflussen die Vernderungen. Traditionelle buddhistische Wertmasstbe sind dem starken westlichen Einfluss ausgesetzt, was zu innerer sozial-wirtschaftlicher und soziokultureller Umstrukturierung fhrt. Bisher weitgehende Unabhngigkeit in der Nahrungsversorgung wandelt sich in eine zunehmende wirtschaftliche Abhngigkeit von der Aussenwelt.
10.2307/3673851|Although land abandonment in the equatorial Andes is a process that complicates the mosaic of land uses in Tropandean landscapes, in some cases land abandonment further contributes to the process of degradation. This includes not only soil but also the species composition and community structure of montane forest patches and, where succession fails, recalcitrant pasture grasses. In order to examine failed succession, studies were undertaken on the lack of seed input, the ability of seed dispersers, the efficacy of avian roosting from perches, the removal of seeds, germination from seeded scats, seedlings among the tussock grasses, and the recruitment of saplings of montane forest trees. It is suggested that regeneration by seeding may be possible only if proactive removal techniques of the aerial tillers of grass species and their extensive root mass is eliminated. However, pasture conversion to forest using Psidium guajaba as pioneer tree to enhance dispersal outwards from the forest edge, coupled with seasonally-driven seed rain episodes, is a posteriori. Land-use and land-clearing patterns dictate the outcome of the regenerating phenosystem. This means that policies and practices of montane forest clearing must include treefall 'survivors' to enhance frugivory, to provide shade and regeneration of interspersed patches, and to stimulate dispersal for rapid initiation of ecological succession. /// Bien que l'abandon des terres dans les Andes quatoriales constitue un processus compliquant la mosaque d'exploitation des terres dans les Andes tropicales, il contribue dans certains cas au processus de dgradation. Ce processus n'affecte pas seulement le sol, mais galement la composition des espces et la structure communautaire des aires forestires parses, et, lorsque la succession choue, les herbes de pturage rcalcitrantes. Dans le but d'examiner l'chec de la succession, des tudes ont t effectues en rapport avec le manque d'apport de semences, la performance des dissminateurs de semences, l'efficacit des perchoirs aviens, l'extraction des semences, la germination  partir d'excrments contenant des semences, les semis parmi les buttes de gazon et le recrutement de gaulis d'arbres de forts alpestres. Les tudes suggrent que la rgnration par ensemencement peut n'tre possible que si des techniques d'extraction proactive des talles ariennes des gramines sont appliques et que leur norme masse de racines est limine. Nanmoins, la conversion des pturages en forts, utilisant le Psidium guajaba en tant qu'arbre pionnier pour la dissmination vers l'extrieur  partir de la lisire de la fort, de concert avec les pisodes de pluie de semences saisonnires, est a posteriori. Les habitudes d'exploitation et de dfrichement des terres dterminent le rsultat de la rgnration du phnosystme. Cela signifie que la politique et les pratiques de dfrichement de la fort alpestre doit inclure les survivants de l'abattage afin de favoriser les espces frugivores, de fournir de l'ombre et de permettre la rgnration des aires parses, et de stimuler la dissmination pour dmarrer la succession cologique. /// Landaufgabe in den quatorregionen der Anden verkompliziert das Mosaik der Landnutzung und trgt in einigen Fllen zur Umweltzerstrung bei. Hiervon ist nicht nur der Boden betroffen, sondern auch die Artenzusammensetzung und Lebensgemeinschaftsstruktur montaner Waldflchen und, im Falle verhinderter Sukzession, von ausdauernden Weidegrasarten. Um Grnde fr verhinderte Sukzession zu finden wurden Untersuchungen zu mangelndem Sameneintrag, zur Samenverbreitung, zum Einflu von Vgeln, zu Samenvernichtung, Keimung von samenhaltigen Tierausscheidungen, Keimung zwischen Grasbscheln, sowie zur Rekrutierung junger Bergwaldbume durchgefhrt. Es scheint, da Regeneration durch Aussaat nur nach aktiver Entfernung von Wurzelauslufern und den massiven Wurzelsystemen verschiedener Grasarten mglich ist. Umwandlung von Weide- zu Waldflchen mit Hilfe von Psidium guajaba als eine die Verbreitung vom Waldrand her frdernde Pionierbaumart ist an jahreszeitlich kontrollierte Aussamungsepisoden gebunden. Landnutzungs- und Landrodungsmuster bestimmen das Endergebnis des sich regenerierenden Phnosystems. Dies bedeutet, da Richtlinien und Praktiken in montaner Waldrodung "Rodungberlebende," die brachliegenden Flchen beschatten, Frugivorie und Regeneration frdern und Verbreitung stimulieren, und so der kologischen Sukzession zu einem guten Start verhelfen, bercksichtigen sollten. /// Si bien el abandono de la tierra en los Andes ecuatoriales constituye un proceso que complica el mosaico de gestin territorial en los pasajes tropandinos, se hace evidente en algunos casos que el abandono contribuye an ms a la degradacin de laderas frgiles. Esto se da no slo por las caractersticas del suelo, sino tambin por la composicin de especies, la estructura de la comunidad de los retazos de selva de montaa y por la utilizacin de especies de hierbas recalcitrantes que son usadas ampliamente, en donde no prospera la sucesin ecolgica. Con el propsito de responder a preguntas sobre la malograda sucesin se examinan hiptesis sobre la falta de ingreso de semillas, la habilidad de los dispersores, la eficacia de la deposicin desde las perchas, la remocin de semillas, la germinacin de muestras fecales con semilla, el retoo en medio del pastizal y el reclutamiento de renuevos de rboles del bosque montano. Se sugiere que la conversin del pastizal hacia el bosque usando Psidium guajaba como rbol pionero para mejorar la dispersin hacia fuera del filo del bosque, junto a los episodios de lluvia de semillas impulsados por las estaciones es a posteriori. Debido a que los patrones de aclareo y de uso de la tierra dictan el fenosistema regenerativo, se argumenta que las polticas y las prcticas de tala del bosque de montaa deben incluir "sobrevivientes" que estimulen la frugivora, que proporcionen sombra en retazos interspersos de regeneracin y que estimulen la dispersin de semillas para energizar la sucesin ecolgica.
4540656|The symbolic appropriation of mountains may be a universal phenomenon, yet it can also be highly specific to one religion or confession, located in one region and historical context. An interesting case in point is "Catholic Alpinism" in the Italian Alps. This popular movement began around the mid-19th century, when some curates, based in upland communities, some educators and some urban priests identified the mountains as a place for wholesome enjoyment and austere education. It was not that the Catholic world had totally lacked an interest in the mountains before. But in order to create a new way of mountaineering, it was necessary, first of all, to change the negative image of mountains which had taken root in European culture and had been codified during the early modern period. After the change occurred, the number of priest-scientists exploring the Alps increased steadily. Yet for "Catholic Alpinism" to take off, other meanings had to be read into the mountains. Crucial was the challenge by the British: Catholic Alpinism set in as an alternative to the expansion of British sporting alpinism (based more on Protestant creeds), and later, to increasingly extreme forms of physical effort and political nationalism. The Catholic form represented a different way of using the mountains. "The rocks should be a path to virtue," stated one Italian theologian in 1921. Seventy years later, and against the background of a completely changed ideological and political situation, another theologian maintained that alpinism would only have a future if "a return to spirit" occurred.
10.2307/3673866|The knowledge of local resource users and managers about the biophysical, socioeconomic, and cultural-historical elements of their immediate environment plays a significant role in determining the long-term sustainability of those resources. This paper reports on the results of two case studies from high mountain areas, one in the Upper Beas River watershed of the Indian Himalaya, and the other in the Arrow Lakes area of the Canadian Cordillera. Specifically, this paper describes sustainability indicators which were enumerated by local people in two differing cultural-historical, but environmentally similar, contexts. These indicators may be reflective of local, indigenous knowledge about the environment and therefore may be of significance in impact assessment and monitoring environmental change. Results from the Upper Beas watershed reveal a highly discriminated set of indicators which may be grouped as: forest cover indicators; forest-linked indicators; forest management indicators; agricultural livelihood indicators; and socioeconomic indicators. Local people demonstrated a very precise knowledge of the state of the biophysical resources of their village use areas. Specific indicators identified include: forest cover area (decreasing), forest species diversity (some species such as deodar decreasing), forest tree density (decreasing), consistency of water flow (decreasing) and frequency of avalanches and slides (increasing). These are all indicators which can be measured and verified independently of local knowledge. All suggest declining sustainability. Residents in the Arrow Lakes area demonstrated much less precise knowledge of biophysical indicators of sustainability. They enumerated a set of indicators which emphasized institutional arrangements for forest and resource management. For example, few respondents identified the extent of forest cover as important whereas the majority identified forest/land use rules in place as being important indicators of sustainability. In both case studies, people mentioned a number of socioeconomic factors as being important indicators of sustainability. /// La connaissance des utilisateurs et gestionnaires des ressources locales ainsi que des lments biophysiques, socioconomiques et historico-culturels de leur environnement immdiat joue un rle important dans la dtermination de la viabilit  long terme de ces ressources. Cet expos rend compte des rsultats de deux tudes de cas ralises dans les zones de haute montagne, l'une sur la ligne de partage des eaux de la rivire Upper Beas de l'Himalaya indienne et l'autre dans les lacs Arrow de la cordillre canadienne. Cet expos dcrit en particulier les indicateurs de viabilit qui ont t numrs par la population locale dans deux contextes diffrents sur le plan historico-culturel mais similaires sur le plan de l'environnement. Ces indicateurs peuvent reflter la connaissance locale et autochtone de l'environnement et peuvent par consquent tre utiles pour valuer les impacts et contrler l'volution de l'environnement. Des rsultats provenant de la ligne de partage des eaux d'Upper Beas rvlent une srie trs slective d'indicateurs pouvant tre regroups en: indicateurs des zones boises, indicateurs lis aux forts, indicateurs de la gestion des forts, indicateurs des moyens d'existence agricoles et indicateurs socio-conomiques. La population locale a montr une connaissance trs prcise de l'tat des ressources biophysiques des zones d'utilisation de ses villages. Parmi les indicateurs identifis se trouvent en particulier: les zones boises (en baisse), la diversit des espces forestires (certaines espces comme le cdre de l'Himalaya sont en baisse), la densit des arbres forestiers (en baisse), le dbit des eaux (en baisse), et la frquence des avalanches et des glissements de terrain (en hausse). Ceux-ci sont tous des indicateurs pouvant tre mesurs et vrifis indpendamment des connaissances locales. Tous indiquent une viabilit sur le dclin. Les habitants de la rgion des lacs Arrow ont montr une connaissance beaucoup moins prcise des indicateurs biophysiques de viabilit. Ils ont numr une srie d'indicateurs mettant l'accent sur des mesures institutionnelles pour la gestion des forts et des ressources. Par exemple, peu de personnes interroges ont identifi l'importance des zones boises alors que la majorit d'entre elles ont identifi les rgles d'utilisation des forts/terres en vigueur comme tant des indicateurs de viabilit importants. Dans les deux tudes de cas, les personnes ont indiqu un certain nombre de facteurs socioconomiques qui sont, selon elles, des indicateurs importants de la viabilit. /// Das Wissen, ber das lokale Nutzer und Bewirtschafter von Rohstoffquellen bezglich der biophysikalischen, sozialwirtschaftlichen und kulturhistorischen Elemente ihrer unmittelbaren Umgebung verfgen, spielt eine wesentliche Rolle bei der Bestimmung der langfristigen Erhaltungsfhigkeit dieser Rohstoffquellen. Der vorliegende Text berichtet ber die Ergebnisse zweier Fallstudien aus Regionen im Hochgebirge, eine an der Wasserscheide des Upper Beas River im indischen Himalaya und die andere in den Arrow Lakes der kanadischen Kordilleren. Der Text befat sich vor allem mit den Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit, die von den Menschen vor Ort in zwei kulturhistorisch unterschiedlichen, jedoch kologisch hnlichen Gebieten zusammengestellt wurden. Da diese Indikatoren das Wissen der Ureinwohner ber ihre Umwelt widerspiegeln, kommt ihnen eine entsprechende Bedeutung bei der Bestimmung der Auswirkungen auf die Umwelt und der berwachung von Umweltvernderungen zu. Die an der Wasserscheide des Upper Beas River gemachten Erfahrungen zeigen eine Anzahl scharf abzugrenzender Indikatoren, die sich in die Gruppen Gesamtflche, waldbezogene Indikatoren, Bewirtschaftung, landwirtschaftliches Auskommen und Sozialwirtschaft einteilen lassen. Die Menschen vor Ort bewiesen eine sehr przise Kenntnis des Zustandes der biophysikalischen Rohstoffquellen in den Nutzungsgebieten ihrer Drfer. Zu den speziellen Indikatoren gehren: Gesamtflche mit Waldbestand (abnehmend), Artenvielfalt im Wald (einige Arten abnehmend, wie z.B. Himalayazeder), Baumdichte (abnehmend), Gleichmigkeit des Wasserflusses (abnehmend) und Hufigkeit von Lawinen und Erdrustschen (zunehmend). All dies sind Indikatoren, die sich ortsunabhngig messen und berprfen lassen. Alle weisen daraufhin, da die Erhaltungsfhigkeit abnimmt. Bewohner der Arrow-Lakes-Region zeigten eine viel weniger przise Kenntnis der biophysikalischen Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit. Sie zhlten eine Reihe von Indikatoren auf, bei denen vor allem die institutionellen Manahmen zur Bewirtschaftung von Wald und Rohstoffquellen hervorgehoben wurden. So erkannten nur wenige der Befragten die Bedeutung der gesamten von Wald bedeckten Flche an, whrend die Mehrzahl die geltenden Bestimmungen zur Nutzung von Wald und Land als wichtige Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit angaben. In beiden Fallstudien erwhnten die Befragten eine Reihe sozialwirtschaftlicher Faktoren als wichtige Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit.
25164046|Cover crops may be an inappropriate intervention in many situations. This paper attempts to identify when and where cover crops are relevant to the requirements of different stakeholders. It is argued that donors, government institutions, environmental NGOs, and farming families often have different agendas and priorities, and that cover crops can fulfill different purposes for each set of actors. Cover crops occupy temporary niches during processes of intensification and integration of farming systems. The adoption/adaptation of cover crop technology within farming systems will depend on a range of factors, including technical appropriateness and economic viability, that define their systems "fit." Case studies from Central and South America are used to substantiate the points made.
mounresedeve.30.2.69|The planning and sustainable management of complex socialecological systems (SESs) in high mountain areas such as the Hindu KushKarakoram Himalaya (HKKH) region requires an approach that takes account of both environmental issues and local population needs. The HKKH Partnership Project developed methodologies and tools for systemic planning and management of social-ecological systems at local, regional, and national levels in the HKKH region, with a special focus on 3 protected areas in Nepal, Pakistan, and China. The adopted approach brought together researchers, policy-makers, and managers; it bridged the gap between research and management priorities and enabled communication to address the needs of communities while promoting conservation. Lessons learned are described and conclusions made on appropriate methods for the management of SESs in other regions.
4540679|Rice, the staple crop in northern Laos, has traditionally been grown in shifting cultivation systems (upland rice). Government policies and increasing population pressure have resulted in declining productivity of this system. Farmers need alternative and sustainable rice production systems to meet their rice needs. One alternative is the production of rice in flooded, terraced fields (montane paddy). This option is not new; however, farmers are developing these montane paddy fields much more now than in the past. The objectives of the study were to understand why farmers have begun developing montane paddy, the effect of paddy rice production on farmer livelihood activities, and the economics and costs associated with developing paddy land. The survey focused on 9 highland villages in northern Laos. In all villages, farmers reported declining upland rice yields. Between 1998 and 2002, the paddy area in these villages increased by over 240%. The main reasons cited for developing new paddy area were higher yields and less labor involved in paddy rice production. Paddy farmers had better rice security, grew more cash crops, owned more livestock, and had higher income. A cost-benefit analysis of developing paddy area suggests that paddy development is a good investment. Further research is required in identifying suitable areas for continued development, and accessing the environmental and social impacts of paddy development.
10.2307/3673730|China has suffered more fatalities and property loss from landslides than any other nation. The recorded history of landslide hazards goes back nearly 4,000 years to 1789 B.C. Minimum data of historical famous landslide events are briefly mentioned. The total deaths due to landslides exceeds 250,000 during the period from 186 B.C. to A.D. 1987. Landslides have caused at least U.S. $0.5 billion in economic losses and 140-150 deaths each year for the period from 1951 to 1987. Great efforts have been made in China to reduce landslide hazards and recent progress is discussed. /// La Chine a souffert le plus des glissements de terrain, en termes de pertes humaines et matrielles, que n'importe quelle autre nation. Les textes historiques traitant des risques de glissements de terrain remontent  1 789 av. J-C, c'est--dire il y a prs de 4 000 ans. Un minimum de donnes concernant de fameux glissements de terrain du pass sont fournies. Les pertes humaines dues aux glissements de terrain ont dpass 250 000 entre 186 av. J-C et 1987 ap. J-C. Les glissements de terrain ont caus au moins 0,5 milliard de $ US en pertes matrielles et de 140  150 morts chaque anne au cours de la priode 1951  1987. De gros efforts ont t faits en Chine pour rduire les risques de glissements de terrain; les progrs rcents sont examins. /// Global hat China durch Erdrutsche die meisten Menschenleben verloren und die hchsten Sachschden erlitten. Aufzeichnungen ber Erdrutschgefahren gehen ber 4000 Jahre bis ins Jahr 1789 B.C. zurck. Katastrophale Erdrutsche in der Vergangenheit werden anhand von Stichdaten aufgefhrt. Die Gesamtzahl der Todesopfer durch Erdrutsche fr die Zeit von 186 B.C. bis 1987 A.D. bersteigt 250.000. ber den Zeitraum von 1951 bis 1987 verursachten Erdrutsche einen wirtschaftlichen Verlust von mindestens US $0,5 Milliarden und die Zahl der jhrlichen Todesopfer lag bei 140-150. In China gibt es umfangreiche Bemhungen, Erdrutschgefahren zu mindern; die neuerlichen Fortschritte darin werden diskutiert.
10.2307/3673437|By the year 2000, current land-use methods will no longer be able to provide Africa's growing population with food. Although many of Africa's mountain areas are climatically suitable for food production, these areas are highly susceptible to soil degradation. Studies focusing on carrying capacities, with various population and land-use scenarios, are necessary to guarantee long-term, sustainable productivity. In 1982, FAO developed a new model, based on a large data base, to calculate food production potentials at a coarse spatial scale. However, for application to mountain ecosystems, this model needed improvement and partial modification with respect to soil constraints and other risks. The modified model considers mountainous regions (slopes > 8%) as areas of great conflict between favourable climate and high risks for soil degradation. Considering climatic criteria alone, these areas have the potential to produce 42% of Africa's food output. However, 55% of this potential is lost because land must lie fallow to guarantee sustainable use. A further 18% is lost due to irreversible degradation. Consequently, 73% of the potential food production is temporarily or permanently unavailable. Soil conservation and improved land-use techniques are critical to ensure the long-term sustainable productivity of the African mountains. /// En l'an 2.000, les mthodes actuelles d'exploitation des terres africaines ne seront plus capables de nourrir la population croissante. Bien que le climat d'une grande partie des rgions montagneuses de l'Afrique soit favorable  l'agriculture, ces zones sont trs susceptibles  la dgradation du sol. Des tudes de capacit dmographique, bases sur diffrentes scnarios de peuplement et d'utilisation des terres, sont ncessaires pour garantir une productivit soutenue  long terme. En 1982, la FAO a mis au point un nouveau modle utilisant une base de donnes importante pour calculer, sur une chelle spatiale grossire, les possibilits de production de denres alimentaires. Nanmoins, avant d'tre appliqu aux cosystmes montagnards, ce modle a d tre amlior et partiellement modifi vis--vis des contraintes sur le sol et d'autres risques. Le modle modifi considre les rgions montagneuses (pentes suprieures  8 pour cent) comme des zones de conflit srieux entre un climat favorable et un gros risque de dgradation du sol. Si l'on ne considre que le critre climat, ces zones seraient capables d'assurer 42 pour cent de la production agricole de l'Afrique. Nanmoins, 55 pour cent de ce potentiel sont perdus car les terres doivent tre priodiquement mises en jachre pour qu'elles puissent continuer  produire. De plus, 18 pourcent sont perdus  cause d'une dgradation irrversible. Donc, 73 pour cent du potentiel de production agricole ne sont pas disponibles, temporairement ou en permanence. Des mesures de conservation des sols et des techniques modernes d'utilisation des terres sont d'une importance primordiale pour assurer une productivit soutenue  long terme dans les rgions montagneuses de l'Afrique. /// Im Jahr 2000 wird Afrika nicht mehr in der Lage sein, seine wachsende Bevlkerung mit den aktuellen Landnutzungsmethoden zu ernhren. Den Gebirgsrumen, die meist klimatische Gunstrume sind, kommt dabei eine sehr grosse Bedeutung zu. Das akzentuierte Relief dieser Gebiete stellt aber ein starkes Degradationsrisiko dar. Gebirge als produktive aber empfindliche Oekosysteme mssen als Ressourcenrume (besonders fr Nahrungsmittel) erhalten bleiben. Fr deren langfristige und nachhaltige Nutzung sind Tragfhigkeitsstudien mit verschiedenen Bevlkerungs- und Landnutzungsszenarien notwendig. Die FAO (1982) hat methodologisch und datenmssig neue Mglichkeiten fr die grossrumige Berechnung des Nahrungsmittel-potentials erffnet. Das FAO-Modell kann aber bezglich Bodenlimitierungen und Risiken durch partielle Modifikationen verbessert werden, was besonders fr Gebirgsrume wichtig ist. Das modifizierte Modell - ein Beitrag zur grossrumigen Berechnung von Tragfhigkeiten, insbesondere fr die Nahrungsmittelproduktion - stellt die Gebiete mit akzentuiertem Relief (Hangneigung > 8%) als Konfliktgebiete zwischen Klimagunst und Degradationsrisiken dar. Der Anteil dieser Gebiete am klimatischen Potential zur Produktion von Nahrungsmitteln in Afrika betrgt heute potentiell 42%. Davon muss 55% als Brache ausgeschieden werden, um kologisch (pedologisch) stabile Verhltnisse zu garantieren. Ein weiterer Teil (18%) der klimatisch bedingten potentiellen Produktion ist durch irreversible Degradation verloren. Somit sind auf Grund der heute verfgbaren Daten 73% des klimatischen Potentials von Afrika durch Bodenlimitierungen temporr oder permanent der Produktion von Nahrungsmitteln entzogen. Sollen die Berggebiete Afrikas weiterhin Ressourcenrume fr die wachsende Bevlkerung darstellen, kommen der Bodenkonservierung und der Verbesserung der Bodenfruchtbarkeit hchste Prioritten zu.
90009010|The adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change has propelled the effective implementation of sustainable mountain development. The 2030 Agenda recognizes that livelihoods and natural resources cannot be addressed separately. Investing in the sustainable development of mountain communities and ecosystem conservation will provide benefits for humanity as a whole. Since its appointment as task manager for Chapter 13 of Agenda 21 in 1992, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has worked for sustainable mountain development and has thus contributed to increasing global awareness of the importance of mountain ecosystems and the plight of mountain peoples.
10.2307/3673292|Ancient ritual sites have been found on Andean mountain summits up to 6,700 m. In several areas they constitute the most important prehispanic religious structures. Following a discussion of the origin of the sites, a synthesis is presented of historical and ethnographic data from a broad area of the Andes concerning the reasons for mountain worship. It was found that mountains were venerated primarily due to their control of weather and water sources and thus the fertility of crops and animals. Earlier theories to explain the sites are briefly examined. It is concluded that mountain worship helped to unify Andean peoples through shared symbols and rites and is of great antiquity, being based on sound ecological principles. Its study leads to a better understanding of concepts fundamental to traditional Andean culture. /// Des sites historiques de rites religieux t dcouverts dans les Andes, sur des sommets pouvant atteindre 6.700 m. Ils constituent dans plusieurs rgions les structures prhispaniques les plus importantes. Une discussion sur l'origine de ces sites est suivie d'une synthse des donnes historiques et ethnographiques couvrant l'origine du culte des montagnes sur une zone tendue des Andes. Il semblerait que les montagnes taient vnres surtout  cause de leur influence sur le temps et les sources d'eau, donc sur la fertilit des plantes et des animaux. Les thories prcdentes concernant les sites sont brivement examines. La conclusion de cette tude est que le culte des montagnes a permis d'unifier les peuples andins au moyen de symboles et de rites communs, et que ce culte remonte  trs loin du fait qu'il est bas sur des principes cologiques trs sains. Il en dcoule une meilleure comprhension des concepts fondamentaux de la culture andine traditionnelle. /// In den Anden wurden bis zu einer Hhe von 6700 m alte Ritualpltze entdeckt. In einigen Gebieten bilden sie die wichtigsten prhispanischen, religisen Strukturen. Nach einer Darstellung ihres Ursprungs folgt eine Ubersicht mit geschichtlichen und ethnografischen Angaben von einem weiten Gebiet der Anden ber die Grnde der Bergverehrung. Die Berge wurden in erster Linie wegen ihrer Funktion als Wettermacher und Wasserquellen, und somit als Fruchtbarkeitsspender fr Feld und Vieh vergttert. Frhere Theorien zur Erklrung der Ritualpltze werden ebenfalls kurz untersucht. Seit sehr frhen Zeiten hat die Bergverehrung dazu beigetragen, die Andenvlker mittels einheitlicher Symbole und Rituale, welche auf festen kologischen Prinzipien abstellen, zu verbinden. Ihre Erforschung erlaubt uns ein besseres Verstndnis der Grundlagen zu den traditionellen Andenkulturen. /// Antiguos centros rituales han sido hallados en las cumbres montaosas andinas, a alturas de hasta 6,700 mts. En varios lugares ellos constituyen las estructuras religiosas prehispnicas ms importantes. Luego de una exposicin sobre el origen de estos centros, se presenta una sntesis de datos histricos y etnogrficos de una zona extensa de los Andes vinculados a las razones del culto a las montaas. Se encontr que las montaas eran veneradas principalmente debido a que controlaban el clima y los recursos de agua, y por ende la fertilidad de los cultivos y de los animales. Se examinen brevemente teoras previas sobre la existencia de estos centros. Se llega a la conclusin que el culto a las montaas ayud a unificar a los pueblos andinos mediante smbolos y ritos compartidos y es de gran antiguedad, estando basado en principios ecollogicos correctos. Su estudio nos permite comprender mejor conceptos fundamentales de la cultura andina tradicional.
25164051|Models are presented which can be used to examine the suitability of annual cover legumes, in terms of their maturity period, for their potential for incorporation into the hillside farming systems of the highland regions of sub-Saharan Africa. Sites in southwestern Uganda, covering a range in elevations from 1,600 to 2,500 m and having a bi-modal rainfall distribution, were used as an exemplar. In such locations, it was evident that several of the short-day "tropical" species tested were ill-adapted and would be unlikely to reach pod maturity within the time available in either of the two growing seasons, particularly at higher elevations. More temperate species, particularly Vicia spp., were better adapted but delays in sowing and increasing elevation severely restricted the potential choice of an appropriate species. The flexibility of the models as potential tools for scaling-up location-specific agronomic research trials is discussed.
3674670|Water consumed upstream does not flow downstream. Consequently, upstream-downstream relations along a shared river may entail competitive use or even conflict. What is the role of communication in preventing or transforming such behavior? The present article addresses this question based on lessons learned in 3 Dialogue Workshops carried out between 2002 and 2004 in the Eastern Nile Basin, with participants from Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. It indicates that the danger of upstream-downstream relations is not primarily "scorpion-like" behavior (damaging an opponent), but rather "ostrich-like" behavior (burying one's head in the sand, ignoring unilateral developments). Dialogue is shown to be a key determinant in rectifying this situation, as it is the basis for trust-building, exchange of information, and development of mutually acceptable management options. Other key factors to be considered are the balance of power between highland-lowland actors and the legal/institutional framework governing their interaction.
mounresedeve.30.1.4|In this paper, we look at the ways in which recent economic and legal changes affect pastoral management in the Gorno-Badakhshan region of Tajikistan. In Central Asia, livestock mobility is crucial for sustainable pasture management, but in Gorno-Badakhsan, average livestock ownership is extremely low. Households must therefore rely on collective herding practices if they are to exploit remote pastures and avoid overgrazing. Post-Soviet land legislation permits privatization with the aim of improving security of tenure for farmers; however, the same laws also apply to pastures. We consider whether the recent legislation is likely to promote or prevent livestock mobility, and assess the potential impact on collective herding. The effects of the legislation on the ground were investigated using 2007 field data from 2 sites, looking particularly at the impact of pasture privatization on collective users. We describe the extent to which pasture at these sites is under private, community, or state control, discuss the implications for sustainable management of this resource, and make recommendations for Tajik legislators.
90013244|The crucial role mountain ecosystems play for mountain communities and people living in the lowlands is emphasized by the 3 mountain-specific targets of Agenda 2030 (targets 6.6, 15.1, and 15.4). To achieve these targets, sound and integrated knowledge is needed for policy- and decision-making that fosters sustainable management of water and land resources in mountain areas, including equitable negotiation of trade-offs between stakeholders. The Water and Land Resources Centres in Kenya and Ethiopia and the recently approved Global Land Programme working group on Land Systems for Mountain Futures are just 2 of a number of initiatives launched by the Centre for Development and Environment and its partners to integrate and share knowledge for evidence-informed policies and practices aimed at safeguarding key mountain ecosystem services.
mounresedeve.32.1.51|This article deals with the development of irrigated agriculture in the Upper Indus Basin of Central Ladakh in Northern India. Artificial irrigation, fed by meltwater from glaciers and snow cover, forms the backbone of regional food production in this semiarid Trans-Himalayan environment. Following an integrated socio-hydrological approach, we present 2 local case studies on the village level and an overview of Central Ladakh based on multi-temporal remote sensing analyses, qualitative interviews, and regional background information. The remote sensing analyses reveal both persistence and change of land use structures over the past 4 decades. In order to understand the characteristics and variations of this land use system, the role and influence of different stakeholders are analyzed. We show how land use dynamics reflect the interplay of local practices and external interventions in mountain development.
mounresedeve.36.3.311|Livestock herding is a widespread practice in the mountains of Nepal, and grazing in the forest and pastures within protected areas is a main source of cattle fodder. Given the implications of grazing on biodiversity conservation and the need for sustainable management of pastures in the Manaslu Conservation Area of Nepal, we assessed grazing intensity along an elevational gradient following the Budhi Gandaki valley. The data set consisted of grazing intensities recorded every 250 m along a transect from 1400 to 5200 m above sea level and farmer interviews, after an initial satellite data analysis. Grazing and herd size were found to increase with increasing elevation, reflecting local livelihood dependency on cattle herding. Species richness was then analyzed along a grazing disturbance gradient at 7 goths (summer cattle shed) in heavily grazed areas. Disturbance was found to be moderate at intermediate distances, where species richness was found to be higher; the results agree with the generally accepted intermediate-disturbance hypothesis. The plant species not affected, even at the locations with highest grazing, were unpalatable species. These results can be useful in decision making related to management of forests and pastures in the Manaslu Conservation Area as well as in Himalayan forests and grasslands in general.
3674184|This article investigates the role of capital formation in contributing to the sustainability of community forestry in Nepal, using a case study approach based on 23 forest user groups (FUGs). FUGs were classified in 3 categories on the basis of cluster analysis: (1) successful, (2) moderately successful, and (3) unsuccessful clusters. The results show that the elements of capital accumulation in a successful FUG were manageable mature forest, high prices for forest products, a system of charging for all forest products, and sales of surplus forest products outside the FUG. The results also suggest that the benefits of funds, community development, and forest improvement changed people's vision and behavior, as well as their attitude toward and understanding of community forestry. This change in attitude has increased interest in and awareness of community forestry and has stimulated thinking about the sustainability of community forestry. Local initiative of this sort makes community forests more secure, protected, and wisely managed for sustainable development.
10.2307/3673641|Alpine passes have historically provided a transportation and communication link between the core regions of Western and Central Europe and those of Mediterranean Europe. Due to the geographic advantages of its low elevation and the possibility of crossing the Alps on a single pass, the Brenner route has had an eminent transportation function at least since Roman times. Today, the Brenner Pass is crossed by a major railway line, a highway, and a freeway-the first one in the Alps. This paper discusses the alpine section of the Brenner Freeway between the Austrian city of Innsbruck and the Italian city of Brixen/Bressanone with its triple transportation function for local commuter traffic, for tourist traffic to the resorts of the region, and for transalpine freight and passenger traffic. It is the latter which recently has aroused a considerable amount of controversy. This great traffic artery has had major effects on the natural environment, the settlements, the economic and social structures, and the life of the people adjacent to the Freeway. Among the positive impacts of the Freeway are: the traffic diversion from the highway which runs through many villages; the enhanced mobility, accessibility, and ease of transalpine transportation; the attraction of enterprises to the region, and the creation of jobs. The major negative impacts, apart from the visual impairment of alpine valleys and the land consumption of the Freeway, are mostly seen in the production of massive amounts of traffic-generated toxic emissions and of high noise levels which have negatively affected the quality of life of the local population and have been a major deterrent for tourists. The multiple impacts of the Brenner Freeway are portrayed in a conceptual model. /// Les cols alpins ont au cours de l'histoire servi de voies de transport et de communication entre les centres importants de l'Europe occidentale et centrale d'une part et ceux de l'Europe mditerranenne d'autre part. Grce  ses avantages gographiques,  savoir sa faible altitude et la possibilit de traverser les Alpes en passant un seul col, la route du Brenner a jou un rle trs important en matire de transports, au moins depuis l'poque romaine. A prsent, une ligne de chemin de fer, une grand-route et une autoroute, la premire dans les Alpes, passent le col du Brenner. Cet article examine la section alpine de l'autoroute du Brenner entre la ville autrichienne d'Innsbruck et la ville italienne de Brixen/Bressanone. Cette section de l'autoroute joue trois rles: elle assure le trafic journalier entre les villes de la rgion et leur banlieue, le trafic touristique vers les centres de loisirs de la rgion et le trafic transalpin de marchandises et de personnes. C'est surtout ce dernier type de trafic qui a soulev une srieuse controverse. Cette grande voie de communication a eu un impact important sur le milieu naturel, les lieux d'habitation, les structures conomiques et sociales, et enfin sur la qualit de vie de la population vivant au voisinage de l'autoroute. Parmi les rpercussions positives, on peut citer un allgement du trafic sur la grand-route desservant de nombreux villages, une plus grande mobilit de la population, un plus grand accs au transport transalpin et une plus grande facilit de celui-ci, enfin l'implantation de nouvelles entreprises dans la rgion et la cration d'emplois. Parmi les consquences ngatives, on peut citer l'altration visuelle des paysages alpins et l'utilisation des terres au profit de l'autoroute, mais surtout l'impact du bruit et des gaz d'chappement toxiques sur la qualit de vie de la population et le potentiel touristique de la rgion. Les impacts multiples de l'autoroute du Brenner sont reprsents par un modle conceptuel. /// Seit vielen Jahrhunderten erfllen die Passtrassen der Alpen die wichtige Funktion einer Verkehrs- und Kommunikationsverbindung zwischen den Kernrumen von West- und Zentraleuropa und denen des mediterranen Europas. Aufgrund der geographischen Vorzge einer niedrigen Passhhe und der Mglichkeit, das Gebirge in einer einzigen Alpenquerung zu berwinden, zeichnet sich die Brenner-Route sptestens seit der Rmerzeit durch eine herausragende Verkehrsbedeutung aus. Heute folgen der Brenner-Route sowohl eine Eisenbahnlinie, als auch eine Strasse und eine Autobahn - die erste transalpine Autobahn in den Alpen. Der Beitrag untersucht den alpinen Abschnitt der Brenner Autobahn zwischen dem sterreichischen Innsbruck und dem italienischen Brixen/Bressanone. Die Autobahn erfllt eine dreifache Verkehrsfunktion: fr den lokalen Pendelverkehr; fr den Touristenverkehr zu den Fremdenverkehrsgebieten der Region; und fr den transalpinen Waren- und Personenverkehr. Vor allem die letztere Funktion hat in jngster Zeit zu erheblichen Kontroversen gefhrt. Der Aufsatz behandelt schwerpunktmssig die Auswirkungen dieser wichtigen Verkehrsader auf die Umwelt, die Siedlungen, die wirtschaftlichen und sozialen Strukturen der Region und die Lebensqualitt der Bevlkerung im Umfeld der Autobahn. Unter den positiven Auswirkungen werden angefhrt: die Verkehrsentlastung der Brennerstrasse, die durch das Zentrum zahlreicher Gemeinden fhrt; eine verbesserte Mobilitt der Bevlkerung; eine Erleichterung des transalpinen Verkehrsflusses; eine beschleunigte Erreichbarkeit vor allem von Fremdenverkehrsgebieten; eine Ansiedlung von Investitionskapital und Industrie- und Gewerbeunternehmen entlang der Autobahn; und die Schaffung neuer Arbeitspltze. Als hauptschliche negative Auswirkungen werden genannt: eine visuelle Beeintrchtigung der alpinen Landschaft; der Flchenverbrauch der Autobahn; vor allem jedoch die Auswirkungen von Schadstoffemissionen und Lrm auf die Umwelt und die Lebensqualitt der Bewohner der Region; sowie die Beeintrchtigung des touristischen Potentials und ein Rckgang der Besucherzahlen. Die vielfltigen Auswirkungen der Autobahn werden in einem konzeptionellen Modell dargestellt.
3674655|In the mid-20th century, the southern parts of the Madres and Mont Coronat massif (Eastern Pyrenees, France) were characterized by a Mediterranean landscape shaped by human activity. Long-term use of these mountains for crops, livestock, and forestry led to an increase in grassland areas at the expense of forest. However, socioeconomic transformation (abandonment of agriculture and a decrease in the rural population) in recent decades has caused profound changes in this massif. Interpretation of aerial photographs (1953, 1969, 1988, and 2000) made it possible to detect and analyze the changes produced in the study area (6787 ha) during this period. In 1953 most of the massif landscape consisted of grasslands (38%) and open forests (18%), with some areas of dense forest (15%). By 2000, dense forest cover had doubled in size (31%), and grassland had decreased considerably (by 73% of the initial area). Since 1953, the study area has become more homogeneous, with a few local exceptions. The results of this study suggest that socioeconomic factors might be the main cause of landscape transformations in this period of approximately 50 years.
25578207|The Rio Santa valley in the Cordillera Blanca, Peru, has been repeatedly affected by severe glacial flood disasters in the past decades. The continuing high rate of glacier retreat has led to the formation and rapid growth of a large number of glacial lakes. Due to the risk of lake outburst floods, downstream communities are confronted with serious hazards. The regional capital of Huaraz is one of the major sites exposed to these hazards. Mainly due to a lack of resources, no systematic evaluation of the existing hazards and related risks has been performed so far, nor have adequate warning systems been installed. Strict financial limitations make a prioritization of mitigation measures a necessity. Vulnerability assessments are an effective tool to this end. In this article, we present a method to measure the vulnerability of Huaraz to hazards from glacial lake outbursts integrating both physical (ie hazards-related) and socioeconomic factors. The difficulty of quantifying socioeconomic variables and its combination with physical factors, as well as a lack of corresponding concepts, is a challenge for measuring vulnerability. The resulting map shows a high vulnerability for several parts of Huaraz. The results of this study thus make an important contribution to effectively addressing the identified protection deficit and to efficiently assigning the limited resources in the context of a developing country. However, this article also shows the strong need for more vulnerability research integrating both physical and social science components and related theoretical frameworks to be readily applied in practice.
mounresedeve.36.2.233|As a mountain country, Switzerland has an intrinsic interest and a proven track record in sustainable mountain development (SMD). Many Swiss stakeholders, including the federal and cantonal administrations, universities, and nongovernmental organizations, actively contribute to global SMD in many ways. Switzerland, with its extensive operational experience in mountainous countries around the world, has been one of the driving forces promoting policy dialogue and knowledge management among different actors to support SMD on various levels. This is reflected in its support for the United Nations'
mounresedeve.29.4.339|Constructing climate layers is more difficult and important in mountainous areas as a result of sparse meteorological stations and complex topography. This requires a 2-stage process: quality control of meteorological data and spatial interpolation of climate data. For this article, unscreened metadata and observed data were collected from all stations in Taiwan for the period 19612002. A quality-control procedure based on a geographic information system (GIS) allowed us to reject 13.5% of stations because of missing or erroneous metadata and filter out 8.3% of the observed data because of extreme errors or unreasonable temporal sequence and spatial patterns. After applying the quality-control procedure, the monthly mean temperature and total monthly precipitation were calculated as spatial interpolation sampling points. We evaluated the performance of 6 kriging-based spatial interpolation methods with regard to their errors by cross-validation. For interpolating the monthly mean temperature, the strong relation between temperature and elevation led us to favor modified residual kriging. For interpolating the total monthly precipitation, log-transformed kriging was chosen for practical reasons (steadier and simpler). We compared our product layers with pre-existing climate layers. The overall spatial patterns of these layers were similar, except for certain extremes in the mountains. Consequently, the GIS-based approaches presented here could help in rapid construction of adequate climate layers for regions with unconfirmed data.
90001380|This paper analyzes the global-warming potential of materials used to construct the walls of 3 building typestraditional, semimodern, and modernin Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone in Nepal, using the life-cycle assessment approach. Traditional buildings use local materials, mainly wood and stone, while semimodern and modern buildings use different amounts of commercial materials, such as cement and glass wool. A comparison of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the 3 building types, using as the functional unit 1 m
3674515|The composition and density of soil seed banks was studied at Harenna Forest after a major fire in the year 2000. Soil samples were collected from burned and unburned portions of the forest using quadrants 15  15 cm and 9 cm deep, laid along line transects. Forest recovery was also monitored on burned sites using permanent plots of 0.1 ha. One hundred fifty-five seedlings germinated from the soil samples, of which 140 and 15 were from the unburned and burned sites, respectively. The proportion of woody species found on the unburned site was 47%, while on the burned site only one woody species was recorded. Overall mean densities were 621  15 and 66  2 seeds per m<sup>2</sup> on the unburned and burned sites, respectively. The greatest diversity was found in the upper soil layer, followed by the middle, litter, and lower soil layers collected from the unburned site. Eighteen months after the fire, the burned site was covered with 32 species of dense vegetation, which attained a height of 3.5 m. Our results revealed that although the fire exhausted the soil seed bank, the vegetation could regenerate quickly with pioneer species, which differed in composition from the neighboring unburned stand. This implies that most species in Harenna Forest are sensitive to fire and could be eliminated easily from the area unless they are properly protected. Therefore, an appropriate management plan should be developed and implemented for the remaining forest, including protection from fire.
3674607|The aim of this article is two fold: first, to depict key species and relate them to landscape units (LUs) to define habitats; second, to generate a sound network of protected areas to ensure the functional integrity of the ecosystem. In the present study, 6500 vertebrate and vascular plant species records were gathered into a database. A total of 137 sampling units were surveyed to verify key species and depict discrete LUs (scale 1:25,000). Using multivariate statistics (detrended correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis), key species were selected and associated with LUs in a geographical information system. From the 1162 species recorded, 122 were identified as key species based on their endemicity and conservation status (12 amphibians, 42 reptiles, 37 birds, 11 mammals, and 20 vascular plants). Volcanic bodies and Holocene lava flows contain most key species but harbor less species overall, whereas mixed forest, meadows and crops, foot slopes, and accumulation plains harbor fewer key species but a greater number overall. These patterns were spatially displayed and discussed in light of their role in conservation and participatory management after over 15 years of research.
25164025|A priority for research is the quantification of the productive capability of soils on hillslopes. Data on soil biophysical changes and their impact on erosion are limited, especially on aspects which represent the farmers' perspective. The terms soil quality and soil productivity are defined and presented conceptually in models to identify information needs and to examine the biophysical and farming system components that are important to smallholders. Of the principal processes in declining soil productivity, reduction in soil depth and increasing difficulty of gaining production are most often identified by farmers. Using examples from Sri Lanka, field techniques of biophysical assessment of erosion, conservation, and their impacts are presented, with a focus on Gliricidia contour hedgerows. Techniques, such as measuring the armor layer of small stones, soil pedestals, and sedimentation in drains, are useful to assess erosion rates. Impacts can be identified by soil depth as a measure of historical erosion, differential growth of crops, and farmers' assessments of yields. Farmers' observations on the practices that they employ are essential in making realistic assessments of conservation measures for promotion. Field-based techniques are easy to use, rapid to undertake, and best represent the farmer-perspective.
25164174|In the context of mountain development-eg in the Indian Central Himalayan Region (ICHR)-the role of micro-enterprises in poverty eradication and extending employment opportunities with very low capital is self-evident. Micro-enterprises have been well established in promoting equity-based participatory development in rural areas in the ICHR. Women play a vital role through collective entrepreneurship in mountain regions for achieving socioeconomic equity and ecological sustainability. The Rawain Women's Cooperative Federation (RWCF) established in Yamuna valley, Uttarakhand, in the western part of the ICHR, has emerged as a role model of sustainable rural livelihoods. The diversification of agriculture in mountain regions according to the RWCF pattern has played an important role in ensuring participation of women in policy making, community-based interventions, and institutional support. With this experience women have been capable of visualizing and realizing the opportunities offered by globalization.
10.2307/3673827|A national park model that neglects the subsistence needs of the local people and denies them benefits from the park can lead to resentment and conflict. About 35,000 people living in and around Langtang National Park are dependent mainly on agriculture for their livelihood. Agricultural crop and livestock depredation by wildlife results in disputes between the park authorities and the local people. Potential solutions discussed here emphasize the need for the Langtang National Park administration to accept responsibility for the protection of crops and livestock from park wildlife. /// Un modle de parc national qui nglige les besoins de subsistance de la population locale et lui dnie les avantages du parc risque de crer un ressentiment et de mener au conflit. Les 35 000 personnes qui vivent dans le parc national de Langtang et dans les environs dpendent principalement de l'agriculture comme moyen d'existence. La dprdation des cultures agricoles et du btail par les animaux sauvages a men  un conflit entre l'administration du parc et la population locale. Les solutions possibles examines dans cet article mettent l'accent sur le fait que l'administration du parc national de Langtang doit prendre la responsabilit de la protection des cultures agricoles et du btail contre les animaux sauvages. /// Eine Nationalparkplanung, die die berlebensansprche der einheimischen Bevlkerung vernachlssigt und ihr keine Gewinne aus dem Park zugesteht, kann zu Ablehnung des Parks und zu Konflikten fhren. Etwa 35000 Menschen, die im oder in der Umgebung des Langtang Nationalparks wohnen, sind von der Landwirtschaft abhngig. Ernten und Viehbestand werden durch den Wildbestand des Parks beschdigt, welches zu Auseinandersetzungen zwischen der Parkleitung und der betroffenen Bevlkerung fhrt. Die in diesem Beitrag angesprochenen Mglichkeiten zur Lsung dieser Konflikte verdeutlichen die Dringlichkeit der Verantwortungsbernahme fr den Schutz von Ernte und Viehzucht durch die Parkleitung.
10.2307/3673934|Project Area 6 of UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere Programme (MAB-6) included activities in 21 areas in the mountains of five Western European countries (Austria, France, Germany, Spain, Switzerland), and in most of the mountain ranges of the former USSR. This paper reviews these activities, beginning with an introduction to the objectives of MAB-6 as defined in 1973. Particular attention is given to the development of conceptual models and of approaches to the involvement of local people in MAB-6 projects. It is concluded that only some of the objectives defined in 1973 were realized. Institutional factors were primary limitations, and these are explored. Yet MAB-6 activities contributed to scientific knowledge and the lives of mountain people, not only in the project areas but in many others. The concepts, scientific knowledge, and organizational experience deriving from MAB-6 have great potential for furthering the needs of mountain people around the world. /// Le Projet rgional 6 du Programme de l'UNESCO sur l'homme et la biosphre (MAB-6) a mis en jeu des activits dans les montagnes de cinq pays de l'Europe de l'Ouest (Allemagne, Autriche, Espagne, France et Suisse), et dans la plupart des chanes de montagnes de l'ancienne URSS. Cet article passe en revue ces activits, commenant par une prsentation des objectifs de MAB-6 dfinis en 1973. Une attention particulire est porte sur le dveloppement de modles conceptuels et d'approches visant  encourager la participation de la population locale aux projets MAB-6. La conclusion atteste qu'une partie seulement des objectifs dfinis en 1973 ont t atteints. Les facteurs institutionnels ont constitu les limitations principales et ont t explores en dtail. Les activits du projet MAB-6 ont nanmoins contribu  la connaissance scientifique et  l'amlioration des conditions de vie des peuples montagnards, non seulement dans les zones du projet, mais aussi dans beaucoup d'autres zones. Les concepts, les connaissances scientifiques, et l'exprience en matire d'organisation drivs du projet MAB-6, prsentent un potentiel important en ce qui concerne la prise de conscience des besoins des peuples montagnards du monde entier. /// Das Projektvorhaben 6 im UNESCO-Programm "Mensch und Umwelt" (MAB-6) umfasste Teilprojekte in 21 montanen Testgebieten in fnf west-europischen Lndern (Osterreich, Frankreich, Bundesrepublik Deutschland, Spanien, Schweiz) sowie in der Mehrzahl der Gebirgsregionen in der frheren Sowjetunion. In diesem Beitrag werden die Vorhaben einer Bewertung unterzogen. Als Ausgangsbasis dienen die Zielvorgaben von MAB-6, wie sie im Jahre 1973 formuliert worden waren. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit wird der Erarbeitung von Konzepten und Modellen geschenkt sowie der Einbeziehung lokal ansiger Bevlkerungen in die Umsetzung der Projektmanahmen. Als Ergebnis lt sich festhalten, da einige der 1973 vorgebenen Ziele im Verlaufe des Projektes erreicht wurden. Wichtige Einschrnkungen wurden von staatlichen Einrichtungen auferlegt, diese begrenzenden Faktoren werden nher untersucht. Dennoch haben die Vorhaben im MAB-Programm wichtige Forschungsergebnisse erzielt und zur Verbesserung der Lebensbedingungen von Gebirgsbewohnern beigetragen. Diese Aussage ist nicht allein auf die konkreten Testgebiete zu beschrnken. Die erarbeiteten Konzepte, Forschungsergebnisse und Erfahrungen aus der Projektorganisation in MAB-6 stellen ein wichtiges Ressourcenpotential dar, das fr eine verbesserte Bedrfnisbefriedigung in Gebirgsregionen instrumentalisiert werden sollte.
10.2307/3673267|The traditional Indian strategy of resolving conflict by non-cooperation, the satyagraha, has been revived in the Chipko, or "Embrace the Tree", movement to protect forests from commercial felling. This paper traces the development of the philosophy and the non-violent resistance activities from the beginnings of Chipko in the early 1970s in Garhwal to its present role throughout most of India. It is unique in that it is based not on the politics of the distribution of wealth but on that of sustainable ecological stability, and it is dominated by women. Today the Chipko search for a strategy for human survival from ecological disaster has world-wide significance. /// "Satyagraha", la stratgie indienne traditionnelle de rsoudre les conflits par la non-coopration, se retrouve dans le mouvement Chipko, ou "Etreint l'arbre", qui vise  protger les forts contre une exploitation commerciale abusive. Cette tude retrace l'volution de la philosophie et des activits de rsistance passive, depuis l'origine du mouvement au dbut des annes 70 au Garhwal jusqu'au rle actuel qu'il joue dans la plupart de l'Inde. Ce mouvement, domin par les femmes, est remarquable en ce qu'il ne repose pas sur une politique de rpartition quitable des richesses, mais sur le maintien d'une cologie stable. Cette recherche d'une stratgie visant  viter un dsastre cologique prsente un gros intrt  l'chelle mondiale. /// Zur Konfliktlsung lebt in der Chipko- oder "Embrace the Tree" (man umarme den Baum) Bewegung die traditionelle indische Strategie der verweigerten Zusammenarbeit (satyagraha) wieder auf als Mittel, Waldgebiete vor kommerziellem Abholzen zu schtzen. Entwicklung der Philosophie und Aktionen von nichtgewaltttigem Widerstand verfolgt diese Verffentlichung vom Beginn der Chipko Bewegung in den frhen 70er Jahren in Garhwal bis zur derzeitigen Bedeutung fast berall in Indien. Die Bewegung ist darin einzigartig, als da sie nicht von Grundstzen der Besitzverteilung gelenkt wird, sondern von Prinzipien zur Erhaltung kologischer Stabilitt, und da sie von Frauen dominiert wird. Heute hat die Suche der Chipko Bewegung nach menschlichen berlebenschancen im Fall einer kologischen Katastrophe weltweite Bedeutung.
3674384|Since September 2000, when world leaders agreed on time-bound, measurable goals to reduce extreme poverty, hunger, illiteracy, and disease while fostering gender equality and ensuring environmental sustainability, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have increasingly come to dominate the policy objectives of many states and development agencies. The concern has been raised that the tight timeframe and financial restrictions might force governments to invest in the more productive sectors, thus compromising the quality and sustainability of development efforts. In the long term, this may lead to even greater inequality, especially between geographical regions and social strata. Hence people living in marginal areas, for example in remote mountain regions, and minority peoples risk being disadvantaged by this internationally agreed agenda. Strategies to overcome hunger and poverty in their different dimensions in mountain areas need to focus on strengthening the economy of small-scale farmers, while also fostering the sustainable use of natural resources, taking into consideration their multifunctionality.
90001385|The Manaslu Conservation Area in north-central Nepal is considered a biodiversity hotspot, but very little is known about the ecology of its forests and its residents ethnobotanical practices. This study integrated data from ecological sample plots in 19 forest patches and an ethnobotanical inventory conducted with village residents to explore spatial patterns of diversity in woody plant species and their local uses. The study identified a total of 155 woody plant species in 103 genera and 54 plant families. Local residents named 96% (149) of these species and cited 404 uses for them. The uses involving the greatest number of species were fuel (104) and fodder (54). Seven forest community types were identified: 2, blue pine and rhododendron, primarily below 2200 m, and 5 communities (mixed laurel, oaklaurel, mixed maple, oakash and kharsu oak) mostly above 2200 m. Among the forest community types, the oaklaurel forest, at 13 km from the study villages, had the highest number of species, species used by humans, and different uses. These research findings provide a first assessment of ecological diversity and ethnobotanical resources for the region and highlight concerns for forest resources and opportunities for collaborative conservation planning.
10.2307/3673568|The Himalayan mountain region represents a challenging laboratory to refine general circulation model simulations and to compare them with climate observations at regional and local geographical scales. This paper includes an analysis of July temperatures in the Great Himalaya Range of northern India. Five sources of data are analyzed: (1) coarse-scale model simulations for present climate (<tex-math>$1\times {\rm CO}_{2}\ \text{runs}$</tex-math>), (2) regression model predictions of temperature versus elevation (after Lambert and Chitrakar, 1989), (3) spatially-interpolated observed data for the region (after Legates and Willmott, 1990), (4) individual station records in the region, and (5) local-scale field data taken in summer, 1988. As expected, July temperature simulations from general circulation models tend to generalize temperature/elevation relationships and do not appear to account for landscape surface feedbacks on air temperatures at a regional and local scale. Cautious use of climate model predictions of temperature and moisture for climate change scenario analyses is strongly encouraged. For mountain areas, field verification and weather station analyses for regional and local scales are essential for interpreting results from general circulation models. /// La rgion montagneuse de l'Himalaya reprsente un laboratoire de premier ordre pour raffiner les modles circulatoires gnraux (GCM) de simulation climatologique et de les comparer aux observations aux chelles gographiques rgionale et locale. Cet article inclut un analyse des tempratures de juillet dans la haute chane de l'Himalaya, en Inde septentrionale. Cinq sources de donnes sont analyses: (1) sorties de GCMs  chelle grossire (<tex-math>$\text{passages}\ 1\times {\rm CO}_{2}$</tex-math>), (2) prdictions,  l'aide de modles de rgression, de la temprature en fonction de l'altitude (d'aprs Lambert et Chitrakar, 1989), (3) donnes d'observations interpoles dans l'espace pour la rgion (d'aprs Legates et Willmott, 1990), (4) enregistrements effectus par les stations mtorologiques de la rgion et (5) donnes enregistres sur le terrain au niveau local, pendant l't 1988. Comme on pouvait s'y attendre, les sorties des GCMs  chelle grossire tendent  gnraliser les relations temprature/altitude et ne semblent pas tenir compte des rtroactions de la surface du terrain sur la temprature de l'air aux chelles rgionale et locale. Une utilisation prudente des prdictions de temprature et d'humidit obtenues  l'aide de modles climatologiques, pour les analyses de scnarios de changement climatique, est recommande. Pour les rgions montagneuses, des vrifications sur le terrain ainsi que des analyses effectues par des stations mtorologiques pour les chelles rgionale et locale sont indispensables pour interprter les rsultats obtenus avec les GCMs. /// Die Bergregion des Himalaya ist ein bestens geeignetes Experimentierfeld, um allgemeine Zirkulationsmodelle (GCM) zur Klimasimulation weiterzuentwickeln und dann mit Klimabeobachtungen auf regionaler und lokaler Ebene zu vergleichen. Diese Verffentlichung befat sich mit einer Analyse der Juli-Temperaturen in der Groen Himalaya Kette von Nordindien. Fnf Datenquellen wurden analysiert: (1) grob-skalige GCM Daten ber das gegenwrtige Klima (<tex-math>$1\times {\rm CO}_{2}\ \text{Daten}$</tex-math>), (2) Vorhersagen von Nherungsmodellen ber die Temperatur-Hhenabhnggkeit (nach Lambert und Chitrakar, 1989), (3) rumlich interpolierte Gebiets-Medaten (nach Legates und Willmott, 1990), (4) Aufzeichnungen einzelner Gebiets-Stationen, und (5) vor Ort gemessene Daten fr den Sommer 1988. Wie erwartet, neigen die Ergebnisse der Juli-Temperatur mittels des grob-skaligen GCM dazu, die Hhenabhngigkeit zu verallgemeinern; offenbar werden Rckwirkungen der Erdoberflche auf regionale und lokale Lufttemperaturen vernachlssigt. Vorhersagen von Klimamodellen ber Temperatur und Feuchtigkeit sind mit Vorsicht anzuwenden, wenn es darum geht, Klimavernderungen zu analysieren. Fr Berggebiete sind Besttigungen durch Feldmessungen und Analysen der regionalen und lokalen Wetterstationen besonders dann wichtig, wenn es darum geht, Ergebnisse von GCM's zu interpretieren.
3674482|Grasslands and forests are degraded in Turkey's Mediterranean Region (TMR), the center of the widespread traditional Yoruk silvopastoral system. Government efforts to halt degradation focus on afforestation, a policy that reduces the amount of land available to the Yoruks for their traditional livelihood system, which is further endangered by socioeconomic dynamics subject to the pressures of globalization. This silvopastoral system is examined with respect to policies that affect it and its potential for sustainability, with a view to regional community development. Interaction between this regional system, a component of traditional culture in the TMR, and current trends in globalization are noted, and the need for harmony between silvopastoralism and forestry is examined.
10.2307/3673207|Of India's 328 million hectare area, 175 million hectare are experiencing intensive soil erosion as a result of extensive deforestation and poor land management. The Lesser Himalaya and Siwaliks are some of the most seriously affected areas. This paper outlines the underlying geology and climate partly responsible for their high degree of vulnerability to soil erosion. Careful soil and water conservation measures, when applied to small mountain catchments, can significantly reduce soil losses, correct hydrological imbalances, and improve agricultural and forestry productivity, leading in turn to a reduction in the rate of reservoir siltation. Data from specific treatments are introduced. It is concluded that greatly accelerated implementation of these measures is now urgently needed. /// Sur les 328 millions d'hectares de l'Inde, 175 millions sont soumis  une rosion intense du sol de  une dforestation extensive et une mauvaise gestion des terres. L'Himalaya infrieur et la chane des Siwalik sont parmi les zones les plus srieusement touches. Cette tude examine les facteurs gologiques et climatiques qui contribuent  cette grande vulnrabilit  l'rosion du sol. Des mesures appropries de conservation du sol et de l'eau, appliques aux petites zones de captation des eaux dans les montagnes, peuvent sensiblement rduire les pertes de sol, redresser les dsquilibres hydrologiques, amliorer la productivit agricole et forestire, et en consquence rduire l'accumulation de sdiments dans les rservoirs. Des donnes relatives  certains traitements particuliers sont prsentes. La conclusion en est que ces mesures doivent tre appliques d'urgence. /// Von Indiens 328 Mill. Hektar Gebiet unterliegen 175 Mill. Hektar intensiver Bodenerosion als Folge ausgedehnter Entwaldung und schlechtem Landmanagement. Der kleine Himalaya und das Siwalik Gebirge sind die am schwersten betroffenen Gebiete. Diese Studie umreit die zugrundeliegende Geologie und das Klima, die teilweise fr die hohe Anflligkeit dieser Gebiete gegen Bodenerosion verantwortlich sind. Sorgfltige Erhaltungsmanahmen fr Land und Wasser, angewandt fr kleinere gebirgige Auffanggebiete knnen Bodenverluste erheblich reduzieren, hydrologische Unausgewogenheiten korrigieren und land- und forstwirtschaftliche Produktivitt steigern. Dies wiederum fhrt zu einer geringeren Verschlammung der Reservoirs. Daten spezifischer Manahmen werden angegeben. Es wird gefolgert, da eine stark beschleunigte Durchfhrung solcher Manahmen dringend notwendig ist.
mounresedeve.33.4.364|Government authorities and development agencies use road construction as a tool to support socioeconomic development in remote areas worldwide. In mountain regions, roads are closely connected with landslide risk. They destabilize slopes and often lead to the expansion of settlements into hazard zones. Weighing increased landslide risk against economic opportunities, inhabitants of adjacent areas acquire land along road corridors and build shops and houses. This article presents a case study from western Nepal, where an internationally supported road construction project triggered the establishment of a new bazaar in a landslide-prone area. Based on data gathered from qualitative interviews and a quantitative household survey, it discusses people's rationales for moving to the hazard zone, placing special emphasis on risk perception and economic reasoning from a livelihood perspective. The article also considers the extent to which the approach to rural road construction presently used in Nepal influences such developments. The study provides insights into the links between risk perceptions, livelihood strategies, and road-related development interventions and provides suggestions for a risk-sensitive adaptation of current approaches.
mounresedeve.35.4.365|Fog is an untapped natural resource. A number of studies have been undertaken to understand its potential as an alternative or complementary water source. In 2007, a pilot fog-collection project was implemented in 2 villages on the Eastern Escarpment of Eritrea. The government of Eritrea, buoyed by the project's positive results, has encouraged research into and application of fog-collection technologies to alleviate water-supply problems in this region. In 2014, this study was undertaken to assess the coverage, prevalence, intensity, and seasonality of fog on the Eastern Escarpment of Eritrea and consequently to identify potential beneficiary villages. Three independent methods used in the studysatellite image analyses, personal interviews, and a standard fog collectorproduced reasonably similar characterizations of fog coverage and timing. The period with high fog incidence is mainly between November and March, with the highest number of fog days per year (96) on the central Eastern Escarpment and decreasing frequency to the south (78 days) and north (73 days). The fog intensity on the central Eastern Escarpment is very high and in most cases reduces visibility to less than 500 m. In this period, a light to moderate breeze blows predominantly from the north and northeast. More than half of the villages in the region currently have a reliable water-supply system. The rest depend on seasonal roof-water harvesting, rock-water harvesting, and truck delivery and, therefore, could potentially benefit from fog collection as a supplementary water source. In particular, fog water could be useful for a small number of beneficiaries, including public services like schools and health facilities, where conventional water-delivery systems are not viable.
4540652|In the western Himalaya, the overlap of geography, religion and politics created a cosmic view that appeared to render "secular history" superfluous. Pre-modern states and communities in the region used natural phenomena to create a religious tradition, and then draw upon religion to form a socio-political organization. The present article attempts to explain how, in this mountainous region, the natural surroundings were the significant context within which belief systems and social structures operated. It examines the situation prevailing in the 19th and early 20th centuries in the small medieval principality of Kumharsain. Because of its semi-isolation, many of the village cults seem to have retained their roots in natural phenomena. Brahmanical orthodoxy later built upon indigenous beliefs as it spread to the countryside. The state deity was placed close to the rulers, while the indigenous village gods lived with the common folk. An intimate relationship existed between landscape, religious cults and social structure. Even today this relationship persists. It influences both local politics and decision-making processes in matters of development.
25164147|The 2005 Kashmir Earthquake is illustrative of the intensity and scope associated with catastrophic earthquake disasters in mountainous regions. The experience of the immediate aftermath, relief and recovery, and community reconstruction underscores how this event impacted mountain women, particularly in their roles in rescue and relief efforts and in rebuilding households and communities. A situational analysis was undertaken in order to document and make recommendations for the significant challenges and concerns facing women earthquake survivors in 3 of the valleys most proximate to the epicenter. Earthquake planning and mitigation strategies in northern Pakistan and elsewhere need to focus on reducing women's vulnerability and increasing their resilience, while fostering feasible interventions to reduce disaster risk across the population. We propose that the main elements should include pre-disaster vulnerability assessments; the support of women's access to resources and science-based earthquake education; active roles for women in relief, rehabilitation, and rebuilding efforts; and gender training among all disaster relief and emergency services.
3674585|The present article reports the results of a survey on the views of persons involved in commercial alpine medicinal and aromatic plant (MAP) exploitation and conservation in Nepal. Open-ended questionnaires were administered face to face to 175 respondents in the following categories: 1) collectors, 2) traders, 3) district forest office staff, 4) staff at the departmental and ministerial levels in the Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation, and 5) (I)NGOs and donors. The issues explored are related to striking a balance between poverty alleviation and halting MAP resource degradation. Stakeholder beliefs about the benefits derived from MAPs, the current state of the MAP resource, the tenure of MAP pastures, the effectiveness of government bans on collection and the possibility of community management, and the trade-off between collection and conservation are presented. Widespread misconceptions about collectors and local management are identified, and implications of differences in belief among stakeholder categories are discussed. The main findings show that collectors are seen as gaining important financial benefits from MAPs, but that 71% of non-collecting respondents believe the MAP resource to be degraded. Most stakeholders, other than district forest office staff, favor collection over conservation, and find that current collection bans are inefficient, indicating the potential for addressing village poverty by, for example, changing the present centrally-based regulation mechanisms and handing over some MAP resources for community management.
10.2307/3673106|The major physical features and the distribution of natural resources are described and the way these characteristics may have influenced human settlement and use are discussed. The area under study covers approximately 900,000 square kilometres and is approximately 3,200 km long and, at its broadest, 600 km wide. From north to south there is a decline in magnitude of the principal mountains. The Cordillera is dotted with volcanoes, many of them active. The Southern Andes are characterized by a dry or seasonally dry climate except south of latitude 40S where humid westerly storms predominate. The vegetation is dependent mainly on climatic factors and is consequently mostly a xerophytic scrubland except south of latitude 39S where a mixed coniferous-broadleaf forest predominates. In northern Chile and in some interior valleys of Argentina, the vegetation is very sparse, while in very high altitudes of the Cordillera it consists primarily of cushion plants. /// La topographie gnrale et la rpartition des ressources naturelles sont dcrites, et la manire dont ces caractristiques peuvent avoir influenc le peuplement et l'exploitation de cette rgion est discute. La zone tudie couvre un territoire d'environ 900.000 kilomtres carrs (environ 3.200 km de long, et 600 km de large au maximum). L'altitude des chanes principales dcrot du nord au sud. La cordillre est parseme de volcans dont beaucoup sont actifs. Les Andes mridionales sont caractrises par un climat sec ou saisonnirement sec,  part au sud de latitude 40S o les temptes humides d'ouest prdominent. La vgtation dpend surtout des facteurs climatiques et consiste donc principalement de brousse xrophytique,  part au sud de la latitude 39S o une fort mixte de conifres et d'arbres  larges feuilles prdomine. Dans le Chili septentrional et les valles intrieures de l'Argentine, la vgtation est trs parse, alors qu' trs haute altitude dans la cordillre, elle consiste principalement d'un coussinet foliaire. /// Die wichtigsten Landschaftsmerkmale und die Verteilung der Naturschtze werden beschrieben, auerdem der Einflu dieser Gegebenheiten auf Besiedelung und Nutzung. Das untersuchte Gebiet erstreckt sich ber annhernd 900.000 km<sup>2</sup>, ist ungefhr 3.200 km lang und an der breitesten Stelle 600 km breit. Die Hhe der Hauptgipfel nimmt von Norden nach Sden ab. Die Kordilleren sind mit Vulkanen berst, viele von ihnen aktiv. Trockenes oder jahreszeitlich trockenes Klima ist fr die sdlichen Anden charakteristisch, ausgenommen ist das Gebiet sdlich des 40. Breitengrades, in dem feuchte Westwinde vorherrschen. Die Vegetation ist von klimatischen Faktoren abhngig und besteht hauptschlich aus trockenem Buschland. Nur sdlich des 39. Breitengrades berwiegt eine Mischung aus Laub-und Nadelhlzern. In Nordchile und einigen abgelegenen Tlern Argentiniens ist die Vegetation sprlich, im Hochgebirge der Kordilleren besteht sie vorwiegend aus Moosen und Flechten. /// Se describen en este captulo los rasgos fsicos principales y la distribucin de los recursos naturales. Tambin se discute como la distribucin de recursos naturales puede haber infludo el asentamiento humano. El rea bajo estudio abarca aproximadamente 900,000 <tex-math>${\rm Km}^{2}$</tex-math> y tiene una longitud de aproximadamente 3,200 Km, y en su parte ms ancha, 600 Km de ancho. De norte a sur se nota un gradiente decreciente de masividad en la montaa. La cordillera est cubierta de volcanos, muchos de ellos activos. Los Andes del Sur tienen un clima seco o estacionalmente seco, excepto al sur de latitud 40 S en que prevalecen los temporales del Pacfico. La vegetacin conforma con las caractersticas del clima, y consecuentemente prevalece un arbustal xeroftico, excepto al sur del paralelo 39 en que crece un bosque mixto de conferas y caducifolias. En el norte de Chile y en ciertos bolsones interiores de la Argentina crece una vegetacin de tipo de desierto, mientras que en altas elevaciones de la Cordillera, la vegetacin est formada principalmente por plantas en cojn.
10.2307/3673232|High mountains which display an east-west alignment, tend to form the boundaries of zoogeographic regions. In contrast, they form bridges from high to low latitudes (or vice versa) if their alignment is north-south. In both cases, however, they possess the attributes for development of distinct distribution patterns of species and for the evolution of specialized new species. This paper demonstrates these major mountain geoecological principles with special reference to fresh-water limnology. /// Les hautes montagnes peuvent former des barrires zoogographiques, spcialement si elles sont de direction Ouest-Est. Mais elles forment aussi des ponts Nord-Sud, qui rendent possibles les migrations des animaux de hautes aux basses latitudes et inversement. Dans les deux cas, les hautes montagnes peuvent contribuer  la gnse d'espces nouvelles. /// Hochgebirge, speziell in breitenparalleler Richtung, knnen zoogeographische Barieren darstellen. Daneben bilden sie (vor allem bei Nord-Sd-Erstreckung) Brcken, die die Ausbreitung von Tieren von hohen in niedere Breiten (oder umgekehrt) ermglichen. In beiden Fllen jedoch knnen die Gebirge zur Ausbildung getrennter Verbreitungsgebiete und damit zur Bildung neuer Arten beitragen.
25164205|Alpine grasslands are ecosystems with a great diversity of plant species. However, little is known about other levels of biodiversity, such as landscape diversity, diversity of biological interactions of plants with herbivores or fungal pathogens, and genetic diversity. We therefore explored natural and anthropogenic determinants of grassland biodiversity at several levels of biological integration, from the genetic to the landscape level in the Swiss Alps. Differences between cultural traditions (Romanic, Germanic, and Walser) turned out to still affect land use diversity and thus landscape diversity. Increasing land use diversity, in turn, increased plant species diversity per village. However, recent land use changes have reduced this diversity. Within grassland parcels, plant species diversity was higher on unfertilized mown grasslands than on fertilized or grazed ones. Most individual plants were affected by herbivores and fungal leaf pathogens, reflecting that parcels harbored a great diversity of herbivores and pathogens. However, as plant damage by herbivores and pathogens was not severe, conserving these biological interactions among plants is hardly compromising agricultural goals. A common-garden experiment revealed genetic differentiation of the important fodder grass Poa alpina between mown and grazed sites, suggesting adaptation. Per-village genetic diversity of Poa alpina was greater in villages with higher land use diversity, analogous to the higher plant species diversity there. Overall, landscape diversity and biodiversity within grassland parcels are currently declining. As this contradicts the intention of Swiss law and international agreements, financial incentives need to be re-allocated and should focus on promoting high biodiversity at the local and the landscape level. At the same time, this will benefit landscape attractiveness for tourists and help preserve a precious cultural heritage in the Swiss Alps.
10.2307/3673870|One of the most important aspects of a complex common property resource is the collective-action right to decide how the resource will be defined and used. Throughout the history of the Black Hills National Forest, there has been a community of people interested in exercising the right to define and redefine it as a resource. By using a common property resource framework, this paper focuses on the role of the forest community-those people who were able to exercise the right to define the resource-in sustaining the forest as a multiple-use resource. The composition of the forest community had a direct impact on the sustainability of the Black Hills National Forest as a multiple-use resource. In periods when a forest community was actively engaged in preserving its multiple-use character, the forest has flourished. Without a forest community to focus on the multiple-use definition, single users competed with each other without regard for the impact of their uses on the forest as a whole, leading to the degradation of the forest. /// L'un des aspects les plus importants d'un fonds commun de ressources complexe est le droit de dcider en action collective comment les ressources seront dfinies et utilises. Au cours de l'histoire de la fort domaniale de Black Hills, il y a toujours eu une communaut dsireuse d'exercer le droit de la dfinir et de la redfinir comme un ensemble de ressources. En utilisant le cadre d'un fonds commun de ressources, cet expos met l'accent principalement sur le rle de la communaut forestire, ces gens qui pouvaient exercer le droit de dfinir les ressources, dans le maintien de la fort comme ensemble de ressources polyvalentes. La composition de la communaut forestire avait un impact direct sur la viabilit de la Black Hills National Forest en tant qu'ensemble de ressources polyvalentes.  l'poque o une communaut forestire tait activement engage  conserver son caractre polyvalent, la fort tait florissante. Sans une communaut forestire pour mettre l'accent sur la dfinition de la polyvalence, les utilisateurs individuels rivalisaient entre eux sans se soucier de l'impact de leurs utilisations respectives sur la fort dans son entier, entranant ainsi la dgradation de la fort. Einer der wichtigsten Aspekte einer komplexen Rohstoffquelle zur gemeinschaftlichen Bewirtschaftung besteht in dem Entscheidungsrecht der Gemeinschaft darber, wie diese Quelle definiert und genutzt wird. In der Geschichte des Black Hills National Forest hat es immer Gruppen von Menschen gegeben, die an dem Recht interessiert waren, die Rohstoffquellen dieser Region zu definieren und wieder neu zu definieren. Unter Verwendung eines gemeinschaftlichen Rohstoffnutzungsrahmens konzentriert sich der vorliegende Text auf die Rolle, die die Waldgemeinde-die Menschen, die die Rohstoffquellen rechtmig definieren durften-bei der Erhaltung des Waldes zur gemeinsamen Nutzung dieser Quelle gespielt hat. Die Zusammensetzung der Gemeinde hatte einen direkten Einflu auf die Erhaltungsfhigkeit des Black Hill National Forest als Rohstoffquelle zur vielfachen Nutzung. Whrend der Zeitrume, in denen eine Waldgemeinde sich aktiv mit der Bewahrung dieses vielfachen Nutzungscharakters beschftigte, florierte der Wald. Ohne eine Waldgemeinde, die sich auf diese Definition der vielfachen Nutzung konzentrierte, konkurrierten einzelne Nutzer miteinander, ohne sich um die Auswirkungen einer solchen Vorgehensweise auf den Wald als Ganzes zu kmmern, was zu einer Verschlechterung des Waldes fhrte.
10.2307/3672933|During the last several thousand years the Andes have been exposed to strong and persistent erosive processes which have led to serious deterioration of renewable natural resources. During the Inca period, however, the value of soil as a fundamental resource was appreciated. This led to the development of a high level of agricultural technology, which included the construction of complex engineering works. With the Spanish conquest and imposition of an exploitive regime there followed a period of catastrophe, both in terms of Andean environments and human populations. In many sectors such tendencies have not yet been corrected. An examination is made of the types of damaging processes which include: soil erosion, gullying, river erosion, water and air pollution due to improper disposal of mining wastes, fire destruction of natural vegetation, overgrazing, salinization, and damage to irrigation systems, alluvial lands, and drinking water supplies. The paper concludes with an assessment of the requirements for reversing these current trends. Aside from lack of complete knowledge of ecosystems and social and economic practices, the primary problem is identified as that of continuation of the traditional land-tenure system. Recommendations are made concerning the need to establish national policies based upon a detailed land classification system and the establishment of official bodies empowered to implement land-use planning and the provision of technical assistance. /// Depuis quelques milliers d'annes, les Andes ont t soumises  des processus d'rosion, prononcs et tenaces, qui ont provoqu une dtrioration srieuse des ressources naturelles renouvelables. Cependant, pendant la priode Inca, le sol en tant que ressource fondamentale tait apprci  sa juste valeur. Cette attitude engendra le dveloppement d'une technologie agricole avance, dont la construction d'ouvrages d'art complexes. La conqute espagnole et l'imposition d'une rgime exploiteur furent catastrophiques du point de vue de l'environnement andin et des populations humaines. Les effets de cette priode se font encore sentir dans beaucoup de secteurs. Les diffrents processus de dtrioration sont examins dans cette tude, entre autres l'rosion du sol, le ravinement, l'rosion des rivires, la pollution de l'eau et de l'air due  une dcharge inadquate des dchets miniers, la destruction de la vgtation naturelle par le feu, le surpturage, l'accumulation de sels dans le sol, ainsi que la dtrioration des systmes d'irrigation, des terres alluviales, et de l'approvisionnement en eau potable. L'tude se termine par un expos des dispositions  prendre pour contrecarrer les tendances actuelles. A part l'insuffisance des connaissances des cosystmes et des pratiques conomiques et sociales, le problme majeur est reconnu comme tant le maintien du systme agraire traditionnel. Des recommandations sont faites concernant la promulgation de mesures gouvernementales bases sur un systme dtaill de classification des terres et l'tablissement d'organismes officiels ayant pleins pouvoirs pour mettre en oeuvre les plans d'exploitation des terres et offrir une coopration technique. /// Whrend der vergangenen Jahrtausende waren die Anden starken und anhaltenden Erosionsprozessen ausgesetzt, die zu einer ernsten Verschlechterung der erneuerungsfhigen Naturschtze gefhrt haben. Der Wert des Erdbodens als wichtige Lebensgrundlage wurde whrend der Incazeit gewrdigt. Ein hoher Stand landwirtschaftlicher Technologie wurde erreicht, der die Konstruktion komplizierter Maschinen einschlo. Die spanische Eroberung und Ausbeutung strzten das Land und die Vlker der Anden in eine Katastrophe. Auf vielen Gebieten sind diese Tendenzen bis heute nicht korrigiert worden. Es wird untersucht, welcher Art diese schdigenden Vorgnge sind, die u.a. einschlieen: Bodenerosion, Bildung von Wasserrinnen, Fluerosion, Wasser- und Luftverschmutzung als Folge unsachgemer Abraumbeseitigung, Zerstrung der Vegetation durch Feuer, Ausbeutung der Weideflchen, Versalzung und Schdigungen der Bewsserungssysteme, der Trinkwasservorrte und des Schwemmlandes. Schlufolgerungen dieser Verffentlichung befassen sich mit den Notwendigkeiten, diese Entwicklungen rckgngig zu machen. Das Hauptproblem auer mangelndem Wissen ber kologische Systeme und soziale und konomische Handlungsweisen, liegt in der Weiterfhrung des traditionellen Grundbesitzsystems. Empfehlungen gehen dahin, eine berregionale Politik zu schaffen, deren Grundlage eine detaillierte Landklassifizierung ist, und die offizielle Verwaltungskrperschaften einsetzt, die befugt sind, Plne zur Bodennutzung durchzusetzen und gleichzeitig die Mglichkeiten fr technischen Beistand zu schaffen. /// Durante los ltimos miles de aos los Andes han estado expuestos a fuertes y persistentes procesos erosivos los cuales han producido serios deterioros en los recursos naturales renovables. Durante el perodo inca, sin embargo, el valor del suelo como recurso fundamental era apreciado. Esto condujo al desarrollo de una tecnologa agrcola de alto nivel, lo que inclua la construccin de complejos trabajos de ingeniera. Con la Conquista Espaola y la imposicin de un rgimen de explotacin, se inici un periodo de catstrofes tanto en el medio ambiente andino como en las poblaciones humanas. En muchos sectores tales tendencias no han sido an corregidas. Se examinan los tipos de procesos deteriorantes, los cuales incluyen: la erosin del suelo, erosin por abarrancamiento, erosin fluvial, contaminacin del aire y del agua debido a la mala eliminacin de los desechos de las minas, destruccin por fuego de la vegetacin natural, denudacin de las tierras por sobrepastoreo, salinizacin, deterioro de los sistemas de irrigacin, de las tierras aluviales y de las fuentes de agua potable. La monografa concluye con una evaluacin de los requisitos necesarios para corregir las tendencias actuales. Adems de la falta de un conocimiento completo de las prcticas referentes a los sistemas ecolgicos, sociales y econmicos, el problema primario se identifica como el de la mantencin del sistema tradicional de tenecia de la tierra. Se hacen recomendaciones sobre la necesidad de establecer planes de accin nacional basados en un sistema detallado de clasificacin de las tierras y el establecimiento de organismos oficiales con poder para poner en prctica la planificacin del aprovechamiento de tierras y proveer asistencia tcnica.
3674657|The main forest management strategy of Nepal, community forestry, is based on people's participation and was formally introduced in 1978. Under the community forestry structure, local people make decisions regarding forest management, utilization, and distribution of benefits from a forest; they are organized as a Community Forest User Group (CFUG). Presently, about 1 million ha of forest are under the control of about 13,000 CFUGs. The present article gives an overview of the status of community forestry and its features in Nepal and analyzes the institutional arrangements of 3 CFUGs from different parts of the country. The collective institutional arrangement is a legally supported approach in community forestry. It was found that the CFUGs have developed alternative institutional arrangements to this approach, ie private and centralized systems. As the case studies show, the practice of allocating limited use rights and protection responsibility to individual users as private property is decisive for the successful rehabilitation of degraded forests in the Churiya region. In the Terai region, centralized institutional arrangements are found to be the most appropriate option for the implementation of community forestry. In the Mid Hill region, from where community forestry originates, collective institutional arrangements are successful. These different forms of arrangement appear to be the best alternatives in the prevailing local situation. The findings suggest that various contextual factors in a community and their interaction affect the formulation of institutional arrangements. Successful groups are able to craft innovative arrangements well suited to local conditions. But common property resource models based on linear relations are not always sufficient to explain the dynamism of the interfaces between people's innovations and forest resources.
mounresedeve.30.3.266|The alpine vegetation of the Sikkim Himalaya has received limited attention despite being a part of the Eastern Himalaya global biodiversity hotspot. The current study undertaken in the third highest landscape in the world the Khangchendzonga National Park (KNP)provides information on the different alpine vegetation communities and aspects of their ecology. The transverse spurs from the unique northsouth Khangchendzonga range result in a landscape level differentiation of the Outer, Inner, and Tibetan Himalaya in just 50 km. The alpine vegetation based on numerical classification has been segregated into 11 types with the extensive ones being
90013242|Property rights and management regimes for high-elevation rangelands in Bhutan have evolved over centuries in response to environmental, cultural, and political imperatives. The 2007 Land Act of Bhutan aims to redress historical inequities in property rights by redistributing grazing leases to local livestock owners in a process known as rangeland nationalization. This study explored 3 related issues: property rights and management regimes in 3 distinct high-elevation rangeland systems, herders and government officials perceptions of the proposed rangeland nationalization process, and the implications of rangeland nationalization for herder livelihoods and sustainable development. Qualitative research methods were adopted to capture the lived experiences of 151 livestock farmers, seminomadic herders, and government officials, including 40 individual interviews and 9 focus group discussions. The research revealed that herding in these high-elevation rangelands is governed by a complex combination of private, communal, and mixed property use rights regimes. Management regimes varied according to traditional rules, but development was limited because of lack of management rights. The rangeland nationalization process is expected to promote sustainable management of high-elevation rangelands by incentivizing provisioning and maintenance activities. However, the lack of clear implementation guidelines and a coherent replacement for traditional practices have created confusion and anxiety in herder communities. Providing tenure security and management rights in an equitable manner will be vital for fostering sustainable development for herder communities living in the high-elevation rangelands of Bhutan.
mounresedeve.34.3.297|The International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) believes in a future where the mountain people of the Hindu KushHimalayas can experience enhanced livelihoods, equity, and social and environmental security; where they can adapt to environmental, socioeconomic, and climate change; and where future generations of mountain and downstream populations can enjoy the benefits and opportunities afforded by the region's natural endowment. ICIMOD is an intergovernmental center that develops and shares information and knowledge, facilitates learning, and uses innovation and effective communication to empower its eight regional member countriesAfghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan and the women, men, and children living there. ICIMOD believes that interventions are most successful when they take into account the points of view of everyone in society, regardless of gender, caste, or ethnicity. Inclusiveness is the hallmark of ICIMOD's work.
mounresedeve.32.3.313|Kyrgyzstan's vast grasslands are mountain ecosystems that provide many ecological services (such as water cycling and filtration, nutrient cycling, and soil formation) as well as economic services (such as fodder supply). During the post-Soviet transformation, pasture-related challenges arose in new forms and intensities and came to endanger the continued provision of these services. Degradation leads to a worsening shortage of grassland resources, and pasture-related conflicts jeopardize Kyrgyzstan's social integrity. Socioecological problems vary in type and intensity and cannot be explained solely in terms of excessive use by local people. This study looks at the ways in which historical preconditions, current socioeconomic conditions, laws and regulations, and administrative and management practices influence current pasture problems. We analyzed the social and ecological characteristics of diverse pastures in the walnut fruit forest region in southwestern Kyrgyzstan. This study offers an interdisciplinary approach to the establishment of socially and ecologically sustainable pasture management systems, combining social and historical research with ecological vegetation analyses.
3674578|The present article describes an experiment using the SAMBA role play game as a research tool in Bac Kan province of Vietnam, in the framework of the Mountain Agrarian Systems Program, a joint research project of the Vietnam Agricultural Science Institute, the International Rice Research Institute, the Institut de Recherche pour le Dveloppement, and the Centre de Coopration Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le Dveloppement. The role play game was a follow-up to intensive field surveys and multi-agent modeling done in the same commune. We present the game and its rules, the sequence of events during a role play session, and an analysis of the process. The results of this experiment show that role play can be a useful tool, both for validation of hypotheses about the forces behind land use change and for conducting participatory research on natural resource management.
10.2307/3673209|International law establishes duties on states to protect shared environmental resources. Presently, the environmental laws of Nepal, India, and Bangladesh offer only a minimal basis and often out-of-date regime for protecting Himalayan watershed forests and averting erosion, sedimentation, and flooding in the Ganges River basin. China's recent environmental laws offer some useful precedents to the states in the Ganges region. The most significant precedents, however, are the treaties on sharing Ganges waters currently in force between India and Nepal, and between India and Bangladesh; these treaties offer a basis for building a more advanced treaty watershed regime; the 1985 ASEAN Environmental Agreement offers models for such a regime. Only by treaty can the disparate national and local environmental laws of Bangladesh, India, and Nepal be drawn into the concerted action needed to safeguard the Ganges and its watershed. /// La loi internationale tablit les responsabilits respectives des pays en ce qui concerne la protection des ressources naturelles communes. A prsent, les lois du Npal, de l'Inde et du Bangladesh sur la protection de l'environnement n'offrent qu'une base minimale et un rgime souvent prim pour protger les forts du bassin hydrographique himalayen et viter les phnomnes d'rosion, d'accumulation de sdiments et d'inondation dans le bassin du Gange. En Chine, les lois rcentes sur la protection de l'environnement constituent des prcdents valables pour les pays situs dans la rgion du Gange. Neanmoins, les prcdents les plus importants sont les traits de partage des eaux du Gange qui sont  prsent en vigueur entre l'Inde et le Npal, et entre le Npal et le Bangladesh. Ces traits forment une base adquate pour mettre sur pied un rgime plus complet couvrant l'ensemble du bassin hydrographique; l'accord de 1985 entre les nations de l'Asie du sud-est pour la protection de l'environnement offre des modles pour un tel rgime. Seuls des traits peuvent unifier les diverses lois nationales et locales du Bangladesh, de l'Inde et du Npal et permettre une action coordonne visant  sauvegarder le Gange et son bassin hydrographique. /// Internationales Recht formuliert Richtlinien, nach denen Staaten ihre gemeinsamen Umweltressourcen schtzen. Gegenwrtig bieten die Umweltgesetze von Nepal, Indien und Bangladesh nur eine minimale Handhabe, oftmals nach veraltetem System, um die himalaischen Wlder im Wassereinzugsgebiet des Ganges' zu schtzen und Erosion, Sedimentation und berflutung einzudmmen. China's neuere Umweltgesetze offerieren einige ntzliche Przedenzflle fr die Staaten im Ganges Gebiet. Am wichtigsten sind jedoch die zur Zeit gltigen Vertrge ber die Aufteilung des Wassers im Ganges zwischen Indien und Nepal und zwischen Indien und Bangladesh. Diese Vertrge bieten sich als Ausgangspunkt fr ein verbessertes Abkommenssystem ber Wassereinzugsgebiete an. Das ASEAN Umweltabkommen von 1985 gibt Beispiele fr solch ein System. Nur durch ein Abkommen knnen Unvereinbarkeiten in nationalen und lokalen Umweltgesetzen von Bangladesh, Indien und Nepal ausgeglichen und zu einer gemeinsamen Aktion zusammengefat werden. Gemeinsames Handeln ist zum Schutz des Ganges' und seines Einzugsgebietes notwendig.
25164150|Mt Pinatubo is located on the main island of Luzon in the Philippines. Its 1991 eruption is considered one of the most powerful volcanic explosions of the 20th century. The first victims of the eruption were the Aeta indigenous communities living on the slopes of the mountain. In 1999, approximately 50,000 people were still trying to resume life on the slopes of Mt Pinatubo. Their traditional way of life has been deeply affected by the disaster, which brought changes in the indigenous cultural fabric. The present article addresses the Aetas' response to the 1991 Mt Pinatubo eruption and subsequent cultural changes, using the concept of resilience. It particularly focuses on the communities located within the 200-km Pasig and Sacobia river basins on the eastern flank of the volcano, in the immediate vicinity of the former Clark American military base. The discussion relies on extensive fieldwork conducted between July 1999 and June 2000 and complemented by additional field explorations between June and September 2001. It recommends fostering community-based disaster recovery as a way to enhance community resilience.
10.2307/3672948|Conflicts over the use of limited natural resources can be expected to increase in the 1980s. Environmental conflict management offers a range of alternative methods for resolving differences to complement the traditional adversarial process. ROMCOE is an organization that specializes in environmental conflict management and its approaches to solving problems are described with case examples of environmental disputes in the western United States. /// Il faut s'attendre  ce que les conflits concernant les ressources naturelles limites vont s'amplifier au cours des annes 80. "Matrise des Conflits affectant l'Environnement" offre une gamme de techniques pour rgler les diffrents, qui complmente le processus habituel d'opposition. ROMCOE est une organisation qui se spcialise dans la matrise des conflits affectant l'environnement et ses mthodes de rsolution de problmes sont illustres par des exemples rels de contestation sur l'environnement, dans l'Ouest des Etats-Unis. /// Die Nutzung der begrenzten Naturschtze wird in den 80er Jahren hufiger zu Konflikten fhren. Die Lsung solcher Streitfragen kann auf verschiedenen Wegen herbeigefhrt werden - es mu nicht unbedingt die blich feindselige Methode sein. Die Organisation ROMCOE hat sich auf die Lsung von Umweltkonflikten spezialisiert und ihr Anpacken solcher Probleme wird an Beispielen aus den westlichen USA beschrieben.
10.2307/3673700|This study was a part of a larger project that focused on pollution caused by the combustion of biofuels. It examined the role of time allocation studies in assessing energy and environmental problems in three villages in Pauri District of Garhwal Himalaya. These problems relate to the extensive use of biomass and the consequent effects on human health. Baseline data were obtained to test the validity of commonly-held hypotheses relating to time allocation and fuel usage. Method of recall was used to study how people allocate time to various tasks in six important indoor and outdoor micro-environments. Comparisons between four population groups (men, women, youths, and children) showed that women spend more time in activities related to collection of fuelwood and fodder (4-6 hours) than other duties. Domestic activities account for 10-12 hours each day. Time spent in cooking, measured by stopwatch, was considerably less than that reported by women in a questionnaire. Fuel usage patterns were measured. The average per capita per meal fuel consumption was 0.30 kg; consumption was higher in the monsoon and winter seasons. Average cooking time and fuel consumption decreased with altitude. /// Cette tude fait partie d'un plus gros projet portant sur la pollution produite par la combustion de biocarburants. Elle examine le rle des tudes d'allocation du temps pour l'valuation des problmes d'nergie et d'environnement dans trois villages du district de Pauri dans le Garhwal Himalaya. Ces problmes sont lis  l'utilisation extensive de la biomasse et aux effets qui s'ensuivent pour la sant humaine. Des donnes de base ont t collectes en vue de tester la validit des hypothses gnralement acceptes en ce qui concerne l'allocation du temps et l'utilisation de combustible. La mthode d'vocation a t utilise pour tudier la manire dont les habitants allouent le temps  diffrentes tches dans six micro-environnements importants,  l'intrieur et  l'extrieur. Des comparaisons entre quatre groupes (hommes, femmes, adolescents et enfants) ont montr que les femmes consacrent plus de temps aux activits lies au ramassage du bois de chauffage et de fourrage (4  6 heures) qu' d'autres tches. Les activits domestiques prennent de 10  12 heures par jour. Le temps effectivement consacr  la cuisine, mesur au chronomtre, est nettement moindre que celui indiqu par les femmes dans un questionnaire. Les modes d'utilisation de combustible ont t mesurs. La consommation moyenne de combustible par personne et par repas est de 0,30 kg; la consommation est plus leve en hiver ou en priode de mousson. Le temps de cuissson moyen et la consommation de combustible diminue avec l'altitude. /// Diese Untersuchung war Teil eines umfassenderen Projekts, bei dem die Luftverschmutzung, die durch Verbrennung von Biomaterial entsteht, im Mittelpunkt stand. Besonders die Rolle, die Zeiteinteilung bei der Bewertung von Energie- und Umweltproblemen in drei Drfern des Pauri Distrikts im Garwhal Himalaya spielt, wurde untersucht. Diese Probleme entstehen durch die weitverbreitete Verwendung von Biomasse als Brennmaterial, was Konsequenzen fr die Gesundheit hat. Bezugsdaten wurden eingeholt, die die Gltigkeit gngiger Hypothesen in Bezug auf die Zeiteinteilung und den Brennmaterialverbrauch berprften. Bei Umfragen wurde untersucht, an welche Zeiteinteilung fr die Verrichtung von Aufgaben in sechs wichtigen micro-Umwelten im Haus und im Freien man sich erinnerte. Vergleiche zwischen vier Bevlkerungsgruppen (Mnner, Frauen, Jugendliche und Kinder) ergaben, da Frauen die meiste Zeit fur das Sammeln von Brennmaterial und Viehfutter aufwenden (4-6 Stunden). Die huslichen Aktivitten nahmen insgesamt taglich 10 bis 12 Stunden in Anspruch. Die Zeit, die man zum Kochen brauchte-durch eine Stopuhr berwacht-war jedoch bedeutend krzer als Frauen in einem Fragebogen angegeben hatten. Der Verbrauch an Brennmaterial wurde gemessen. Die durchschnittliche pro Kopf Menge fur die Zubereitung einer Mahlzeit betrug 0,3 kg und nahm whrend der Monsun-und Wintersaison zu. Mit zunehmender Hhenlage verringerte sich im Durchschnitt der Zeitaufwand beim Kochen und der Bernnmaterialverbrauch.
mounresedeve.32.1.62|Mountain springs emanating naturally from unconfined aquifers are the primary source of water for rural households in the Himalayan region. Due to the impacts of climate change on precipitation patterns such as rise in rainfall intensity, reduction in its temporal spread, and a marked decline in winter rain, coupled with other anthropogenic causes, the problem of dying springs is being increasingly felt across this region. This study was taken up in the Sikkim Himalaya, which has received limited attention despite being a part of the Eastern Himalaya global biodiversity hot spot. The objective of this study was to understand the basic characteristics of the springs and to demonstrate methods for reviving them. We found the rural landscape dotted by a network of microsprings occurring largely in farmers' fields, with an average dependency of 27 (30) households per spring. The spring discharge generally showed an annual periodic rhythm suggesting a strong response to rainfall. The mean discharge of the springs was found to peak at 51 L/min during the postmonsoon months (SeptemberNovember) and then diminish to 8 L/min during spring (MarchMay). The lean period (MarchMay) discharge is perceived to have declined by nearly 50% in drought-prone areas and by 35% in other areas over the last decade. The springshed development approach to revive 5 springs using rainwater harvesting and geohydrology techniques showed encouraging results, with the lean period discharge increasing substantially from 4.4 to 14.4 L/min in 20102011. The major challenges faced in springshed development were the following: identifying recharge areas accurately, developing local capacity, incentivizing rainwater harvesting in farmers' fields, and sourcing public financing. We recommend further action research studies to revive springs to advance the outcomes of this pilot study and mainstreaming of springshed development in watershed development, rural water supply, and climate change adaptation programs, especially in the Himalayan region.
10.2307/3673513|The agricultural system at Tinjipaka, at 2,400-2,500 m in the Marient valley, is described in detail. Severe losses were suffered in the frosts of 1972. The manner in which production recovered is then followed to 1976, with interruption due to new frosts in the latter year. It is argued that the system is structured to adapt to such hazard, containing at all times a reservoir of food. Migration is only one of the responses within the system, and preparation for 'recovery' is built into the manner in which food production is continuously organized. /// Le systme agraire de Tinjipaka,  2.400-2.500 m dans la valle de Marient, est dcrit en dtail. D'normes pertes ont rsult des fortes geles de 1972. Cet article fait un suivi de la manire dont la production agricole s'est rtablie, jusqu'en 1976, avec une interruption cause par de nouvelles geles au cours des annes suivantes. L'hypothse est avance que le systme est structur de manire  faire face  un tel pril, et qu'une certaine quantit de nourriture est continuellement garde en rserve. La migration ne constitue que l'une des rponses dont le systme est capable, et la prparation pour le 'rtablissement' est intgre dans la manire dont la production agricole est organise. /// Das landwirtschaftliche System von Tinjipaka, im Marient Tal in einer Hhe von 2.400m bis 2.500m gelegen, wird detailliert beschrieben. Whrend der Klteperiode von 1972 wurden schwere Ernteeinbuen erlitten. Fr die folgenden Jahre wird bis 1976, wo erneuter Frost auftrat, verfolgt, wie sich die Produktion erholte. Es wird argumentiert, da das System fr solche Gefhrdungen anpassungsfhig ist, dadurch, da ausreichende Nahrungsmittelvorrte angelegt werden. Da die Nahrungsmittelproduktion kontinuierlich gesichert ist, fllt der Migration nur eine untergeordnete Rolle bei der Regeneration des Systems zu.
10.2307/3673120|The Andean mountain chain is the longest on earth, extending north-south from tropical to cold-temperate latitudes. This high land-mass has a great diversity of climatic, geomorphic, floral, and faunal elements on both macro- and micro-scales. By responding to opportunities offered by the various ecosystems, human populations have acquired a wealth of environmental knowledge and have developed an unusual complexity of adaptive mechanisms. This paper traces the history of Andean populations from the nomadic hunting and gathering stage of fourteen thousand years ago through Inca imperial and Spanish colonial times to the present day. It examines the impacts of high-altitude stress, especially hypoxia and low temperature, and discusses human physiological adaptations and cultural and socio-economic development. Recent imposition of external values, the influence of cash economies, and the current dramatic growth in population, have placed both peoples and their environments under increasing pressure. Time-tested practices of exploitation are threatened. The accumulation of indigenous environmental knowledge can be lost as extensive migration movements have developed and values have changed. This presentation is intended to provide the human physiological and demographic basis upon which urgently needed applied research can be formulated. /// La Cordillre des Andes est la plus longue chane de montagnes du monde; elle s'tend des latitudes tropicales jusqu'aux latitudes tempres froides, du Nord vers le Sud. Cette haute masse terrestre prsente une grande varit de climats, de gomorphologies, de flores et de faunes, sur les macro- et micro-plans. En exploitant les possibilits offertes par les divers cosystmes, les populations humaines ont accumul une connaissance trs tendue de l'environnement, et ont dvelopp un systme complexe et tonnant de mcanismes d'adaptation. Cette communication retrace l'histoire des populations andines, commenant il y a quatorze mille ans avec l're de la chasse nomade et de l'accumulation, passant par l'poque impriale Inca et la colonisation Espagnole, et aboutissant  l'poque actuelle. Elle examine l'impact des contraintes lies  l'altitude, telles que l'hypoxia, et aux basses tempratures, et discute l'adaptation physiologique humaine ainsi que le dveloppement socio-conomique et humain. L'imposition rcente de valeurs importes, l'influence de l'conomie numraire, et l'augmentation rapide de la population actuelle, contribuent toutes  l'augmentation de la pression sur les individus et sur l'environnement. Les pratiques d'exploitation valides par le temps sont maintenant menaces. La connaissance indigne de l'environnement qui a t accumule est en passe de se perdre au fur et  mesure que les mouvements migratoires s'tendent et que les valeurs se modifient. Cette prsentation vise  offrir une base de physiologie humaine et de dmographie  partir de laquelle la recherche applique, dont le besoin est urgent, pourra tre formule. /// Die Gebirgskette der Anden ist die lngste der Welt, sie erstreckt sich in Nord- Sd Richtung von tropischen bis zu gemigt kalten Breiten. Diese hochgelegene Landmasse hat makro- und mikroskopische Vielfalt im Klima, in der geologischen Form, sowie in Flora und Fauna. Die Bevlkerung hat eine Flle von Umweltwissen erworben und eine ungewhnliche Vielfalt an Anpassungsmechanismen entwickelt als Reaktion auf die Mglichkeiten, die sich durch verschiedene kosysteme ergeben. Diese Verffentlichung verfolgt die Geschichte der Andenvlker von der Zeit vor 14 000 Jahren, als sie jagende und sammelnde Nomaden waren durch die Zeit des Inkareiches und der spanischen Kolonialherrschaft bis zur Gegenwart. Es werden die Auswirkungen des Hhenstress', vor allem der Hhenkrankheit und der Tieftemperaturbelastung untersucht, und die physiologische Anpassung als kulturelle, gesellschaftliche und konomische Entwicklung diskutiert. Die Aufbrdung von ueren Wertmastben in jngster Vergangenheit, der Einflu der Geld-Wirtschaft und die gegenwrtie Bevlkerungsexplosion haben die Menschen und ihre Umwelt unter immer strker werdenden Druck gesetzt. Bewhrte Praktiken der Ausnutzung der natrlichen Gegebenheiten sind in Gefahr. Der einheimische Wissensschatz kann verlorengehen, da groe Vlkerbewegungen eingesetzt haben und Wertmastbe sich vernderten. In dieser Darstellung werden physiologische und demographische Grundlagen geliefert, mit deren Hilfe die dringend notwendige angewandte Forschung detailliert werden kann. /// La cadena montaosa de los Andes es la ms larga de la tierra y se extiende de norte a sur, desde las latitudes tropicales hasta las templadas-fras. Esta alta masa de tierra tiene una gran diversidad de elementos climticos, geomorfos, de flora y de fauna, tanto en la macro-escala como en la micro. Respondiendo a las oportunidades que ofrecen los diversos sistemas ecolgicos, las poblaciones humanas han adquirido una gran riqueza de conocimientos del medio ambiente y han desarrollado una excepcional complejidad de mecanismos de adaptacin. Este ensayo traza la historia de las poblaciones andinas, desde los nmades cazadores y recolectores de hace catorce mil aos, pasando por el imperio inca y el perodo colonial espaol, hasta nuestros das. Examina el impacto de las tensiones en las grandes altitudes, especialmente la hipoxia y la baja temperatura, y discute las adaptaciones fisiolgicas humanas y el desarrollo cultural y socio-econmico. La imposicin reciente de valores externos, la influencia de las economas monetaristas y el actual crecimiento dramtico de la poblacin ha sometido a los seres humanos y a su medio ambiente a una presin creciente. Las prcticas de explotacin establecidas a lo largo del tiempo, se ven amenazadas. La acumulacin de los conocimientos indgenas del medio ambiente, pueden perderse con los extensos movimientos migratorios que se han producido y con el cambio de los valores que ha tenido lugar. Esta introduccin se propone ofrecer las bases de fisiologa humana y demogrfica sobre las cuales puedan formularse las investigaciones aplicadas que se necesitan con urgencia.
3674637|China has a great variety of altitudinal belts due to its size, its numerous high mountains, and the dynamic and thermal effects of the immense Tibetan Plateau. 63 altitudinal belts-31 of which can be called "base belts" as they correspond to the basic climatic regimes at the foot of mountains-have been identified, and a standardized and hierarchized classification for the climatic regimes is outlined. The other 32 altitudinal belts occur in various combinations above the base belts, constituting "spectra" that characterize specific mountain locations throughout the country. Spatial patterns of altitudinal belts are generalized into 6 patterns: the monostructural, flattening structure, exposure-dependent, stepwise-rising, abnormal, and Tibetan complex patterns. Traditional GIS techniques have difficulties dealing with altitudinal belts and their vertical combination or spectra. To tackle this complexity, a data model for altitudinal belts and their spectra was devised. Using ArcGIS 8.3 software, the authors also developed a GIS user interface that makes it possible to digitally integrate, position and visualize altitudinal belts and their spectra throughout China. A total of 239 spectra have been collated to date. This user interface makes it possible to rapidly query the geographical and vertical distribution of altitudinal belts, climatic regimes and spectra in any region of China. It thus provides a solid basis for further analysis of altitudinal belts and their relationship with environmental factors, and could be a key technical basis for integrating and systematizing altitudinal belts worldwide.
10.2307/3673637|A study was carried out to determine forage availability, grazing routines and densities, and impact of grazing in two catchments occupied by forests and grasslands between 2,000 and 3,500 m at Cumbres Calchaquies in the province of Tucuman, a mountain region of northwest Argentina. The herders' strategy consists of spatial and temporal dispersions that take advantage of the heterogeneous and seasonal distribution of fodder resources. Yet this system does not prevent the concentration of herds in a few places where especially good grazing is available. In these locations the erosive processes are closely associated with grazing, whereas elsewhere the eroded surfaces appear to be a consequence of natural processes. Erosion caused by grazing and the impact on nearby low-lying areas is discussed. Traditional pastoralism should be viewed in a historical, economic, and socio-cultural context, and peasant communities should be involved in the decision-making process. /// Une tude a t mene pour dterminer la disponibilit du fourrage, les modes et densits du pturage et l'impact du pturage sur deux bassins hydrographiques couverts de forts et de prairies, situs entre 2.000 et 3.500 m au Cumbres Calchaquies dans la province de Tucumn, une rgion montagneuse du Nord-Ouest de l'Argentine. La stratgie des bergers consiste  disperser le pturage dans l'espace et le temps de manire  profiter de la distribution htrogne et saisonnire des ressources en fourrage. Ce systme n'vite malheureusement pas la concentration de troupeaux aux endroits o un excellent pturage est disponible. A ces endroits, les processus d'rosion sont troitement lis au pturage, alors qu'en d'autres endroits, les surfaces rodes semblent dcouler de processus naturels. Le pastoralisme traditionnel doit donc tre examin dans son contexte historique, conomique et socio-culturel et les communauts paysannes doivent participer  la prise de dcision. /// In Cumbres Calchaqies in der Tucuman Provinz, einem gebirgigen Gebiet im Nordwesten Argentiniens, wurde eine Erosionsstudie durchgefhrt. Viehfutterpotential, Weidegewohnheiten und -hufigkeiten, sowie Weideschden wurden in zwei Wassereinzugsgebieten, die mit Wald und Grasflchen bewachsen sind und zwischen 2.000 m und 3.500 m Hhe liegen, untersucht. Die Weidegewohnheiten der Hirten fhren zu rumlicher und zeitlicher Aufteilungen, um unterschiedliche und saisonbedingte Verteilungen der Futterquellen zu nutzen. Diese Methode verhindert jedoch nicht, da die Herden sich an den wenigen guten Weidepltzen konzentrieren. An diesen Stellen hngt die Erosion eindeutig mit dem Weiden zusammen, whrend Erosionsschden in anderen Gebieten natrlichen Ursprungs sind. Traditionelle Weidewirtschaft sollte in einem historischen, konomischen und sozio-kulturellen Zusammenhang gesehen werden, und die buerlichen Gemeinden sollten an den damit zusammenhngenden Beschluprozessen beteiligt werden. /// En un cordn montaoso del noroeste de Argentina (las Cumbres Calchaquies en la provincia de Tucumn) se analizan las prcticas de pastoreo de poblaciones campesinas transhumantes, y la relacin de las mismas con el impacto ambiental. A fin de indagar sobre el papel del pastoreo tradicional en la generacin de procesos erosivos. Dos cuencas ocupadas por bosques y pastizales (2,000 a 3,500 m) son utilizadas como lugares de estudio intensivo, donde se caracterizan unidades ambientales, oferta de forraje, prcticas de uso, capacidad e impacto del pastoreo. La estategia utilizada por los pastores se compone de dispersiones espaciales y temporales para aprovechar la distribucin heterognea y estracional del recurso forrajero. Pero, debido a las caracteristicas de los animales, la prctica de dispersin no puede evitar la concentracin del ganado en pocos lugares de alta capacidad para el pastoreo. En estos lugares los procesos erosivos generados estn estrechamente ligados al pastoreo, mientras que el resto de las superficies erosionadas parecen estar ms relacionadas a procesos de erosin natural. Finalmente, se discute en qu medida la erosin por pastoreo contribuye al impacto sobre las reas bajas adyacentes, y una visin del sistema tradicional de manejo como respuesta a contextos socio-culturales y econmicos globales, donde las soluciones para disminuir el impacto requieren el protagonismo de la cultura pastoral.
mounresedeve.33.1.51|The present article focuses on the distribution of Pinus mugo under conditions in the central Tatra Mountains, the main mountain range of the Western Carpathians. We analyze the response of P. mugo distribution to selected abiotic habitat conditions in the eastern Tatra Mountains. The study also compares data on the distribution of P. mugo in the higher central Tatras and in the hills of the western Tatras published in previous studies. The source data for this study were aerial photographs from 3 periods (1955, 1986, and 2002). Mountain areas covered by mountain pine were identified and analyzed by ArcGIS 10, and pine fields were classified with the help of the gray scale mode. A strip of mountain pine above the upper limit of the forest represents an easily identifiable boundary on the aerial photographs: 25 wellrecognized localities were selected to examine the changes in the tree line in the eastern Tatras. The distribution of mountain pine increased in the central granite and eastern limestone Tatra Mountains from 1955 to 2002 at all monitored sites. The percentage of total surface area covered in P. mugo increased from 28.11% in 1955 to 34.74% in 1986 and to 39.01% in 2002. The study also analyzes the dispersal of mountain pine over 40 years in relation to elevation, slope, radiation aspect, flow accumulation, and vertical and horizontal curvature. The results of this study explain ongoing vegetation changes and are of importance as a contribution to monitoring of climate change in the mid-European mountain areas.
mounresedeve.33.3.225|In times of increasing uncertainty because of climate and socioeconomic changes, the ability to deal with uncertainty and surprise is an essential requirement for the sustainability of alpine water governance. This article aims to contribute to the understanding of the adaptive capacity of water governance arrangements in the Swiss Alps and to propose options for reforms. To this purpose, we evaluated the current arrangements and the ways the actors have dealt with water shortages in the past, based on qualitative interviews and a document review. The research revealed that the adaptive capacity of the investigated arrangements is rather high with regard to reactive ways of responding to water shortage problems. However, there is limited capacity to proactively anticipate possible changes and to find prospective solutions on a regional scale. We conclude that with increased environmental and social pressures, forms of proactive water resource governance should be introduced, taking into account the welfare of people in both upstream and downstream areas.
10.2307/3673748|This paper discusses the altitudinal distribution of bioclimatic zones and of population in Tajikistan, particularly the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region (GBAR). An empirical classification of bioclimate, the Bioclimatic Index of Severity of Climatic Regime (BISCR), is described and illustrated. It is noted that while discomfort that is due to temperature and wind can be offset by clothing and housing, this is not possible for atmospheric pressure which affects oxygen intake and is a permanent condition. The availability of medical services and adequacy of health care standards in the GBAR, which may limit economic development of the region, are also discussed. /// Cet article examine la rpartition altitudinale des zones bioclimatiques et de la population dans le Tadjikistan, en particulier la rgion autonome du Gorno-Badakhshan. Une classification empirique des bioclimats, l'index bioclimatique de la rigueur du rgime climatologique (BISCR) est dcrit et illustr. Alors que le manque de confort d  la temprature et au vent peut tre compens par les vtements et les habitations, cela n'est pas possible pour la pression atmosphrique qui affecte la consommation d'oxygne et constitue un tat permanent. La disponibilit de services mdicaux et la qualit de la sant publique de la rgion autonome du Gorno-Badakhshan, facteurs pouvant limiter le dveloppement conomique, est galement examine. Diese Verffenlichung diskutiert am Beispiel des autonomen Gebietes von Gorno-Badakhshan (GBAR) in Tadshikistan die hhenbezogene Verteilung von bioklimatischen Zonen und der Bevlkerung. Eine empirische Klassifikation des Bioklimas mittels BISCR (Bioclimatic Index of Severity of Climatological Regime) wird beschrieben und erlutert. Es ist bekannt, da durch Temperature und Wind hervorgerufene krperliche Belastungen mit entsprechender Kleidung und Behausung ausgeglichen werden knnen; diese Anpassung entfllt beim verminderten Luftdruck, der permanent die Sauerstoffaufnahme beeintrchtigt. Daneben werden die Verfgbarkeit medizinischer Dienste und die Qualitt der medizinischen Versorgung in der GBAR im Hinblick auf Faktoren diskutiert, die die konomische Entwicklung in diesem Begiet beeintrchtingen knnten. ///             -    ().       ,     -    (). ,                 ,       ,     ,   .            -      ,      .
3674467|Commercial utilization of inland fish resources can constitute an important addition to other economic activities in rural communities. Based on a case study of commercial whitefish fishery in Lake Femund, a mountain lake in southeastern Norway, this article outlines experience gained and indicates some of the general problems related to this type of economic activity. They concern aspects such as resource biology, product development and marketing, economic management, and staff recruitment. An initial hypothesis of the study was that commercial fishery would have a significant impact on the whitefish stock, causing fluctuations in yield and consequent variations in the economy of the fishery. Therefore, the study included an analysis of marketing possibilities for whitefish products, as well as of the social and socioeconomic conditions sustaining whitefish fishery in the local community. Nearly 20 years of data show that commercial fishery in Lake Femund, with a yield of up to 1 kg per ha, has a low to moderate exploitation rate. Thus, fishery itself does not generate fluctuations in the fish population that would influence yields. The major restrictions on the enterprise are related to other aspects, such as problems of economic and technical management of this specialized small-scale industry, difficulties in the recruitment of fishermen to a short-season fishery in a time when the employment pattern in the community is changing from seasonal activities in agriculture to full-time employment in manufacturing and services, and the challenge of developing and marketing competitive products for a niche market.
3674318|Tourism has been part of the mountain economy in Sweden for the past century. With the current decline of the extractive industries in this rural area, tourism is taking on new significance for many communities. This article gives an overview of tourism in the extensive Swedish mountain region, with a focus on types of recreational activities and their regionality. The data presented are based on a national sample of participation in mountain tourism. Findings show that 43% of the Swedish adult population (2.66 million individuals) visited the mountains at least once during a 5-year period (1995-1999). Winter activities-skiing and snowmobiling-were the dominant forms of mountain recreation. Tourism activity patterns differ distinctively across the 4 mountain counties: whereas winter tourism dominates in the southern parts of the region, the north receives visitors mostly in the summer. Only 5% of visitors to the Swedish mountains are from outside Scandinavia. In a single year, 9 times as many people visited the Swedish mountains as live there, but despite these numbers the population in the region is continually decreasing.
3674462|This paper examines various ways in which mountains can be defined for Southern Africa (Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland), and South Africa in particular, by using harmonized topographic, vegetation and cultural digital data within a Geographic Information System (GIS). A particular topographic model is finally selected. This definition is then applied to the South African national context to identify the socioeconomic characteristics of its mountainous areas, in particular with regard to poverty indicators. These areas are identified as having distinctive characteristics when compared with metropolitan areas and, more importantly, with non-mountain rural areas. This observation has important political implications, as mountains currently have a very low visibility in regional and social policy.
mounresedeve.30.3.259|Cultural diversity in remote mountain regions is closely linked to biodiversity, as there is a symbiotic relationship between habitats and cultures, and between ecosystems and cultural identity; indeed, religious rules and rituals often strengthen this relationship and are characterized by a conservation ethic. The present paper presents an analysis of information collected from knowledgeable members of mountain communities in the State of Uttarakhand, Central Himalaya. The data collected are analyzed within the framework of traditional knowledge-based systems (TKBS) methodology, using the conservation purpose of rules and practices as a means of typifying the information on sacred natural sites (forests/groves, pastures, water bodies), on the phenomenon of dedicating forests to a deity, on the inherent taboos regarding resource exploitation, and on other traditional beliefs and customs, in order to understand the environmental and conservationist implications of these rules and practices. The analysis shows that the cultural precepts of remote Uttarakhand mountain communities can be considered a precondition for sustainable development. In fact, the association of religion with ecosystem management is inherent in traditional Himalayan communities' culture; one cannot think of ecological systems in the Himalaya without religion. However, this knowledge and related conservation rules need to be strengthened in the face of current change.
10.2307/3673607|The outmigration that has taken place in the Central Pyrenees since the 1950s has resulted in a great reduction in the rural population and the abandonment of extensive areas. Reforestation has been undertaken by various authorities to ensure the reclamation of this land. This paper discusses the recent history of reforestation, the techniques used, and the environmental factors involved. It concludes with an overview of the results of these policies and the success in creating new forested land. /// L'migration que s'est produite dans les Pyrnes centrales depuis les annes 1950 a provoqu une baisee importante de la population rurale et l'abandon de grandes tendues de terrain. Le reboisement a t entrepris par divers organismes pour assurer la mise en valeur de ces terres. Cet article examine l'historique rcent du reboisement, les techniques utilises, et les facteurs environnementaux mis en jeu. Il conclut en passant en revue les rsultats de cette politique et la mesure dans laquelle celle-ci a russi a crer de nouvelles forts. /// Seit den 50er Jahren fhrt Abwanderung in den Zentral-pyrenen zu einem starken Rckgang in der Landbevlkerungszahl, und ausgedehnte Landgebiete wurden verlassen. Zur Rckgewinnung dieser Landflchen haben verschiedene Behrden Anstrengungen zur Aufforstung bernommen. Dieser Beitrag diskutiert neuere Entwicklungen bei der Aufforstung, die dabei angewandten Methoden und die zu bercksichtigenden Umweltfaktoren. Eine Prognose ber die Ergebnisse solcher Unternehmungen und ihre Erfolgschancen bei der Schaffung neuer Waldflchen wird gegeben. /// Desde la dcada de los cincuenta, el inicio de la ms acusada emigracin, redujo la poblacin rural y con ella el abandono de las reas de utilizacin ms extensiva. Para asegurar la restauracin del territorio vaco, diversos tipos de administracin tomaron a su cargo la referida tarea. En el presente estudio, se relata la historia reciente de dicha labor de reforestacin, las tcnicas utilizadas y los factores ambientales implicados. Se concluye con una revisin de resultadoes referidos a dicha poltica y comentando los logros en la ejecucin de tal labor de repoblacin forestal.
3674053|The recently established Kanchenjunga Conservation Area Project (KCAP)-jointly managed by the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation (DNPWC) and World Wildlife Fund (WWF)-is based on the principles of the new participatory concept of nature conservation. The main objectives are to protect the unique environment of the Kanchenjunga region and to help local communities improve their standard of living. This study focuses on existing livelihood strategies and local institutions as well as on the local population's perception of the participatory approach. A theoretical consideration of the different concepts of nature and conservation is regarded as helpful in understanding locally observed processes. The results show wide diversification in the economic system that contributes to sustaining livelihood. Various local institutions have established governance over particular resources. With regard to the KCAP, it became obvious that nearly all interviewees had expectations that went far beyond the intended and economically feasible potential of the project. This is largely because they do not entirely comprehend the principal aim of "conservation." On the other hand, most of the local people believe that conservation of nature is necessary in their region and that it is only possible through a joint effort made by everyone in the community.
10.2307/3673269|A review of the archaeological literature concerning the island of New Guinea indicates that Highlands sites are the oldest so far discovered. The reasons for the settlement of these Highlands by early Melanesian colonists are discussed. Despite cool-to-cold climatic conditions prevailing in the region during the late Pleistocene, it is postulated that the Highlands were permanently settled by humans prior to 25,000 BP. This may have been made possible by the discovery and exploitation of a rich environment (flora and fauna), particularly along swamp margins of major valley floors. As a result of this, a local form of agriculture may have been established within the Highlands which was independent from events in the Lowlands. This development may have been localized first around swamplands; the agricultural areas became specific centres of production which gave rise to the socio-economic mosaic of Highland groups as observed by European explorers after 1933. /// L'examen de la littrature sur l'archologie de la Nouvelle-Guine rvle que parmi les sites dcouverts jusqu' prsent, les plus anciens se trouvent dans les rgions montagneuses. Les raisons pour lesquelles les premiers colons mlansiens se sont tablis dans ces rgions sont passes en revue. Il est postul que malgr le climat frais ou mme froid qui y rgnait pendant le Plistocne rcent, ces rgions se sont peuples en permanence il y a au moins 25.000 ans. Cet tat de fait est probablement d  la dcouverte et  exploitation d'un milieu naturel riche (flore et faune), en particulier le long des rives marcageuses dans les valles les plus importantes. En consquence, une forme particulire d'agriculture pourrait s'y tre dveloppe indpendamment de ce qui se passait dans les plaines. Au dpart, les zones agricoles se sont probablement implantes autour des marcages, et sont devenues des centres des centres de production qui ont donn naissance  la mosaque de systmes socio-conomiques rencontre par les europens aprs 1933. /// Eine Studie archologischer Literatur ber die Insel Neu-Guinea zeigt, da die Siedlungsgebiete im Hochland die ltesten sind, die bisher entdeckt wurden. Die Grnde fr die Besiedelung dieser Hochebenen durch frhe melanesische Ansiedler werden diskutiert. Trotz khler bis kalter klimatischer Bedingungen, die in diesem Gebiet whrend des spten Pleistozn herrschten, wird angenommen, da die Hochebenen vor 25.000 Jahren permanent besiedelt waren. Dies knnte durch die Entdeckung und Ausnutzung einer reichhaltigen Umwelt (Flora + Fauna), besonders am Rande von Sumpfgebieten in greren Talsohlen, ermglicht worden sein. Daraus mag sich eine ortsspezifische Landwirtschaftsform in den Hochlanden entwickelt haben, die von Ereignissen im Flachland unabhngig war. Diese Entwicklung mag sich zuerst auf Sumpfgebiete beschrnkt haben. Landwirtschaftlich genutzte Gebiete wurden zu typischen Produktionszentren, die-so haben es europische Entdecker nach 1933 beobachtet-zu der sozio-konomischen Vielgestaltigkeit der Bevlkerungsgruppen im Hochland fhrte.
mounresedeve.36.1.15|Knowledge of farmers' perceptions of and adaptations to climate change is important to inform policies addressing the risk of climate change to farmers. This case study explored those issues in the Melamchi Valley of Nepal through a survey of 365 households and focus group discussions in 6 communities using a Community-Based Risk Screening ToolAdaptation and Livelihoods (CRiSTAL). Analysis of climate trends in the study area for 19792009 showed that mean annual temperatures rose by 1.02C and the frequency of drought increased measurably after 2003. Farmers reported increases in crop pests, hailstorms, landslides, floods, thunderstorms, and erratic precipitation as climate-related hazards affecting agriculture. They responded in a variety of ways including changing farming practices, selling livestock, milk, and eggs, and engaging in daily wage labor and seasonal labor migration. With more efficient support and planning, some of these measures could be adjusted to better meet current and future risks from climate change.
3674410|The treeless desertlike environments of southern Tibet are assumed to be naturally unsuitable for forests. Yet, climatic conditions do allow for the growth of indigenous trees in Lhasa and many parts of southern Tibet, even where there is no high groundwater table or irrigation. This was discovered and proven in a Sino-German research project launched in 1997. The project made an inventory of forest relics, correlated residual tree stands with climatic data, and successfully cultivated nonirrigated indigenous junipers and cypresses. The eroded semidesert landscape of southern Tibet appears to have a huge potential for reforestation. The area with a potential for tree growth was investigated using the Geographical Information System known as GRASS (Geographical Resource Analysis Support System). Reforestation measures could meet the heavy demand for timber and firewood, help combat erosion on overgrazed slopes, and restore the degraded pastures. Grazing must be excluded on reforestation plots. Simultaneously, rangelands may regenerate after overgrazing. The optimum duration of the ungrazed period varies with altitude, humidity, soil conditions, and the degree of degradation. Successional trends observed on exclosure plots suggest that the drier the climate and the lower the initial degree of herbaceous vegetation cover, the longer the ungrazed period will be beneficial for pasture regeneration. Challenges in research and practice resulting from these preliminary results are highlighted.
mounresedeve.29.3.282|The Carpathian Mountains in Europe are a biodiversity hot spot; harbor many relatively undisturbed ecosystems; and are still rich in seminatural, traditional landscapes. Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, the Carpathians have experienced widespread land use change, affecting biodiversity and ecosystem services. Climate change, as an additional driver, may increase the effect of such changes in the future. Based on a workshop organized by the Science for the Carpathians network, this paper reviews the current status of global change research in the Carpathians, identifies knowledge gaps, and suggests avenues for future research.
3674048|The poverty-stricken mountain areas in South Central China face many challenges on the road to sustainable development in the 21st century. Great progress has been made in alleviating poverty in the past decade: while 15 million people in these areas suffered from extreme poverty in 1989, this number decreased to about 6 million by 1996. Cereal production during the same period increased from 50 to 397 kg per capita. But to break away from poverty and raise the standard of living, the region must now enter a new stage of development. It needs to benefit from the transition taking place from a planned economy to a market economy, especially with respect to new domestic market conditions. There is also a need to raise awareness of the requirements for sustainable development strategies in mountain areas. This will involve industrialization of agriculture, increasing the quality of products in the primary and secondary sectors, developing the service sector, improving infrastructure for transport and trade, and letting the market determine resource use rather than vice versa. The following introduction to the region and its problems is complemented by recommendations for enhancement of economic strategies in the mountain areas shared by Chongqing Municipality and the provinces of Hubei, Hunan, and Guizhou and linked by the Yangtze and its tributaries.
mounresedeve.33.2.152|Individuals' perceptions are becoming increasingly relevant as a central component of social and environmental sustainability. As a result, the social dimension has become a fundamental element of sustainable forest management. To investigate people's perceptions of forest management, it is necessary to analyze values and norms in the social and cultural context and, at the same time, to consider individual preferences for forest management strategies. Trento municipality in northeast Italy was chosen as a study area because of its location in the European Alpine region and because of the links that exist between individuals and forest resources. A structured questionnaire was sent to 1000 randomly selected household heads. Responses were analyzed, taking into consideration the relationship between perceptions and respondents' gender, age, education, and geographical location; this allowed highlighting of statistical differences between groups. Results confirmed the importance of gender, age, and location in influencing individuals' preferences. Results also showed that people generally prefer open forests with mixed tree species and different sizes, which is in line with the goals of the local public forest service's management strategies.
25578205|As development and population increase, efficient use and management of water in mountain watersheds is of growing concern in Asia. The work presented in this article applied hydro-meteorological monitoring and participatory action research on water availability to improve water management in Xizhuang watershed in Yunnan Province, China. With an area of 34.56 km and a population of 4501, Xizhuang watershed is typical of the watersheds in the middle mountains that feed the Salween River. Although this catchment provides plentiful water (rainfall and runoff), the temporal and spatial distribution of this supply is uneven. Together with uneven distribution, major issues include water shortages for irrigation, domestic use, and livestock; poor water quality; and conflicts among different stakeholders. To improve sustainable use and conservation, this paper suggests developing integrated water resource management and water harvest technology.
10.2307/3673337|In temperate-zone mountains, intensive grazing by goats and sheep has been a major cause of the slow degradation of forests and of soil erosion. This paper discusses the role of the British administrators who, from 1850 until Independence, attempted to control and later restrict grazing by Gaddi herds in order to foster the natural regeneration of trees. In an attempt to stabilize and extend agriculture the pre-British land tenure system was codified and tensions arose between peasants and shepherds over the control of non-agricultural land and grazing rights. With the construction of railways and buildings the demand for commercial timber led to the establishment of the Indian Forest Service which further regulated grazing land. However, the numbers of livestock grew and the proportion of the more destructive goats increased. Today, overgrazing still occurs and disputes between sedentary villagers and migratory herders are frequent. /// Dans les montagnes de la zone tempre, l'levage intensif de chvres et de moutons constitue la cause principale de la dgradation lente des forts et de l'rosion du sol. Cette communication examine le rle de l'administration britannique qui, de 1850 jusqu' l'indpendance, a essay de contrler et plus tard de limiter le broutage par les troupeaux des Gaddis, dans le but de promouvoir la rgnration naturelle des forts. Le rgime foncier prbritannique ft codifi pour essayer de stabiliser et de dvelopper l'agriculture, mais des tensions se dvelopprent entre les paysans et les bergers au sujet de l'exploitation des terres non cultives et des droits de pturage. La construction de chemins de fer et de btiments a cr une demande pour le bois d'oeuvre, ce qui a suscit la cration du Service indien des forts et a rglement encore plus le pturage. Le cheptel a nanmoins augment, ainsi que la proportion des races de chvres plus destructrices. Le broutage excessif se produit encore de nos jours, de mme que les disputes entre villageois sdentaires et bergers migrateurs. /// Intensives Grasen von Ziegen und Schafen war im Berggebiet der gemigten Zone der Hauptgrund fr allmhliche Degradation des Waldbestandes und fr Bodenerosion. Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert die Rolle der britischen Administration, die, um die natrliche Regeneration des Waldes zu frdern, von 1850 bis zur Unabhngigkeit Versuche unternahm, das Grasen der Gaddi Herden zu kontrollieren und dann sogar einzuschrnken. Bei dem Unternehmen, die Landwirtschaft zu stabilisieren und auszudehnen wurde das vor-britische System des Landbesitzes kodifiziert. In der Folge kam es zu Spannungen zwischen den Bauern und den Viehzchtern ber die Kontrolle der nicht landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen und der Weiderechte. Der Bau von Bahnlinien und Gebuden und die damit verbundene Nachfrage an Nutzholz fhrte zur Grndung des indischen Forest Service, was zu einer weiteren Einschrnkung des Weidelandes fhrte. Die Herdenzahl nahm jedoch stndig zu, und der Anteil der Schaden anrichtenden Ziegen wuchs. Auch heute noch wird das Land berweidet und hufig kommt es zu Auseinandersetzungen zwischen den sehaften Dorfbewohnern und den nomadischen Viehhltern.
mounresedeve.33.3.339|The Consortium for the Sustainable Development of the Andean Ecoregion (CONDESAN) was established in February 1993 after a series of consultations among different regional stakeholders working on sustainable development. Inspired by Agenda 21, which emerged from the Rio 1992 Earth Summit, and influenced by the ecoregional approach, CONDESAN was created as a platform to promote research for development throughout the Andean region. The Consortium is now celebrating its 20th anniversary.
3674319|Forest cover types, tree distribution pattern, species diversity, net woody biomass productivity, and firewood extraction rates were studied along a trekking corridor (Yuksam-Dzongri) in Khangchendzonga Biosphere Reserve, Sikkim, India. For the last 2 decades the area has been facing immense pressure on its natural resources because of an increase in the numbers of tourists and the lack of effective regulation by park authorities. To assess this situation the study sites were categorized as closed canopy (CC) forest and open canopy (OC) forest (disturbed) at upper forest (UF) and lower forest (LF) sites, on the basis of firewood extraction pressure from the community and tourism enterprises. The results showed significant variations in diversity, richness, structure, productivity, and regeneration among different canopy types. OC forest showed greater plant diversity than CC forest. Firewood extraction pressure was remarkably greater in the LF near the major settlement than in the UF. Local conservation initiatives and the interventions of an ecotourism project have had visible impacts on firewood use by the community and on tourism enterprises. Although alarming, the rate of woody biomass extraction was nonetheless lower than the annual productivity rate of the stands. Participatory management and compliance by tourism enterprises with a code of conduct on alternative fuel use along the trekking corridor would help promote the conservation and maintenance of biodiversity.
10.2307/3673449|Two ecological belts of the Ethiopian mountains are described here - the Afro-alpine and the Afro-montane. The Afro-alpine belt consists of areas usually above 3,200 m. The rocks are volcanic, moisture is usually not a limiting factor, and soil temperatures are very low. Plants here are mostly adapted to drought and low temperature conditions; many are succulent, slow growing, and of low stature. Where there is no water, vegetation consists of meadow grasses, while aquatic species prevail under waterlogged conditions. Ericaceous scrubs grow at lower altitudes with shallow soils; on better soils are species of woody plants. Human population density is low and grazing is the most important activity. The Afro-montane belt extends from 900 to 3,200 m. Most of the plateau consists of volcanic rocks with deficient or toxic soils. Human activities here have had considerable impacts especially in the northeast, where devastation has been extreme. In the south-west some intact forest still remains, but on most of the plateau evergreen forest is now replaced by grasslands. Overgrazing is prevalent in most areas. Sedentary rain-fed agriculture is the usual practice, with mixed cereal agriculture in the north and east, and root crops in the west and south. Severe environmental deterioration is determined by socio-political rather than technical issues and calls for multidisciplinary action and an infrastructural support base. Despite growing awareness, financial constraints still hamper progress. /// Deux tages cologiques des montagnes de l'Ethiopie sont dcrits dans cette tude, l'tage afroalpin et l'tage afromontagnard. L'tage afroalpin est constitu de zones normalement situes au-dessus de 3.200 m. Les roches sont volcaniques, l'humidit n'est gnralement pas un facteur limitatif, et les tempratures du sol sont trs basses. Les plantes sont principalement adaptes  la scheresse et aux conditions de basse temprature; beaucoup d'entre elles sont succulents,  croissance lente et de petite stature. L o l'eau manque, la vgtation consiste d'herbes de prairie, alors que les espces aquatiques prdominent sur les terrains dtremps. Des arbustes ricacs poussent  plus basse altitude sur les sols peu profonds, alors que des espces de plantes ligneuses se trouvent sur les meilleurs sols. La densit de la population humaine est faible et le pturage constitue l'activit la plus importante. L'tage afromontagnard s'tend de 900  3.200 m. La plus grande partie du plateau consiste de roches volcaniques avec des sols dficients ou toxiques. Les activits humaines ont eu un impact considrable, en particulier dans le nord-est o la dvastation est extrme. Au sud-ouest, certains forts sont encore intactes, mais sur la plus grande partie du plateau, les arbres  feuilles persistantes sont maintenant remplaces par des prairies. Le surpturage est prvalent dans la plupart des zones. L'agriculture sdentaire alimente par les pluies constitue la pratique courante, avec diverses crales au nord et  l'est, et des racines alimentaires  l'ouest et au sud. La dtrioration srieuse de l'environnement est dtermine par des facteurs socio-conomiques plutt que techniques; elle ncessite des actions multidisciplinaires et une base de support pour l'infrastructure. En dpit d'une prise de conscience croissante, le progrs est encore enray par des contraintes financires. /// Es werden zwei kologische Zonen der thiopischen Bergwelt beschrieben. Zur afroalpinen Zone gehren Gebiete, die ber 3200 m .M. liegen. Der Untergrund ist vulkanischen Ursprungs, und der Niederschlag ist kein limitierender Faktor. Auf den Berghhen sind die Bodentemperaturen sehr niedrig. Die Pflanzen haben sich einer Umwelt mit wenig Niederschlgen und niedrigen Temperaturen angepat. Viele von ihnen sind Sukkulenten, wachsen langsam und werden nicht hoch. An Stellen ohne Wasser wachsen Wiesengrser. In tiefer gelegenen Regionen bedecken Erikabsche die flachen Bden, whrend auf den besseren Bden holzartige Gewchse gedeihen. Die Bevlkerungsdichte ist gering, und Weidewirtschaft ist die wichtigste landwirtschaftliche Aktivitt. Die afromontane Zone erstreckt sich von 900 bis auf 3200 m .M. Der grte Teil des Plateaus besteht aus vulkanischen Gesteinen mit nhrstoffarmen oder toxischen Bden. Der menschliche Einflu hat das thiopische Hochland besonders im Nordosten, wo die Umweltzerstrung am schlimmsten ist, stark geprgt. Im Sdwesten findet man noch intakte Wlder. Fast berall auf dem Plateau wurde Wald durch Grasland ersetzt. berweidung ist in den meisten Regionen anzutreffen. Sesshafte, vom Regen versorgte Landwirtschaft mit gemischtem Getreideanbau wird im Norden und Osten betrieben, im Westen und Sden werden Knollenfrchte angebaut. Die Zerstrung und Degradierung der Umwelt ist mehr ein soziopolitisches als ein technisches Problem. Zu seiner Bewltigung ist ein multidisziplinrer Ansatz auf einer guten infrastrukturellen Basis ntig. Trotz wachsenden Bewutseins hindern finanzielle Engpsse den Fortschritt.
10.2307/3673894|Worldwide, high mountains are characterized by great ethnic, linguistic, socio-cultural, and sometimes also religious variety. Thus, they figure among the last enclaves of traditionally ethno-linguistic diversity. The example of the Rhaetoromansch people in Grisons (Graubnden) is used to identify the different phases of the territorial retreat as well as its causes. The area currently occupied is a remnant of a long process of constriction as the Rhaetoromansch language has been increasingly submerged by the linguistic transition to German or Italian. The effects of economic development and improved communication facilities have accelerated the peripheralization process. The population is divided into five main idioms and fragmented further by religion; it is unevenly distributed within the canton, and mostly demographically aging. The imbalance of the occupation and employment structure encourages emigration, especially of well-qualified people. The need for further studies on ethno-linguistic groups and minorities in high mountain areas is indicated and comparative research on ethno-diversity is urgently needed to make recommendations for the stabilization and survival of a diversity of ethnolinguistic populations. /// Partout dans le monde, les rgions de haute montagne sont caractrises par une grande diversit ethnique, linguistique, socioculturelle et parfois religieuse. Pour cette raison, elles font partie des dernires enclaves de diversit ethnolinguistique traditionnelle. L'exemple des rhto-romans, dans les Grisons (Graubnden) en Suisse, est utilis pour identifier les diffrentes phases du retranchement territorial et ses causes. La rgion  prsent occupe par ce peuple est le rsultat d'un long processus de constriction au fur et  mesure que le rhto-roman a t submerg par la transition linguistique vers l'allemand ou l'italien. Les effets du dveloppement conomique et l'amlioration des moyens de communication ont acclr le processus de priphrisation. La population est divise en cinq dialectes et encore plus fragmente par la religion; elle est distribue irrgulirement dans le canton et caractrise par un vieillissement dmographique. Le dsquilibre de la structure de l'emploi encourage l'migration, en particulier celle de personnes qualifies. Le besoin d'tudes plus approfondies des groupes ethnolinguistiques et des minorits dans les rgions de haute montagne est recommande, et une recherche comparative sur l'ethno-diversit devrait tre effectue d'urgence afin de formuler des recommandations en ce qui concerne la stabilisation et la survie de populations ethnolinguistiques diverses. /// Weltweit sind Hochgebirge durch groe ethnische, sprachliche und sozio-kulturelle, teils auch religise Vielfalt gekennzeichnet, sie gehren zu den letzten Rckzugsrumen traditioneller ethnolinguistischer Diversitt. Am Beispiel der Rtoromanen Graubndens knnen die Phasen territorialen Rckgangs sowie die Ursachen hierfr detailliert nachvollzogen werden. Das heutige Verbreitungsgebiet ist das Ergebnis eines langen Schrumpfungsprozesses. Das Rtoromanische wurde durch Sprachwechsel zum Deutschen und Italienischen zurckgedrngt. Die Auswirkungen wirtschaftlicher und verkehrsmiger Erschlieung des Berggebiets frderten die Peripherisierung. Die rtoromanische Bevlkerung ist sowohl sprachlich als auch konfessionell stark untergliedert, rumlich sehr ungleich verteilt und zumeist beraltert. Unausgewogene Erwerbs- und Beschftigtenstruktur frdert die Abwanderung, besonders qualifizierten Fachpersonals. Grundstzliche Forschungsfragen zum Problem ethnolinguistischer Bevlkerungsgruppen und Minderheiten in der Hochgebirgsforschung werden genannt. Vergleichende Forschungen zur Ethnodiversitt sind dringend erforderlich, damit ein Beitrag zur Stabilisierung der Existenz der Vielfalt ethnolinguistischer Bevlkerungsgruppen geleistet werden kann.
3674480|For many centuries, (semi-)nomadic pastoralists used pasture areas in the Tien Shan and Pamir mountains. Under Soviet rule, sedentarization began in the 1930s and collective farms replaced socioeconomic units based on kinship. Soviet land use was monofunctional and dependent on high levels of inputs such as chemical fertilizers, machinery, concentrated feed, and subsidies and was neither ecologically sustainable nor economically viable. In the process of political and economic transformation after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, state farms have been dismantled, land and livestock privatized, and specialized employees such as technicians have suddenly become independent farmers. Today, large farms and herds no longer exist, having been replaced by a multitude of small household enterprises. Each household's socioeconomic situation is unique, and so are household livelihood strategies. Activities focusing on sustainable development and sustainable pasture management must therefore take account of this new socioeconomic situation.
10.2307/3673699|Local farmers on Santo Antao, one of the Cape Verde islands, have developed a traditional irrigation system that is well-adapted to the extremely difficult physical conditions of steep slopes and limited water flow. Local water management considers the interrelations between irrigation systems within the same river basin, whereas conventional irrigation technicians focus on individual system performance. Especially since independence, the Republic of Cape Verde has attempted to upgrade the performance of irrigation systems by introducing large-scale employment schemes. The impact of this intervention on water management and farmer participation is critically reviewed. A short field study in one valley, together with an analysis of available documentation on irrigation, has given a better insight into the characteristics of local water management. This led to recommendations for a revised policy towards irrigation development. Major elements of this new policy are the use of the river basin as the appropriate planning and intervention unit, increased farmer participation, and a less direct, low-profile approach by the government towards irrigation development. The state should play a facilitating role, enabling farmers to re-assume greater responsibility for local water management. /// Les fermiers locaux de Santo Anteo, l'une des les du Cap Vert, ont mis au point un systme d'irrigation traditionnel bien adapt aux conditions physiques extrmement ardues, c'est--dire des pentes escarpes et un apport d'eau limit. La gestion locale de l'eau tient compte des relations entre les systmes d'irrigation situs dans un bassin fluvial donn, alors que les techniciens d'irrigation conventionnels s'intressent aux performances individuelles de chaque systme. En particulier depuis son indpendance, la Rpublique du Cap Vert a essay d'amliorer les performances des systmes d'irrigation en introduisant des programmes d'emploi  grand chelle. L'impact de cette intervention sur la gestion de l'eau et la participation des fermiers est examin dans cet article. Une tude de courte dure dans une valle, en conjonction avec une analyse de la documentation disponible sur l'irrigation, a permis de mieux comprendre les caractristiques de la gestion locale de l'eau. Des recommandations en ont t tires, visant  une rvision de la politique de dveloppement de l'irrigation. Les principaux lments de cette nouvelle politique se rapportent  l'utilisation du bassin fluvial en tant qu'unit approprie de planification et d'intervention,  la participation accrue des fermiers, et  une approche moins directe et plus discrte de la part du gouvernement en ce qui concerne le dveloppement de l'irrigation. L'Etat devrait jouer une rle facilitateur, permettant aux fermiers de prendre une plus grande responsabilit de la gestion locale de l'eau. /// Ortsansssige Bauern auf Santo Antao, eine der Kapverdischen Inseln, haben ber die Jahre ein Bewsserungssystem entwickelt, das den durch steile Hnge und begrenzten Wasserfluss uerst widrigen geographischen Bedingungen gut angepat ist. Das lokale Wassermanagement bercksichtigt die Wechselbeziehungen zwischen allen Bewasserungssystemen innerhalb eines Flubeckens, wogegen geschulte Bewsserungsfachleute sich auf die Optimierung eines einzelnen Systems konzentrieren. Seit ihrer Unabhngigkeit hat die Republik der Kapverdischen Inseln durch grozgige Beschftigungsprogramme versucht, die Funktionstchtigkeit der Bewsserungssysteme zu verbessern. Die Auswirkung dieser Intervention auf das Wassermanagement und die Beteiligung der Bauern werden kritisch untersucht. Eine Fallstudie fr ein Tal erlaubte, zusammen mit einer Analyse der vorhandenen Dokumentation ber Bewsserung, die Besonderheiten des lokalen Wassermanagements klarzustellen. Diese Studie empfiehlt eine revidierte Politik zur Weiterentwicklung von Bewsserungstechniken. Ihre Hauptpunkte sind, das Flubecken als eine Planungs- und Eingriffseinheit anzusehen, die Bauern mehr zu beteiligen und die direkten Regierungseingriffe bei der Entwicklung neuer Bewsserungssysteme auf ein Mindestma zu beschrnken. Der Staat sollte eine frdernde Rolle beibehalten, die dazu fhrt, da die Bauern grere Verantwortung fr das lokale Wassermanagement bernehmen.
mounresedeve.36.3.256|Peripheral mountain areas in developing countries are often characterized by energy poverty but also by high solar energy potential. The Eastern Pamirs of Tajikistan are a prime example of this situation, with their lack of energy infrastructure, remoteness, pressure on local natural resources, and high incident radiation amounts. An integrative assessment of the potential for photovoltaic power generation is lacking for this region, as well as for many other mountain environments. We assessed the natural potential, feasibility, and likely effects of increased photovoltaic electricity generation, using climate data, biomass data, a spatial radiation model, and fieldwork- and literature-based scenarios of energy requirements and financial conditions. Results indicated that using a photovoltaic power plant to generate enough energy for boiling water is feasible in the study area within reasonable cost limits. This could significantly alleviate energy poverty, increase carbon sequestration by up to 1500 t/y, and reduce the loss of dwarf shrub stands by up to 2000 ha/y. Our results illustrate that the integrative approach presented in this article can be applied straightforwardly when some climatic measurements and field observations are available and that photovoltaic energy is an important renewable-energy resource for the sustainable development of peripheral high-mountain communities.
mounresedeve.36.4.494|Migration is increasing in the middle hills of Nepal, and it has diverse consequences for the people remaining behind, their livelihoods, and the way they manage their land. This study explored the complex and interrelated effects of migration on land and people in the Harpan watershed, Kaski District, western Nepal. Surveys and focus group discussions were used to explore the reasons for decisions on land management and migration. In addition, remote sensing and fieldwork were used to map the extent of land abandonment. Our study found that almost three quarters of the households have at least 1 migrant member receiving on average US$ 206 per month in remittances. Remittances were used mainly for food and goods and to a much lesser extent for agriculture. In addition to international migration, substantial migration occurs within the area. Once livelihoods permit, whole families choose to migrate to market areas, from uphill to downhill communities. This has led to land abandonment and an increase in forest cover in the upper part of the watershed and has also increased pressure on the land and exposure to flooding in the lower part.
3674611|This article examines local perceptions of health risks in a mountain community in the Karakoram of Northern Pakistan. Specifically, it aims to show how the tremendous social and economic transformations taking place in this region are experienced and understood by the people most affected by them. The case study draws from ethnographic data collected through a range of methods, including personal narratives, focus groups, interviews, household surveys, conversations, and participant observations. Central to this analysis is the role that social change plays in mediating and shaping residents' worries, and perceived vulnerabilities within this particular economic and cultural context. Furthermore, the effects of the global economy on how people assess their dependency on external factors and processes are explored, including attention to the ways in which newly introduced products and technologies raise concerns about product safety, health security, and community cohesiveness. This analysis of local narratives of health risks illustrates these points and demonstrates how residents' constructions of risk provide a basis for understanding local debates and doubts about how "development" and modernity are being approached in this mountainous region.
10.2307/3673668|Recently formulated plans for the forestry sector in Nepal place much emphasis upon the encouragement of tree cultivation on private land. This paper examines tree cultivation by farmers from a village perspective. The species composition (planted and natural regeneration), location, and population structure of trees being cultivated by 44 farmers on their own land are discussed in the light of field observations and farmers' comments. Villagers' perceptions of the value of different species are outlined, and used to show why certain species are commonly planted. Farmers' planting techniques are also reported. An important factor influencing the location of trees on farm land was found to be farmers' views about the effect of tree shade on crop yields; this is discussed with relation to farm elevation. The population of trees on farm land was found to be dominated by seedlings and saplings, in keeping with the claim of many villagers that they had commenced planting trees only recently, in response to a deterioration in the quality of publicly utilized forest resources. A number of broad conclusions are drawn from the findings that have relevance to forestry projects operating in other parts of Nepal's Middle Hills, as well as national planning. /// Les plans labors rcemment pour le secteur foresterie du Npal mettent l'accent sur l'encouragement de la culture d'arbres sur les proprits prives. Cet article examine la culture d'arbres par les fermiers sous une perspective villageoise. La composition des espces (plantes et rgnration naturelle), l'emplacement et la structure des populations d'arbres cultivs par 44 fermiers sur leurs propres terres sont examins sur la base d'observations sur le terrain et de commentaires des fermiers. Les perceptions des villageois en ce qui concerne la valeur des diffrentes espces sont prsentes et utilises pour dterminer les raisons pour lesquelles certaines espces sont prfres. Les techniques de plantation utilises par les fermiers sont galement examines. L'opinion des fermiers concernant l'effet de l'ombre sur les rcoltes constitue un facteur important en termes de l'emplacement des arbres dans les exploitations agricoles; ce sujet est trait en rapport avec l'altitude de celles-ci. Cette tude a montr que la population d'arbres d'une exploitation agricole tait domine par la futaie et le boisage; cela correspond bien aux affirmations d'un grand nombre de villageois que la plantation d'arbres n'a commenc que rcemment, en rponse  la dtrioration de la qualit des ressources forestires publiques. Un certain nombre de conclusions gnrales sont tires des rsultats de l'tude, conclusions applicables aux projets de foresterie en cours dans d'autres parties des montagnes centrales du Npal, aussi bien qu'au planning  l'chelle nationale. /// Neuere Planungen in der Waldwirtschaft von Nepal schlieen besonders die Baumpflanzungen auf privatem Land mit ein. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht Anpflanzungen der Bauern aus der drflichen Perspektive. Diskutiert werden die Artenauswahl (angepflanzte und natrliche Erneuerung), der Standort und die Struktur des Baumbestandes, die von 44 Bauern auf ihrem privaten Land angepflanzt wurden, einschlielich persnlicher Beobachtungen und Kommentare. Die Einstellungen der Dorfbewohner zu dem Wert der verschiedenen Baumarten werden errtert, und sie erklren, warum normalerweise bestimmte Arten gepflanzt werden. Auch ber die Pflanzmethoden wird berichtet. Ein wichtiger Faktor, der den Standort der Bume bestimmt, ist der Einflu der Baumschatten auf die Ernteertrge; dieser Gesichtspunkt wird im Zusammenhang mit der Hhenlage diskutiert. Die Baumbestnde auf den Feldern bestehen berwiegend aus Smlingen und jungen Bumen. Dies stimmt mit der Aussage der Dorfbewohner berein, da sie erst krzlich, als Reaktion auf die rcklufige Qualitt der ffentlich genutzten Waldressourcen, mit Neupflanzungen begonnen haben. Aus diesen Feststellungen folgen Erkenntnisse, die fr waldwirtschaftliche Projekte in anderen Teilen der Middle Hills von Nepal und bei der nationalen Planung von Bedeutung sind.
10.2307/3674035|A project to establish and administer the St. Katherine Natural Protectorate in the southern mountains of Egypt's Sinai Peninsula began in 1996. Its Bedouin Support Programme component is designed to provide tangible benefits to the Protectorate's inhabitants as a means of building their support for, and participation in, the project's conservation initiatives. This paper discusses the process by which the objectives and work plan of the Bedouin Support Programme were established. A gender-balanced nine-person field team, composed of mainland Egyptian and expatriate social scientists and a local Bedouin, conducted extensive discussions with representatives of all tribal groups living within the Protectorate. Bedouins called for assistance in the creation of jobs and income-generating activities, improvement of water supplies, reversal of trends in environmental deterioration, involvement with tourism, and access to health and educational services. They made numerous suggestions for conservation-related activities in which they could participate, including wildlife protection and remote park facility operations. The team then consulted companies and government agencies which would be impacted by, involved in, the Protectorate's Bedouin-related activities. Using these Bedouin and non-Bedouin perspectives, the team then developed a work plan for Bedouin Support Programme activities, seeking to further Bedouin interests in the areas of natural resource conservation, employment and income generation, the operation of remote park facilities, tourism, training, animal and human helath, agriculture, and infrastructure.
10.2307/3673238|Only two large landslides in areas of crystalline rock are known to have generated fused rock at their sliding surfaces: Koefels, in the Oetz valley, Tyrol, and Langtang, Nepal, with displaced volumes of <tex-math>$2-3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> and probably over <tex-math>$10\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math>, respectively. The well-preserved post-glacial landslide of Koefels allows reconstruction of the event from the observed facts. Until recently, however, there was no direct evidence for a connection between the phenomena at the sliding surfaces and the fused material, the famous "pumice of Koefels". Hence, volcanic action and later, the impact of a meteorite were assumed as sources of the fusing energy. Petrologic investigations and geomorphologic considerations, backed by energy calculations and experiments, led to the hypothesis that the heating energy was generated by the friction at the sliding surfaces of the landslide itself. This hypothesis was confirmed by the recent discovery of fused rock filling cleavages in the landslide deposits. In Langtang, on the contrary, the exposure of a sliding surface bearing fused rock was the first relevant fact to be observed. It was attributed, however, to movement along a fault. The present paper shows that, by analogy with Koefels, a landslide was responsible for the fusion. Chronological clues were obtained from geomorphological investigations, based in particular on the glacial phenomena connected with the landslide deposits. The event antedates the older late-glacial advances of the large Langtang Glacier, and is most probably even older than the last major glaciation. The Quaternary glaciers removed or buried between 60 and 75 percent of the original deposits; only about <tex-math>$3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> remain. In Langtang, the last major glaciation certainly expanded further than hitherto presumed. Two groups of late-glacial moraines have been found. The second group (Lirung advances), with very prominent forms, was probably the last of the late-glacial period. The present-day snowline has an average height of at least 5,300 metres. /// On connait jusqu' prsent deux grandes boulements qui ont provoqu la fusion des roches sur leurs surfaces de glissement: Koefels <tex-math>$(2-3\ {\rm km}^{3})$</tex-math> au Tyrol et Langtang ( l'origine probablement plus de <tex-math>$10\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math>) au Npal. Pour l'boulement post-glaciaire encore bien conserv de Koefels, il est encore possible de procder  une reconstitution des vnements. Comme la relation entre les surfaces de glissement et les fameuses "pierres ponces de Koefels" n'tait jusqu' rcemment pas directement apparente, on avait tout d'abord suppos que l'nergie ayant provoqu la fusion des roches avait pour origine un phnomne volcanique et par la suite qu'elle avait t fournie par l'impact d'un mtorite. Des calculs d'nergie, soutenus par des vrifications exprimentales, ont cependant montr l'vidence d'une fusion des roches due  l'boulement mme. Ceci a t confirm par des rcentes dcouvertes de roches fondues. A Langtang, on avait connaissance ds le dpart d'un affleurement d'une surface de glissement avec fusion de la roche, mais ce phnomne avait t attribu  un charriage. Cette tude apporte la preuve que dans ce cas aussi, il s'agit d'un boulement. Des examens gomorphologiques ont t effectus pour tenter de dater cet vnement en recherchant spcialement les phnomnes glaciaires en relation avec les dpts de l'boulement. Il est certain que cet boulement s'est produit avant les plus anciennes avances tardiglaciaires du grand glacier de la valle de Langtang, et mme probablement avant la dernire grande glaciation. Les glaciers quaternaires ont vacu ou recouvert au moins deux tiers  trois quarts des dpts initiaux de l'boulement. Seuls environ <tex-math>$3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> de ces dpts ont t conservs jusqu' nos jours. Cette tude a aussi accessoirement permis de rassembler de nouvelles observations sur la dernire grande glaciation  Langtang dont on peut dire avec certitude qu'elle a t plus tendue qu'on l'avait suppose jusqu'ici; on a en outre dcouvert qes les dernires avances tardiglaciaires se subdivisaient en deux groupes, le dernier (stade de Lirung) avec des moraines trs marques. La limite moyenne des neiges se situe  5.300 m au minimum. /// Bisher sind nur zwei Bergstrze im Kristallin mit Gesteinsaufschmelzungen bekannt: Kfels im tztal <tex-math>$(2-3\ {\rm km}^{3})$</tex-math> und Langtang (ursprnglich wahrscheinlich ber <tex-math>$10\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math>). Der postglaziale Bergsturz von Kfels lt sich noch gut rekonstruieren. Doch fehlt bisher ein unmittelbarer Beweis eines urschlichen Zusammenhanges zwischen der Gleitflche und dem aufgeschmolzenen Gestein, dem "Bimsstein von Kfels". Die Energie fr die Aufschmelzung schrieb man daher zunchst einem vulkanischen Ereignis zu, dann einem Meteoriteinschlag. Petrologische Untersuchungen und geomorphologische berlegungen fhrten, gesttzt auf Energieberechnungen und Experimente, zu der Annahme, da der Bergsturz selbst durch die Reibung auf der Gleitflche die Energie fr die Gesteinsaufschmelzung erzeugte. Diese Hypothese wurde besttigt durch neue Funde aufgeschmolzenen Gesteins in Kluftfllungen der Bergsturzablagerungen. In Langtang dagegen fand man zuerst die Gleitflche, bedeckt mit aufgeschmolzenem Gestein und ordnete diesen Befund einer tektonischen Bewegung entlang einer Deckengrenze zu. In diesem Aufsatz wird gezeigt, da auch hier ein Bergsturz die Gesteinsaufschmelzung verursacht hat. Geomorphologische Untersuchungen ergaben, da der Bergsturz von Langtang lter als die ltesten sptglazialen Gletschervorste ist, ja wahrscheinlich lter als die letzte Hauptvereisung. Die eiszeitlichen Gletscher entfernten oder begruben mindestens zwei Drittel bis drei Viertel der ursprnglichen Bergsturzablagerungen, von denen derzeit nur etwa <tex-math>$3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> sichtbar sind. Whrend der letzten Hauptvergletscherung reichte die Vergletscherung weiter, als bisher angenommen wurde. Zwei Gruppen sptglazialer Mornenwlle werden unterschieden. Die sehr auffallenden Mornen der jngeren Gruppe (Lirung-Vorste) waren wahrscheinlich die letzten des Sptglazials. Die heutige Schneegrenze verluft im Mittel in mindestens 5.300 m Hhe.
3674504|The livelihoods of mountain farmers are often constrained by poor access to markets and limited entrepreneurial skills for adding value to produce. Research and development organizations have now recognized that improving market access and enhancing the ability of resource-poor mountain farmers to diversify their links with markets are among the most pressing challenges in mountain agriculture. What is not so obvious is how to link small-scale farmers in marginal areas to growth markets, and how to develop methods and approaches that effectively integrate research, market access and development of community agroenterprise. The present article highlights the key steps and procedures in building capacity among farmers, farmers' groups, and communities to identify and evaluate market opportunities, develop profitable agroenterprise, and intensify production, while sustaining the resources upon which livelihoods depend. This approach, known as Participatory Market Research (PMR)-a component of the Enabling Rural Innovation (ERI) initiative-is being implemented and further refined by the International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in collaboration with research and development partners in Uganda, Malawi, and Tanzania.
3674530|Water scarcity is a serious problem in Koppal, a semi-arid district with barren rocky hills in northern Karnataka, India. The hills were denuded of forests and trees in the past. Resource depletion continues to occur because of rock blasting and stone cutting. This has led to low groundwater recharge, a problem further aggravated by the digging of bore wells to a depth at which only saline water is available. High-input agriculture combined with saline water has caused the soil to become unproductive. Farmers thus find it more profitable to leave the land uncultivated. As agriculture or other resources in the region do not provide a secure supply of food, people in the area face a severe livelihood crisis. Moreover, the local population and the government do not link the exploitation of rocks and hills to ground water depletion. There is an urgent need for solutions. People respond to their livelihood crisis at the household level and do not come together as a community to address issues. External facilitators are needed to generate a discussion of problems and alternative solutions. Short-term solutions only increase the predicament of the people. Long-term perspectives and investments are required to ensure sustainable management of natural resources as well as livelihoods in this semi-arid area.
10.2307/3673786|The Tatra Mountains, located on the frontier between Poland and Czechoslovakia, constitute the highest mountain massif within the Carpathian Range of Central Europe. The highest summit reaches 2,663 m and the massif can be classified as a high-mountain (hochgebirge) landscape. The Tatra Mountains extended above the Pleistocene snowline and today there are alpine meadows and cryonival belts above timberline. Present-day landform dynamics are controlled by altitudinal differences in climatic and vegetational conditions. The area most strongly modeled by contemporary geomorphic processes lies between the upper timberline (at about 1,500 m) and 1,950 m, that is, within the alpine meadow belt and the dwarf pine belt. Within these belts debris flows, rockfalls, and slow mass movements are predominant. Slope morphodynamic systems above the timberline and fluvial systems on valley floors in the forest belts function independently because there is no direct linkage under normal climate and hydrological conditions. Sediment transfer is limited to individual geoecological belts and the results of weathering and denudation processes generally do not extend beyond a single morphodynamic system. Only during extreme, catastrophic events do both systems merge and then only for short periods. In this paper rates of the main geomorphic processes are estimated for each altitudinal belt and some examples of landform transformation are presented. /// Les Tatras, situes sur la frontire entre la Pologne et la Tchcoslovaquie, constituent le plus haut massif montagneux de la chane des Carpates en Europe centrale. Le sommet le plus lev atteint 2.663 m et le massif peut tre classifi comme un paysage de haute montagne (hochgebirge). Les Tatras s'tendaient au-dessus de la limite des neiges ternelles et, de nos jours, on trouve des pelouses alpines et des ceintures cryonivales au-dessus de la limite des arbres. La dynamique actuelle de la forme des terres est dtermine par les diffrences entre les conditions de climat et de vgtation en fonction de l'altitude. La zone la plus fortement faonne par les processus gomorphiques actuels se situe entre la limite suprieure des arbres ( environ 1.500 m) et 1.950 m, c'est--dire dans la ceinture de pelouse alpine et la ceinture de pins nains. Les coulements de dtritus, les boulements et les mouvements de masse lents sont prdominants dans ces ceintures. Les systmes morphodynamiques de pente au-dessus de la ligne des arbres et les systmes fluviaux au fond des valles dans les ceintures de forts fonctionnent indpendamment du fait qu'il n'existe aucune liaison directe entre eux dans les conditions climatiques et hydrologiques normales. Le transfert de sdiments est limit aux ceintures gocologiques individuelles et les rsultats des processus de dsagrgation et d'ablation se s'tendent pas en gnral au-del d'un seul systme morphodynamique. Ces deux systmes fusionnent uniquement au cours d'vnements catastrophiques exceptionnels et cela pendant de courtes priodes de temps. Dans cet article, la vitesse des processus gomorphiques principaux est estime pour chaque ceinture altitudinale et des exemples de transformation de la forme des terres sont prsents. /// Das Tatra Gebirge, entlang der polnisch-tschechischen Grenze gelegen, ist das hchste Gebirgsmassiv der Karpatenkette in Zentraleuropa. Der hchste Gipfel ist 2.663 m hoch, und die Gebirgskette kann als Hochgebirge klassifiziert werden. Whrend des Pleistozn lagen die Tatra Gipfel ber der Schneegrenze, und gegenwrtig gibt es oberhalb der Baumgrenze alpine Wiesen und Grtel mit ewigem Schnee. Heutige Landschaftsstrukturen werden von hhenabhngigen Unterschieden in Klima und Vegetationsbedingungen bestimmt. Das Gebiet, das derzeit am strksten durch geomorphische Prozesse geprgt wird, liegt zwischen der oberen Baumgrenze (bei etwa 1.500 m) und 1.950 m; d.h. innerhalb der alpinen Wiesen und Knieholzgrtel. Dieses Gebiet verndert sich durch Gesteinsflsse, Steinschlge und langsame Erdmassenverschiebungen. Morphodynamische Hangverschiebungen oberhalb der Baumgrenze und Fluvernderungen in den Talsohlen der Baumgrtel geschehen unter normalen Klima und hydrologischen Bedingungen voneinander unabhngig. Sedimentverlagerung beschrnkt sich auf einzelne geokologische Grtel, und die Folgen von Verwitterungs und Abtragungsvorgngen sind im allgemeinen auf einzelne morphodynamische Systeme beschrnkt. Nur whrend extremer, katastrophenhnlicher Vorgnge verschmelzen beide Systeme und auch dann nur auf kurze Zeit. In dieser Verffentlichung werden fr jeden Grtel nderungsraten fr seine wesentlichen geomorphischen Vorgnge abgeschtzt und an ausgewhlten Beispielen wird die Umwandlung von Landschaftsstrukturen aufgezeigt.
mounresedeve.30.4.373|An analysis of the patterns of technology adoption by upland rice farmers in southern Yunnan and of the impact of technologies was conducted using farmhousehold data collected during 2005. The technologies considered were improved upland rice varieties and terraces. The results indicate that these technologies are now spreading in upland areas. Farmers who have adopted both technology components have been able to increase the upland rice yield substantially. Income from rice production was similarly found to be higher for adopters than for nonadopters. In addition, there was evidence that increased rice yield helped reduce the pressure from intensifying food production in these fragile uplands because farmers were able to meet their food needs from smaller areas. Implications of these findings for sustainable development of uplands in Yunnan and in countries in the region are drawn.
3674081|The current status of alien plants in the alpine and subalpine areas of the Australian Alps is assessed in this article. The number of alien species has increased following the region's use by nonindigenous Australians over the last 170 years. One hundred and seventy-five alien plant taxa have been recorded above 1500 m in the Australian Alps. These taxa are mainly perennials from Europe, Asia, and the Americas. They are predominantly associated with disturbance and are categorized here according to the types of human activities with which they are associated. There are roadside or path weeds (78% of species), resort weeds (58%), grazing weeds (25%), and rehabilitation weeds (11%). Just over 20% of the alien taxa have become naturalized in the region. Diversity, distribution, and biology of the species are evaluated along with the threats they pose to the conservation of the region.
mounresedeve.31.2.102|Poverty and household food security are much debated issues in development literature, and women's contributions to food and economic security have received attention for the last 15 years. Collection of natural resources is usually carried out entirely by women in developing countries, particularly in fragile and rugged mountain environments. Our study in the Garwhal Himalaya attempted to monetize this unpaid work by women through a survey conducted by researchers of time use on a recall basis for the last 7 days. The value of women's contributions was then computed by 2 methods: opportunity costs and output method. The results show that women are at the forefront of food and economic security and in some cases are breadwinners. Policies must address the specific problems of fodder and fuelwood collection in mountains by promoting renewable and nonconventional energy resources such as biogas and solar energy and by involving women in grassroots participation. This will significantly lessen the drudgery of women's work.
3674128|Special difficulties and high costs are frequently incurred when sources of energy such as kerosene or dry-cell batteries are transported to mountain areas. Moreover, use and disposal of these sources of energy pose risks to health and the environment. On the other hand, the use of local, renewable sources of energy such as wind, water, or solar power ensures that mountain communities can enjoy both greater independence and safety with respect to energy supply. In mountain regions worldwide, local hydropower produced by small water turbines is important for irrigation, grain milling, and other purposes. Water turbines have also long been used to produce electricity to illuminate houses or operate radio and television devices, while direct solar energy has traditionally been used to dry food and clothing. Recently, however, a variety of solar energy systems including special house construction, use of cooking devices such as the well-known cooking boxes and reflector systems, and electricity supplied by photovoltaic (solar-electric) systems have been introduced. Some of these systems are especially suitable for areas with intense sunlight and low temperatures. Solar-electric stand-alone systems have proven useful in the European Alps and the Pyrenees, where there is evidence that they are an important source of sustainable energy (Figure 1).
3674149|Despite important technological achievements, agricultural research in Mexico has had little impact on the improvement of rural livelihoods in the mountains of Central Mexico. The reason for this is its failure to focus on the development of highland campesino agriculture. The Centro de Investigacin en Ciencias Agropecuarias (CICA, Research Center in Agricultural Science) of the Autonomous University of the State of Mexico has set itself the objective of using research to improve living conditions in campesino households and communities. This places CICA at the interface between research and development. A participatory research project on the management of agrodiversity by indigenous campesinos in San Pablo Tlalchichilpa, in the mountains of the State of Mexico (Figure 1), underlines the importance of taking into account all environmental, social, economic and technological aspects of campesino agriculture as well as the interactions between these elements. Without a more profound understanding of these elements, research cannot contribute to improving campesino livelihoods in a sustainable way.
10.2307/3673687|This paper discusses the concept and some results of applied research for sustainable resource development on the northwest slopes of Mt. Kenya. Studies are being carried out on three scales (regional, local, and site level) and Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and modeling techniques are being applied. Two examples are described. The regional study of the Naro Moru Basin indicates that the forest belt between 2,400 and 3,500 m is important for the supply of perennial water to streams and recharge of the groundwater table on the semi-arid plateau below. A site-level study of water conservation in the semi-arid footzone demonstrates that simple techniques, such as an agroforestry system combined with mulching and minimum tillage, can improve dramatically water use and production. Both examples show the importance of land use to the resource management, the need for long-term commitment, and the challenge for applied research. /// Cet article examine le concept et les rsultats de travaux de recherche applique visant  assurer un dveloppement soutenable des ressources sur le versant nord-ouest du mont Kenya. Des tudes ont t effectues  trois niveaux (niveaux rgional et local et niveau du site); les Systmes d'information gographique (SIG) et des techniques de modlisation ont t utiliss. Deux exemples sont examins en dtail. L'tude rgionale du bassin du Naro Moru indique que la ceinture de fort comprise entre 2,400 et 3,500 mtres est importante pour la fourniture d'eau prenne aux cours d'eau et la recharge de la nappe phratique sur le plateau semi- aride en contrebas. Une tude de conservation de l'eau au niveau du site, effectue dans le pimont semi-aride dmontre que de simples techniques, telles qu'un systme d'agroforesterie combin avec le paillage et un labourage minimal, peut augmenter considrablement l'utilisation et la production d'eau. Les deux exemples montrent l'importance de l'utilisation des terres pour la gestion des ressources, le besoin d'un engagement  long terme et les difficults  rsoudre  l'aide de la recherche applique. /// Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert das Konzept und einige Ergebnisse von angewandter Forschung fr die langfristige Ressourcenentwicklung auf den Nordwest Hngen des Mt. Kenia. Die Untersuchungen werden auf drei Ebenen (regional, lokal und im Gelnde) durchgefhrt und Geographical Information Systems (GIS) sowie Modellvorhersagen werden angewendet. Zwei Beispiele werden beschrieben. Eine regionale Studie zeigt, da der Waldgrtel zwischen 2,400 und 3,500 m den jhrlichen Wasserflu in den Bchen sichert und den Grundwasserspiegel des halbtrockenen, tiefergelegenen Plateaus auffllt. Eine Studie zur Wassererhaltung, die im Gelnde gemacht wurde, zeigt, da einfache Methoden wie z.B. ein agro-Waldsystem in Verbindung mit Mulchen und minimaler Bodenbestellung die Wassernutzung und -produktion entscheidend verbessern knnte. Beide Beispiele zeigen, da Landnutzung beim Ressourcenmanagement, langfristige Planung und Fortschritte in angewandter Forschung wichtig sind.
25578206|Winter tourism is highly sensitive to climate change. The sufficiently studied altitudinally dependent line of natural snow reliability is losing its relevance for skilift operators in Austria, where 59% of the ski area is covered by artificial snowmaking. But the diffusion of snowmaking facilities cannot be monocausally linked to climate change, as trends in tourism, prestige, and competitive advantage are important factors. Despite the fact that snowmaking is limited by climatological factors, skilift operators trust in technical improvements and believe the future will not be as menacing as assumed by recent climate change impact studies. The aim of the present study is to define reasons for the diffusion of snowmaking systems and to determine whether snowmaking can be a viable adaptation strategy despite ongoing warming, using a simple degree-day model. Results obtained with this method of assessing technical snow reliability show that current snowmaking intensity will not be sufficient to guarantee the desired 100-day season at elevations below 1500-1600 m. Snowmaking will still be possible climatically even at lower elevations, but the required intensification of capacity will lead to significantly higher operation costs.
3674071|New legislation on decentralization has institutionalized popular participation to ensure good governance at the municipal level in Bolivia. Traditional organizations in Bolivian civil society have rallied to the cause of reform. The challenge of decentralization is being met successfully, although the central government sometimes fails to fully implement its own measures. The municipality of Pucarani in the Bolivian Altiplano illustrates how the dynamics of a satisfactory relationship between local actors (governance) contribute to successful implementation of decentralization.
4540681|Mountain regions and UNESCO Mountain Biosphere Reserves (MBRs) encapsulate broad elevational ranges, cover large gradients of geological, topographical and climatic diversity, and thus host greater biodiversity than the surrounding lowlands. Much of the biological richness in MBRs results from the interaction of climatic contrasts and gravitational forces along elevational gradients. External forces such as atmospheric change and human land use interact with these gradients, and result in distinct landscape patchiness, ie mosaics of land cover types within and across elevational belts. The management of MBRs influences land use and land cover, which affects biodiversity and ecosystem processes, both of which provide goods and services to society. Due to their broad environmental and biological diversity, MBRs are ideally suited for global change research and will be increasingly important in illustrating biodiversity conservation. This article summarizes the ecologically relevant results of an international workshop on elevational gradients that aimed to achieve a synthesis of the major ecosystem and biodiversity conditions and drivers in an altitude context. The workshop developed a core research agenda for MBRs that prioritizes long-term research and changes in land use across a broad elevational range.
10.2307/3673750|"Biosphere reserve" is a Unesco designation intended to recognize areas with strong natural values and minimal human use. Biosphere reserve designation encourages regional integration of protected areas through the establishment of buffer zones and locally-based management committees. It also promotes use of biosphere reserves for environmental monitoring and research. This concept becomes relevant in terms of regional integration, scientific management, and sustainable development concerns in and around many protected areas. It suggests the need to assess proposed and potential biosphere reserves in the context of regional environmental and cultural change. This paper discusses the prospects and implications of biosphere reserve designation for the Kluane/Wrangell-St. Elias National Parks and Preserve region which extends both sides of the Canada-USA boundary in Yukon and Alaska. Here it could contribute to regional integration and coordination of activities for sustainable development and provide scientific information concerning environmental and socioeconomic change. /// "Rserve de la biosphre" est un terme utilis par l'Unesco pour dsigner des zones d'un grand intrt naturel et d'utilisation humaine de longue dure. Cette dsignation encourage l'intgration rgionale des zones protges, qui peut se faire en tablissant des zones tampons et des comits de gestion locaux. Elle encourage galement l'utilisation des rserves de la biosphre pour la surveillance et l'tude de l'environnement. Ce concept devient pertinent en termes d'intgration rgionale, de gestion scientifique et de dveloppement soutenable pour beaucoup de zones protges. Il suggre le besoin d'valuer les rserves de la biosphre, proposes et potentielles, dans le cadre du changement environnemental et culturel rgional. Cet article examine les perspectives d'avenir et les implications de la dsignation en tant que "rserve de la biosphre" des Parcs nationaux Kluane/Wrangell-St. Elias et de la rserve naturelle qui s'tend des deux cts de la frontire entre le Canada et les Etats-Unis dans le Yukon et l'Alaska. Pour cette rgion, la dsignation pourrait contribuer  l'intgration rgionale et  la coordination des activits visant  un dveloppement soutenable, et  la collecte de donnes scientifiques relatives au changement environnemental et socioconomique. /// Nach einer Definition der Unesco sind "Biosphrenreservate" Gebiete mit nahezu intakter Natur und hohem menschlichen Nutzungswert, den es zu erhalten gilt. Die Erklrung eines Gebietes zum Biosphrenreservat bestimmt das Ausma der regionalen Integration von geschtzten Landschaftsgebieten durch Schaffung von Schutzgrteln unter ortsansssigem Management. Daneben frdern Biosphrenreservate die berwachung und Erforschung der Umwelt. Regionale Integration, wissenschaftliches Management und langzeitige Entwicklung der vielen Schutzgebiete und ihrer Umgebung sind fr dieses Konzept wichting. Vorgesehene und potentielle Biosphrenreservate mssen hinsichtlich ihrer regionalen Umweltvernderungen und der kulturellen Folgen beurteilt werden. Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert die Aussichten und Folgen fr den Fall, da die Kluane/Wrangell-St. Elias Nationalparks und Schutzgebiete zum Biosphrenreservat erklrt werden, das sich beidseitig der kanadisch-amerikanischen Grenze im Yukon Territorium und in Alaska erstreckt. Hier knnte es zur regionalen Integration und zur Koordination des langfristigen Naturschutzes beitragen, und knnte auerdem wissenschaftliche Information ber Umweltvernderungen und sozio-konomischen Wandel liefern.
mounresedeve.31.2.153|Western Himalayan alpine pastures are among the most diverse ecological locations on the globe. Four alpine pastures were investigated to study species distribution patterns, richness, similarity, and community structure in Bagh District, Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. Four communities, PoaPrimula Sibbaldia, PrimulaCalthaPrimula, Poa alpinaPoa pratensisScirpus, and SibbaldiaPoaScirpus, were identified on the basis of an importance value index. The average value of species richness was 1.42; Simpson's and ShannonWiener's diversity values were 3.13 and 0.91, respectively; the degree of maturity index was 44.1; and species evenness was 0.901. Local alpine flora was dominated by a hemicriptophytic life form with microphyllous leaf spectra. The speciesenvironment correlation was analyzed using canonical correspondence analysis. A negative correlation of both diversity and richness was revealed with altitudinal gradient. Anthropogenic disturbances showed a significant negative impact on distribution of medicinal and palatable species. Unpalatable species dominated the local flora, indicating the heavy grazing pressure in the area. Development and implementation of regional conservation strategies are recommended to protect the threatened Himalayan alpine biodiversity.
mounresedeve.35.4.351|The Himalayas have experienced several glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs), and the risk of GLOFs is now increasing in the context of global warming. Poiqu watershed in the Tibet Autonomous Region, China, also known as the Bhote Koshi and Sun Koshi downstream in Nepal, has been identified as highly prone to GLOFs. This study explored the distribution of and changes in glacial lakes, past GLOFs and the resulting losses, risk from potential future GLOFs, and risk reduction initiatives within the watershed. A relationship was established between lake area and volume of lake water based on data from 33 lakes surveyed within the Hindu Kush Himalayan region, and the maximum possible discharge was estimated using this and other previously developed empirical equations. We recommend different strategies to reduce GLOF risk and highlight the need for a glacial lake monitoring and early-warning system. We also recommend strong regional cooperation, especially on issues related to transboundary rivers.
mounresedeve.35.3.230|Reference evapotranspiration (
10.2307/3674033|Between 1993 and 1996 the Nepal Australia Community Forestry Project carried out four comparative land-use studies in Sindhu Palchok and Kabhre Palanchok districts of Nepal to evaluate the impacts of Australian development assistance over a continuous 19-year period fostering community forestry. The four studies made use of sets of air photographs taken in 1978 and 1992 to assess land-use changes. The samples covered almost 15 percent of the 400,000 ha land area of the two districts; they ranged between 600 and 4,000 m in altitude. Land-use change based on photo interpretation and ground truthing was supplemented by Rapid Rural Appraisal and by information obtained from local villagers. Community forestry activities within certain areas at the lower altitudes are having a beneficial effect on the balance of land use as part of a broader process of agrarian change. Shrublands and grasslands are being converted to more productive categories of forest land, reflecting the care of communities in managing and conserving their own forest resources. The same cannot be said for the upper slopes where there is evidence that the forest cover is being denuded rapidly and that the shrubland and grassland areas are expanding at the expense of forest cover. Many current land-use practices need to be abandoned or modified. Use of land for agricultural purposes appears to be stable. Recent evidence suggests that reliance on subsistence farming is declining as opportunities increase for off-farm income, but whether this has allowed population pressure on land resources to be contained is debatable. While it appears that community forestry has reduced the pressure on land at the lower altitudes of Sindhu Palchok and Kabhre Palanchok, sustained population pressures, combined with a lack of coherent and coordinated land management policies and practices, have resulted in a rapid decline in forest resources on the upper slopes together with loss of catchment stability.
3674180|Steep terrain and high frequency of tropical rainstorms make landslide occurrence on natural terrain a common phenomenon in Hong Kong. The present article reports on the use of a geographical information system (GIS) database, compiled primarily from existing digital maps and aerial photographs, to describe the physical characteristics of landslides and the statistical correlations between landslide frequency and terrain variables on Lantau Island in Hong Kong. This database is then used to obtain a logistic multiple regression model to predict landslide susceptibility. Slope gradient, lithology, elevation, slope aspect, and land use cover are indicated as statistically significant in predicting landslide susceptibility, whereas slope morphology and proximity to drainage line are not important and are thus excluded from the model. This model is then imported back into the GIS to produce a map of predicted landslide susceptibility. This study demonstrates that landslide susceptibility can be effectively modeled by using GIS technology and logistic multiple regression analysis.
3674273|Andean ecosystems are among the most diverse and threatened ecosystems in the world. Only very general data on the extent and impacts of the transformation processes that have affected ecosystems in Colombia are available to date. This study analyzes the transformation of forests in part of the Eastern Colombian Andes, using the landscape ecological approach, with remote sensing, fieldwork, and GIS. There are two levels of analysis: a regional level (1:500,000) covering 4.1 million ha and a subregional level (1:50,000) covering 225,000 ha. The former covers the central portion of the East-Andean Cordillera, where the remaining forest and pramo areas were quantified and their spatial distribution analyzed. The subregional analysis level is located in the Middle Chicamocha Watershed. The effects of human activities on the ecosystems were analyzed, taking current farming systems into consideration. The historical human impact in the region has been intense, especially in the drier parts of the study area. At the regional level, only 22% of the original forests remain, of which 28.7% are located in the national parks. In the subregional study area, only 7.6% remain, mainly at altitudes of more than 3000 m. Of five identified forest types, the two with considerable covered areas were the High-Andean Polylepis Forests (33.6%) and the High-Andean mixed forests (35.1%). The original land cover of the sub-Andean dry forests has been almost totally replaced by seminatural shrublands, pastures, crops, and severely degraded areas. The largest fragments are Andean mixed forests and the Andean oak forests, with sizes up to 866 and 1182 ha. Of 19 identified farming systems at the subregional level, only 5 include substantial proportions of their original forest covers.
10.2307/3673480|Discussions at the Mohonk Mountain Conference (April 1986) exposed the myths underlying the Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation and suggested the research that can lead to a more effective understanding of the environmental and social problems of the Himalaya. Although the summary documents of the conference acknowledged the importance of political economy, they failed to specify the political economic assumptions underlying the conference discussions. This paper suggests what some of those assumptions are. /// Les discussions qui ont pris place au cours du Congrs de Mohonk (Avril 1986) ont expos les mythes  la base de la thorie de la dgradation du milieu naturel himalayen, et propos des travaux de recherche qui pourraient mener  une meilleure comprhension des problmes du milieu naturel et du milieu social de l'Himalaya. Bien que les documents issus du congrs mentionnent l'importance de l'conomie politique, ils omettent nanmoins de prciser les hypothses  la base des discussions  ce sujet. Cet article identifie un certain nombre de ces hypothses. /// Diskussionen whrend der Mohonk Mountain Konferenz (April 1986) deckten Mythen, die der Theorie der Umweltverschlechterung im Himalaya zugrunde liegen auf, und schlugen gezielte Forschung vor, die zu besserem Verstndnis der Umwelt- und sozialen Probleme des Himalaya fhren knnen. Obwohl die zusammenfassenden Konferenzberichte der politischen konomie eine wichtige Rolle eingestehen, werden die politischen- und wirtschaftlichen Vorraussetzungen, die den Konferenzdiskussionen zugrunde lagen, nicht nher erlutert. Diese Verffentlichung benennt einige dieser Vorraussetzungen.
10.2307/3673441|Soil conservation in Ethiopia is considered today to be of top priority, not only to maintain and improve agricultural production but also to achieve food self-sufficiency, which is the long-term objective of the agricultural development programme. Therefore, a massive effort is being made in soil conservation by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Community Forests and Soil Conservation Development Department has already implemented soil conservation measures on over more than 1 million hectares in the last ten years. However, systematic approaches through local problem identification in this country where there is great variability in agro-ecological factors have been very rare, and consequently soil conservation activities have had a lesser impact than expected. In order to improve this situation the Soil Conservation Project, funded by the Government of Switzerland, became operational in 1981. The project has six research units as experimental sites in Welo, Harerge, Sidamo, Shewa, Gojam, and Eritrea, representing the six most important agro-climatic zones of the Ethiopian highlands. The project so far has made valuable contributions to the scientific understanding of the process of erosion in Ethiopia and has provided useful suggestions for improving soil conservation practices in the field. /// A prsent, l'Ethiopie accorde la plus haute priorit  la conservation des sols, non seulement pour prserver et amliorer la production agricole, mais aussi pour assurer son autosuffisance, c'est--dire pour accomplir l'objectif  long terme de son programme de dveloppement agricole. Pour cette raison, d'normes efforts ont t dploys par le ministre de l'Agriculture en matire de conservation des sols. Dj, au cours des dix dernires annes, le service de dveloppement des forts communales et de la conservation des sols a mis en oeuvre des mesures de conservation portant sur plus d'un million d'hectares. Nanmoins, des approches systmatiques faisant appel  l'identification des problmes au niveau local sont trs rares dans ce pays o les facteurs agro-cologiques sont hautement variables, et donc les mesures de conservation des sols ont produit des rsultats moindres que prvus. Afin d'amliorer la situation, un projet de conservation des sols financ par le gouvernement suisse a t lanc en 1981. Ce projet comporte six units de recherche sur des sites exprimentaux situs dans diffrentes rgions (Welo, Harerge, Sidamo, Shewa, Gojam et Eritre) reprsentant les six tages agro-climatiques les plus importants des hautes terres de l'Ethiopie. Jusqu' prsent, le projet a beaucoup contribu  la comprhension scientifique du processus d'rosion en Ethiopie, et a fourni d'excellentes suggestions pour amliorer les techniques de conservation des sols sur le territoire. /// Bodenkonservierung wird heute in Aethiopien mit hchster Prioritt behandelt, um mit diesem Mittel die landwirtschaftliche Produktion nicht nur zu erhalten, sondern auch zu steigern und dadurch eine autarke Nahrungsproduktion in Aethiopien zu erreichen. Bodenkonservierungsprogramme werden deshalb durch das thiopische Landwirtschaftsministerium durchgefhrt und deckten in den letzten 10 Jahren rund 1 Mio. ha ab. Wegen der grossen agro-kologischen Vielfalt des Landes konnten systematische Anstze nur selten durchgefhrt werden und resultierten deshalb in der Tatsache, dass Bodenkonservierung weniger erfolgreich war als erwartet. Aus diesem Grund wurde 1981 das Bodenkonservierungsprogramm der Universitt Bern in Zusammenarbeit mit der thiopischen Regierung, finanziert durch die Schweiz und Aethiopien, initiiert. Das Projekt hat sechs Forschungsstationen in den Regionen Welo, Harerge, Sidamo, Shewa, Gojam und Eritrea, die die wichtigsten agroklimatischen Zonen abdecken. Das Projekt liefert wertvolle Beitrge zum wissenschaftlichen Verstndnis der Erosionsprozesse und gibt ntzliche Verbesserungsvorschlge fr die Konservierungsmassnahmen im Feld. Richtlinien fr Bodenkonservierung wurden in Zusammenarbeit mit dem Departement fr Gemeindewald und Bodenkonservierung ausgearbeitet.
10.2307/3673916|Environmental Management Systems (EMS) developed in response to dissatisfaction with environmental auditing as a means of preventing pollution. The EMS approach benefited from the influence of diverse fields such as law, accounting, quality management, and workplace health and safety. Although not yet a trend, the marriage of EMS with self-evaluation, self-improvement models could make EMS even more effective. This paper describes the components and elements of an EMS which are suited to use in mountain ski area operations. Using a case study approach, it also illustrates the value of an EMS in focusing the environment initiatives of ski areas. From a societal point of view, the voluntary nature of the EMS suggested here represents a self-regulatory approach to encouraging mountain tourism organizations to become more effectively involved with the protection of environmental resources. The use of EMS strategies does not mean, however, that government regulation is unnecessary. It only adds to the set of forces needed to develop and maintain more sustainable tourism activities in mountain environments. /// Les Systmes de gestion de l'environnement (SGE) crs en rponse au mcontentement vis--vis du contrle environnemental en tant que moyen de prvention de la pollution et de la dgradation. L'approche SGE a bnfici de l'influence de domaines aussi varis que le droit, la comptabilit, la gestion de la qualit et l'hygine du travail. Bien que cela ne constitue pas encore une tendance, l'intgration des SGE avec les modles d'auto-valuation et d'auto-amlioration est susceptible de rendre les SGE encore plus efficaces. Cet article dcrit les composants et lments d'un SGE bien adapts  l'exploitation des stations de ski. Utilisant une approche d'tude de cas, l'article dmontre la valeur du SGE en termes de focalisation des initiatives environnementales des stations de ski. Du point de vue de la socit, le caractre volontariste du SGE suggr reprsente une approche auto-rglementaire visant  encourager les organisations de tourisme en montagne  participer plus activement  la protection des ressources environnementales. L'utilisation des stratgies SGE ne signifie cependant pas que la rglementation gouvernementale n'est pas ncessaire; elle s'ajoute simplement  l'ensemble des mesures ncessaires au dveloppement et au maintien des activits touristiques dans les environnements de montagne. /// Umweltfreundliche Trends beim Management von Skigebieten. Die Entwicklung von umweltbewuten (Environmental) Management Systemen (EMS), die Verschmutzung und Degradation bercksichtigen, war motiviert von allgemeiner Unzufriedenheit mit der bisherigen Bewertung von Umweltbelastungen. Bei der Entwicklung von EMS muten die Ergebnisse einer Vielzahl von diversen Fachgebieten, wie Rechtswesen, Buchfhrung, Qualittskontrolle, Unfallverhtung, und Arbeitsplatzsicherheit, unter einen Hut gebracht werden. Wenn auch bisher unbeachtet, knnte die Wirksamkeit von EMS mit Modellen zur Selbstkontrolle und Selbstbewertung noch verbessert werden. Diese Arbeit beschreibt die Komponenten und Einzelheiten von EMS, die fr Skigebietsunternehmen im Gebirge geeignet sind. Anhand einer Fallstudie wird der Wert von EMS aufgezeigt, wenn es darum geht, umweltbezogene Probleme in den Mittelpunkt zu stellen. Fr die Allgemeinheit bedeutet die hier vorgeschlagene freiwillige Annahme von EMS eine Selbstkontrolle; dem organisierten Bergtourismus wird nahegelegt, zum Schutz der natrlichen Ressourcen entscheidend mitbeizutragen. Die Anwendung von EMS Strategien bedeutet jedoch nicht, da staatliche Regulierung berflssig ist; sondern sie liefern zustzliche Aspekte, die beachtet werden mssen, um Touristenaktivitten in der Gebirgsumwelt zu entwickeln und aufrechtzuerhalten.
mounresedeve.32.3.267|This article reports on a qualitative case study about pasture governance practices in Naryn oblast in Kyrgyzstan. It investigates the relationship between shifts in pasture legislation and herders' mobility. The article describes a study of the outcomes of 2002 pasture management legislation that introduced pasture lease agreements. It specifically looks at the implications of dispersed administrative responsibility for livestock mobility. Contrary to what other studies have found, results of this study suggest that, in the case study, municipality, administrative hurdles were not a major cause of the abandonment of seasonal migration. Based on this finding, the results of the study suggest that a second reform approach, which started in 2009 and replaced the previous administrative arrangement with community-based pasture management would not necessarily improve the sustainable use of pastures and boost livestock mobility. The author points to the importance of designing effective local enforcement mechanisms for seasonal migration.
3674295|The European Alps (Alps) and Southern Alps of New Zealand (Southern Alps) are both high mountain ranges formed by the collision of tectonic plates. The Alps resulted from collision of the African and European Plates, which produced complex lithological and structural patterns associated with the development of a series of overthrusted nappes. In contrast, the plate margin deformation that created the Southern Alps produced a relatively simple structural and lithological pattern dominated by a single right lateral oblique slip fault zone known as the Alpine Fault. Strong contrasts are also apparent in the contemporary rates of landscape development. The Alps currently experience modest rates of uplift and denudation because deformation along the plate boundary has slowed. High rates of compressional strain along the Alpine Fault in New Zealand result in very high rates of uplift. These processes and the position of the mountain range across the prevailing atmospheric westerly circulation system result in exceptionally high rates of denudation. Although there are strong contrasts in the lithology and structure of the Alps and Southern Alps, both experienced the growth and decay of expanded valley and piedmont glaciers during the Quaternary. The impact of multiple Quaternary ice advances has left a strong imprint on the landscapes. Both mountain ranges have particularly well-developed, over-deepened troughs and widespread glacial sediments and landforms, which heavily influence modern geomorphic processes and land use. Today numerous glaciers in both regions show strong reactions to global warming since the end of the Little Ice Age.
3674210|Old developed systems of agricultural terraces are found in settled areas with high relief in different parts of the world. The present trend to abandon many of these terraced areas constitutes a process that increases erosion and sediment yield values following the collapse of supporting walls. This paper addresses the problem of changing human activities in the fragile environment of the historical terraces in the Central Andean mountains of Peru. The study is based on field experiments. Eight small plots were installed in the Santa Eulalia basin at altitudes of 2800 m and up to 3650 m. Annual run-off coefficient values were less than 5% and sediment yield values less than <tex-math>$1\ g/m^{2}$</tex-math> on the experimental plots. Daily rainfall intensity does not exceed 10 mm/d on most rainy days. Simulation of rainstorms by sprinklers was performed on terraces with different physiographic characteristics, lithology, soil, exposure, slope, altitude, degree of abandonment, and vegetation cover. Rainfall simulation tests revealed that run-off is high on steep, nonvegetated slopes and very low on grass-covered, low-angle slope terraces. A morphometric analysis was conducted on about 300 terraces with the same physiographic parameters. The average terrace area was <tex-math>$170\ m^{2}$</tex-math>, and most terraces surveyed were in a semiabandoned stage. Terrace degradation was noticeable by wall swelling, collapse, and deterioration of wall and terrace structure. Terrace degradation is a function of physical, economic, and social processes, which are linked and irreversible.
3674069|As a new strategy to conserve resources, decentralization of political authority has displaced earlier coercive conservation policies in many countries. More than 60 countries claim to have decentralized forest control. In these countries, communities are supposed to be involved in joint strategies to conserve forests. The story is similar for other resources such as wildlife, water, and watersheds. Decentralization is becoming ubiquitous even for provision of services, development programs, health and education. This is not surprising. Decentralization aims to achieve one of the central aspirations of equitable political governance: humans should have a say in their own affairs. Given the ubiquity of decentralization initiatives, 2 questions require critical attention: (1) What accounts for decentralization of political authority toward local decision makers? Voluntary relinquishing of power seems to fly in the face of expected state behavior. (2) Do the actual effects of decentralization policies match claims that decentralization is better on grounds of efficiency, equity, or political empowerment?
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r88|    ()               .    - ,              -              .    ,      ,         ,       ,           .       :  ,        ,       ,          ,         .          ,                        .
mounresedeve.29.1.36|At present, the return of farmland to forests is the key ecological conservation policy in use to control soil erosion and restore the ecoenvironment of the Loess Plateau, China. In order to explore policy-driven ecological defarming scenarios, Ansai County is taken as a case study. The land use map in 2000 and the topographic and slope map (taking the defarmed slopes with 15, 20, and 25 as the defarming thresholds) were used, supported by spatial analysis techniques in geographic information systems (GIS). This paper simulates and analyzes the scale and spatial difference of ecological defarming of Ansai County, the subsidy demand for defarming, and the influences of defarming on agricultural development. The results show: (1) The area of defarmed land with slopes greater than 25 in Ansai amounts to 3451.05 ha, which accounts for 2.84% of total area with slopes over 25, and the defarming index will be 3.14%. The total subsidy demand for defarming land will be 6884.84  10
3674463|The Kangchenjunga Conservation Area (KCA, Nepal) was the subject of a comparative study on land use/land cover change, using the maps and air photographs available for 2 different years (1978/79 and 1992). Digitized land use maps for 1978 (LUM78) and topographical maps for 1992 (TOPO92) were first interpreted using a Geographic Information System (GIS); this was followed by comparative interpretation of black and white air photographs from the same years. Lelep, Sekhathum-Amjilesa, Syajunma and Ramsyampati were the 4 areas selected for analysis. The initial map interpretation of LUM78 and TOPO92 implied that considerable changes in land use/cover had occurred between 1978/79 and 1992. Forestland was shown to have decreased by 62.5% (<tex-math>$23.15\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), agricultural land to have increased by 35.7% (<tex-math>$1.49\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), and shrubland to have increased by 238.2% (<tex-math>$30.16\ km^{2}$</tex-math>). Grazing land, with an area of <tex-math>$22.57\ km^{2}$</tex-math> on the 1978/79 and 1992 imagery, appeared to have disappeared completely by 1992. An interpretation of air photographs for the same period, however, revealed that the actual changes were far smaller than those inferred from the map interpretation: decrease in forest and grazing lands by 14.9% (<tex-math>$5.45\ km^{2}$</tex-math>) and 77.9% (<tex-math>$2.75\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), respectively, and increase in agricultural and shrublands by 4.9% (<tex-math>$0.21\ km^{2}$</tex-math>) and 19.7% (<tex-math>$4.41\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), respectively. The results of a questionnaire survey of the local inhabitants confirmed that no significant changes had occurred. The discrepancies identified highlight the problems inherent in assigning land categories. In particular, distinctions made on the LUM78 material between shrub, grazing land, and barren land were inappropriate. Similarly, forest and shrublands were incorrectly assigned in TOPO92. Caution must be exercised when using such information; verification from other sources is needed.
3674583|By combining research on individual forage plants and plant communities, significant information about the changing condition of rangelands under specific management practices can be produced; this has rarely been done to date. On the one hand, studies on individual plants provide rather mechanistic, isolated insights, making it impossible to identify interactions and the properties of plant communities relevant for adequate vegetation management. On the other hand, plant community analysis alone only reveals shifts in the composition of species and biomass, but does not explain cause-and-effect relationships related to the impact of grazing at species level. The combined and participatory approach suggested in this paper describes how a more tangible, quantifiable relationship can be established between individual plant and community level processes. Such an approach, which involves herders in expert assessment and data collection, enables better monitoring and forecasting of those changes in plant community composition that are relevant for livestock husbandry and sustainable resource use. In this study, the highest dry matter production (DMP) was recorded at altitudes between 1200 m (with 1945 kg/ha) and 1600 m (with 1921 kg/ha). In "freely grazed rangeland"-where access is not limited and no manual improvement measures are taken-the proportion of palatable forage species is much lower than in "fenced rangeland," where access is limited and the stocking rate reduced to one third. Such integrated assessment of rangeland conditions ultimately provides the baseline for evaluating changes in ecosystems over time; it also provides a sound basis for negotiation among stakeholders with different interests.
3674160|Land use and land cover changes that occurred from 1957 to 1995 in the Dembecha area, Gojam, in the Northwestern highlands of Ethiopia, were monitored using a geographic information system (GIS) and a remote sensing approach with field verification. The study area covers 27,100 ha and is representative of Gojam, which is known for its cereal production and export of surplus to major cities of the country. However, given the age-old tradition of clearing increasingly steeper land for cultivation and the lack of appropriate land use policies, productivity is currently heavily threatened by soil degradation. The results show that the natural forest cover declined from 27% in 1957 to 2% in 1982 and 0.3% in 1995. The total natural forest cleared between 1957 and 1995 amounts to 7259 ha. This is 99% of the forest cover that existed in 1957. On the other hand, cultivated land increased from 39% in 1957 to 70% in 1982 and 77% in 1995. The greatest expansion occurred between 1957 and 1982 (about 78%) and slowed down between 1982 and 1995 (only 10%) because almost no land was left for further expansion. Throughout the period covered by the study, cultivation encroached upon the very last marginal areas and steep slopes with gradients >30%. Such a dramatic change in 4 decades and the increasing proportion of completely degraded lands, from virtually nil in 1957 to about 3% in 1995, clearly indicates the prevailing danger of land degradation in the area.
10.2307/3673213|The causes of forest depletion in the Himalayan region are complex, and they vary from one local setting to another, as the result of long historical trends. This paper traces three major factors: the intrusion of modern political and economic systems into the mountains; the growth of modern resource management agencies, notably the Indian Forest Service; and the pressures of rural subsistence and population migrations. /// Les causes de la dforestation dans la rgion himalayenne sont complexes et varient selon les conditions locales, par suite d'une longue volution historique. Cette tude examine trois facteurs principaux: l'introduction de systmes politiques et conomiques modernes dans les rgions montagneuses; la cration d'organismes modernes de gestion des ressources, en particulier le Service indien des eaux et forts; et les pressions de l'auto-consommation rurale et des migrations de population. /// Die Ursachen des Waldschwundes im Himalaya Gebiet sind komplex und als Resultat langfristiger, historischer Entwicklungen von Ort zu Ort unterschiedlich. Diese Studie untersucht drei Hauptfaktoren: Das Eindringen moderner politischer und konomischer Systeme in die Bergwelt; das Aufkommen von modernen Organisationen fr Ressourcemanagement insbesondere der indische Forest Service; und die Zwnge lndlicher Selbstversorgung und Bevlkerungsmigration.
3674509|During the past century the "Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation" has dominated mainstream views concerning natural resource management in the Himalayan region. The main tenet of this theory is that increased human population has resulted in increased demands for natural resources, leading to severe resource depletion, especially deforestation. In this article, we use local data on fuelwood consumption and timber extraction from Basho Valley in northern Pakistan to investigate whether such general perceptions regarding forest depletion can be supported by an empirical case study. The results of this study indicate that local fuelwood collection is not the main cause of deforestation. Instead, the estimated deforestation of about 30% during the last 3 decades is primarily due to commercial harvesting and mismanagement by the government. A large amount of dead fallen wood and green trees was sold by the government or was taken out by a "timber mafia" that emerged during the main period of commercial harvesting in the 1970s and 80s. Thus, it is commercial and illegal harvesting that has left the forest in such a depleted state that it can no longer withstand the pressure from local use.
10.2307/3673893|The development of ski-runs and lifts for downhill skiing in the Black Forest has led to extensive damage. Vegetation cover and topsoil have been lost, resulting in soil erosion and extended needle-ice solifluction. The mapping of damage in skiing areas, primarily applied in alpine regions, is now being undertaken in lower mountain areas; it indicates the relationships between types of damage, frequency, distribution, location, aspect, and relief. The analysis of the snow-cover conditions at the Schauinsland between the winters of 1976/77 and 1993/94 shows an exceptional variability in snow depth as well as duration of snow cover. Classification of the damage on test plots for the period 1985/86 indicates that graded areas, used as pastures, are extremely susceptible to geomorphological processes, especially erosion and solifluction, and that consequential damage is very likely. It is possible to quantify the erosion and accumulation rates during the summer by simple measurements. The results of the study at Schauinsland reveal different parameters with which to evaluate recent geomorpho-dynamic processes. These can be used to develop a program for ski-tourism that will result in less damage and will allow damaged areas to regenerate. /// La construction de pistes et de tlsiges pour le ski alpin en Fort-Noire a caus des dgts importants. Le tapis vgtal et la couche arable ont disparu, entranant une rosion du sol et une solifluxion tendue. La reprsentation cartographique des dgts dans les aires de ski,  l'origine limite  la zone alpine, a t maintenant tendue aux zones plus basses; elle rvle les interrelations entre les types de dgts, la frquence, la distribution spatiale, l'emplacement, l'aspect et le relief. L'analyse des conditions d'enneigement du Schauinsland, pour les hivers de 1976/77  1993/94, a mis en vidence des variations normes de l'paisseur de la couche de neige et de sa dure. La classification des dgts sur des parcelle exprimentales, pour l'hiver 1985/86, a indiqu que les aires aplanies, telles que les pturages, sont extrmement sensibles aux processus gomorphologiques, en particulier l'rosion et la solifluxion, et que des dgts indirects sont trs probables. Il est possible de quantifier les vitesses d'rosion et d'accumulation pendant l't,  l'aide de simples mesures. Les rsultats de l'tude du Schauinsland ont mis en vidence diffrents paramtres permettant d'valuer les processus gomorphodynamiques rcents. Ces paramtres peuvent tre utiliss pour mettre sur pied un programme d'amnagement pour le ski alpin, endommageant moins le milieu naturel et permettant aux zones endommages de se rgnrer. /// Die Erschlieung des Skigebietes durch Pisten- und Liftbau fhrt auf den betroffenen Flchen zu einer weitgehenden Zerstrung der natrlichen Bodenschichtung; Vegetationsbedeckung und Humusauflage gingen verloren. Der Skibetrieb und die Pistenprparierungsarbeiten lsen Nutzungsschden aus. Verminderte Vegetationsbedeckung, flchenhafte Absplung von Feinmaterial und vermehrte Kammeissolifluktion sind die Folgeschden. Die bisher vorwiegend im alpinen Raum angewandte Schadenskartierung eines zusammenhngenden Skigebietes wird auf den Mittelgebirgsraum bertragen und zeigt auch hier deutlich den Zusammenhang zwischen Schadenstyp, -hufigkeit, -verteilung und den standrtlichen Begebenheiten. Exposition, Relief, sowie Vernderungen durch den Pistenbau, sind die entscheidenden Faktoren fr die Ausbreitung oder Regeneration geschdigter Flchen. Die Analyse der Entwicklung der Winterschneedecke zeigt im Blick auf die untersuchten Winter 1976/1977 bis 1993/1994 eine enorm groe Variabilitt der Schneehhen, Schneedeckendauer und ihres Beginns und Endes. Mit der Schadensklassifizierung einzelner Testflchen kann fr den Mezeitraum 1985/86 nachgewiesen werden, da planierte, beweidete Flchen fr morphodynamische Prozesse, insbesondere Absplung von Feinmaterial und Kammeissolifluktion sehr anfllig sind und mit einer zunehmenden Schdigung zu rechnen ist. Mit sehr einfachen Methoden lt sich der sommerliche Abtrag quantifizieren, das Ausma der Akkumulation ermitteln. Die ermittelten Werte ergeben Grenordnungen, die eine Bewertung des Flchenzustandes und der rezenten Morphodynamik erlauben. Gleichzeitig knnen auf der Grundlage der Kartierung und der Meergebnisse Vorschlge einer skitouristischen Nutzung erarbeitet werden, die weniger Schden verursacht und die Regeneration geschdigter Flchen ermglicht.
10.2307/3673038|Land use and land cover shown on air photographs taken in 1953, 1969, and 1976-77 were compared with present-day field data in the area around Huai Thung Choa and the results were analysed. Four primary classes were recognized: villages and cultivated land, shrubland, woodland, and forest. Results indicate that the rate of continuing change accelerated in the late 1970s due to road construction and reforestation in the hill country. The Lisu people show a tendency to move northwards from the area while Khon Muang are attracted into the area by the possibilities of more intensive agriculture and agro-forestry systems and wage labour. /// Cette tude compare les donnes sur l'utilisation et la couverture des terres, tires des photographies ariennes prises en 1953, 1969, 1976-77, avec les donnes rcentes releves sur place dans la rgion de Huai Thung Choa. Cette comparaison est suivie d'une analyse des rsultats. On peut distinguer quatre catgories diffrentes: villages et terres cultives, zones arbustives, zones boises, et forts. Les rsultats indiquent que l'volution continue s'est acclre vers la fin des annes 70, du fait de la construction de routes et du reboisement des rgions montagneuses. Les Lisus ont tendance  se dplacer vers le nord de cette rgion, alors que les Khon Muangs y sont attirs par les possibilits d'agriculture plus intensive, les systmes d'agro-foresterie, et le travail salari. /// Anhand von Luftaufnahmen aus den Jahren 1953, 1969 und 1976-77 im Gebiet um Huai Thung Choa wurden Bodennutzung und Bewachsung mit gegenwrtigen Daten verglichen und die Ergebnisse analysiert. Vier Hauptgruppen wurden klassifiziert: Drfer und bestellte Landflchen, Buschland, waldartige Flchen und Wlder. Die Ergebnisse verdeutlichen, dass als Folge des Strassenbaus und der Aufforstung im Bergland in den spten 70er Jahren sich der Grad der Vernderungen beschleunigte. Die Lisu Bevlkerung wandert aus diesem Gebiet nach Norden ab, whrend die Khon Muang zuwandern, angezogen von Gelegenheiten zur intensiven Landwirtschaft, zur Agro-Forstwirtschaft und zur Verdingung als Gelegenheitsarbeiter.
10.2307/3673059|This paper explains the background of a project on mountain hazards mapping in Nepal which is supported by the United Nations University, Unesco, and His Majesty's Government of Nepal. Three areas, representative of the three main altitudinal belts experiencing major human impacts, were selected for production of prototype hazard maps. They are: 1) High-Altitude belt above and below upper timberline (Khumbu Himal); 2) Middle Mountain belt (vicinity of Kathmandu); and 3) Low-Altitude belt (transection of the Siwalik Hills and Gangetic Plain). The research design is presented and some early results from completed work in the Kathmandu area are discussed. The paper is intended to provide a framework for a series of subsequent reports on more detailed aspects of the study, including geomorphology, ethnography, biogeography, land use, and the hazard maps themselves. /// Cet article prsente les bases d'un projet de relev des sites menacs dans les montagnes du Npal, projet financ par l'Universit des Nations Unies, l'Unesco, et le gouvernement du Npal. Trois rgions reprsentatives des trois principaux tages altitudinaux  fort impact humain, ont t choisies pour laborer les prototypes de cartes de sites menacs. Ce sont 1) l'tage  haute altitude au-dessus et en-dessous de la limite suprieure de la fort (Khumbu Himal); 2) l'tage montagnard mitoyen (les alentours de Kathmandu); et 3) l'tage  basse altitude (coupe transversale des collines de Siwalik et de la plaine gangtique). Le plan de recherche est prsent et quelques rsultats initiaux du travail effectu dans la rgion de Kathmandu, sont discuts. Cet article se propose de fournir une structure de base pour une srie de rapports subsquents portant sur les aspects plus dtaills de l'tude, dont la gomorphologie, l'ethnographie, la biogographie, l'utilisation des sols et les cartes de sites menacs elles-mmes. /// Diese Verffentlichung erklrt den Hintergrund eines Projektes ber die Kartographierung von Berggefahren in Nepal. Es wird von der Universitt der Vereinten Nationen, von Unesco und von der Regierung seiner kniglichen Hoheit von Nepal untersttzt. Drei Gebiete wurden, also Musterbeispiel der drei Haupthhengrtel, die starker, menschlicher Einwirkung ausgesetzt sind, zur Herstellung von Prototyp- Karten ausgesucht. Diese sind: 1) Der Hhengrtel ber und unterhalb der oberen Baumgrenze (Khumbu Himal); 2) Der mittlere Gebirgsgrtel (Umgebung von Kathmandu) und 3) Der niedrige Hhengrtel (Querschnitt von den Siwalik Hills und der Gangetic Ebene). Der Forschungsentwurf wird vorgelegt, und einige Vorergebnisse der durchgefhrten Arbeit im Gebiet um Kathmandu werden diskutiert. Die Absicht dieser Verffentlichung ist es, eine Reihe nachfolgender Berichte einzuleiten, die sich mit den Einzelheiten der Studien ber Geomorphologie, Ethnographie, Biogeography, Bodennutzung und mit den Gefahrenkarten selber genauer befassen.
mounresedeve.36.1.4|Mountainous rural areas such as those in southwest China are developing rapidly. This requires scientific understanding and a framework for assessing the sustainability of the built environment that is suitable to such areas. At present, no such framework exists. This lack of assessment options has contributed to the unsustainable development of these areas, which has caused a series of environmental, social, and economic problems. This article analyzes existing assessment frameworks, reviews the theory on sustainable rural development as it applies to rural southwest China, and proposes a new assessment framework that is more suitable to this region and others like it. This framework is based on a sustainable development model for rural areas that emphasizes endogenous development; addresses the environmental, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability; and takes the natural and social conditions of mountainous rural areas into account. Our study tested its applicability to rural southwest China and its sensitivity to local conditions and found them to be better than those of existing assessment frameworks.
mounresedeve.29.1.21|Repeat photography is a useful tool for evaluating historical landscape change. The objective of this study was to use ground-based repeat photography to quantify landscape vegetation changes during the period of 18802008 and to evaluate methods employed in repeat photography. The historical photographs included 237 landscape photographs taken in 1880 in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Fiftyfive photographs were successfully relocated, and the photograph pairs were analyzed for changes in cover classes and changes by topographical position. From 1880 to 2008, forest land was the most stable cover type (98% of forested land in 1880 remained forested in 2008). Some of the main patterns of land conversion during this time period were (1) agricultural land converted to forest (19%), (2) residential and commercial land converted to forest (18%), and (3) transportation systems converted to forest or agricultural land (57%). When combined with other historical land use methods, repeat photography can yield a detailed reconstruction of the historical profile of an area; however, if the original locations of the photographs are unknown, repeat photography is a very time-intensive technique.
3674441|Archival data of monthly air temperature and precipitation series were used to investigate climate change trends and characteristics during 1960-2000 at 19 stations along Lancang River from the north to the south, in the mountainous Himalayan region of southwest China. The magnitude of a trend was estimated using Sen's Nonparametric Estimator of Slope approach. The station significance of a trend was assessed by the MK test. Over the observation period of 41 years, mean annual air temperature increased at the rate of 0.01C/yr to 0.04C/yr in 12 stations at the significance level  = 0.01. The changes in precipitation in different areas are very dissimilar and complex. Mean annual precipitation that decreased from -2.86mm/yr to -5.29mm/yr at 3 stations, and mean annual precipitation that increased from 5.77mm/yr and 7.44mm/yr at 2 stations, were statistically significant at the significance level  = 0.05. The lower reaches of Lancang River experienced much more severe temperature increase, precipitation decrease, and drought development than the upper reaches in the past 41 years.
mounresedeve.32.2.117|Mountain economies are undergoing transformation from traditional agrarian to more industrial or serviceoriented economies. Such changes invariably have socioeconomic impacts on nearby communities and lead to fragmentation and rural depopulation. Sikkim, a small state of India in the Eastern Himalayas, has recently embarked on a program of hydroelectricity project construction. This study examined community perceptions of the environmental and socioeconomic impacts of these projects in 3 rural areas and considers implications for future sustainable livelihoods. While benefits such as employment have accrued to the rural community from these economic development projects, changes in land use and in people's occupations may have adverse impacts on their future livelihoods. We argue that there is a need to support new types of land-based economic activities on abandoned agricultural lands, reclaim degraded lands, and introduce new products and production methods.
3674338|The Andean region of Peru covers over one third of the country's territory and contains about 30% of its total population. Development is constrained by both natural and nonnatural barriers, especially in rural areas. Geographic isolation, difficult mountainous terrain, high costs associated with improving transport infrastructure, deficient services, and intermediate means of transport limit the mobility of the rural poor as well as their access to basic services and utilities. Illiteracy rates are high in rural areas; the rate for women (28.2%) is 3 times that of men (9.1%). Responsible de facto for family life activities (education, health, food, recreation, child-care, family relations, etc) and increasingly sharing productive and management roles with men, rural women carry a significant workload. The impact of improved rural roads on gender relations in the Peruvian Andes is highlighted in the present paper, with a focus on the example of the Rural Roads Program. Recommendations are made for more gender-sensitive policy programs in the transport sector.
10.2307/3673745|This paper aims to show, with evidence from the Salme slope, that there is no direct relationship between human pressure, monsoon rains, and erosion in the Middle Mountains of Central Nepal. It emphasizes the importance of methodology in such a study. The author spent an entire year studying the Salme slope from different perspectives. Observations on selected climatic parameters and vegetation have been recorded regularly for five years. The climatological study indicates that rainfall is very heavy (4,000 mm/yr) but not very erosive; the cultivated area receives significant amounts of insolation even during the summer monsoon. These factors lead to abundant growth of vegetation under forest and on terraced fields during the monsoon season. Maintenance of the cultivated area contributes to slope stability. Development of gullies (pahiro) is the only significant process of erosion and this appears to be a result of natural rather than anthropogenic forces. Negative effects of rain and human pressure on the soil resource are infrequent, localized, and of limited scope. Thus, these impacts should be seen as stabilizing elements in a naturally fragile environment, rather than destabilizing agents in a mountain area that some have described as severely degraded as a result of human abuse. /// L'objectif de cet article est de montrer, d'aprs l'exemple du versant de Salme, qu'il n'y a pas de relation directe entre la pression humaine, les pluies de mousson et l'rosion dans les Moyenne Montagnes du Npal Central. L'importance de la mthodologie pour aborder ce thme y est souligne. L'auteur a pass une anne complte  tudier ce versant sous diffrentes angles. Des donnes recueillies ponctuellement pendant 5 ans ont permis de complter cette tude. L'tude climatique indique que: les pluies sont trs abondantes (4000 mm/an) mais peu rosives; le secteur cultiv est bien ensoleill mme pendant la mousson. Il en rsulte la pousse d'une abondante vgtation sous fort et sur les champs en terrasses pendant la mousson. La maintenance du secteur cultiv contribue  la stabilit des pentes. Un grand ravinement (pahiro) est le seul processus d'rosion important et son origine semble tre naturelle plutt qu'anthropique. Les effets ngatifs des pluies et de la pression humaine sur le sol sont peu frquents, localiss et de peu d'ampleur. Ces deux agents seraient donc plutt des lments stabilisateurs d'un milieu fragile naturellement, que des agents dstabilisateurs d'un milieu que d'aucuns ont tendance  considrer comme stable tant qu'il n'est pas occup par l'homme. /// Diese Verffentlichung will anhand des Salme Berghanges aufzeigen, da in den Middle Mountains von Zentralnepal keine direkte Beziehung zwischen Bevlkerungsdruck, Monsunregen und Erosion besteht. Sie unterstreicht, da es bei solchen Untersuchungen wichtig ist, methodisch vorzugehen. Der Autor verbrachte insgesamt ein ganzes Jahr vor Ort und untersuchte den Salme Hang nach verschiedenen Gesichtspunkten. ber einen Zeitraum von fnf Jahren wurden regelmig Beobachtungen von ausgewhlten klimatischen Parametern und von der Vegetation aufgezeichnet. Die klimatische Studie zeigt, da Niederschlag sehr stark (4.000 mm/Jahr) sein kann, aber trotzdem keine Erosion auslst; die bestellte Flche erhlt reichlich Sonneneinstrahlung, selbst whrend des Sommermonsuns. Diese Faktoren begnstigen whrend der Monsunzeit ppige Vegetation unter Bumen und auf terrassierten Feldern. Instandhaltung der bestellten Flche trgt zur Hangstabilitt bei. Die Entwicklung von Rinnen (pahiro) ist der einzige nennenswerte Erosionsvorgang, und es scheint, als wre dies mehr ein Naturvorgang als ein von Menschen verursachter. Gelegentlich gibt es negativ Auswirkungen auf die Bodenressource durch Regen und durch Bevlkerungsdruck, die aber rtlich begrenzt bleiben. In einem Berggebiet, das von vielen durch menschlichen Mibrauch schwer geschdigt beschrieben worden ist, sollten solche Einflsse eher als stabilisierend fr eine anfllige Umwelt gesehen werden und nicht als destabilisierende Faktoren.
10.2307/3673107|Pre-Columbian culture and society in the Southern Andes did not reach as high a level as farther north. Nevertheless there is a rich archaeological record that is just now being studied. Land use has evolved over the centuries from the early hunter-gatherer communities to the present mix of intensive farming and mining (concentrated in certain areas such as northern and central Chile, Mendoza, Tucuman, and Cordoba), extensive livestock raising, and subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Demographic, historic, political, and economic factors have contributed to present-day land use. Colonial economy in its mature period was centred around silver mining at Potosi. The Southern Andes' economy developed primarily as one that supplied Potosi with wheat, mules, and brandy. Independence coincided with the exhaustion of the silver at Potosi. The economies of Chile and Argentina developed in different directions: Chile's large copper, iron, and saltpetre deposits determined that the primary orientation would be mining; the existence of a large and fertile plain to the east of the mountains in Argentina resulted in comparative neglect of the mountain areas in favour of the plains. In both countries the historical pattern of land tenure was moulded during the height of the colonial period and the development of large haciendas dedicated to both agriculture and animal husbandry. The resulting latifundio-minifundio pattern has had a negative effect on development in the Southern Andes region. /// La culture et la socit pr-colombiennes n'ont pas atteint un niveau de dveloppement aussi avanc dans les Andes mridionales que dans les rgions plus au nord. Nanmoins, de nombreux vestiges archologiques y ont t dcouverts, qui commencent juste  tre tudis. L'exploitation des terres a volu au cours des sicles, depuis les anciennes communauts survivant de la chasse et de la collecte jusqu'au mlange actuel d'agriculture intensive et d'exploitation minire (concentre dans certaines rgions telles que le Chili septentrional et central, Mendoza, Tucuman, et Cordoba), d'levage extensif du btail, et d'autoconsommation (agriculture et levage). Diffrents facteurs dmographiques, historiques, politiques, et conomiques ont contribu au dveloppement des modes actuels d'exploitation des terres. A son apoge, l'conomie coloniale tait base sur l'exploitation des mines d'argent de Potosi, et l'conomie des Andes mridionales s'est developpe surtout dans le but d'approvisionner Potosi en bl, mules, et eau-de-vie. L'indpendance a concid avec l'puisement du gisement de Potosi. Les conomies respectives du Chili et de l'Argentine ont alors evolu diffremment: des gisements importants de cuivre, fer, et salite ont dtermin l'orientation principale du Chile vers l'exploitation minire, alors qu'une plaine tendue et fertile  l'est des montagnes a pouss l'Argentine  ngliger quelque peu les rgions montagneuses en faveur des plaines. Dans ces deux pays, le rgime foncier traditionnel a pris sa forme dfinitive  l'apoge de la priode coloniale, avec cration de grandes exploitations rurales (haciendas) consacres  l'agriculture et  l'levage. Le mode d'exploitation des terres qui en a result (latifundio-minifundio) a eu un effet dfavorable sur le dveloppement des Andes mridionales. /// Die prkolumbianische Kultur und Gesellschaftsstruktur in den sdlichen Anden waren nicht so hoch entwickelt wie in den nrdlicheren Gegenden, trotzdem existieren aufschlureiche archologische Aufzeichnungen, die gerade untersucht werden. ber die Jahrhunderte hat sich die Landnutzung von frhen Jger- und Sammlergemeinden zur gegenwrtigen Mischung aus intensiver Landwirtschaft, Bergbau (dieser konzentriert sich auf bestimmte Gebiete wie Nord- und Zentralchile, Mendoza, Tucuman und Cordoba), ausgedehnter Viehzucht, Landwirtschaft zur Deckung des Eigenbedarfs und Viehwirtschaft entwickelt. Demographische, historische, politische und wirtschaftliche Gesichtspunkte haben zur gegenwrtigen Landnutzung beigetragen. Whrend der Bltezeit der Kolonialherrschaft konzentrierte sich die Wirtschaft um die Silberbergwerke bei Potosi. Die konomie in den sdlichen Anden entwickelte sich vorwiegend aus der Versorgung Potosis mit Weizen, Maultieren und Branntwein. Unabhngigkeit fiel zeitlich mit dem Erschpfen der Silbervorkommen in Potosi zusammen. Die Wirtschaft Chiles und Argentiniens entwickelte sich in verschiedene Richtungen: Chiles groe Kupfer-, Eisen- und Salzablagerungen machten den Bergbau zur Hauptbeschftigung. In Argentinien dagegen gaben die groen fruchtbaren Ebenen stlich der Berge den Ausschlag, das Bergland zugunsten des Flachlandes zu vernachlssigen. In beiden Lndern prgte sich die geschichtliche Form des Grundbesitzes whrend der Blte der Kolonialzeit, und es entwickelten sich groe Haziendas, die der Land- und Viehwirtschaft dienten. Das sich daraus ergebende System der Grobis zu Kleinstgrundbesitzungen hatte nachteilige Folgen fr die Entwicklung der sdlichen Anden. /// La cultura y sociedad pre-Colombina no alcanz en estas regiones el esplendor que alcanz ms al norte. Sin embargo, la regin de los Andes del Sur es rica en sitios arqueolgicos que estn siendo estudiados. El uso de la tierra ha evolucionado a travs de los siglos desde un perodo de caza-recolecta, al presente que es una mezcla de agricultura y mineria intensiva y altamente tcnificada concentrada en ciertas zonas como el norte y centro de Chile, Mendoza, Tucumn, y Cordoba; gandera extensiva; y agricultura y ganadera de subsistencia. Factores demogrficos, histricos, polticos y ecnomicos, han contribuido a crear esta situacin. La economia colonial en su perodo de madurez estaba centrada en la economa de las minas de plata de Potos. La economa de la regin de los Andes del Sur se centro principalmente en el negocio de suplir a las minas de Potos con mulas, trigo, y aguardiente. Las minas se agotaron al tiempo de la Independencia de las Repblicas Americanas. Las economas de Chile y Argentina se desarrollaron a lo largo de caminos diferentes. Los grandes depositos de cobre, hierro y salitre de Chile determinaron que su principal orientacin sera hacia la minera; la existencia de una extensa y frtil llanura al este de las montaas en la Argentina resultaron en un relativo olvido de esta regin en favor de la regin pampeana. En ambos pases el patrn de tenencia de la tierra fue moldeado durante la poca colonial con sus grandes haciendas dedicadas a la agricultura y la ganadera. El resultante patrn de latifundio-minifundio ha tenido efectos negativos sobre el desarrollo de la regin de los Andes del Sur.
10.2307/3673167|The Ethiopian mountain ecosystems (above 1,500 m) make up 40 percent of the total land mass of the country. The mountain area contains 71 percent of the human population and 69 percent of all the cattle, and is responsible for nearly all the food crops and most of the cash crops produced in the country. The historical considerations show a shift from a relatively stable and self-contained system with a low level of exploitation to a socially stratified and economically dependent system with an increased level of exploitation (deforestation, severe soil and water erosion) and the risk of regional famines. The present state can generally be described as one with a drastically declining carrying capacity. More labour and more land are needed to feed each family than ever before. The mountain system can be divided into two major regions. In the south and southwest of the Ethiopian mountains (Wollayate and Guraghe regions) horticultural agriculture is characterized by hoe-cultivation and, despite the high human population density, the ecosystem is relatively stable. In the central and northern massifs, with medium to high population density, there is a cereal/livestock-based agriculture with plough-cultivation. This ecosystem is highly unstable and is no longer able to support the local population. The most sensitive areas are the lower and upper altitudinal belts (Kola, Woorch). Instability in these areas also affects the lowlands. Corrective measures must aim to reduce the overall pressure of traditional agricultural land use, and to regulate and improve livestock production. Irrigation, market infrastructure, and agro-industrial efforts, and the monetarization of the rural economy must also be considered. /// L'cosystme des montagnes thiopiennes au-dessus de 1500 m reprsente 40 pourcent de la superficie du pays; 71 pourcent de la population et 69 pourcent du cheptel vivent dans cette rgion, d'o provient la majeure partie des denres alimentaires et des plantes marchandes du pays. Les considrations historiques font ressortir le passage d'une systme autarcique relativement stable, avec un faible degr d'exploitation,  un systme dpendant, prsentant un degr d'exploitation croissant. Les consquences de cette volution sont le dboisement, une grave rosion et le risque de famines rgionales. Cette situation peut tre dfinie de manire gnrale comme diminution rapide de la capacit de charge (carrying capacity): pour nourrir une famille, il faut plus de terre et plus de travail que jamais auparavant. L'tude des deux rgions principales de l'cosystme montre quelques diffrences remarquables. Le Sud et le Sud-Ouest des montagnes thiopiennes (Wollayate et la rgion de Guraghe), avec culture  la houe, prsentent un cosystme relativement stable, malgr la haute densit de l'habitat. Les massifs du Centre et du Nord, avec une densit de population moyenne  leve, sont caractrises par la culture cralire et l'levage, ainsi que par l'utilisation de la charrue. Cet cosystme est menac au plus haut degr et ne peut plus soutenir conomiquement la population locale. Les espaces les plus menacs se situent dans les zones infrieures et suprieures des rgions montagneuses (Kola, Woorch). L'instabilit de ces zones influence galement les rgions de faible altitude. Les mesures d'amlioration ont pour but la rduction de la pression de l'agriculture traditionnelle sur l'cosystme en gnral, la rgulation et l'amlioration du produit de l'levage. Elles portent galement sur les questions d'irrigation, d'infrastructure du march et d'effort agro-industriel et visent  la gnralisation de l'conomie montaire. /// Das Oekosystem der Athiopischen Gebirge ber 1500 m umfasst 40 Prozent der gesamten Flche des Landes. In diesem Gebiet, das 71 Prozent der Landesbevlkerung und 69 Prozent des gesamten Viehbestandes umfasst, wird der grsste Teil der Nahrungsmittel wie auch der im Lande produzierten Handelspflanzen angebaut. Aus der historischen Betrachtung zeigt sich ein bergang von einem relativ stabilen, sich selbst erhaltenden System mit einem geringen Ausnutzungsgrad zu einem abhngigen System mit einem zunehmenden Ausnutzungsgrad. Die Folge davon sind Entwaldung, ernsthafte Bodenerosion und das Risiko regionaler Hungersnte. Dieser Zustand kann allgemein als stark abnehmende carrying capacity (Tragfhigkeit) bezeichnet werden. Mehr Land und Arbeit als je zuvor sind erforderlich, um eine Familie zu ernhren. Beim Betrachten der zwei Hauptregionen des kosystems zeigen sich einige bemerkenswerte Unterschiede: Der Sden und Sdwesten der thiopischen Gebirge (Wollayate und die Region von Guraghe), mit Hackbau zeigt trotz der dichten Besiedlung ein relativ stabiles kosystem. Das zentrale und nrdliche Massiv, mit mittlerer bis hoher Bevlkerungsdichte ist durch Getreideanbau und Viehwirtschaft sowie der Pflug-Technik gekennzeichnet. Dieses kosystem ist im hchstem Grad gefhrdet und vermag die lokale Bevlkerung wirtschaftlich nicht lnger zu tragen. Die am meisten gefhrdeten Rume befinden sich in den unteren und oberen Hhenregionen (Kola, Woorch). Die Instabilitt dieser Zonen beeinflusst ebenfalls die tief gelegenen Gebiete. Verbesserungsmassnahmen haben die Reduktion des allgemeinen Drucks der traditionellen Landwirtschaft, die Regulierung und Verbesserung der Viehproduktion, die Fragen der Bewsserung, der Vermarktungsinfrastruktur und der agro-industriellen Bemhungen, sowie die weitere Verbreitung der Geldwirtschaft zum Ziel.
mounresedeve.32.3.286|While the world is becoming increasingly interconnected and interdependent, physically and culturally, the wildlife of remote mountain regions is being affected both positively and negatively by such interconnectedness. In the case of snow leopards, the conservation impact has been largely, and rather unexpectedly, positive: Species-focused conservation projects, such as Project Snow Leopard (PSL) in Gilgit-Baltistan, remain mainly externally driven initiatives. PSL, initiated as a small pilot project in 1998, has relied on an approach that includes the use of an insurance scheme, the deployment of mitigation measures, and the empowerment of local governance. This approach has been successful in reducing the conflict with snow leopards and has built greater tolerance toward them. PSL is managed by local communities and cofinanced by them. PSL communities throughout the region are bearing the burden of carnivore conservation, and they are unwittingly subsidizing their populations by feeding them their livestock even though they are an economic threat to them. In this article, we argue that external intervention in the form of efforts that help alleviate the consequences of conflict through local empowerment have had a positive impact on the local mountain societies. We also show that such interventions have resulted in tangible conservation results, with the number of snow leopards staying at least stable. Our experience also shows that while the incentive component is critical, it is also part of a larger approachone that includes developing and supporting local governance structures, improving access to education, and offering a range of tools to reduce the conflict that can be implemented locally. Finally, we suggest that investing in this approach one that recognizes the species and local-context complexities surrounding the implementation of conservation incentivescan continue to inform international practices and guidelines for reducing humanwildlife conflicts worldwide.
mounresedeve.29.4.356|CONDESAN (Consortium for the Sustainable Development of the Andean Eco-region) is a 16-year-old consortium that offers an innovative form of organization and promotes horizontal integration among nongovernmental organizations, universities, national and international research centers, and governmental agencies from the Andean region. We are innovative and horizontal as we are able to cooperate with different types of actorsscientists, politicians, people from rural communities, among otherswho participate and interact as actors with the same rights. Our aim is the sustainable development of the Andean region (mountains).
mounresedeve.30.1.25|Forest resources in northwest Pakistan are under severe threat, negatively affecting local people aiming to meet their subsistence needs through different types of forest use. In addition to uses such as fodder and fuelwood, medicinal plants play an important role in the livelihoods of local people. To reduce pressure and dependency on remaining old-growth forests, some deforested and degraded sites have been reforested. The objectives of the present study were to (1) compare the abundance of medicinal plants on reforested and formerly forested degraded land and (2) assess the influence of reforested stand characteristics on the abundance of medicinal plants. Five plots were randomly selected per land use type. On these plots we analyzed the abundance and other variables of 10 herbal medicinal plants common and important for the rural human population. Frequencies, densities, and cover of the 10 medicinal plants were significantly higher on reforested sites than on degraded sites. Frequencies of highly valuable species such as Valeriana jatamansi, Bergenia ciliata, and Paeonia emodi increased 16-, 8- and 6-fold on reforested sites, respectively. Moreover, density, cover and diversity of medicinal plants (in total) were 7, 5, and 2 times higher, respectively, and 3 species absent on degraded sites were encountered on reforested sites. On reforested plots, tree basal area was the most influential variable positively correlated with the abundance of the aforementioned species. Thus, our data suggest that reforestation of degraded sites can greatly increase the abundance of medicinal plants and may be an instrument for improving the livelihoods of local people and protecting remaining natural forest resources.
mounresedeve.32.4.411|Food security is a significant issue for many people who live in remote mountain areas around the world. Most of these people are also poor because of the lack of opportunity to earn cash. Malnutrition is common because the harsh climate restricts production and access to fresh food. Simple conventional greenhouses can provide some improvement of growing conditions, but the benefits are limited because of the high heat losses from these structures. Solar greenhouses, however, which are designed to store some of the heat generated within the structure can overcome these limitations. This article describes the experiences of a nongovernmental organization that has been introducing community and familyowned solar greenhouses into the remote villages of Humla, a mountainous district of northwest Nepal prone to food insecurity. The overall result has been positive. Family-owned greenhouses, which avoid the issues of community ownership and operation, have been more successful. A validated computer model based on the first solar greenhouse has been used to predict the thermal performance of a new family-sized design. Training and education are vital to the success of solar greenhouse technology in remote mountain areas.
3674368|Much of the Earth is degraded, is being degraded, or is at risk of degradation. Dry Afromontane forests in Ethiopia are one of the ecosystems affected by this phenomenon. This study focuses on assessment of community perceptions of experiences with, and benefits from, enclosure practices meant to prevent or mitigate land degradation. Communities around Biyo-Kelala and Tiya enclosure areas, in central and northern Ethiopia respectively, were used for the study. The assessment was carried out on the basis of a semi-structured questionnaire survey and focus group discussions. Results showed that an overwhelming majority of the people have a positive attitude about enclosures and feel that they have gained benefits. However, people prefer not to ensure private ownership, but favor maintaining the existing communal (village level) management system instead. This demonstrates that groups emerge to manage common property when they live close to the resource. Yet the issue of benefits and their equitable distribution among community members was found to be the basis for developing a sense of security for ownership and hence the success of enclosures. The other finding was that rehabilitation of deforested lands provides economic benefits by supplying raw material to meet the local demand for wood, reducing the pressure on the remaining forests and supplying various non-timber products. Nevertheless, it is not possible to design a national model for the management of this practice: the design of management rules is specific to a particular locality.
10.2307/3673283|A definition of the Digital Terrain Model (DTM) is presented and the increasing practical importance of DMTs is emphasized. The paper then describes the methods of DMT data acquisition, the generation of a continuous DMT from the primary data as well as the derivation of perspective views, terrain profiles, contour lines, slope models, and height difference models from the DMT. Finally, new possibilities, resulting from a combination of DMT and digital image processing, are demonstrated using the mapping of the Vernagtferner glacier in the Austrian Tyrol as an example. /// Cette article prsente une dfinition du Modle topographique digital (MTD), et insiste sur l'importance pratique croissante de ces modles. Il dcrit ensuite les mthodes de saisie des donnes, l'laboration d'un MTD continu  partir des donnes de base, ainsi que la drivation  partir du MTD de vues en perspective, profils de terrain, lignes de contour, modles de pentes, et modles de differences de hauteur. Enfin, de nouvelles possibilits, combinant le MTD et le traitement d'images digitales sont dmontres  l'aide d'un exemple, c'est--dire le lev topographique du glacier Vernagtferner dans le Tyrol autrichien. /// Zunchst wird das Digitale Gelndemodell (DGM) definiert und die zunehmende praktische Bedeutung des DGM herausgestellt. Danach werden die Methoden der DGM-Datengewinnung, der Aufbau eines flchenhaften DGMs aus den Primrdaten und die Ableitung von Perspektiven, Gelndeprofilen, Hhenlinien, Neigungsmodellen, sowie Hhendifferenzmodellen aus dem DGM beschrieben. Anhand des Beispiels "Vernagtferner" wird schlielich die neue Mglichkeit der Verbindung von DGM und digitaler Bildverarbeitung aufgezeigt.
mounresedeve.31.3.188|This paper seeks to explain evidence of distinctive late- and post-Little Ice Age glacier change in the Karakoram Himalaya and a recent, seemingly anomalous, expansion. Attention is directed to processes that support and concentrate glacier mass, including an all-year accumulation regime, avalanche nourishment, and effects related to elevation. Glacier basins have exceptional elevation ranges, and rockwalls make up the larger part of their area. However, more than 80% of the ice cover is concentrated between 4000 and 5500 m elevation. Classification into Turkestan-, Mustagh-, and Alpine-type glaciers is revisited to help identify controls over mass balance. Estimates of changes based on snowlines, equilibrium line altitudes, and accumulation area ratio are shown to be problematic. Extensive debris covers in ablation zone areas protect glacier tongues. They are relatively insensitive to climate change, and their importance for water supply has been exaggerated compared to clean and thinly covered ablation zone ice. Recent changes include shifts in seasonal temperatures, snowfall, and snow cover at high elevations. Understanding their significance involves rarely investigated conditions at higher elevations that lack monitoring programs.
3674435|As a result of a dramatic decline in world coffee prices and the restructuring of both domestic and international institutions, coffee farmers have been facing one of the most difficult periods in sector history. In 2003, a comparative case study project (supported by the Small Grant Program of the Inter-American Institute for Global Change Research) in Guatemala, Mexico and Honduras explored the experiences and responses of coffee farmers to institutional reforms, market risk, and climate variability. Four communities were selected for study in the 3 countries in which household surveys and interviews were conducted. The impacts of the crisis and farmers' responses illustrate the potential obstacles that farmers confront with sudden and profound changes in production conditions, yet also suggest opportunities for interventions that might help farmers improve their resilience to future risk.
10.2307/3673869|This paper argues that conflicts in the northern Thai highlands are a clear case of the politics of environmental discourse in the sense that conservation has played a role in lending legitimacy to both government agencies and ethnic communities in their struggle for the control of forest resources. Underlying such conflicts is the official line of negative thinking about ethnic minorities in the hills by associating them with various vices, namely as enemies of the forest, opium producers, and a threat to national security. The government agencies always cite ethnicity against a role in conservation, which keeps them from appreciating ethnic-specific knowledge in the management of the forest. Shifting cultivation has been distorted for having only a negative impact on the environment, disregarding the realities found in local practices which are varied, complex, adaptive, and quite dynamic in many cases. The ethnic minorities, on the other hand, keep raising the issues of community rights in relation to their role in the protection of the forest. Rarely are their voices recognized until serious conflict occurs, which can be seen particularly in cases of the eviction of minorities from conservation forests. Only recently have government agencies begun to show some positive concern over the social issues of rights, as seen in the official pilot project on community forestry and the drafting of the community forest act. However, there is still no serious discussion of legal recognition of minorities' rights to live in the forest. /// Cet expos soutient que les conflits des rgions montagneuses du nord de la Thalande constituent un cas manifeste de dbat politique sur l'environnement en ce sens que la dfense de l'environnement a jou un rle dans la lgitimation de la lutte des agences gouvernementales et des communauts ethniques pour le contrle des ressources forestires. La politique officielle ngative mene contre les minorits ethniques des montagnes, accuses de divers crimes, c'est  dire d'tre des ennemis de la fort et des producteurs d'opium et de constituer une menace pour la scurit nationale, est  la base de ces conflits. Les agences gouvernementales citent toujours l'ethnicit comme raison de leur non-participation  la dfense de l'environnement, ce qui les empche d'apprcier les connaissances de ces minorits ethniques dans la gestion de la fort. Le dplacement des cultures a t peru comme n'ayant qu'un impact ngatif sur l'environnement, sans tenir compte des ralits des pratiques locales qui sont varies, complexes, adaptatives et trs dynamiques dans beaucoup de cas. Les minorits ethniques, en revanche, soulvent constamment la question du droit des communauts par rapport  leur rle dans la protection de la fort. Elles sont rarement coutes, jusqu' ce qu'un conflit srieux se produise, comme dans le cas particulirement des expulsions de minorits des forts protges. Ce n'est que rcemment que les agences gouvernementales ont commenc  se soucier rellement des aspects sociaux des droits, comme dans le projet-pilote officiel de sylviculture communautaire et la rdaction du projet de loi communautaire sur les forts. Toutefois, il n'y a toujours pas de discussion srieuse sur la reconnaissance lgale du droit des minorits de vivre dans la fort. /// Im vorliegenden Text wird behauptet, da die Konflikte in den nrdlichen Thai Highlands eindeutig auf eine Politik zurckzufhren sind, in der die Diskussion von Umweltaspekten eine wichtige Rolle spielt. Begrndet wird dies damit, da die Bewahrung der Rohstoffquellen sowohl Regierungsvertretern als auch ethnischen Gruppen in ihrem Kampf um die Kontrolle ber diese Quellen zu einer gewissen Legitimitt verholfen hat. Diesen Konflikten zu Grunde liegt die offizielle negative Linie gegenber ethnischen Minderheiten in den Bergen, die mit verschiedenen Untugenden in Verbindung gebracht werden: als Feinde des Waldes, Opiumproduzenten und Gefahr fr die nationale Sicherheit. Fr die Regierungsvertreter steht die Zugehrigkeit zu einer bestimmten ethnischen Gruppe im Widerspruch zu einer Rolle bei der Bewahrung der Umwelt, wodurch sie sich um den Vorteil bringen, das spezifische Wissen dieser Gruppen bei der Bewirtschaftung des Waldes fr sich zu nutzen. So ist z.B. der Fruchtwechsel einzig auf seine negativen Auswirkungen auf die Umwelt reduziert worden, wobei die tatschlichen Umstnde der lokalen Praxis, die vielfltig, komplex, anpassungsfhig und in einigen Fllen sehr dynamisch sind, auer acht gelassen werden. Auf der anderen Seite bringen die ethnischen Minderheiten den Streitpunkt der Gemeinschaftsrechte immer wieder mit ihrer Rolle bei der Bewahrung des Waldes in Verbindung. Nur selten werden sie angehrt, sofern nicht ein ernsthafter Konflikt eintritt. Dies zeigt sich vor allem in solchen Fllen, in denen Minderheiten aus Naturschutzgebieten vertrieben werden. Erst krzlich haben Regierungsvertreter begonnen, sich im positiven Sinne fr die sozialen Gesichtspunkte solcher Rechte zu interessieren, wie an dem offiziellen Pilotprojekt zur gemeinschaftlichen Bewirtschaftung der Wlder und einem entsprechenden Gesetzesentwurf zu sehen ist. Es gibt jedoch noch immer keine ernstzunehmenden Gesprche ber die gesetzliche Anerkennung des Rechtes von Minderheiten auf den Wald als Lebensraum.
mounresedeve.31.1.16|This study investigates the role that local fruit varieties can play in achieving the dual objectives of food sovereignty and income generation in the Tajik Pamir Mountains. In this very harsh environment, agriculture is characterized by a great diversity of fruit varieties central to local food culture and household security. Local fruit trees can grow in poor soils on slopes and their resistance to diseases, cold, and ultraviolet light give them marked advantages over introduced varieties. However, the humanitarian crisis following the collapse of the Soviet Union and recent efforts by development organizations to create markets by introducing exotic varieties are negatively affecting agricultural biodiversity (agrobiodiversity) and, potentially, household security. A study was carried out in 3 districts of the Gorno-Badakhshan province to investigate the household consumption and market potential of products derived from local varieties of apple, apricot, and mulberry and how these products could be better exploited to benefit community livelihoods and agrobiodiversity conservation. Results show that fruit represents the farmers' main source of food and income. Many local varieties are maintained for a variety of reasons related to household consumption, whereas the main reason for cultivating introduced varieties is income generation. Great care must therefore be taken in planning market strategies: a pure market focus will almost certainly endanger household security, whereas a strategy linking income generation through the commercialization of crop varieties to the promotion of qualities central to household needs will improve diversity and public health. The opportunities identified to help enhance the market potential of local fruits and maintain the Pamir's unique biocultural heritage include efforts to raise public awareness among producers and consumers of the nutritional and medicinal properties of local varieties; training for pest management, processing, and packaging; and the establishment of farmers' cooperatives.
mounresedeve.31.4.325|This paper examines the use of forest resources by local residents in Jigme Singye Wangchuck National Park, Bhutan. It also inquires into local residents' knowledge and perceptions of park management interventions. The data were collected through a questionnaire survey, group discussions, and observations. The results show that local people depend on forest resources for their livelihoods, and that their knowledge and perceptions of the park and of park management are influencedmainly by constraints on theiraccess to forest resources, and by benefits and incentives obtained from the park administration through socioeconomic development.
10.2307/3673653|Every year during the monsoon season catastrophic flooding on the plains of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers is reported as a result of human activities in the Himalayan region. This study investigates hydrological changes in the catchments of the Sutlej, Beas, Jhelum and, in greater detail, Chenab rivers during recent decades; it seeks linkages between river discharge and climate in the mountains, and flooding on the plains. Climatological data for the region are easily obtainable but hydrological information is restricted. Analysis of accessible data indicates that correlation between river discharge and precipitation is low and regression analyses show that trends are not statistically significant. Field observations of forest extent, land use, and erosion in the study areas suggest that there is no recent increase in forest cutting. Moreover, there is no evidence that flooding on the Gangetic plain has increased. /// Chaque anne, pendant les pluies de la mousson, les manchettes des journaux annoncent des inondations dvastatrices dans les plaines du Ganges et du Brahmaputra. Chaque fois on accuse les peuples des montagnes de provoquer ces catastrophes par leur pratique apparemment inadapte d'utilisation des ressources naturelles. Le prsent article traite des changements ventuels des caractristiques hydrologiques des rivires Sutlej, Beas, Chenab et Jhelum dans leur partie montagneuse durant les dernires dcennies et livre quelques gnralits concernant le problme des inondations dans la plaine du Ganges. Des donnes climatiques sont disponibles sans problmes. Par contre, les donnes hydrologiques sont tenues secrtes aussi bien pour les scientifiques hindous qu'trangers. Cette situation rend la recherche en Inde considrablement plus difficile. Les chiffres disponibles ne permettent pas de prouver des variations significatives du comportement des rivires tudies, qui ne peuvent tre expliques par des processus climatiques. En outre, rien n'indique que l'tendue des inondations dans la plaine du Ganges aie augment durant les dernires dcennies. Apparemment, les inondations sont plus influences par des vnements locaux que par des processus climatiques survenant dans les montagnes. La manire de penser trs gnrale et superficielle concernant cette question, et en particulier, l'accusation faite aux peuples de montagnes les rendant responsables des processus touchant la plaine doivent tre considrablement diffrencies et examines avec des donnes plus fiables. /// Alljhrlich berichten Zeitungsschlagzeilen whrend der monsunalen Regenzeit von verheerenden Ueberschwemmungen in den Ebenen des Ganges und des Brahmaputra. Die Schuld fr diese Katastrophen wird jeweils der Bergbevlkerung mit ihren scheinbar unangepassten Nutzungspraktiken zugeschoben. Der vorliegende Artikel befasst sich mit allflligen Vernderungen im Abflussverhalten der Flsse Sutlej, Beas, Chenab und Jhelum in ihrem gebirgigen Einzugsgebiet whrend der letzten Jahrzehnte und liefert einige sehr allgemeine Aussagen zur Ueberschwemmungsproblematik in der Gangesebene. Klimadaten sind problemlos erhltlich. Hydrologische Informationen hingegen sind sowohl fr auslndische als auch fr indische Wissenschafter geheim. Diese Datenlage erschwert die Forschung in Indien erheblich. Mit dem verfgbaren Zahlenmaterial ist es nicht mglich, signifikante Vernderungen im Abflussverhalten der untersuchten Flsse nachzuweisen, welche nicht mit entsprechenden klimatischen Prozessen erklrt werden knnen. Ferner gibt es keine zwingenden Hinweise darauf, dass die Ueberschwemmungen in der Gangesebene whrend der letzten Jahrzehnte flchenmssig zugenommen haben. Offensichtlich werden Flutereignisse mehr durch lokale Ereignisse als durch klimatische Prozesse im Gebirge beeinflusst. Die sehr allgemeine und oberflchliche Denkweise in Bezug auf diese Fragestellungen, insbesondere aber die Anschuldigung der Bergbevlkerung fr die Prozesse in der Ebene, mssen wesentlich differenziert und mit zuverlssigeren Daten berprft werden.
10.2307/3672992|Like mountain ecosystems, tropical island ecosystems are often described as unstable, fragile, or vulnerable. It is proposed to make a clearer distinction in the use of these terms. In particular, the term unstable should be restricted to describe an ecosystem which does not represent a certain climax situation. Vulnerable seems to be the right term to characterise those ecosystems which are at greater risk than others of being negatively affected by external impact. Based on the findings of two MAB projects in island situations, it is demonstrated that the fragility of ecosystems sometimes can be overestimated. Furthermore, these comments highlight the need for more knowledge on man/environment interactions as a basis for the formulation of better land-use policies in developing countries. /// Comme les cosystmes de montagne, les cosystmes des les tropicales sont souvent dcrits comme instables, fragiles ou vulnrables. L'auteur se propose de prciser plus clairement l'utilisation de ces diffrents termes. Il parat prfrable en particulier de limiter le sens du terme "instable"  la description d'un cosystme qui ne prsente pas une certaine condition de climax. Le terme "vulnrable" se prte plutt  caractriser des cosystmes qui prsentent plus que d'autres un risque plus lev de raction nfaste  un impacte extrieur. Les rsultats de deux projets MAB sur des les tropicales, montrent que la "fragilit" de ces cosystmes peut tre surestime. En outre, cette note traite de l'importance d'une connaissance accrue sur les interactions homme/milieu naturel pour amliorer l'utilisation du sol dans les pays en voie de dveloppement. /// Zusammen mit Gebirgskosystemen werden auch die kosysteme tropischer Inseln hufig als unstabil, zerbrechlich oder besonders gefhrdet bezeichnet. Ein Anliegen dieses Beitrages ist es, zu einer klaren begrifflichen Trennung dieser drei Termini (unstable, fragile, vulnerable) beizutragen. Der Begriff "unstabil" sollte eigentlich zur Beschreibung jener kosysteme dienen, die (noch nicht) die relativ stabile Situation eines Klimax-kosystems erreicht haben. "Gefhrdet" scheint der richtige Ausdruck zu sein, um jene kosysteme zu charakterisieren, die in grsserer Gefahr sind als andere, durch ussere Einwirkungen schnell zerstrt zu werden. Die Ergebnisse zweier MAB Projekte in tropischen Inselregionen werden herangezogen, um zu zeigen, dass die "Zerbrechlichkeit" von kosystemen leicht berschtzt werden kann. Im brigen will dieser Kommentar darauf hinweisen, wie wichtig es ist, im Interesse der grossen Landnutzungsprobleme der Entwicklungslnder das Wissen ber Mensch-Umwelt Beziehungen zu vermehren.
mounresedeve.34.2.170|The Department of Integrative Geography at the University of Bern is dedicated to sustainability research and teaching. Within its sustainable regional development and sustainable land management foci, it is firmly committed to mountain research and development. One of the study regions is the Swiss Alps, where issues such as common property resource use and protected area monitoring link to global debates.
3674362|Ethiopia has the largest mountainous land mass in Africa, with a diverse and complex environment. The peoples of Ethiopia reflect this diversity in their cultures. The integrity and traditional knowledge embedded in these cultures is being eroded through modern education and cultural globalization. Modern education divorces students from the traditional ecological knowledge of their communities, and makes it very difficult for them to reintegrate into their own societies. This process is being accelerated by urbanization. In 1998, the Institute for Sustainable Development (ISD) began working with school environmental clubs to facilitate interaction between teachers and students, and people in the local student communities who possessed traditional knowledge. We call this project "discovering the value of cultural biodiversity."
90001384|Leaf litterfall contributes significantly to carbon fluxes in forests. A crucial open question for the sustainability of mountain forests is how climate change will affect this and other carbon fluxes (
mounresedeve.32.s1.s35|From both social and environmental perspectives, water is the main connection between highland and lowland processes in mountain watersheds: Water flows downhill while human impacts flow uphill. For example, in the Oregon Cascades mountain range, geology, vegetation, and climate influence the hydrologic connections within watersheds. Geology determines which watersheds are surface runoff-dominated and which are groundwater-dominated. In this Mediterranean climate with dry summers, surface runoff watersheds will consistently experience near-zero late summer discharge, so declining snowpacks will have little effect on low flows. This contrasts with groundwater-dominated watersheds, where a shift from snow to rain or a decline in precipitation will reduce recharge, thereby reducing late summer groundwater contributions to streamflow. Earlier snowmelt causes forests to transpire earlier, resulting in decreased springtime streamflow. Reduced snowpacks lead to soil moisture stress, making forests more vulnerable to extensive wildfires and affecting the lifespan and composition of forests. Monitoring and quantifying these complex linkages and feedbacks require appropriate measurement networks. Sampling strategies often use watershed typology to identify where measurements should be focused. Such an approach should include not only established watershed classification parameters such as topology and geology but also interannual climate variability and land cover. As concerns of water scarcity and vulnerability move to the forefront, our watershed classifications should be extended to include ecosystem and socialecological parameters. An integrated and agent-based modeling scheme called Envision has been developed to simulate alternative future landscapes at the watershed scale. Using fully coupled models of hydrology, ecosystems, and socioeconomics, decision-makers can simulate the effects of policy decisions in conjunction with other climate forcing, land use change, and economic disturbances. To understand the combined impacts of climate change and humans on water in mountain watersheds, researchers must develop integrated monitoring and modeling systems that explicitly include connections across ecohydrologic and social-ecological systems.
10.2307/3673493|Personal exposure levels to respirable suspended particulates during cooking periods were monitored in twenty households in a rural community of the hill region of Nepal. Filters for gravimetric analysis were exposed in households with traditional stoves (without flue) and then again after the introduction of smokeless (with flue) cook stoves. Drager Tube analyses of carbon monoxide and formaldehyde levels were also conducted. Data from this longitudinal study provide convincing evidence of the cause-effect relationship between the introduction and use of smokeless stoves and the resulting decrease in domestic smoke pollution. A household survey revealed that all cooks, but one, found that the smokeless stove emitted less smoke than the traditional stove and seventy-five percent of the cooks preferred the smokeless stove to the traditional stove. /// Les niveaux d'exposition aux particules respirables en suspension dans l'air pendant les priodes de cuisson des aliments ont t mesurs dans vingt maisons d'une communaut rurale des rgions montagneuses du Npal. Des filtres d'analyse gravimtrique ont t exposs  l'air dans ces maisons alors que des poles traditionnels (sans tuyau) taient utiliss et ensuite aprs l'introduction de poles sans fume (avec tuyau). Des dterminations au tube de Drager des concentrations en monoxyde de carbone et de formaldehyde ont galement t effectues. Les donnes collectes au cours de cette tude longitudinale ont clairement dmontr la relation cause-effet entre l'introduction de poles sans fume et la rduction de la pollution de l'air des maisons par la fume. Une enqute a montr que toutes les cuisinires,  part une, ont trouv que le pole avec tuyau produisait moins de fume que le pole traditionnel et soixante quinze pourcent des cuisinires ont prfr le pole avec tuyau au pole traditionnel. /// In 20 Haushaltungen einer lndlichen Gemeinde im gebirgigen Teil von Nepal wurden whrend der Kochzeiten individuelle Werte der Belastung durch Schwebeteilchen, die eingeatment werden, gemessen. Filter zur gravimetrischen Analyse wurden in Haushaltungen mit herkmmlichen Herden (ohne Abzug) dem Rauch ausgesetzt und spter nach der Einfhrung der rauchlosen Herde (mit Abzug) nochmals. Eine Drager (Tube) Analyse von Kohlenmonoxyd- und Formaldehydwerten wurde ebenfalls durchgefhrt. Daten von dieser umfassenden Studie liefern den Beweis eines kausalen Zusammenhangs zwischen der Einfhrung und Nutzung des rauchlosen Herdes und der resultierenden Verringerung der huslichen Luftverschmutzung. Eine Umfrage unter den Haushaltungen ergab, da alle Kche-bis auf einen-bereinstimmten: Der rauchlose Herd verursacht weniger Rauch als der herkmmliche und 75% aller Kche bevorzugten diesen Herd.
10.2307/3673988|Every year between 10,000 and 15,000 tonnes of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) are harvested in Nepal and traded to Indian and overseas markets. The total value of the trade to Nepal's national economy is estimated to be equivalent to US $8.6 million. This paper describes NTFP harvest and trade, the roles of producers, traders, and processors, and the relationships between them. Five potential improvements are discussed from the perspective of harvesters in Nepal: increased production; direct marketing to bypass intermediaries; improved access to market information; improvements to raw material quality; and small-scale processing at the local level. Developments are more likely to benefit harvesters if they act collectively. Collective institutions that focus solely on the production of NTFPs may need to be developed. There are doubts that a single institution would be capable of carrying out several functions, i.e., production, marketing, and processing of NTFPs. The considerable regional variations in the nature of the NTFP trade indicate that suitable institutions, and interventions, would need to be highly location-specific. As a generalization, development efforts may be more suited to the remote western half of Nepal. /// De 10,000  15 000 tonnes de produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume sont rcoltes chaque anne au Npal et exportes vers l'Inde et les marchs internationaux. La contribution totale de cette production  l'conomie nationale du Npal est estime  8,6 millions de dollars amricains. Cet article dcrit la rcolte et la vente des produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume, les rles respectifs des producteurs, des ngociants et des industries de transformation, et les relations entre eux. Cinq amliorations potentielles sont discutes dans la perspective des exploitants au Npal: augmentation de la production, vente directe sans intermdiaires, meilleur accs aux informations sur les marchs, amlioration de la qualit des matires premires et transformation  petite chelle au niveau local. Les exploitants ont plus de chance de profiter des dveloppements s'ils agissent collectivement. Il se peut que des institutions collectives orientes uniquement vers la production de produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume doivent tre cres. Il est douteux qu'une seul institution puisse remplir plusieurs fonctions,  savoir la production, la commercialisation et la transformation de ces produits. Les immenses variations rgionales dans la nature du commerce des produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume suggrent que des institutions appropries et des interventions doivent tre spcifiques  chaque endroit. Si l'on peut gnraliser, les tentatives de dveloppement semblent mieux s'appliquer  la moiti Ouest du Npal. /// In Nepal werden jhrlich zwischen 10.000 und 15.000 Tonnen Holzprodukte, die kein Nutzholz (non-timber forest products = NTFP) sind, gewonnen und nach Indien und bersee ausgefhrt. Der Gesamtwert dieses Handels fhrt der nepalesischen Wirtschaft schtzungsweise US $8,6 Mill. zu. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt die Herstellung von und den Handel mit NTFP, sowie die Stellung der Produzenten, Hndler und Verarbeiter und ihre Verflechtung untereinander. Aus der Perspektive der nepalesischen Hersteller werden fnf Verbesserungsvorschlge gemacht: Steigerung der Produktion, direktes Marketing unter Umgehung der Zwischenhndler, verbesserter Zugang zu Marktinformationen, Qualittskontrolle des Rohmaterials und Verarbeitung in Kleinbetrieben auf lokaler Ebene. Diese Verbesserungen kmen allen Herstellern zugute, wenn sie als Kollektiv auftrten. Kollektive, die sich ausschlielich auf die Produktion von NFTP festlegen, mten gebildet werden. Einzelbetriebe sind kaum in der Lage, Multi-Funktionen wie Produktion, Marketing und NFTP-Verarbeitung, allein effektiv durchzufhren. Beim NFTP Handel gibt es betrchtliche regionale Unterschiede, die erfordern, da die ausgewhlten Institutionen und Interventionen in hohem Mae ortsspezifisch sind. Es scheint, da im allgemeinen die westliche, abgelegene Hlfte Nepals besonders von solchen gezielten Entwicklungsmanahmen profitieren knnte.
10.2307/3673373|In accord with the general arguments propounded in Part 1 of this series of papers in Mountain Research and Development, detailed evidence for Sindhu Palchok and Kabhre Palanchok reveals that conversion of forest land to agricultural use was a major objective of government policy from at least the latter half of the eighteenth century onward. Throughout history, the two Districts must have been strongly affected by their relative proximity to the Kathmandu Valley. Land grants were made there by the Gorkhali rulers soon after subjugation of the region in 1745. Maintenance of the army appears to have imposed additional burdens on these Districts, particularly as a result of jagir land grants to army officers and other officials for services rendered. The jagir land grant system was maintained in these Districts well into the present century. The major exploitation of the residual forest, other than by peasants for subsistence purposes (to be dealt with in later parts of this series), was for construction in the Kathmandu Valley and for charcoal, mainly for smelting of ore. This latter use had virtually ceased by the early twentieth century. /// En accord avec les arguments d'ordre gnral avancs dans le premier article de cette srie publie dans Mountain Research and Development, des vidences prcises en provenance des districts de Sindhu Palchok et Kabhre Palanchok rvlent que la conversion des forts en terres agricoles constituait un objectif important de la politique gouvernementale au moins ds la seconde moiti du dix-huitime sicle. Pendant toute leur histoire, ces deux districts ont certainement d tre trs affects par la proximit relative de la valle de Kathmandou. Des concessions de terres y ont t faites par les rois des Gurkhas peu aprs la subjugation de la rgion en 1745. L'entretien de l'arme semble avoir impos des charges supplmentaires sur ces districts, surtout  cause des concessions de terres aux officiers militaires et autres fonctionnaires en change de leurs services. Ce systme de concessions de terres (jagir) a subsist dans ces districts presque jusqu' nos jours. L'exploitation majeure de la fort restante,  part celle des paysans pour leurs besoins de subsistance (un sujet qui sera trait dans la suite de cette srie d'articles), a pourvu aux besoins de la construction dans la valle de Kathmandou et  la production de charbon de bois pour la fusion de minerai. Cette seconde utilisation avait pratiquement disparu au dbut du vingtime sicle. /// Von allgemeinen Errterungen, die im Teil 1 dieser Verffentlichungsreihe (in Mountain Research and Development) dargelegt wurden, ausgehend, ergeben nhere Betrachtungen des Gebietes von Sindhu Palchok und Kabhre Palanchok, da - zumindest seit der spten zweiten Hlfte des 18. Jahrhunderts - die Umwandlung der Wlder in landwirtschaftlich genutzte Flchen ein wichtiges Anliegen jeder Regierung war. In der Vergangenheit sind beide Regionen wesentlich durch ihre Nhe zum Kathmandu Tal beeinflut worden. Schon bald nach der Unterwerfung dieses Gebietes durch die Gorkhali Herrscher im Jahre 1745 wurden Landzuteilungen vorgenommen. Die Erhaltung einer Armee scheint betrchtliche Belastungen auf die Region ausgebt zu haben, besonders Landzuwendungen (jagir) an Offiziere und andere Regierungsangestellte fr erbrachte Dienste. Das System der Landzuwendungen (jagir) blieb bis ins gegenwrtige Jahrhundert erhalten. Die Hauptnutzung der verbliebenen Waldfchen war, neben der Selbstversorgung der Bauern (die in einem zuknftigen Beitrag dieser Reihe untersucht wird) zur Bebauung des Kathmandu Tals und zur Holzkohlegewinnung, welche vorwiegend bei der Verhttung von Erzen gebraucht wurde. Diese letztere Verwendung war jedoch zu Beginn des 20. Jahrhunderts stark zurckgegangen.
4540647|As the highest and most impressive features of the landscape, mountains have an unusual power to awaken a sense of the sacred, Their soaring summits, the clouas and thunder that swirl about their peaks, the life-giving waters that flow from their heights, these and other characteristics imbue them with an aura of mystery and sanctity. In that aura, people of diverse backgrounds, both traditional and modern, experience a deeper reality that gives meaning and vitality to their lives, Drawing on many of the themes associated with sacred mountains around the world, The mountain Institute in Washington DC has developed with the US National Park Service innovative educational activities that highlight the spiritual and culturel meanings of natural features of mountain environments in different cultures, The purpose of the project is to connct a broad range of visitors with nature, enrich their experiences, and give them deep-seated, sustainable reasons for conserving the environment. Efforts to conserve the environmental integrity and cultural diversity associated with sacred mountains need to involve the many diverse peoples and traditions that revere and care for them.
10.2307/3673193|This paper examines the environmental impacts of 3,500,000 Afghan refugees who have fled from their homeland into Pakistan. Most live in refugee camps in the North-West Frontier Province. Impacts vary widely in accordance with the type of environment from which widely different groups originated and the type into which they have been settled. Far-travelled refugees from north of the Hindukush have caused the most extensive degradation; most disturbance has been caused where refugees have been settled into forest land as distinct from sparsely vegetated arid land. It appears that Pakistan nationals have taken advantage of the ensuing confusion to indulge in illegal logging. Apart from social, political, and humanitarian concerns, this largest of recent migrations has caused extensive environmental damage, much of it probably irreversible. /// Cette tude examine l'impact sur l'environnement des 3.500.000 afghans qui ont fui leur pays pour se rfugier au Pakistan. La plupart vivent dans des camps situs dans la province frontire du nord-ouest. L'impact varie beaucoup selon le type d'environment o se trouvaient ces groupes extrmement varis et le type d'environnement dans lequel ils ont t transplants. Les rfugis en provenance des rgions loignes au nord de l'Hindou-Kouch ont caus le plus de dgts, en particulier l o les rfugis ont t transplants dans un milieu forestier diffrent de leur milieu aride  vgtation pauvre. Il semble que les pakistanais ont profit de la situation confuse pour illgalement abattre des arbres. A part toutes considrations sociales, politiques et humanitaires, cette migration, la plus importante dans le pass rcent, a considrablement endommag l'environnement, peut tre d'une manir dfinitive pour la plus grande partie de celui-ci. /// Dieser Aufsatz untersucht Umweltbelastungen durch 3,5 Mill. afghanische Flchtlinge, die aus ihrer Heimat nach Pakistan geflohen sind. Die Mehrzahl lebt in Flchtlingslagern in der Nord-West Grenzprovinz. Umweltbelastungen variieren sehr stark und hngen davon ab, aus welcher Gegend die verschiedenen Flchtlingsgruppen kommen und in welcher sie angesiedelt wurden. Flchtlinge aus Gebieten nrdlich des Hindukush, weit entfernt von ihrer neuen Heimat, haben den Hauptschaden verursacht. Stark beeintrchtigt im Vergleich mit sprlich bewachsenem, trockenem Land wurden durch angesiedelte Flchtlinge vor allem Waldgebiete. Es scheint, da Pakistanis die ungeordneten Verhltnisse zum illegalen Holzfllen ausgenutzt haben. Abgesehen von sozialen, politischen und humanitren Bedenken, hat diese in der Gegenwart grte Vlkermigration betrchtlichen Umweltschaden verursacht, zum groen Teil wahrscheinlich unwiderruflich.
25164071|Although Ecuador is a very small country in terms of area, its regions are heterogeneous. The province of Tungurahua, located in the highlands, is primarily an agricultural area with a hydrological deficit, even though the Ambato River, the major source of water, traverses 40% of its territory. In 1972, the Ecuadorian government nationalized all waterways and transferred the responsibility for their management to a state organization, the Ecuadorian Institute for Hydrological Resources (INHERI), whose main function had been the construction of new irrigation systems at a very high cost, with limited success and impact. INHERI also played a role in resource planning and assignment of water concessions for all traditional irrigation systems, which account for 80% of the area under irrigation in Ecuador. These systems frequently consist of very old irrigation channels built in the past centuries. In 1994, this organization was eliminated and replaced by the National Council for Hydrological Resources. In the province of Tungurahua, the regional Corporation for the Development of the Center Highlands was established to regulate and strengthen hydrological resources in the watersheds located in 3 provinces: Tungurahua, Cotopaxi, and Pastaza. Presently, however, this institution is too weak to carry out all the responsibilities entrusted to it.
10.2307/3674025|The trade in medicinal and aromatic products (MAP) from the rural areas of Gorkha District in central Nepal to the wholesale markets in India was investigated over a two-year period. The annual trade varies from 180,000 kg to 418,000 kg and is currently composed of 36 products with an average collector value of 12 million Nepali rupees (US $240,000). Approximately 98 percent of the products are exported unprocessed to India. The main actors in the trade are collectors, road-head traders, Terai wholesalers, and Indian wholesalers. Analysis of marketing margins and price data indicates that MAP markets are imperfect: there is limited market information and poor market integration. A small number of Terai wholesalers earn excessive profits while roadhead traders have very low net margins. The implications of this for developing the trade, and thus increasing collector incomes at the national level are discussed. It is emphasized that the government should focus on provision of public goods, such as dissemination of price information and developing physical infrastructure, and not direct interventions in the market. Credit facilities should be promoted, and the royalty system should be reviewed and possibly replaced with an export tax. Bans on collection and trade need to be reviewed and justified and a restructuring of current approaches is required. /// Le commerce de produits mdicinaux et aromatiques des rgions rurales du district de Gorkha au centre du Npal, sur les marchs de gros en Inde, a fait l'objet d'une tude de deux ans. Le commerce annuel varie de 180 000  418 000 kg et comprend actuellement 36 produits ayant une valeur moyenne de 12 millions de roupies npalaises (240 000 $ US) pour les ramasseurs. Environ 98 pour cent des produits sont exports directement vers l'Inde, sans traitement. Les participants principaux  ce commerce sont les ramasseurs, les premiers acheteurs, les grossistes Terai et les grossistes indiens. L'analyse des marges commerciales et des donnes de prix indiquent que les marchs des plantes mdicinales et aromatiques sont dfectueux: informations limites sur les marchs et faible intgration des marchs. Un petit nombre de grossistes Terai fait des bnfices excessifs, alors que les premiers acheteurs ont des marges nettes trs faibles. Les implications de ces observations pour le dveloppement de ce commerce, et cela englobe le revenu des ramasseurs, sont examines au niveau national. Il est soulign que le gouvernement devrait se concentrer sur la fourniture de biens publics, tels que la diffusion d'informations sur les prix et le dveloppement de l'infrastructure physique, et non pas sur des interventions directes dans le march. Des facilits de crdit devraient tre encourages et le systme de redevances examin et ventuellement remplac par une taxe  l'exportation. Les interdictions sur le ramassage et le commerce doivent tre examines et justifies. Il est  prsent ncessaire de restructurer les approches actuelles. /// Der Handel mit medizinischen und aromatischen Pflanzenprodukten (MAP) aus den lndlichen Gebieten im Gorkha District im zentralen Nepal mit den Grohandelsmrkten in Indien wurde in einer zweijhrigen Periode untersucht. Der jhrliche Handel schwankt zwischen 180,000 Kg und 418,000 Kg und besteht zur Zeit aus 36 Produkten mit einem durchschnittlichen Sammelwert von 12 Millionen Nepali Rupees (240,000 US $). Ungefhr 98% der Produkte werden unbearbeitet nach Indien exportiert. Marktakteure sind Sammler, Kleinhndler, und Grohndler aus der Terai und aus Indien. Die Analyse von Gewinnen und Preisen zeigt, da MAP-Mrkte imperfekt sind: Es gibt wenig Marktinformationen und nur geringe Marktintegration. Eine kleine Anzahl von Terai Grohndlern kann horrende Gewinne erzielen, whrend Kleinhndler sehr geringe Verdienstmglichkeiten haben. Die Implikationen dieser Untersuchung auf nationaler Ebene fr die Entwicklung des Handels mit MAP und zur Erhhung des Einkommens der Sammler wird diskutiert. Es wird hervorgehoben, da die Regierung ffentliche Gter bereitstellen sollte wie z.B. Preisinformationen und physische Infrastruktur, aber direkte Marktinterventionen wird auch unterstrichen. Die forstlichen Abgabesysteme sollten berarbeitet und mglicherweise durch Exportsteuern ersetzt werden. Zur Restrukturierung der gegenwrtigen Strategien solten auerdem Sammel- und Handelsrestriktionen zu berdacht und ihre Notwendigkeit belegt werden.
10.2307/3672931|The region under discussion extends from southern Ecuador to northern Chile and Argentina and is therefore characterized as tropical with a corresponding suppression of seasonality. It is a region of abrupt environmental contrasts: arid along the west coast, with a steep ascent to volcanoes and glacierized massifs above 5,000 m, and an equally abrupt descent eastward to the tropical rain forests of the Amazon. Narrowest in Ecuador, where this great range of ecosystems is encompassed within 200 km horizontally, it reaches its greatest breadth in southern Peru and Bolivia, with an east-west extent of 500 km. Early hunting and gathering had been replaced by a village-based agro-pastoral economy by 3,000 to 4,000 years ago. This progressively generated the patterns of human occupation and activity that are still evident today. This paper provides an overview of the interrelationships between the biogeographical and cultural complexities of an extremely varied mountain region. It must be understood that the extensive adaptation by the indigenous peoples presents a vital resource that has been sufficiently resilient to withstand the demographic and cultural shock of the Spanish conquest and domination by a small elite. Competition for land between haciendas and peasant communities has been common, and often violent. A legacy of inequality is a prevailing characteristic and has had a marked impact on population densities. Two major patterns of adaptation in subsistence systems are noted: one regional and one local. The most important pattern is the integration of several diverse agro-climatic belts, described as "vertical control." Following a brief discussion of the geologic history and topo-climatology of the Central Andes, the region is divided into its five major biogeographic provinces to which human land-use practices have closely adapted. These include: 1) the outer slopes of the western cordillera; 2) the outer slopes of the eastern cordillera; 3) the paramo of the northern Central Andes; 4) the puna of the southern Central Andes; and 5) the inter-Andean valley systems. A detailed description of the interplay of the physical and cultural features of each is provided. This is followed by a discussion of the four major agro-climatic belts which are distinctly named and utilized by the Andean farmers. These are: 1) the pasture belt, above 3,800-4,000 m; 2) the tuber belt, between about 3,000 and 4,200 m; 3) the cereal belt, extending from 1,500 to 3,000 m; and 4) the tropical belt, or yungas, between 500 and 1,500 m. Assessment of potential resource-use strategies should take into account the evolution of human subsistence knowledge on how to utilize these complex environments, and the broad genetic base of domesticated plants and animals. /// La rgion considre s'tend du sud de l'Equateur jusqu'au nord du Chili et de l'Argentine; elle possde donc un caractre tropical, avec la suppression correspondante du cycle des saisons. Son environnement prsente des contrastes marqus: aride de long de la cte occidentale, en forte monte jusqu'aux volcans et massifs glacis au-dessus de 5.000 m, et en descente aussi abrupte vers l'est jusqu'aux forts tropicales humides de l'Amazonie. Sa largeur est minimale en Equateur, o cette gamme tendue d'cosystmes couvre  peine 200 km  l'horizontale, et maximale en Bolivie et au Prou mridional, o elle s'tend sur 500 km d'est en ouest. La subsistance base sur la chasse et la cueillette a t remplace il y a 3.000 ou 4.000 ans par une conomie agro-pastorale  l'chelle du village. Cette transformation a progressivement engendr les formes d'occupation et d'activit qui sont encore pratiques de nos jours. Cette tude donne un aperu des relations entre les complexes biogographiques et culturels d'une rgion montagneuse extrmement diversifie. Il est important de comprendre que le grand pouvoir d'adaptation des autochtones constitue une ressource incomparable qui, dans le pass, leur a permis de rsister au choc dmographique et culturel li  la conqute espagnole et  la domination par une lite minoritaire. La comptition pour l'appropriation des terres entre les haciendas et les communauts paysannes a t soutenue et souvent violente. Un hritage d'injustice constitue un caractre dominant de cette rgion, et il a eu un effet prononc sur les densits de population. Deux modes majeurs d'adaptation au sein des systmes de subsistance ont t identifis: l'un rgional, l'autre local. Le mode le plus important est l'intgration de plusieurs tages agro-climatiques diffrents, dnomm "asservissement vertical." Aprs une courte description de l'histoire gologique et de la topo-climatologie des Andes Centrales, la rgion est divise en ses cinq grandes provinces biogographiques  l'intrieur desquelles les pratiques d'exploitation de la terre se sont bien adaptes. Ce sont: 1) les pentes extrieures de la cordillre occidentale; 2) les pentes extrieures de la cordillre orientale; 3) le paramo dans la partie nord des Andes Centrales; 4) la puna dans la partie sud des Andes Centrales; et 5) le systme de valles inter-andin. Une description dtaille de l'interaction entre les caractres physique et culturel de chaque province est donne, suivie d'une discussion des quatre grands tages agro-climatiques qui sont identifis et utiliss par les fermiers andins. Ce sont: 1) l'tage de pturages, au-dessus de 3.800-4.000 m; 2) l'tage de tubercules, entre 3.000 et 4.200 m; 3) l'tage de crales, entre 1.500 et 3.000 m; 4) l'tage tropical, ou yungas, entre 500 et 1.500 m. L'valuation des stratgies possibles d'utilisation des ressources doit tenir compte de l'volution des connaissances sur la faon d'exploiter ces environnements complexes du point de vue de la subsistance humaine, et de la base gntique tendue des plantes et animaux domestiques. /// Das Gebiet, das hier besprochen wird, erstreckt sich vom sdlichen Equador bis zum nrdlichen Chile and Argentinien. Es ist tropisches Gebiet, ausgeprgte Jahreszeiten fehlen. Extreme Umweltbedingungen kennzeichnen es. Die Region ist entlang der Westkste trocken, steigt steil zu Vulkanen und vergletscherten Gebirgszgen bis auf 5000 m an und fllt ebenso steil nach Osten zu den Regenwldern entlang des Amazonas ab. Diese vielfltigen kologischen Systeme drngen sich an der schmalsten Stelle in Equador auf ein Gebiet von 200 km zusammen und erreichen mit 500 km Ost-Westausdehnung im Sden von Peru und Bolivien ihre grte Breite. Vor 3000-4000 Jahren hatte eine drfliche Siedlungsform mit Landwirtschaft das Zeitalter des Jagens und Sammelns abgelst. Daraus entwickelten sich allmhlich die Ttigkeiten, mit denen sich die Bevlkerung auch heute noch beschftigt. Diese Verffentlichung liefert einen berblick der Wechselbeziehungen zwischen biologisch-geographischen und kulturellen Beziehungen in einer uerst vielgestaltigen Bergregion. Die einheimische Bevlkerung konnte durch ihre weitgehende Anpassung dem demographischen und kulturellen Schock widerstehen, dem sie durch die spanischen Eroberer und die Herrschaft einer kleinen Oberschicht ausgesetzt war. Der Streit um Land-oft gewaltttig-zwischen dem Grogrundbesitz und den buerlichen Gemeinschaften war blich. Diese traditionelle Ungleichheit ist ein besonderes Merkmal und hatte auf die Bevlkerungsdichte einen wichtigen Einflu. Zwei entscheidende Formen der Anpassung innerhalb der Existenzgrundlagen werden hervorgehoben: eine regionale und eine lokale. Als wichtigste erscheint die Integration verschiedener landwirtschaftlich-klimatischer Grtel, die als "vertical control" beschrieben wird. Nach einer kurzen Abhandlung der geologischen Geschichte und Klimakunde der Zentralanden, wird das Gebiet in fnf biogeographische Bereiche gegliedert. Die Bodennutzung durch den Menschen hat sich dieser Unterteilung angepat. Die Bereiche sind: 1) die ueren Hnge der westlichen Cordilleren, 2) die usseren Hnge der stlichen Cordilleren, 3) paramo (Hochlandsteppe) der nrdlichen Zentralanden, 4) die Puna (rmliches Weideland) der sdlichen Zentralanden und 5) die Tler der Anden. Eine eingehende Beschreibung der Wechselbeziehung von natrlichen und kulturellen Eigenarten jeder Region wird gegeben. Es folgt eine Beschreibung der vier agro-klimatischen Hauptgrtel, die von den Bauern der Anden unterschiedlich benannt und genutzt werden. Dies sind folgende: 1) das Weideland oberhalb 3800-4000 m, 2) das Gebiet der Knollengewchse zwischen 3000-4200 m, 3) der Getreidegrtel zwischen 1500-3000 m und 4) der tropische Grtel oder "Yungas" zwischen 500-1500 m. Eine Untersuchung ber die mgliche Nutzung der Naturschtze sollte neben der Frage, wie die vielfltige Umwelt zu nutzen sein, auch die Erkenntnisse ber die menschliche Entwicklung und die Vielfalt der Haustiere und Pflanzen bercksichtigen. /// La regin en discusin se extiende desde el sur del Ecuador hasta el norte de Chile y Argentina y por lo tanto se caracteriza como tropical, con la correspondiente ausencia de estaciones. Es una regin de fuertes contrastes ambientales: rida a lo largo de la costa occidental con un empinado ascenso hacia los volcanes y macizos glaciares por encima de los 5000 m.y un descenso igualmente abrupto en el este, hacia las hmedas selvas tropicales del Amazonas. El trecho ms angosto de esta gran extensin de sistemas ecolgicos est en el Ecuador, con un ancho de 200 kms. en su dimensin horizontal, alcanzando su mayor anchura en el sur del Per y en Bolivia donde alcanza los 500 kms. en su dimensin este-oeste. Entre 3000 y 4000 aos atrs, la caza y la recoleccin fueron sustitudas por una economa agropecuaria centrada alrededor de un pueblo. Esto engendr, progresivamente, los tipos de actividades y ocupaciones humanas que son evidentes hasta hoy. Esta monografa presenta una vista general de las complejas relaciones entre los aspectos bio-geogrficos y culturales de una regin montaosa extremadamente variada. Debe tenerse en cuenta, que la extensa adaptacin llevada a cabo por los pueblos indgenas, demuestra recursos vitales de una elasticidad suficien3674417|Since the 19th century a slow expansion of forests into previous agricultural areas has been recorded in the Carpathians. The present article analyzes forest cover change in the Orawa region of Poland, using historical maps and contemporary satellite data. Forest cover change was analyzed with reference to elevation, under the assumption that it reflects a transformation of the vertical land use system developed in the 17th and 18th centuries. For the past 180 years, the proportion of forest in the study area has increased from 25% to 40%. Forest expansion largely affected pastures cleared within the forest belt and areas located immediately above and below this belt. Changes in forest area were largely related to a decline in agriculture and have occurred along with population growth. As a result, grazing has been replaced by forestry, nature conservation, and tourism.
3674341|Mountains are the mainstay of local economies, providing valuable resources for livelihoods. But they are not immune to change because mountain people go out into the outside world, and the world comes into their lives. In this context, mountain women face many challenges, for example, those brought about by out-migration of men and young people from their communities, by external commercial interests that exploit mountain resources, and by changes in their roles and responsibilities. In this International Year of Mountains, a major forum, "Celebrating Mountain Women," aims to support women and highlight their needs and achievements so that these are reflected and integrated in public policy and in decision-making agendas. Several factors are required to ensure that women are an integral part of sustainable mountain development: more mountain-specific and local research; assistance with entrepreneurship, information, and raising awareness of their rights; and networking among mountain women and various development partners.
mounresedeve.35.2.126|Changes to land use such as the removal of natural vegetation and expansion of urban areas can result in degradation of the landscape and an increase in hydrometeorological risk. This has led to higher interest by decision-makers and scientists in the future consequences of these drivers. Scenario development can be a useful tool for addressing the high uncertainty regarding modeling future land use changes. Scenarios are not exact forecasts, but images of plausible futures. When studying future land dynamics, emphasis should be given to areas experiencing high rates of socioeconomic change. We have focused on the eastern Italian Alps, which face increasing pressure from tourism development. Identified drivers of local land use change are mostly external and difficult to quantify. This area, characterized by a traditional Alpine landscape, is subject to high levels of hydro-meteorological risk, another reason to study potential future land use changes. We tested a scenario generation method based on existing decisions and assumptions about future tourism development. We aimed to develop a framework leading to plausible scenarios that can overcome data inaccessibility and address external drivers. We combined qualitative methods, such as stakeholder interviews and cognitive mapping, with geospatial methods, such as geographic information systems, geostatistics, and environmental modeling. We involved stakeholders from the beginning to support the steps of generating data, understanding the system of land use change, and developing a land use change model for scenario development. In this way, we generated spatio-temporal scenarios that can assist future spatial planning and improve preparedness for possible undesirable development.
10.2307/3673354|In an earlier article (Mountain Research and Development, Volume 5, Number 2), we explored some of the vast uncertainties that surround the key variables in the man-land interactions in the Himalaya. Our conclusion was that these uncertainties are so pervasive and all-engulfing as to render "the problem" unamenable to the traditional problem-solving methods of applied science. The problem, we concluded, was that there was not a problem but a multiplicity of contending and contradictory problem definitions, each of which takes its shape from the particular social and cultural context that it helps to sustain. The problem, in other words, is trans-scientific in nature. In this paper we step back a little from the analysis of uncertainty, and from the trans-scientific argumentation that goes along with it, and try to put together a conceptual framework that will help international agencies to shape strategies for involvement in the region. Our recommendations, in keeping with the systems approach we have adopted, are set out in terms of broad principles: what to do and what not to do. In a subsequent article (to appear in a future issue of Mountain Research and Development) we will zero in on the ecology of the agencies that are active in the Himalaya and make more specific suggestions as to how they can most appropriately be involved. /// Dans une tude prcdente (Mountain Research and Development, Volume 5, Number 2), nous avons explor certaines des grandes incertitudes lies aux variables clefs dcrivant les intractions entre les tres humains et les terres dans l'Himalaya. Nous avons conclu que le caractre et l'ampleur des incertitudes mettait le "problme" en dehors de la porte des mthodes classiques de rsolution disponibles en science applique. En fait, il n'y a pas un problme particulier, mais plutt une multitude de dfinitions contradictoires du problme, chacune base sur le contexte social et culturel qui la concerne. Autrement dit, le problme est trans-scientifique. Cette tude dlaisse tant soit peu l'analyse des incertitudes et l'argumentation trans-scientifique qui l'accompagne, et se concentre sur l'laboration d'un systme de concepts permettant de formuler une stratgie pour la rgion. En harmonie avec l'approche organique que nous avons adopte, nos recommandations sont prsentes en termes de principes gnraux: ce qu'il faut faire et ne pas faire. Une autre tude, qui sera prsente dans un prochain numro de Mountain Research and Development, concernera l'cologie des agences qui sont actives dans la rgion et fera des suggestions prcises sur la manire judicieuse d'exploiter leurs ressources. /// In einem frheren Beitrag (Mountain Research and Development, Volume 5, Number 2) haben wir gravierende Ungewiheiten in den wichtigsten Variablen der Wechselbeziehung Mensch - Land im Himalaya aufgezeigt. Wir kamen zu dem Schlu, da diese Ungewiheiten so dominieren, da behauptet werden kann, das Problem bliebe den blichen traditionellen wissenschaftlichen Lsungsmethoden verschlossen. Wir kamen zu der berzeugung, da es sich nicht um ein Problem handelt, sondern um eine Vielzahl konkurrierender und widersprechender Problemdefinitonen; jede von einem bestimmten sozialen und kulturellen Zusammenhang geformt, der erhalten werden soll. Mit anderen Worten: Das Problem sperrt sich einer wissenschaftlichen Lsung. In diesem Aufsatz legen wir die Analyse von Ungewiheiten und die damit verbundene trans-wissenschaftliche Argumentation zur Seite und versuchen, einen sinnvollen Entwurf zu erstellen, der helfen kann, eine Entwicklungsstrategie fr dieses Gebiet zu finden. Ausgehend von dem ursprnglich angenommenen System, beginnen unsere Empfehlungen mit einfachen Grundstzen: Was mu man tun und was unterlassen. In einem zuknftigen Beitrag (fr eine sptere Ausgabe von Mountain Research and Development vorgesehen) werden wir die Umweltforschung der Organisationen untersuchen, die in dieser Region aktiv sind und werden spezifischere Vorschlge zu ihrer geeigneten Beteiligung machen.
3674440|In the late 1990s widespread evidence of glacier expansion was found in the central Karakoram, in contrast to a worldwide decline of mountain glaciers. The expansions were almost exclusively in glacier basins from the highest parts of the range and developed quickly after decades of decline. Exceptional numbers of glacier surges were also reported. Unfortunately, there has been no on-going measurement of climatic or glaciological variables at these elevations. The present article examines possible explanations for this seemingly anomalous behavior, using evidence from short-term monitoring programs, low-altitude weather stations, and the distinctive environmental characteristics of the region. The latter involve interactions between regional air mass climatology, its seasonality, topoclimate or 'verticality' effects on glaciers with extreme altitudinal range, climatic sensitivities of heavy versus thin supraglacial debris, and complex temperature distributions in ice masses with ice falls throughout critical elevations. Valley climate stations indicate increases in precipitation over the past 50 years and small declines in summer temperatures, which may indicate positive trends in glacier mass balance. However, the suddenness of the expansions is problematic, as is their confinement to glaciers from the highest watersheds while others continue to retreat. Thermal shifts in ice masses with extreme altitude ranges may be even more critical, leading to an accelerated redistribution of ice mass by elevation.
mounresedeve.32.2.203|To assess changes in glacial lakes in the Chinese Himalaya, 2 inventory phases were conducted on the basis of 278 aerial survey topography maps from the 1970s and 38 Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer (ASTER) images from the 2000s. In the past 30 years, the number of glacial lakes has decreased, from 1750 to 1680 (a decrease of 4.0%), whereas the average area of glacial lakes expanded from 166.48 to 215.28 km
10.2307/3674005|Madagascar's highland region once was covered with an evergreen forest dominated by about 20 endemic tree species. This has been permanently replaced by a floristically impoverished steppe vegetation on ferrolitic soils. Human intervention has caused this deforestation, aided by a notable failure of highland forests to spontaneously regenerate. Beginning about A.D. 600, Indonesian settlers began removing forests in this region to create swidden fields. After A.D. 1000, zebu cattle introduced from Africa provided a strong motive for islanders to increase grassland at the expense of forest. By A.D.1600 the highland forest cover had mostly disappeared except for localized tract, patches, and strips. The historical record and contemporary observations point to the importance of fire in destroying the forest. This landscape conversion has had devastating outcomes. Tree and humus removal has led to massive erosion, floods, water shortages, and faunal extinctions or endangerments. Agricultural and pastoral production on upland soils is marginal. Re-establishment of long-term ecological stability to this region would require an end to burning as a form of pasture management, changes in communal land tenure, and reforestation of the highlands with native tree species. /// Les montagnes de Madagascar taient dans le pass couvertes d'une fort sempervirente domine par 20 essences endmiques. Cette fort a t remplace en permanence par une vgtation de steppe  flore appauvrie sur des sols ferralitiques. L'intervention humaine est  l'origine de cette dforestation, combine avec un manque remarquable de rgnration spontane. Au dbut du VIIe sicle, les immigrants indonsiens ont commenc  dtruire les forts de la rgion dans le but de pratiquer l'agriculture sur brlis. Au XIe sicle, l'introduction du zbu africain a beaucoup encourag les habitants  augmenter les pturages au dtriment des forts. Vers la fin du XVe sicle, la couverture forestire des montagnes avait pratiquement disparu,  part de petites tendues localises. Le dossier historique et les observations contemporaines ont mis en vidence le rle du dfrichement par incendie dans la destruction des forts. Cette conversion du paysage a produit des effets dsastreux. La disparition des arbres et de l'humus a entran une rosion massive, des inondations, des pnuries d'eau et des extinctions ou menaces d'extinction de la faune. La productivit agricole et pastorale sur les sols de montagne est marginale. Le rtablissement de la stabilit cologique  long terme de cette rgion ncessiterait le renoncement  l'incendie comme forme de gestion des pturages, un changement de rgime foncier communal et la reforestation avec des essences indignes. /// Frher war das Hochland von Madagaskar stark bewaldet und von hauptschlich immergrnen endemischen Arten gab es mehr als zwanzig. Gegenwrtig sind die eisenhaltigen Bden nur mit einer drftigen Steppenvegetation bewachsen. Die Entwaldung ist Folge von anthropogenen Eingriffen, und sie wird verstrkt durch die Tatsache, da sich Hochlandwald sehr langsam regeneriert. Die Abholzung begann um etwa 600 a.D., als indonesische Siedler mit Brandfeldbau begannen. Ab etwa 1000 a.D. wurde Zebu Vieh aus Afrika eingefhrt, was die Inselbewohner motivierte, die Entwaldung noch strker zugunsten von Grassland voranzutreiben. Dies fhrte dazu, da ab etwa 1600 a.D. der Waldbestand des Hochlandes bis auf vereinzelte, lokal begranzte Flchen verschwunden war. Alte Aufzeichnungen und neuere Beobachtungen zeigen, da Waldbrand und nicht Abholzung dann den Wald endgltig vertilgt haben. Solch gravierende Land-schaftsvernderungen hatten verheerende Folgen. Der fehlende Baumbewuchs und der damit verbundene Verlust an Humusboden fhrte zu starker Erosion, berschwemmungen, und Wassermangel und gefhrdete auerdem die Tierwelt bis hin zum Aussterben einzelner Arten. Hochlandbden bringen der Land- und Weidewirtschaft nur noch geringe Ertrge. Konsequenzen, die langsichtig zu kologischer Stabilitt fhren, erfordern da Brandfeldbau abgeschafft wird, da Gemeindeland anders verwaltet wird, und da das Hochland mit endemischen Baumarten aufgeforstet wird.
10.2307/3673796|The Sierra de La Laguna is a group of mountains in the south of the Baja California Peninsula that, because of their height, show marked climatic differences. The life forms there are different from the rest of the Peninsula and the area is the site of many ecological studies. The objective of this paper is to construct a regional climatic series that can be useful for detecting annual dry and wet periods. An aridity index is calculated according to Martonne, using precipitation and temperature data from nine meteorological stations in the middle and lower ranges of the Sierra. When an auto-correction and Fourier analysis of the resultant series is made, a tendency to less aridity is observed with a fundamental frequency of 24 years, which approximates conformance to the double cycle of sunspots. /// La Sierra de La Laguna est un groupe de montagnes situ dans la partie sud de la Basse Californie qui, en raison de son altitude, prsente des diffrences climatiques marques. Les formes biologiques sont diffrentes de celles du reste de la pninsule, et cette zone est le site de nombreuses tudes cologiques. L'objectif de cet article est d'laborer une srie climatique rgionale pouvant tre utilise pour la dtection des priodes annuelles sches et humides. Un index d'aridit est calcul  l'aide de la formulation de Martonne, utilisant les donnes de prcipitation et de temprature collectes par neuf stations mtorologiques situes dans les chanes moyennes et infrieures de la Sierra. Lorsqu'une autocorrection et une analyse de Fourier de la srie rsultante sont effectues, on observe une tendance vers une moindre aridit avec une frquence fondamentale de 24 ans, en concordance approximative avec le double cycle de taches solaires. /// In der Sierra De La Laguna, einer Bergkette im Sden der Baja California Halbinsel, gibt es entscheidende hhenbedingte klimatische Unterschiede. Die dortigen Lebensformen unterscheiden sich von denen der brigen Halbinsel, und sind Gegenstand vieler kologischer Studien. Das Ziel dieser Verffentlichung ist es, eine regionale, klimabedingte Folge zu erstellen, aus der der jhrliche Zyklus von Trockenund Regenperioden ermittelt werden kann. Gem Martonne wird aus den Niederschlags- und Temperaturdaten von neun meteorologischen Stationen in mittleren und niedrigen Hhenlagen der Sierra ein Trockenheitsindex berechnet. Eine Auto-Korrelation und Fourier Analyse der resultierenden Zeitserie zeigt eine Tendenz zu geringerer Trockenheit mit einer Wiederholfrequenz von 24 Jahren, was etwa dem doppelten Sonnenfleckenzyklus entspricht. /// Al sur de la pennsula de Baja California se encuentra la Sierra de La Laguna, un conjunto montaoso que por sus caractersticas altitudinales presenta maracadas diferencias climticas y formas de vida con el resto de la pensula, siendo de gran atractivo para realizar estudios ecolgicos en la zona. El objetivo de este trabajo es construir una serie climtica de la regin que pueda ser de utilidad para detectar periodos interanuales de aridez y anos humedos, para lo cual se calcul el ndice de aridez segn Martonne con los datos de precipitacin y temperatura de las 9 estaciones meteorolgicas de las partes medias y bajas de la Sierra. Al realizar el anlisis de autocorrelacin y de Fourier de la serie resultante se observa una tendencia a la disminucin de la aridez, identificndose la frecuencia fundamental de 24 anos, que coincide aproximadamente con el doble ciclo de las manchas solares.
3674348|We challenge the paradigm of natural tree line formation in the equatorial Andes with an alternate view that incorporates the human dimension. We present both direct and indirect evidence of anthropogenic influences on cloud forest tree line location; these human influences should be incorporated in definitions of Andean tree lines as (1) the extensification of grassland for grazing and potato cultivation for the upper limit, and (2) the intensification of the agricultural frontier, fuelwood gathering, and timber extraction for the lower limit. Although we do not claim to fully debunk the prevalent paradigm of tree line dynamics (which is descriptive, depends on the natural sciences, and sees tree lines as physically controlled), we hope to achieve increased recognition for a challenging alternate view of tropical tree lines as functional, resource-use dependent, and human-driven. Management plans and overall tropical montane cloud forest conservation strategies need to consider this new perspective and incorporate a proactive and assertive approach toward restoration of Andean forests in a way that will encourage landscape diversity in tropical mountain ecoregions.
mounresedeve.29.2.143|The Afromontane forests of northern Ethiopia have been degraded and fragmented for centuries. Recently, efforts have been made to restore these forests by protecting them from livestock interference. In this study, the natural regeneration of Juniperus procera Hochst. ex Endl. and
10.2307/3673225|Anthropological scholarship has been slow to develop in the Himalaya, compared to the Andes, because for millenia the Himalaya have been regarded as a political, economic, and cultural backwater by the Chinese, Indian, and, later, European Empires which surrounded them. By contrast, control of the Andes was the key to conquest of the rest of South America. Briefly mentioned in ancient sources, the Himalaya from the seventeenth until the early twentieth century saw an increase in accounts by diplomats, soldiers, merchants, and missionaries. But because of political isolation, most of the Himalaya were not accessible to anthropologists until the 1950s, when modern anthropological research began. By the 1970s a large number of students from many countries were at work, including for the first time a significant number of indigenous scholars. /// Les recherches anthropologiques concernant l'Himalaya se sont dveloppes plus lentement que celles portant sur les Andes, car pendant des millnaires l'Himalaya a t considr comme une rgion stagnante du point de vue politique, conomique, et culturel par les empires avoisinants: Chinois, Indien, puis Europen. A l'oppos, la matrise des Andes ft la clef de la conqute du reste de l'Amrique du Sud. Mentionne brivement dans les textes anciens, la rgion de l'Himalaya a de plus en plus attir l'attention des diplomates, militaires, commerants, et missionnaires, du dix-septime jusqu'au dbut du vingtime sicle. Mais,  cause de son isolation politique, la plus grande partie de l'Himalaya n'est devenue accessible aux anthropologues qu' l'ore des annes 50, c'est  dire au dbut de la recherche anthropologique moderne. Au cours des annes 70, un grand nombre d'tudiants de provenances diverses y travaillaient, y-compris, pour la premire fois, un nombre important de chercheurs locaux. /// Anthropologische Untersuchungen im Himalaya, verglichen zu denen der Anden, haben sich langsam entwickelt. Fr Jahrtausende wurde der Himalaya von den umgebenden chinesischen, indischen und spter den europischen Mchten als politisch, konomisch und kulturell rckstndig angesehen. Die Beherrschung der Anden dagegen galt als Schlssel zur Eroberung des brigen Sdamerikas. In alten Quellen wurde der Himalaya nur kurz erwhnt; vom 17. bis ins frhe 20. Jahrhundert stieg die Zahl der von Diplomaten, Soldaten, Hndlern und Missionaren gegebenen Berichte. Bis 1950 blieb der grte Teil des Himalaya wegen seiner politischen Isolation den Anthropologen unzugnglich, erst danach begann moderne anthropologische Forschung. In den 70er Jahren machten sich viele Forscher aus allen Lndern an die Arbeit, und zum ersten Mal war auch eine groe Zahl einheimischer Gelehrten unter ihnen. /// El estudio antropolgico en el Himalaya se ha desarrollado lentamente en comparacin al caso andino porque la regin ha sido considerado de poca importancia por los imperios chino, indio y europeo que lo rodearon. En cambio, el control de los Andes fue una clave en la conquista del continente sudamericano. Aunque el Himalaya solo fue mencionado brevamente en los textos antiguos, desde el siglo 17 hasta principios del siglo 20 fue descrito con mas frecuencia por soldados, diplomticos, misioneros y comerciantes. Pero su aislamiento poltico impidi el acceso de antroplogos a grandes zonas del Himalaya hasta los aos 1950, cuando empezaron las investigaciones antropolgicas modernas. A partir del ao 1970, una gran cantidad de especialistas de diversos pases han estudiado el Himalaya, incluyendo, por primera vez, un nmero significativo de intelectuales himalayanos.
mounresedeve.36.3.384|Tucked in the foothills of the Maluti-Drakensberg Mountains is the Qwaqwa campus of the University of the Free State. This is the home of the Afromontane Research Unit, a multidisciplinary flagship unit addressing a largely under-researched area in South Africa.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s55|The history of mountain research is most fascinating. Three names for 3 centuries may give an idea of the growing knowledge about the world's mountains: Horace Bndict de Saussure, who climbed and studied the Mont Blanc in 1787; Alexander von Humboldt, ever investigating the environment during his attempt to ascend the Chimborazo in 1802; and Carl Troll, who founded the International Geographical Union's Commission on High-altitude Geoecology in 1968. Awareness of the growing impact of human activities on the environment led to scientific and political initiatives at the global level, beginning in the 1970s. The Perth conference in 2010 has offered an opportunity to both look back on these developments and explore the future of the world's mountains in a time of rapidly growing global change problems and processes.
25164078|The Bayanbulak region, deep in the East Tienshan Mountains, is the southernmost and highest breeding area for swans anywhere in the world. As one of the few biodiversity hotspots in central Asia, it was listed in 1986 as a Chinese national swan nature reserve. The region is also the largest grazing area in Xinjiang as well as a tourist attraction. But in the last 25 years, the population of wild swans has decreased from about 20,000 to 2000, and approximately half of the pastureland now suffers from overgrazing and degradation. Moreover, the local government has been considering building a reservoir in the region. If this is done, the ecology of this region would be greatly altered, and almost all wild-swan habitats would disappear. The present study identifies alpine grassland types and concludes that it is urgent to protect the breeding areas of wild swans and control grassland degradation, and that any plan for reservoir construction should be rejected.
3674293|New Zealand is a very mountainous country with sparsely populated mountain lands. While large tracts are held in private ownership and used in pastoral production, the majority is state owned. New Zealand's protected natural area system encompasses the Southern Alps/Ka Tiritiri o te Moana and the North Island peaks, with the highest mountains in the country within Aoraki/Mount Cook National Park, a World Heritage Site. Thirty percent of New Zealand's land area falls within the protected natural area system, managed by the Department of Conservation (DOC). Within these mountain lands, there is a range of mountain recreation opportunities including skiing, alpine climbing, hiking, wilderness fishing, and hunting. Aircraft-based activities, such as scenic over-flights, heli-hiking, and glacier skiing, dominate some mountain regions. Ski fields represent small enclaves of high-level facility and infrastructure development within an environment that is largely unmodified wilderness. To facilitate high-quality recreational experiences and protect the natural mountain environment, DOC provides facilities such as huts and tracks, and applies management techniques to minimize visitor conflict and biophysical impacts. Commercial activities in parks are managed through concessions that place controls upon these activities.
10.2307/3673359|The heterogeneous economic structure of the northern Chilean Andes (oases agriculture, exploitation of saltpetre, copper mining) was conducive to a differing population development in the various areas of the region. The exploitation of the great copper deposits led to a significant increase in the population of the high mountains in recent decades. This was accompanied by a serious depopulation of the rural areas and a concentration of population in certain large mining settlements and their surroundings. The population pressure was not reduced for there was only movement from the rural areas to the mining centres and to the bigger towns. To verify and exemplify this, migrations toward the biggest open copper mine in the world, Chuquicamata, and the nearby oasis town, Calama (province of Antofagasta) are investigated. The discussions focus on emigration from the oases of the Andean Cordillera. The analysis tries to answer the questions: (1) What are the reasons for the emigration from the oases and how important is the growing population there?, (2) Who emigrates from the oases and what are the effects of this migration on the areas of origin?, and (3) How can the economic and social situation of the migrant population in the area of destination be described? /// La structure conomique htrogne des Andes du Nord du Chili (agriculture d'oasis, extraction de salptre et de cuivre) a entran une diffrence rgionale dans le dveloppement de la population. L'exploitation des grandes mines de cuivre a fait que la population des Hautes Andes s'est considrablement accrue dans les dernires dcennies. Paralllement, la population des rgions rurales a beaucoup diminu et une concentration dmographique s'est produite dans quelques grandes cits minires et leurs environs. Les mouvements de population n'ont pas soulag la pression dmographique, car il s'agissait simplement d'un dplacement venant des rgions rurales et allant vers les centres miniers et les grandes villes. A titre d'exemple, les mouvements migratoires sont analyss, notamment ceux dirigs vers la plus grande mine de cuivre mondiale, Chuquicamata, et de l'oasis Calama qui se trouve  sa proximit. La discussion se concentre particulirement sur l'migration venant des oasis de la Cordillre. L'analyse essaie de rsoudre les trois questions suivantes: (1) Quelles sont les raisons d'une migration venant des oasis et dans quelle mesure la pression dmographique joue-t-elle un rle?, (2) Quel est le cercle de personnes qui dlaisse les oasis et quelles en sont les consquences pour la structure conomique et dmographique de la rgion et d'origine?, (3) Quelle est la situation conomique et sociale des migrants dans leur nouvelle rgion? /// Die heterogene wirtschaftliche Struktur der nordchilenischen Anden (Oasenlandwirtschaft, Salpetergewinnung, Kupferbergbau) hat zu einer regional unterschiedlichen Bevlkerungsentwicklung gefhrt. Durch die Erschlieung der groen Kupferminen hat die in den Hochanden lebende Bevlkerung in den letzten Jahrzehnten erheblich zugenommen. Dabei erfolgte eine weitgehende Entleerung der lndlichen Rume und eine Konzentration der Bevlkerung auf einige wenige groe Minensiedlungen und ihre unmittelbare Umgebung. Der Bevlkerungsdruck konnte durch diese Bevlkerungsumverteilung nicht abgebaut werden; es kam lediglich zu einer Verlagerung vom lndlichen Raum in die Zentren des Bergbaus und die greren Stdte. Beispielhaft werden die Wanderungsbewegungen in Richtung des grten Kupfertagebaus der Erde, Chuquicamata, und der in seinem unmittelbaren Einflugebiet gelegenen Oasenstadt Calama (Provinz Antofagasta) nher betrachtet. Die Diskussion konzentriert sich insbesondere auf die Abwanderung aus den Kordillerenoasen. Die Analyse versucht, auf die folgenden Fragen eine Antwort zu geben: (1) Welches sind die Grnde fr eine Abwanderung aus den Oasen und inwieweit spielt der zugenommene Bevlkerungsdruck eine Rolle?, (2) Welcher Personenkreis wandert in erster Linie aus den Oasen ab und welche Auswirkungen ergeben sich daraus fr die Wirtschafts- und Bevlkerungsstruktur dieses Raumes?, und (3) Wie stellt sich die wirtschaftliche und soziale Situation der Migranten im Zielgebiet dar? /// La estructura econmica de carcter heterogneo en la regin de los Andes del Norte chileno (agricultura de osis, explotacin del salitre, minera del cobre), han llevado a un desarrollo de la poblacin regionalmente diferenciado. Debido a la explotacin de las grandes minas del cobre el nmero de habitantes en la cordillera alta ha aumentado significativamente. Al mismo tiempo se efectu un xodo rural y una concentracin de la poblacin en algunos pocos grandes ncleos de minera y sus reas ms cercanas. La presin que ejerce la poblacin no pudo ser reducida a travs sta redistribucin; se lleg solamente a un traslado de la poblacin del espacio rural a los centros de minera y ciudades ms grandes. A modo de ejemplo son observadas las migraciones en direccin a la mina de tajo abierto ms grande del mundo, Chuquicamata, y a la ciudad osis situada en la regin inmediata bajo su influencia, Calama. La discusin se concentra principalmente en la emigracin desde los osis cordilleranos. El anlisis trata de contestar las tres siguientes preguntas: (1) Cules son los motivos para una emigracin desde los osis y hasta qu punto juega la presin de la poblacin un papel importante?, (2) Qu categora de personas emigra en primer lugar desde los osis y qu efecto se produce a concecuencia de esto en la estructura econmica y poblacional de sta regin?, y (3) De qu forma se les presenta la situacin econmica y social para los migrantes en el lugar de destino?
3674159|Low elevation riparian forests found within the Middle Hills of Nepal are both essential biological habitats and important resources for local subsistence farmers. Forming networks of habitat patches within the primarily agricultural matrix of the Middle Hills, these forests are repositories of a rich biological diversity. Dynamics of forest change along riparian corridors were investigated within the newly established Makalu Barun National Park and Conservation Area (MBCA) of eastern Nepal, based on a comparison of remote sensing data over a 20-year interval. Multispectral analysis and a supervised classification of Landsat TM (1992) and Landsat MSS (1972) data estimate approximately 7000 ha of low elevation riparian forests within the study area. Change detection analysis estimates based on the respective supervised classifications reveal little significant change in extent of the tropical and subtropical zone riparian forests. More impact was evident toward the upper elevational limits of the study area. A 4% (approximately 300 ha) loss of cover within areas previously designated as forest is estimated. For all areas in the study area, a net loss of forest of 11% is estimated. Land use is shown to be highly dynamic, with significant internal trading between land use classes. The important role of riparian corridors in biodiversity conservation within the Middle Hills of east Nepal is discussed. Further research on biodiversity within these patches and a specific recognition of the value of remnant riparian forests within the landscape and rural economy are required if conservation goals for the eastern Nepal Himalaya are to be met.
25164102|People's perceptions of their environment in high mountain rangelands ultimately affect the fragile ecosystems on which they depend, and thus their welfare. This is especially true in developing countries, where the livelihoods of people living in such ecosystems depend on grazing livestock. The present study, conducted in the central mountain region of Peru, used photographs and Q methodology to investigate the criteria and preferences that shepherds and local administrators apply in making grazing management decisions. The results showed 2 different sets of criteria and preferences. In the first set of preferences the condition of the grassland, particularly the height of the vegetation, was the main criterion. In the second set, the color of the vegetation was the key criterion. We discuss implications for the further use of this methodology.
90009004|Risks and hazards associated with climate change and geological factors, especially in the worlds youngest mountains, are inevitable and may have been exacerbated in recent decades. However reports about increased landslips and landslides in some areas are being presented as examples to argue that most natural hazards in mountain areas are due to climate change. Based on a field study in the Yourjogh area of Chitral District in Pakistan, we argue that this discourse is based on generalized conclusions that do not hold in all cases and for all types of disasters. Our study challenges the climate change discourse as disregarding the political dimension of water management that also contributes to landslides and landslips in Pakistans mountainous regions. The climate change discourse has taken the politics out of external-donor-led development interventions that replaced traditional irrigation management practices and institutions with an arrangement in which external development agencies and the state control crucial economic and social processes that shape the distribution of water. This not only depoliticizes disasters and their effects but also leads to further mismanagement of abundantly available irrigation water, contributing to the frequent occurrence of landslips in our study area. We conclude that attributing hazards only to climatic or geological factors leaves little room to promote locally appropriate solutions for locally created hazards.
10.2307/3673297|In earlier issues of Mountain Research and Development (Vol. 5, Nos. 2 and 3), Thompson and Warburton developed an institutional approach to development in the Himalayan region: an approach that, in treating the institutions and the perceptions they generate as the facts, largely dissolved away the physical constraints in a sea of uncertainty. In this article, we try to complete the exploratory circle by bringing nature - the physical constraints - back into our cultural picture. All institutions, sooner or later, bump against these constraints; the local farmers sooner, the international agencies later. Learning - readjustments in systems of knowledge - then takes place. Nature, in effect, forces the different systems of knowledge that are promoted by different institutions into conversation with one another. The present challenge is to convert that conversation from monologue to dialogue. /// Dans Mountain Research and Development (Vol. 5, Nos. 2 et 3), Thompson et Warburton ont prsent une approche institutionnelle  l'gard du dveloppement de l'Himalaya. En traitant les institutions et les perceptions qu'elles engendrent comme tant les faits vritables, cette approche a permis de rduire la complexit du problme en liminant pratiquement les contraintes physiques. La prsente communication essaie de complter et d'intgrer cette approche en ramenant la nature, donc les contraintes physiques, dans la perspective culturelle. Tt ou tard, les institutions concernes doivent faire face  ces contraintes, les fermiers d'abord, puis les agences internationales. C'est alors que l'apprentissage se produit, c'est--dire un rajustement des systmes de connaissance. En effet, la nature force les diffrents systmes de connaissance embrasss par diverses institutions  s'adapter les uns aux autres. Ce qu'il reste  faire est de promouvoir une communication vritable entre ces systmes, au bnfice de tous. /// In frheren Ausgaben von Mountain Research and Development (Vol. 5, Nr. 2 und 3) entwickelten Thompson und Warburton einen institutionellen Lsungsweg zur Erschlieung des Himalaya Gebietes: Eine Methode, die Institutionen und deren Vorstellungen als gegebene Tatsachen behandelt und damit alle geophysikalischen Zwnge in einem Wust von Ungewiheiten verbirgt. In dieser Verffentlichung versuchen wir, den Untersuchungszyklus zu vervollstndigen, wobei in unserem kulturellen Modell die Natur mit ihren physikalischen Zwngen bercksichtigt wird. Frher oder spter mu sich jede Institution mit solchen Beschrnkungen auseinandersetzen, und zwar zuerst die heimischen Bauern und spter dann die internationalen Agenturen. Erfahrung wird gewonnen und in die bestehenden Wissenssysteme eingebracht. Die Natur, in der Tat, erfordert zwischen den einzelnen Wissenssystemen, die von unterschiedlichen Behrden gefrdert werden, einen Gedankenaustausch. Die gegenwrtige Herausforderung besteht darin, den einseitigen Erfahrungsaustausch in einen Dialog umzuwandeln.
10.2307/3673630|The glacial history of the central Andes is used to reconstruct climatic changes during the last 20,000 years. The depression of the equilibrium-line altitude of glaciers is determined to quantitatively reconstruct these changes. The results indicate that late-Pleistocene glaciation culminated between 14,000 and 12,000 yr B.P. At this time equilibrium-line altitudes in the Eastern Cordillera of Bolivia were depressed on average 300 m in response to an increase in precipitation and a temperature reduction of 3.5  1.6C. Between 12,000 and 10,000 yr B.P. deglaciation proceeded rapidly and several stages of recessional moraines were deposited. By 10,000 to 8,000 yr B.P. glaciers in most valleys were near their modern extents. In the late-Holocene glaciers advanced again because of colder conditions and maize production may have been limited as indicated by the ethnobotanical evidence from archaeological sites in the Mantaro River valley of central Peru. /// L'historique glaciaire des Andes centrales est utilis pour retracer les changements climatiques qui se sont produits au cours des 20.000 dernires annes. L'abaissement de l'altitude de la ligne d'quilibre des glaciers a t dtermin dans le but d'exprimer quantitativement ces changements. Les rsultats indiquent que la glaciation de la fin du Plistocne a culmin entre 14.000 et 12.000 ans avant l'poque actuelle. A cette poque-l, l'altitude de la ligne d'quilibre dans la Cordillre est de la Bolivie s'est abaisse de 300 m en moyenne par suite d'une augmentation des prcipitations et d'une chute de temprature de 3,5  1,6 C. Entre 12.000 et 10.000 ans avant l'poque actuelle, la dglaciation s'est effectue rapidement et des moraines de rcession  diffrents stades de formation se sont dposes. Environ 10.000  8.000 ans avant l'poque actuelle, les glaciers de la plupart des valles couvraient une tendue proche de celle qu'ils couvrent aujourd'hui. A la fin de l'Holocne, les glaciers ont progress de nouveau par suite de conditions plus froides et la production de mas a probablement diminu, comme l'indiquent les indices ethnobotaniques observs sur les sites archologiques de la valle du Mantaro, dans le Prou central. /// Die glaziale Geschichte der Zentralanden wird benutzt, um Klimavernderungen whrend der vergangenen 20.000 Jahre nachzuweisen. Es wird die Depression in der Gleichgewichts-Hhenlinie von Gletschern bestimmt, um die nderungen quantitativ zu rekonstruieren. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da vor 12.000 bis 14.000 Jahren die Vergletscherung ihren Hhepunkt erreichte. Zu dieser Zeit waren die Gleichgewichts-Hhenlinien in den stlichen Kordilleren von Bolivien um durchschnittlich 300 m komprimiert als Folge von erhhten Niederschlgen und einem Temperaturrckgang von 3,5   1,6 C. Vor 10.000 bis 12.000 Jahren erfolgte schnelles Abschmelzen, und zurckgehende Mornen wurden in verschiedenen Stufen abgelagert. Vor 8.000 bis 10.000 Jahren waren die Gletscher in den meisten Tlern nahe ihrer heutigen Lage. Whrend des Sptholozns nahmen sie als Folge klterer Bedingungen wieder zu; was die Maisproduktion eingeschrnkt haben knnte, wie es im ethnobotanischen Beweismaterial von archologischen Fundorten im Mantaro Flutal von Zentralperu angedeutet wird.
10.2307/3673855|This paper examines the history of vicua conservation in Peru over the last thirty years. During this period management strategies have shifted from protection to sustainable utilization, from a centralized administration with use of armed park guards and disenfranchisement of the campesino communities, to investing the legal custody of the vicua, together with responsibility for its protection and the right to utilize products obtained from live animals, in the campesino communities located on lands where the vicua lives. Although many questions remain to be answered concerning the impact of these changes, financial benefits obtained by the communities from sales of live shorn fiber far exceed those from hides sold on the black market, providing a powerful incentive to protect the species, and recent survey data record a decline in poaching. /// Cet article examine l'historique de la prservation de la vigogne au Prou au cours des trente dernires annes. Au cours de cette priode, les stratgies de gestion ont volu de la protection vers l'utilisation viable, d'une administration centrale avec gardes arms et privation des droits civiques des collectivits campesino, vers l'octroi de la garde lgale de la vigogne, ainsi que la responsabilit pour sa protection et le droit d'utilisation des produits obtenus des animaux vivants, aux collectivits campesino situes dans l'habitat de la vigogne. Bien qu'un grand nombre de questions ne sont pas rsolues en ce qui concerne l'impact de ces changements, les avantages financiers que les collectivits peuvent tirer de la vente de fibres obtenues par la tonte d'animaux vivants dpasse largement ceux tirs de la vente de peaux au march noir. Cet tat de fait encourage fortement la protection de l'espce et les rsultats d'enqutes rcentes indiquent un dclin du braconnage. /// Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Geschichte des Vicuaschutzes in Peru whrend der letzten dreiig Jahre. Managementstrategien haben sich in diesem Zeitraum stark gendert: von zentraler Verwaltung mit Einsatz von bewaffneten Wchtern und Entrechtung der Campesino-Gemeinden hin zu bertragung der rechtlichen Vormundschaft fr die Vicuas, der Verantwortung fr ihren Schutz, sowie der Anrechte auf die Nutzung der von lebendigen Tieren gewonnen Vicuaprodukte auf die Campesino-Gemeinden in den Vicuagebieten. Obwohl noch viele Fragen ber die Auswirkungen dieser Vernderungen offen sind, so steht doch fest, da die Einknfte der Gemeinden durch den Verkauf der Wolle lebendig geschorener Tiere den Erls der auf dem Schwarzmarkt verkauften Felle weit bersteigen, und somit einen starken Anreiz fr den Schutz diesr Art darstellen. Neue Untersuchungsergebnisse zeigen, da die Wilderei abnimmt. /// El presente trabajo examina los ltimos treinta aos en la hitoria de la conservacin de la vicua en el Per. Durante este perdodo se han producido cambios significativos en las estrategias de manejo que han evolucionado desde una actitud proteccionista a otra ms reciente de manejo sustentable, que van desde una administracin centralizada del manejo en la que no se contempla la participacin de las comunidades campesinas en la toma de decisiones, a otra que, en esencia, da a estes la custodia legal de la especie y la responsabilidad de protegerla con la posibilidad de utilizar los productos obtenidos de animales en pie que, en esencia, habitan los mismos espacios en donde se localizan las comunidades campesinas. Sin bien son muchas las preguntas sin responder relacionadas con el impacto generado por los mencionados cambios, los beneficios econmicos obtenidos por las comunidades campesinas, generados de la venta de animales en pie, exceden a aquellos que se generan de la venta de cueros en el mercado negro, habiendo sido este un incentivo en la proteccion de la especie segn lo demuestran recientes muestreos que sealan una reduccin en la matanza ilegal de vicuas.
4096454|Many upland communities in northwest Yunnan, China, are agropastoralist. Agropastoralist livelihoods in the region are characterized by close interactions between crops and livestock, and by seasonal transhumance. Agropastoralist communities are relatively marginalized by technical service agencies and policy making processes. The Center for Biodiversity and Indigenous Knowledge (CBIK), a local NGO, has been working with communities and extension agencies to develop approaches to innovative technical and institutional interventions that support sustainable livelihoods. The present article describes the issues faced by agropastoralists in the region, the approaches promoted by CBIK (participatory technology development and co-management of rangelands), and issues faced in scaling up these approaches to influence local government policy and extension practices.
3674577|In Mongolia, grasslands and steppes are currently home to over 25 million head of livestock and 192,000 herding families. Nomadic livestock producers are the backbone of the economy. As in other areas in the region (eg western China), herders are facing very serious pasture degradation. Government officials and herders agree that many local carrying capacities are exceeded. These problems have been aggravated by 3 recent extremely severe winters. A multidisciplinary, multi-institutional research team, coordinated by the Mongolian Ministry for Nature and the Environment, is addressing this challenge through a combination of participatory, action-oriented field research activities in 3 of the country's major ecosystems-the dry steppe, forest steppe, and Altai mountains steppe. Efforts include direct involvement in national policy-making, encompassing the drafting of new laws. Two innovative action research activities are the formation of community herder groups and the establishment of pasture co-management teams involving herders, local government, and members of civil society. Together, these diversified, multilevel efforts are resulting in new thinking about natural resource management and new ways of doing research and formulating policies. They are opening up the necessary space for active and meaningful co-management roles for herders and government officials alike.
10.2307/3673762|Intensive tourism development in the town of Steamboat Springs and the surrounding Yampa Valley threatens to change the conditions that attracted visitors in the first place. This paper addresses a definition of sustainable development as the baseline for development in the valley. The historic evolution of the area is traced relative to social, economic, and natural environmental conditions. A set of indices that are typically used to determine carrying capacity for sustainable development are outlined. However, these quantitative indices do not form a definitive measure of sustainability. Based on a study of present land-use procedures and recent projects, qualitative indices supported by public opinion are found to be the determinants of acceptable levels of development in the valley. In addition, development in Steamboat Springs is found to have effects throughout the valley. Sustainability is thus defined by qualitative indices supported by public opinion and must be understood in the context of a valley-wide system. /// Le dveloppement intensif du tourisme dans la ville de Steamboat Springs et la valle avoisinante de la Yampa menace de changer les conditions qui  l'origine ont attir les visiteurs. Cet article prend une dfinition du dveloppement viable comme point de rfrence pour le dveloppement de la valle. L'volution historique de la rgion est retrace du point de vue des conditions sociales, conomiques et naturelles. Des indices quantitatifs gnralement utiliss pour dterminer la capacit limite permettant un dveloppement viable sont examins brivement, bien qu'ils ne reprsentent pas une mesure dfinitive de la viabilit du dveloppement dans la valle. Des indices qualitatifs fonds sur une tude des processus actuels d'utilisation des terres et de rcents projets dans la valle, et soutenus par l'opinion publique, se sont rvls tre les indices dterminants de niveaux de dveloppement acceptables. De plus, il est montr que le dveloppement de Steamboat Springs se rpercute dans toute la valle. La viabilit du dveloppement est donc dfinie par des indices qualitatifs soutenus par l'opinion publique et doit tre perue dans le contexte d'un cosystme  l'chelle de la valle. /// Der intensive Tourismus in der Gemeinde von Steamboat Springs und im umliegenden Yampa Tal gefhrdet die Vorraussetzungen, die ursprnglich die Touristen anzogen. Diese Verffentlichung sucht nach einer Definition fr wnschenswerte Entwicklung, die dann als Ausgangspunkt fr eine Weiterentwicklung des gesamten Talgebietes dienen knnte. Soziale, konomische und natrliche Umweltbedingungen werden aus der Sicht der historischen Entwicklung des Gebietes zurck verfolgt. Indizes werden angegeben, die typischerweise als Gradmesser der Entwicklungsmglichkeit benutzt werden knnen. Solche quantitativen Indizes setzen jedoch keinen definitiven Mastab fr eine anhaltende Entwicklung im Tal. Qualitative Indizes, die durch Meinungsumfragen untermauert sind, ergeben sich als bestimmende Faktoren fr einen annehmbaren Entwicklungsgrad, nimmt man eine Studie ber derzeitige Landnutzungsmethoden und neuere Projekte im Tal als Grundlage. Die Entwicklung in Steamboat Springs hat Auswirkungen auf das gesamte Talgebiet. Qualitative, von der ffentlichen Meinung getragene Merkmale, definieren die Aufrechterhaltung einer kontinuierlichen Entwicklung und mssen im Zusammenhang des kosystems des gesamten Talgebietes gesehen werden.
mounresedeve.32.4.461|Rising temperatures and changing precipitation patterns across the Hindu KushHimalaya (HKH) region resulting from climate change have an influence on water resource availability and food security for the downstream population. This review seeks to objectively assess the available evidence of the impacts of climate change on glacier hydrology and the wider implications upon water resources within the Indus, Ganges, and Brahmaputra basins. Glacier meltwater contribution to river flows is scale dependent and varies considerably across the eastwest climatic zones of the HKH. For the Ganges and Brahmaputra this contribution is estimated to be significantly less than for the Indus to the west, with summer monsoon rains dominating flows from central and easterly areas, whereas meltwater remains a significant contributor to downstream flow of westerly basins, which receive most precipitation during winter. No corroborated trends exist in observed discharge for any basin, and such analyses are hindered by a lack of goodquality long-term data. Predicted increases in temperature will drive increased shrinkage of glaciers, leading to initial increases in meltwater produced, followed by subsequent declines with reduced glacier mass. The impacts of such changes are predicted to be minimal for the overall discharge of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, where increases in rainfall may in fact lead to increased flows but with greater variability. Within the Indus basin, reduced meltwater will have significant impacts upon available runoff; however, increased uncertainties surrounding precipitation and socioeconomic changes limit any conclusive assessment of how water availability will be affected; moreover, seasonality of runoff may be a more important factor. Scientific challenges and research recommendations are identified for the region. This review proposes the need for the scientific evidence pertaining to the region's glacier systems to be approached objectively in the future, such that a robust assessment of change can be attained.
mounresedeve.36.1.80|In smallholder farming systems, especially in mountainous areas, households face trade-offs between meeting short-term human needs and ensuring long-term soil productivity. Improved biomass management can help break the downward spiral of overexploitation of natural resources, land degradation, and productivity decline, and support more sustainable use of marginal land. Mixed crop/ livestock systems are often carefully balanced to minimize risks. Thus, when planning interventions, profound systems knowledge is crucial. However, the data required for system characterization are often scarce, and original field studies are thus necessary. The aim of this research, a case study in Tajikistan, was to improve systems understanding of the biomass cycle in crop/livestock systems in order to quantify the obstacles to the spread of sustainable land management technologies to farming households. It aimed to establish a database and methods of rapid data collection to quantify the stocks and flows of biomass, with a focus on mass balances, and to evaluate smallholders' biomass management options and trade-offs. Data collection included household interviews, secondary literature, and reference data sets from global sources. Trade-off analysis focused on household-level self-supply of food, fodder, and fuel by farmers with different sizes of smallholdings, and their potential for on-farm recycling of organic matter. Results indicate that food self-supply by small and medium smallholders is insufficient and fodder sources are scarce. Fodder scarcity means that application of crop byproducts to soils is unlikely. Animal dung is largely used as fuel. Firewood needs exceed on-farm wood production, leading to deforestation. The approach presented facilitates an understanding of current and potential agricultural land interventions in the crop/livestock farming systems prevailing in mountainous areas.
mounresedeve.32.2.109|This article aims to contribute to the analysis of the complex relationship between sustainable development and green economy in mountain areas by focusing on a conflict over the building of a centralized biogas plant to produce renewable energy from livestock manure in an Italian Alpine valley. The case study shows that the project for a large-sized biogas plant promoted by the local political institutions as environmental modernization of local agriculture, and supported by the most important professional organizations, became increasingly controversial at the local community level and was eventually abandoned. By drawing in particular on the literature concerning the social acceptance of renewable energies, the article highlights how this conflict raises issues of distributional justice and procedural justice with regard to the implementation of the green economy model, and it points out the need to embed green economy technologies in the local context and conditions. These concerns should be given primary consideration if the green economy model is to contribute to the sustainable development of marginal areas.
mounresedeve.36.4.518|The mountain research community is still contending with the need to monitor ecosystems, both to improve local management practices and to address regional and global science questions related to the Future Earth themes of Dynamic Planet, Global Sustainable Development, and Transformations Towards Sustainability. How such efforts may be designed and coordinated remains an open question. Historical climate and ecological observatories and networks typically have not represented the scope or spatial and topographic distribution of near-surface processes in mountains, creating knowledge gaps. Grassroots, in situ investigations have revealed the existence of topoclimates that are not linearly related to general atmospheric conditions, and are also not adequately represented in gridded model products. In this paper, we describe how some of the disconnects between data, models, and applications in mountains can be addressed using a combination of gradient monitoring, uniform observational siting and standards, and modern technology (cyberinfrastructure). Existing observational studies need to expand their topographic niches, and future observatories should be planned to span entire gradients. Use of cyberinfrastructure tools such as digital telemetry and Internet Protocol networks can reduce costs and data gaps while improving data quality control processes and widening audience outreach. Embracing this approach and working toward common sets of comparable measurements should be goals of emerging mountain observatories worldwide.
10.2307/3673452|Forests formerly covered the major part of the southeastern plateau of Ethiopia but today only a few remnants remain. With increasing altitude changes in species composition, diversity, structure of the stands, and morphology of the plants occur; these depend on the various limiting factors which characterize the ecological conditions. The natural upper tree limit is sharp and distinct and there is no transitional belt. The montane forests and the Afro-alpine belt are important genetic reservoirs for many endemic species yet they are fragile ecosystems; the forests have an important protective and productive function. The concept of conservation includes the establishment of forest reserves as well as management strategies based on a beneficial balance between resource development and the satisfaction of human needs. /// La fort couvrait autrefois la majeure partie du plateau sud-est de l'Ethiopie. Elle a t rduite  quelques vestiges qui ont t tudis ici. La composition des espces, leur diversit, leur stratification et la morphologie des plantes varient rgulierement avec l'altitude. Divers facteurs limitatifs caractrisent les conditions cologiques. La limite de la fort est une ligne distincte et nette, sans zone de transition. La fort de montagne et la zone afro-alpine constituent d'importants rservoirs gntiques avec de nombreuses espces endmiques. Les cosystmes sont fragiles et les forts jouent un rle de protection et de production important. La prservation de ces forts suppose aussi bien la mise en rserve de certaines zones que leur exploitation judicieuse, permettant de satisfaire aux besoins humains tout en dveloppant le niveau des ressources. /// Der grsste Teil des Sdost-Plateaus von Aethiopien war frher von Wald bedeckt, der mittlerweile auf wenige Ueberreste reduziert worden ist. Diese Restwlder waren das Objekt dieser Studie. Mit zunehmender Hhe ber Meer treten regelmssige Vernderungen der Artenzusammensetzung, der Diversivitt, Stratifizierung und Morphologie der Pflanzen auf. Verschiedene limitierende Faktoren prgen die unterschiedlichen Umweltbedingungen. Die natrliche Waldgrenze ist eine klar erkennbare und scharf abgegrenzte Linie ohne Uebergangszone. Der Bergwald und die Afroalpine Zone sind wichtige genetische Reservoirs, die viele endemische Arten aufweisen. Allerdings sind diese Oekosysteme fragil. Die Wlder sind wichtig im Hinblick auf ihre Schutzfunktionen und die Produktion. Das Konzept der Konservierung beinhaltet die Einrichtung von Schutzzonen wie auch verschiedene Formen der Verwaltung und Nutzung der Wlder, die auf einer vorteilhaften Verbindung von Ressourcenentwicklung und Bedrfnissen des Menschen basiert.
10.2307/3673550|This paper stresses the need for an integrated land-use plan to protect Wedza Mountain and its natural resources from increasing misuse and environmental degradation. At present, indiscriminate timber cutting and uncontrolled grazing are causing accelerating soil erosion and there are serious conflicts among land users. An inventory, proposed plan, and a series of recommendations concerning vegetation, water, and wildlife are given. It is emphasized that the local community, as well as various government departments, should be included in the decision-making process. /// Cet article met l'accent sur le besoin d'un plan intgr d'utilisation du sol afin de protger le Mont Wedza et ses ressources naturelles contre une exploitation abusive et une dgradation de l'environnement. A prsent, l'abattage des arbres et le pturage se pratiquent en toute libert; en consquence, l'rosion du sol s'est acclre et des conflits srieux entre utilisateurs se sont dvelopps. Un inventaire, proposition de plan intgr, et une srie de recommandations concernant la vgtation, l'eau et la faune sont fournis. Il est important que la communaut locale ainsi que les diffrents organismes gouvernementaux soient inclus dans le processus de prise de dcision. /// Dieser Beitrag bekrftigt die Notwendigkeit eines integrierten Landnutzungsplans, um den Wedza Berg und seine Naturressourcen vor Mibrauch und Umweltverschlechterung zu schtzen. Gegenwrtig verursachen willkrliches Roden und unkontrolliertes Weiden beschleunigte Bodenerosion, und es gibt ernsthafte Konflikte unter den Siedlern. Eine Bestandaufnahme und ein Plan mit Empfehlungen hinsichtlich der Vegetation, des Wassers und der Tierwelt werden diskutiert. Bevlkerung und verschiedene Regierungsstellen sollten in dem Entscheidungsprozess mitwirken.
3674464|Soil properties on the Cap de Creus Peninsula, NE Spain depend primarily on scarce agricultural practices and early abandonment. In the study area, 90% of which is mainly covered by Cistus shrubs, 8 environments representing variations in land use/land cover and soil properties at different depths were identified. In each environment variously vegetated areas were selected and sampled. The soils, collected at different depths, were classified as Lithic Xerorthents according to the United States Department of Agriculture system of soil classification (USDA-NRCS 1975). Differences in soil properties were largely found according to the evolution of the plant canopy and the land use history. To identify underlying patterns in soil properties related to environmental evolution, factor analysis was performed and factor scores were used to determine how the factor patterns varied between soil variables, soil depths and selected environments. The three-factor model always accounted for 80% of the total variation in the data at the different soil depths. Organic matter was the more relevant soil property at 0-2 cm depth, whereas active minerals (silt and clay) were found to be the most relevant soil parameters controlling soil dynamics at the other depths investigated. Results showed that vineyards and olive tree soils are poorly developed and present worse conditions for mineral and organic compounds. Analysis of factor scores allowed independent assessment of soils, depth and plant cover and demonstrated that soils present the best physicochemical characteristics under Erica arborea and meadows. In contrast, soils under Cistus monspeliensis were less nutrient rich and less well structured.
25164132|White clover (Trifolium repens) introduced in the 1970s has become the most important fodder legume in Bhutan and there is some concern about its possible negative influence on native plant communities. Detailed plant and soil observations were made across 27 sites (2600-4000 m) to evaluate the effects of white clover on plant community, P dynamics, and fodder quality. Arundinella hookeri was the dominant species up to 3500 m. Other important species with wide distribution were Eragrostis nigra, Brachypodium sylvaticum, Potentilla spp. and Schizachyrium delavayi. An increasing presence of white clover reduced the proportion of biomass from other species, the frequency of A. hookeri and Potentilla spp., and the proportion of bare ground. Biomass harvested from spots with high white clover presence had 70% higher N and 17% higher P content when compared to biomass from spots with no white clover. Soil available P (Bray) was 2.68 mg/kg for patches without white clover and 6.21 mg/kg for patches with high white clover presence. There is no indication that white clover could become a weed in permanent grassland environments of Bhutan.
10.2307/3673791|The Tatra National Park (Tatrzanski Park Narodowy) was created in 1954, but the concept of nature protection in the Tatra Mountains dates back to scientists in Krakow in the mid-nineteenth century. The present operation of the Park is focused on forest management and documentation of the unique qualities of the area. Scientific research, tourism, and recreational activities also take place within the Park, but are limited to specific areas and controlled by Park authorities. Sheep grazing, which dates from medieval times, remains important and there is a rich folklore of shepherds' tales. There is now a proposal to include the entire Tatra Mountains, both Polish and Czechoslovak areas, into the global network of biosphere reserves. /// Le Parc national des Tatras (Tatrzanski Park Narodowy) a t fond en 1954, mais l'ide de protger le milieu naturel des Tatras doit tre attribue aux chercheurs scientifiques de Krakow du milieu du dix-neuvime sicle. L'utilisation actuelle du parc se concentre sur la gestion de la fort et sur la documentation scientifique des caractristiques uniques de la rgion. La recherche scientifique, le tourisme et les activits de loisir sont permises, mais elles sont localises et sont soumises au contrle de l'administration du parc. Le pturage des moutons, qui remonte au moyen-ge, est toujours important et les rcits des bergers constituent un folklore trs riche. Il a t propos que l'ensemble des Tatras, polonaises aussi bien que slovaques, soient incluses dans le rseau global de rserves de la biosphre. /// Der Tatra National Park (Tatrzanski Park Narodowy) wurde erst 1954 gegrndet, aber die Ideen zum Naturschutz im Tatra Gebirge wurden schon in der Mitte des 19. Jahrhunderts von Wissenschaftlern aus Krakau formuliert. Mittelpunkt der gegenwrtigen Parkleitung ist das Waldmanagement und die wissenschaftliche Dokumentation der Besonderheiten dieses Gebietes. Im Park wird wissenschaftliche Forschung durchgefhrt. Tourismus und Freizeitaktivitten werden auch geduldet, beschrnken sich jedoch auf bestimmte Gebiete und werden von zustndigen Behrden berwacht. Schafzucht, seit dem Mittelalter betrieben, bleibt wichtig, und Schfergeschichten gehren zum reichen Volksgut. Es wird vorgeschlagen, das gesamte Tatra Gebirge, den polnischen sowohl als den slowakischen Teil in das globale Netz der Biosphren Reservate miteinzubeziehen.
4540673| Sajama National Park in Bolivia's Cordillera Occidental is not only the country's oldest national park; it also contains Bolivia's highest mountain, ice-capped Nevado Sajama, at 6542 m. Created in 1939 by presidential decree with the primary objective of protecting native keua (Polylepis tarapacana) forests, the Sajama National Park, later ratified by national law, had neither formal administration nor park rangers until 1995. Towering over the barren lands of the Altiplano-Bolivia's highland plateau, at an altitude of about 4000 m-Mount Sajama plays a key role in traditional indigenous mythology, as well as in the formation of the present-day identity of local communities. The latter factor is largely due to a new policy and to multiple activities launched by the Bolivian national parks authority (Servicio Nacional de reas Protegidas, SERNAP) during the past decade. As an initial result, local perception of Sajama National Park as an "imposition from above" has given way to referring to the park as "our protected area." 
3674584|Agricultural sustainability problems related to soil erosion and fertility depletion have arisen throughout the agroecological zone of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK). Introduction and exploitation of clover is predicted to be beneficial and useful under these conditions because of its potential for herbage production, N<sub>2</sub> fixation, and soil cover characteristics. A 1-year field study with a local ecotype of white clover was carried out. Vegetative growth, herbage yield, nitrogen (N) uptake, and soil N content were investigated. Additionally, Rhizobia infestation was studied by isolating Rhizobia in culture media. The annual herbage yield (fresh fodder) of clover, and of clover and grass mixture harvested twice during the season was 7-15 t/ha while dry matter production was 3-6 t/ha. Protein content of white clover was 16% as compared to 5% in the indigenous grass species, demonstrating the superior feed value of white clover. The development of Rhizobium colonies in the culture media and the presence of about 20 nodules per plant indicated the purity of Rhizobium and its N<sub>2</sub> fixing potential. The N content of clover and clover and grass mixture was 2-2.5% compared to 0.87% for grass alone, showing that clover was able to fix an average of 77 kg N/ha, a very encouraging figure even under low moisture conditions. A 70% increase in total soil N in clover-growing plots relative to control plots was observed. It was concluded that white clover can easily be grown and established in the hilly areas of Rawalakot, and would sustain a high level of pasture production and provide inputs of N through N<sub>2</sub> fixation which, in turn, would increase the productivity potential of soils in mountain eco-regions in AJK.
3674157|We estimated the aboveground net primary productivity of 5 seminatural Andean pastures: 2 pramo grassland plots (430 and <tex-math>$512\ g/m^{2}/y$</tex-math>), 2 plots in cleared montane forest (70 and <tex-math>$110\ g/m^{2}/y$</tex-math>), and 1 in an intensive agricultural setting (<tex-math>$1359\ g/m^{2}/y$</tex-math>). The pramo and montane forest plots demonstrated very low productivity compared with the lowest altitude plot. The productivity of the montane forest plots was very low because overgrazing had led to the formation of dense Azorella pedunculata mats of no pasture value. The inherent productivity of pramo tussock grasses, the dominant plants in the two highest sites, is constrained by the retention of dead leaves, which are periodically burned away by farmers (but probably too frequently for long-term benefit). It is unlikely that montane forest and pramo plots could sustain higher levels of grazing, even with the addition of fertilizer, and efforts would be more appropriately focused on increasing the yields of lower altitude pastures.
mounresedeve.30.3.295|During the summer and fall of 2005 while documenting snow leopard (
25164182|Despite the geographic and context-specific nature of the relationship, the strong link between biodiversity use and poverty is acknowledged worldwide. Biodiversity is seen as both being negatively affected by, and contributing in the fight against, poverty. Agathosma betulina (buchu), a plant growing in the Cederberg Mountains in South Africa, has a global commercial value for use in medicine, food and cosmetics. It is also popular among the poor for the significant cash income it generates for the harvesters. Scientists and conservationists believe that its commercialization will lead to its extinction. However, these concerns are mainly based on scientific studies, with limited perspectives from social analyses. This paper presents the case study of Elandskloof, a mountain communal property farm occupied by poor people, where buchu harvesting is important to local incomes. The paper shows that conflicts among community members and between them and outsiders characterize buchu harvesting. Poverty, the ambiguity of the permit system for harvesting of and trading in buchu, as well as the challenges presented by a common property tenure regime, currently compromise buchu's sustainability. The conclusion is that more social studies are needed, in order to fully appreciate what is needed to ensure sustainability of a high value natural resource in the midst of poverty.
25164074|National parks and biological reserves play an important role in counteracting the effects of tropical deforestation in mountainous environments, a leading cause of biodiversity loss worldwide. Unfortunately, information is sparse on the nature, dynamics, and spatial dimension of land use and land cover change processes that contribute to park vulnerability. This article assesses the current state of landscape fragmentation and structure on the Osa Peninsula, Costa Rica, using Landsat Multispectral Scanner and Thematic Mapper satellite scenes between 1979 and 1997. The Osa Peninsula hosts the Corcovado National Park, which contains the only protected region of Tropical Wet forest on the Pacific slopes of Mesoamerica, including a significant number of species that are endemic, threatened, or new to science. The level of isolation of the Corcovado National Park is based on the degree of ecosystem degradation produced by frontal deforestation processes. Our results indicate that the proportion of the Osa Peninsula covered by forest declined from 97% in 1979 to 91% in 1987 and to 89% by 1997. Total forest area declined from 977 km in 1979 to 896 km by 1997. These results pose significant questions regarding the effectiveness of current conservation efforts in this mountain biodiversity-rich area of Mesoamerica.
10.2307/3673747|Biologically diverse popping beans have long been of significant use to Central Andean peasant agriculturalists. The present contribution of popping beans to peasant livelihoods could be expanded as part of development efforts aimed at regional food self-sufficiency. Popping beans offer agroecological, nutritional, and cultural resources to rural households. Prepared through parching, they significantly reduce the need for firewood and provide a useful food. Popping beans aid also in maintaining soil fertility and are imbued with symbolic import in the local cultures of peasants. Maintenance of biologically diverse popping beans depends on the socioeconomic conditions of peasant farming. Cultivation currently is concentrated in the subsistence production of smallholders. Maintenance of the popping bean in subsistence cultivation is at risk of being undermined due to the labor required for their production and preparation. Development strategies that promote regional food self-sufficiency and sound environmental practices can benefit through incorporating diverse native crops such as popping beans. Contemporary social movements in the Central Andes are beginning to emphasize the multi-faceted usefulness-including proprietary rights-of those biological resources. /// Cet article examine l'utilisation intensive de diffrentes varits d'"haricots  clater" dans l'agriculture paysanne des Andes centrales et leur rle dans le dveloppement local. Les haricots  clater constituent une ressource agrocologique, alimentaire et culturelle pour les familles paysannes; ils sont prpars par grillage, ce qui rduit de beaucoup les besoins en combustible tout en fournissant un aliment pratique pour les paysans montagnards. Ils sont cultivs sur une base d'autoconsommation et dans le cadre d'exploitations commerciales o les varits  grand rendement prdominent; nanmoins, cela n'assure pas une production continue et la main d'oeuvre ncessaire pour slectionner les semences de ces haricots risque de constituer une contrainte srieuse. Les stratgies de dveloppement qui mettent l'accent sur l'autosuffisance alimentaire au niveau rgional et une exploitation des ressources respectant l'environnement peuvent bnficier des pratiques biologiques locales telles que la culture des haricots  clater. Les mouvements sociaux contemporains commencent  mettre l'accent sur l'utilit multiple, y compris les droits de proprit de telles ressources pour les peuples andins. /// Diese Verffentlichung untersucht fr Landwirtschaften in den Zentralanden den bestndigen Anbau von biologisch vielfltigen Sorten der "Puffbohne" und ihre Rolle bei der lokalen Entwicklung. Puffbohnen spielen als agrokologische, nhrende und kulturelle Ressourcen eine wichtige Rolle in buerlichen Haushaltungen. Sie werden gedrrt, was keinen Brennstoff bentigt, und sind ein ntzliches Nahrungsmittel fr die Bergbauern. Sie werden im Kleinlandbesitz zur Deckung des Eigenbedarfs und in kommerziellen Produktionsgenossenschaften angebaut, wobei Sorten mit hohem Ertrag den Vorrang haben. Eine langfristige Produktion ist jedoch nicht gesichert, und der Bedarf an Arbeitskrften zur Auslese des Bohnensaatguts kann ein Engpa sein. Entwicklungsstrategien, die regionale Nahrungsmittel-Selbstversorgung und umweltgerechte Ressourcennutzung betonen, knnen aus den lokalen biologischen Praktiken des Puffbohnenanbaus Nutzen ziehen. Derzeitige soziale Bestrebungen beginnen ihre vielseitige Brauchbarkeit herauszustellen, und ihren besonderen Wert als Ressource fr die Bewohner der Anden zu betonen. /// Desde tiempos antiguos, una clase especial y biolgicamente variada de frijol llamada nua (frijol para tostar) ha constituido un recurso significativo para los agricultores campesinos que habitan los Andes centrales. La importancia actual de las nuas para los campesinos podra extenderse como una parte de proyectos de desarrollo que promuevan la autosubsistencia agrcola a niveles regionales. Las nuas ofrecen recursos agroecolgicos, alimentarios, y culturales a familias campesinas. Las nuas tostadas implican un bajo considerable en la demanda para lea y constituyen una comida til. Adems las nuas contribuyen a la fertilidad de los suelos agrcolos y son imbuidos de una importancia simblicos y son imbuidos de una importancia simblica en las culturas locales de los campesinos. La futura produccin agrcola de las nuas depende de las condiciones socioeconmicas de la agricultura campesina. Hoy en dia su cultivo esta concentrado en la parte de la produccin destinada al autoconsumo familiar. Este cultivo corre el riesgo de desaparecer debido a una creciente escasez en la mano de obra campesina y la consecuente dificultad para satisfecer las demandas de trabajo para su produccin parcelaria y su preparacin culinaria. Las estrategias de desarrollo que promuevan la autosubsistencia a niveles regionales y las prcticas sostenibles desde el punto de vista medio-ambiental debieran incorporar cultivos biolgicamente nativos y variados como las nuas. Actualmente, movimientos sociales y regionales situados en los Andes centrales estn enfatizando las utilidades mltiples-incluyendo los derechos de propieded-que ofrecen los cultivos andinos.
10.2307/3673967|Environmental security, as currently conceived, is rooted in the assumption that it is increasing populations, combined with static or declining resource bases, that are the real cause of most current and future conflicts. This is simply the restatement, on the global level, of a local theory-The Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation-which we already know is invalid. This does not mean that the environment is irrelevant to security, and that human ingenuity will always create resources sufficient for us to resolve any crisis: that is an equally invalid line of reasoning. The rejection of both these mutually contradictory orthodoxies, and their replacement by the more discerning, reflexive, and socially-informed understanding that has been pioneered by those responsible for the demolition of the Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation, is the key to a properly founded and useful notion of environmental security. /// La scurit de l'environnement, comme on la conoit actuellement, tire son origine de l'hypothse selon laquelle la croissance dmographique, conjugue  des bases de ressources statiques ou en baisse, sont la cause relle de la plupart des conflits actuels et futurs. Ceci n'est que le nouvel nonc, au niveau mondial, d'une thorie locale, la Thorie de la Dgradation de l'Environnement Himalayen, que nous savons dj non valable. Ceci ne veut pas dire que l'environnement est sans rapport avec la scurit et que l'ingniosit humaine crera toujours assez de ressources pour rsoudre les crises: ceci est galement un raisonnement non valable. Le rejet de ces deux orthodoxies contradictoires et leur remplacement par l'interprtation plus judicieuse, plus rflchie et plus informe socialement qui a t formule en premier par les responsables de la dmolition de la Thorie de Dgradation de l'Environnement Himalayen permet de concevoir une notion utile et correctement fonde de la scurit de l'environnement. /// kologische Sicherheit, wie sie derzeit begriffen wird, ist in der Annahme verwurzelt, da sie die Bevlkerungszahl erhht, gleichzeitig jedoch Rohstoffquellen stagnieren oder abnehmen lt, worin der wahre Grund der meisten Konflikte in Gegenwart und Zukunft besteht. Dies ist lediglich die bertragung einer lokalen Theorie-der Theorie der Umweltdegeneration im Himalaja-auf globales Niveau. Von dieser Theorie wissen wir jedoch bereits, da sie nicht zutrifft. Dies bedeutet nicht, da die Umwelt nicht relevant fr die Sicherheit ist und da der menschliche Erfindungsgeist immer neue Quellen schaffen wird, die ausreichend zur Lsung einer jeden Krise sind; auch dies ist eine unzutreffende Sichtweise. Die Ablehnung beider einander widersprechenden Orthodoxien und ihr Austausch durch das kritischere, nachdenklichere und sozial informiertere Verstndnis, das von den Menschen vorangebracht worden ist, die fr die Widerlegung der Theorie einer Umweltdegeneration im Himalaja gesorgt haben, ist der Schlssel zu einer fundierten und nutzbringenden Vorstellung von kologischer Sicherheit.
25163995|The climate of Namche Bazar is classified as a humid and tropical regime based on the seasonal occurrence of rains, range in annual precipitation, number of rainy days in the year, and length of dry season in months. The mean temperature of the coldest month, January, is -0.4C. About 56 percent of the years experience a tropical regime (summer rain), 35 percent are bixeric (two dry periods) and 9 percent are trixeric (three dry periods) or irregular. Instead of relying on the average year, an attempt has been made to define the climate on the basis of a probable year. The criteria used is based on a 75 percent value that would correspond to the range given by the lower and upper octiles, derived from climatic data collected from 1949 to 1977. These criteria give a range of annual rainfall, number of rainy days per year, number of dry months per year, and the regimes to define a probable year. Sixty percent of the individual years conformed to the pattern of the probable year, when all four climatic factors were taken into consideration, showing a moderately stable climate. /// Le climat de Namche Bazar est classifi comme un rgime humide et tropical bas sur l'existence des pluies, l'amplitude des pluies par an, et la dure en mois de la saison sche. La temprature moyenne du mois le plus froid, le janvier, est de -0.4C. Environ 56 pourcent des annes connaissent un rgime tropical (pluies d't), 35 pourcent sont bixeriques (deux priodes sches) et 9 pourcent sont trixeriques (trois priodes sches) ou irrgulires. Au lieu de se baser sur l'anne moyenne, un effort a t fait  dfinir le climat bas sur une anne probable. Le critre utilis est bas sur une valeur de 75 pourcent qui pourrait correspondre  l'amplitude donne par les octiles infrieurs et suprieurs drivs des donnes climatriques obtenues entre 1949 et 1977. Ces critres donnent l'amplitude des pluies annuelles, le nombre de journes des pluies par an, le nombre des mois secs par an, et les rgimes permettant la dfinition d'une anne probable. Soixante pourcent des annes individuelles correspondent aux caractristiques de l'anne probable, lorsque tous les facteurs climatriques ci-dessus sont pris en compte, ce qui montre un climat de stabilit moyenne. /// Das Klima von Namche Bazar wird auf Grund der saisonbedingten Niederschlge, der Jahresniederschlagsmenge, der Anzahl der Regentage pro Jahr und der Lnge der Trockenzeit in Monaten dem feucht-tropischen Klima zugeordnet. Die mittlere Temperatur im Januar, dem Kltesten Monat, betrgt -0.4C. Etwa 56% der erfassten Jahre unterliegen tropischem Klima (Sommerregen), 35% haben zwei Trockenzeiten und 9% haben drei Trockenzeiten oder sind unregelmssig. Es wurde ein Versuch unternommen, das Klima anhand eines Modelljahres zu definieren, statt von einem blichen Durchschnittsjahr auszugehen. Der gewhlte Bezugsmasstab basiert auf dem 75% Wert des oberen und unteren Segments einer Achtelverteilung der ber den Zeitraum von 1949 bis 1977 gemessenen Klimadaten. Die Kenndaten geben den Bereich der jhrlichen Niederschlagsmenge, die Zahl der Regentage sowie der trockenen Monate pro Jahr an und liefern die Merkmale, die ein wahrscheinliches Jahr definieren. Sechzig prozent der einzelnen Jahre stimmten mit dem Modelljahr in allen vier Klimafaktoren berein und verdeutlichen ein verhltnismssig konstantes Klima.
10.2307/3673336|The village of Munglori in the Aglar watershed north of Dehradun, Uttar Pradesh Himalaya, is used for a case study on rural forest management. The study points out that the subsistence needs of the villagers invariably have been omitted from forest management planning. This neglect began in the last century under the British Raj and has continued to the present day. Munglori, with a population of 250, is overwhelmingly a subsistence village, but situated close enough to the expanding influence of Mussoorie and Dehradun to serve as a basis for comparison with other villages that are progressively adapting to a market economy. Research was directed at the biomass flow of the village, concentrating on the fuel cycle, the fodder cycle, and the yearly migration cycle. Relationships between village biomass consumption and forest productivity are demonstrated. In particular, it is shown that, under certain management situations, loss of forest cover can occur even though overall biomass productivity far exceeds village demand. Further quantitative studies are needed; in particular new developments in forest management must provide for full participation of the villagers without which success will remain uncertain. /// Le village de Munglori dans le bassin hydrographique d'Aglar au nord de Dehradun, Etat d'Uttar Pradesh, est utilis pour une tude de cas portant sur l'exploitation rurale des forts. Cette tude fait ressortir qu'en rgle gnrale le besoins de subsistance de la population n'ont pas t pris en compte pour la planification de l'exploitation des forts. Cet tat de choses a commenc au sicle dernier sous l'empire britannique et a continu jusqu' prsent. L'conomie de Munglori (250 habitants) repose presque entirement sur l'autoconsommation, mais ce village est suffisamment touch par l'influence croissante de Mussoorie et Dehradun pour servir de base de comparaison avec d'autres villages qui s'adaptent progressivement  une conomie de march. La recherche a port sur le flux de biomasse du village, en particulier le cycle de combustible, le cycle de fourrage, et le cycle annuel de migration. Les relations entre la consommation de biomasse du village et la productivit des forts sont mises en vidence. Il ressort en particulier que dans certaines conditions d'exploitation, une perte de la couverture forestire peut se produire alors que la productivit totale de biomasse dpasse de beaucoup les besoins du village. Des tudes quantitatives complmentaires sont ncessaires. En particulier, les nouveaux modes d'exploitation des forts doivent obtenir l'entire participation des habitants, autrement leur succs demeurera incertain. /// Das Dorf Munglori, im Gebiet der Aglar Wasserscheide, nrdlich von Dehradun Uttar Pradesh Himalaya, wird fr eine Fallstudie des lndlichen Forstmanagements benutzt. Die Untersuchung zeigt, da bei der Planung des Forstmanagements Existenzbedrfnisse der Dorfbewohner immer bergangen worden sind. Diese Vernachlssigung begann unter der britischen Raj Herrschaft im vergangenen Jahrhundert und hlt bis heute an. Munglori, mit einer Bevlkerung von 250, hat eine solide Selbstversorgungswirtschaft, liegt aber nah genug, da es der Expansion von Mussoorie und Dehradun ausgesetzt ist. Das Dorf dient als Bezugspunkt bei Vergleichen mit anderen Drfern, die sich mehr und mehr einer Marktwirtschaft anpassen. Der Kreislauf der Biomasse des Dorfes mit besonderer Betonung des Brennstoffzyklus', des Futterkreislaufs und des alljhrlichen Migrationszyklus' wird detailliert. Das Verhltnis zwischen dem Verbrauch an Biomasse im Dorf und der Waldproduktivitt wird aufgezeigt. Es wird auerdem veranschaulicht, wie unter besonderen Managementsituationen ein Waldverlust selbst dann eintreten kann, wenn die erzeugte Biomasse den Bedarf des Dorfes bersteigt. Weitere quantitative Untersuchungen sind notwendig. Besonders neue Entwicklungen auf dem Gebiet des Waldmanagements mssen die volle Teilnahme der Dorfbewohner gewhrleisten, oder ihr Erfolg ist in Frage gestellt.
3674506|Attempts to improve risk communication strategies in order to prevent and mitigate disasters caused by natural hazards have been made worldwide. However, most such strategies target non-indigenous populations, while vulnerable communities located in remote mountain areas in the least developed countries lack information in their native language. Awareness of risks associated with flooding and rainfall-induced landslides increased as a result of the tragedy in autumn 1999 in the Sierra Norte de Puebla, Mexico, where floods and landslides devastated dozens of municipalities, claiming more than 200 lives. Consequently, a booklet and a radio message focusing on awareness and preparedness in the event of landslides were produced in Nahuatl, the Aztec language, as an accessibility tool to help prevent and mitigate disasters in indigenous communities. Findings from a preliminary acceptance evaluation undertaken in a local community are analyzed and discussed as an initial approach to developing a sound risk communication strategy based on local knowledge.
90001386|Cash crop cultivation and harvesting of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) are both important parts of rural livelihood portfolios worldwide. In mountainous areas of the Greater Mekong Subregion, government programs, scholars, and private-sector interests have promoted both as strategies for rural economic development. NTFPs are also often championed as an incentive for rural communities to protect forests. However, little is known about how cash crops and NTFPs interact in the daily lives and economic decisions of rural people in this region, or how they may differentially encourage forest conservation practices and values. With a focus on mushrooms as an NTFP and maca, rubber, and tea as cash crops, we conducted household surveys and key informant interviews in 2 prefectures of Yunnan, China, and 1 province in northern Thailand. Based on the results of this research, we make 4 key arguments. First, although cash crops are generally perceived to diminish the importance of NTFPs such as mushrooms in rural livelihoods, the potential also exists for complementarity between these 2 livelihood strategies. Second, while some species of wild edible mushroom incentivize forest conservation, others may incentivize practices that have a negative impact on forest ecosystems. Third, even in households where NTFPs make little or no contribution to livelihoods, people are likely to value forests for supporting, regulating, and cultural ecosystem services. Fourth, even households that rely primarily on cash crops may value NTFP collection as a leisure activity. The latter phenomenon is previously unreported in NTFP research, and we suggest that it also reflects a blind spot in ecosystem services research. Mushrooms and cash crops can coexist in mountain livelihoods; wild mushrooms are both economic and recreational resources in the Greater Mekong.
10.2307/3673037|Large test plots were constructed for soil erosion and conservation determinations on steep mountain slopes (54 percent grade) at an altitude of 1,240 m above sea level. The 24 by 5-metre test plots were planted with a mix of traditional swidden and introduced agro-forestry systems crops at Mae Muang Luang, Huai Thung Choa research area, 75 km northwest of Chiang Mai. During 1981 comparisons were made of runoff, soil loss, labour input, and crop yield. Soil losses from agro-forestry test plots were <tex-math>$10-22\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>, or 4-9 times lower than from traditional upland rice <tex-math>$(89\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1})$</tex-math>. Labour inputs were 50-150 percent higher, but subsistence crop yields were comparable despite a reduction in cultivated area. This is probably due to fertilizer input from the coffee plantation. Additional years of data are required for verification. /// Sur les fortes pentes de montagnes,  1240 m d'altitude, de grandes surfaces d'exprimentations furent amnages pour dterminer l'rosion et la conservation des sols. Les surfaces de 5 m de largeur, 24 m de longueur et inclines de 54 pourcent  Mae Muang Luang dans le domaine de recherche Huai Thung Choa, qui se trouve  75 km au nord-ouest de Chiang Mai, furent cultives avec un mlange de riz sec traditionnel et de systmes agro-forestiers imports. Des mesures compares furent effectues en 1981  propos de l'coulement en surface, de l'rosion du sol, du travail ncessaire  la culture des surfaces ainsi que des rendements. Les pertes de sols des surfaces agro-forestires, qui reprsentent par anne entre 10 et 22 tonnes par hectare, furent 4  9 fois infrieures aux surfaces de riz traditionnelles <tex-math>$(89\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm a}^{-1})$</tex-math>. Le travail ncessit par contre fut de 50  150 pourcent suprieur  celui du systme import. Le rendement de la denre alimentaire essentielle, le riz, resta inchang malgr la rduction des surfaces cultives, remplaces par des arbres, des cafiers, des bandes d'herbe et des fosses d'coulement. Ce rsultat est probablement conditionn par l'utilisation d'engrais pour le caf. Ile est ncessaire d'effectuer des mesures encore quelques annes afin de confirmer les rsultats trs positifs de cette premire anne agro-forestire. Des restrictions supplmentaires, engendres par des facteurs socio-conomiques, lgaux, religieux ou politiques devraient rendre une application gnralise encore plus difficile que la solution dcrite des problmes technologiques et cologiques. Une expansion des expriences sur les terrains des habitants de montagnes est une condition indispensable et un premier pas dans cette direction. /// An steilen Gebirgshngen in 1240 m Hhe wurden grosse Experimentierflchen zur Bestimmung von Bodenerosion und Bodenkonservierung errichtet. Die 5 m breiten, 24 m langen und 54 Prozent geneigten Flchen in Mae Muang Luang im Huai Thung Choa Forschungsgebiet 75 km NW Chiang Mai wurden mit einer Mischung von traditionellem Trockenreis-Anbau und eingefhrten Agro-Forstwirtschafts-Systemen bestellt. Vergleichende Messungen von Oberflchen-Abfluss, Bodenabtrag, Arbeitsaufwand zur Bearbeitung der Flchen, sowie Ernteertrag wurden 1981 durchgefhrt. Die Bodenverluste von den Agro-Forstwirtschafts-Flchen, mit jhrlichen Mengen zwischen 10 und 22 Tonnen pro Hektare, waren 4 bis 9 Mal geringer als von der traditionellen Reisanbau-Flche <tex-math>$(89\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm a}^{-1})$</tex-math>. Der Arbeitsaufwand hingegen war 50 bis 150 Prozent hher im eingefhrten System. Der Ernteertrag des Grundnahrungsmittels Reis blieb trotz der Reduktion der angebauten Flche durch Bume, Kaffeebsche, Gras-Streifen und Abfluss-Grben gleich. Dieses Resultat ist wahrscheinlich durch den Dnger-Einsatz fr den Kaffee bedingt. Weitere Messjahre sind erforderlich, um die fr Agro-Forstwirtschaft sehr erfolgversprechenden Ergebnisse dieses ersten Jahres zu verifizieren. Zustzliche Beschrnkungen durch sozio-konomische, legale, religise oder politische Faktoren drften eine verbreitete Anwendung noch schwieriger gestalten als die beschriebene Lsung der technologisch-kologischen Probleme. Eine Ausdehnung der Experimente auf die Felder der Hgelbewohner ist eine wichtige Voraussetzung und ein erster Schritt in dieser Richtung.
mounresedeve.32.1.39|Assessment of water resources from remote mountainous catchments plays a crucial role for the development of rural areas in or in the vicinity of mountain ranges. The scarcity of data, however, prevents the application of standard approaches that are based on data-driven models. The Hindu KushKarakoramHimalaya mountain range is a crucial area in terms of water resources, but our understanding of the response of its high-elevation catchments to a changing climate is hindered by lack of hydro-meteorological and cryospheric data. Hydrological modeling is challenging here because internal inconsistenciessuch as an underestimation of precipitation input that can be compensated for by an overestimation of meltwatermight be hidden due to the complexity of feedback mechanisms that govern melt and runoff generation in such basins. Data scarcity adds to this difficulty by preventing the application of systematic calibration procedures that would allow identification of the parameter set that could guarantee internal consistency in the simulation of the single hydrological components. In this work, we use simulations from the Hunza River Basin in the Karakoram region obtained with the hydrological model TOPKAPI to quantify the predictive power of discharge and snow-cover data sets, as well as the combination of both. We also show that shortterm measurements of meteorological variables such as radiative fluxes, wind speed, relative humidity, and air temperature from glacio-meteorological experiments are crucial for a correct parameterization of surface melt processes. They enable detailed simulations of the energy fluxes governing glacieratmosphere interaction and the resulting ablation through energy-balance modeling. These simulations are used to derive calibrated parameters for the simplified snow and glacier routines in TOPKAPI. We demonstrate that such parameters are stable in space and time in similar climatic regions, thus reducing the number of parameters requiring calibration.
mounresedeve.31.4.372|In 2006 preliminary plans were made public showing that Gazprom intended to construct a pipeline through the Altai republic (Russia, south-west Siberia). Unfortunately, there was almost no attention to integrating the conservation of cultural heritage (both archaeological and landscape) into the planning of the pipeline, though the Altai is well-known for its rich cultural heritage. Hitherto, no assessment has been made of the potential impact of the project, nor did Gazprom release detailed information about the exact course of the route. The present article aims to illustrate the potential impact of the pipeline based on a detailed study of a small segment of the route, using remote sensing images and data gathered during fieldwork. This assessment underlines the need for a well-thought-out strategy, which is required if sustainable integration of heritage conservation into the construction plan is to be realized. If such a balance is not found, thousands of archaeological monuments could disappear, which would result in a huge cultural and scientific loss. As a possible solution, an integrative strategy founded on a desk-based study of remote sensing images and a well-directed field survey is suggested.
mounresedeve.36.3.342|Montane habitats are characterized by high variation of environmental factors within small geographic ranges, which offers opportunities to explore how forest assemblages respond to changes in environmental conditions. Understanding the distributional transition of adult trees and seedlings will provide insight into the fate of forest biodiversity in response to future climate change. We investigated the elevational distribution of 156 species of adult trees and 152 species of seedlings in a tropical montane forest in Xishuangbanna, southwest China. Adult trees and seedlings were surveyed within 5 replicate plots established at each of 4 elevational bands (800, 1000, 1200, and 1400 m above sea level). We found that species richness of both adult trees and seedlings changed with elevation, showing a notable decline in diversity values from 1000 to 1200 m. Tree species composition also demonstrated distinct differences between 1000 and 1200 m, marking the division between tropical seasonal rain forest (800 and 1000 m) and tropical montane evergreen broad-leaved forest (1200 and 1400 m). The results suggested that soil moisture and temperature regimes were associated with elevational distribution of tree species in this region. We also observed that seedlings from certain species found at high elevations were also distributed in low-elevation zones, but no seedlings of species from low elevations were distributed in high-elevation zones. The increase in temperature and droughts predicted for this region may result in the contraction of tropical seasonal rain forest at lower elevations and a downhill shift of higher tropical montane tree species.
3674201|The Mount Kenya region offers a great deal of beautiful scenery and attracts tourists from all over the world. What these tourists may not see, however, is the crucial function of Mount Kenya as a water tower for its foot-zones and adjoining lowland areas. This function is becoming ever more crucial, as populations in these areas are growing at a rapid pace and new land use systems require far more water. These developments have set the stage for increasing conflicts over water resources; to make things worse, water is becoming ever scarcer, especially in the dry areas of the Laikipia Plateau and the Samburu Plains to the north and west of the mountain. This article summarizes the complex ecological and socioeconomic dynamics prevailing in the highland-lowland system of Mount Kenya-the Ewaso Ng'iro North Basin-and presents a multilevel strategy for mitigating the emerging conflicts over water resources.
mounresedeve.34.4.369|Peasant societies are often seen by neoliberal or Marxist theorists as passive subjects of political-economic transformations occurring at a higher level, only surviving through acculturation to market requirements. By analyzing agricultural work organization in highland communities and a local system of water management called Acuerdos Reciprocos por el Agua (Reciprocal Agreements for Water), developed in 2003 by the Natura Bolivia foundation in Florida Province in Bolivia, we show that, contrary to this perception, traditional reciprocal norms still play an essential role in decision making. This suggests the agency of rural societies and the resilience of traditional reciprocity-based norms in mountain regions.
mounresedeve.34.3.291|When the first protected areas in the European Alps were established as national parks, biocentric ideas of nature protection and research-oriented ecological approaches were at the heart of these efforts, and gender issues were not considered. With the paradigm shift toward integrative biodiversity politics, gender issues gained significance. In addition, the European Commission Women's Charta 2010, on building a gender perspective into all policies in accordance with the European theme united in diversity,- required the integration of gender considerations into regional development, including protected areas. Based on a document analysis, an online survey, qualitative interviews, and focus group discussions, this article shows how widely gender mainstreaming is accepted and in which aspects of protected mountain areas gender perspectives are already considered important. Inspired by concepts from gender research and available options for regional (mountain) development, new items are recommended for a mountain agenda.
10.2307/3673465|An earlier study of the socio-cultural impacts of tourism in the Austrian Alps provided two schematic models: one was a conceptual framework of changes in the economy, infrastructure, and landscape and the other showed changes in the way of life of the local population. This paper is a longitudinal study that presents results of a recent reexamination of the same four communities and discusses the changes. Growth is no longer considered to be continuous and community residents have now acculturated to tourism; a balance between values, needs, and desires of the local people and the tourists is being attained as residents become integrated into the larger society. Residents may be able to have the best of both worlds, their Heimat and the tourists, if they play the game right. Broader implications, such as the relationship of tourism to the modernization process and ways to optimize benefits from tourism, while avoiding its detrimental aspects, are also discussed. /// Une tude prcdente de l'impact socio-culturel du tourisme dans les Alpes autrichiennes a fourni deux modles schmatiques. Le premier constitue une structure de concepts concernant l'conomie, l'infrastructure et le paysage; le second montre les changements du mode de vie de la population locale. Cet article prsente une tude longitudinale montrant les rsultats d'un nouvel examen des mmes quatre communauts, et passe en revue les changements constats. La croissance n'est plus considre comme tant continue et la population locale s'est maintenant adapte au tourisme; un quilibre entre les valeurs, besoins, et dsirs des locaux et des touristes est en train de s'tablir au fur et  mesure que les habitants s'intgrent  la socit qui les entoure. En fait, les habitants pourraient bnificier des avantages rciproques de leur Heimat et des touristes,  condition qu'ils soient capables de bien tirer parti de leurs atouts. Les implications plus gnrales sont galement discutes, telles que la relation entre le tourisme et le processus de modernisation, ainsi que la manire d'optimiser les profits tirs du tourisme, tout en vitant les effets nuisibles. /// Die verschiedenen Einflsse des Fremdenverkehrs auf die Umwelt, sowie auch die konomischen und sozio-kulturellen Verhltnisse der Einheimischen wurden in einer Reihe von Fallstudien von bestimmten Orten zu einer bestimmten Zeit untersucht. Eine mehr verallgemeinernde Beschreibung, bestehend aus zwei Modellen, wurde schon frher, als Resultat einer Studie ber Fremdenverkehrsgemeinden in den sterreichischen Alpen, entwickelt. Eines dieser Modelle beschreibt Vernderungen von Wirtschaft, Infrastruktur und Landschaft, das andere die Vernderungen der Lebensweise der lokalen Bevlkerung. Langzeitstudien ber den Einflu von Tourismus auf den Gastgeber fehlen bislang; diese Arbeit hilft diese Lcke zu schliessen, indem Ergebnisse frherer Untersuchungen mit jngeren Studien ber dieselben Gemeinden verglichen, und die Unterschiede diskutiert werden. Unter Bercksichtigung der jngeren Entwicklungen werden die Modelle verndert. Kontinuierliches Wachstum wird nicht mehr vorausgesetzt, und die Bewohner der Fremdenverkehrsorte haben sich dem Tourismus in ihrer Lebensweise akkulturiert. Die Ergebnisse lassen schliessen, da ein Gleichgewicht zwischen den Werten, Wnschen und Vorstellungen der lokalen Bevlkerung und den Touristen dadurch erreicht wird, da die Einheimischen sich mehr und mehr in die Gesamtgesellschaft integrieren. Die Bewohner haben die Chance, das beste aus beiden Welten zu behalten, sowohl Ihre Heimat als auch die Touristen, wenn sie das Spiel richtig mitspielen. Breitere Auswirkungen, wie die Beziehung von Tourismus zum Modernisierungsprozess sowie Mglichkeiten die Vorteile des Tourismus unter Vermeidung der Nachteile zu optimieren, werden ebenfalls gezeigt.
10.2307/3673876|The Italian mountains, particularly the peninsular ones, are undergoing a period of change. Following social and economic crises that caused massive depopulation in the past thirty years, a new phase is beginning in which interest in the mountains has revived considerably. The rugged landscapes of the central Apennines harbor phenomena of significant ecological and cultural value. In addition, the centers of many historic towns dating back to the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries are perfectly preserved in their original "castle" forms. Recently, through national legislation, a large network of national parks has been established, motivated by the valuable wildlife habitats, the scenic rural landscapes, and the historic communities. It provides the last hope for re-establishing social vitality in these mountains. This study in Abruzzo, a region well-known for its ancient architectural sites, analyses the effect of the national parks on the social and economic conditions of the mountain population and the new functional roles that mountain centers may play. The results provide a point of reference for environmental protection policy and conservation measures in all Italian mountain ranges. /// Les montagnes italiennes, en particulier les montagnes pninsulaires, passent actuellement par une priode de changement. A la suite de crises sociales et conomiques qui ont caus un dpeuplement massif au cours des trente dernires annes, une nouvelle phase a commenc au cours de laquelle l'attrait des montagnes a considrablement augment. Les paysages accidents des Apennins centraux constituent des sites de phnomnes cologiques et culturels trs interessants. Des plus, les centres d'un grand nombre de villes historiques, remontant aux treizime et quatorzime sicles, sont parfaitement prservs dans leur tat original de "chteaux". Rcemment, par suite de lois au niveau national, un rseau tendu de parcs nationaux a t tabli, visant  tirer parti des habitats d'une riche faune, des paysages ruraux pittoresques et des communauts historiques. Ces parcs nationaux constituent le dernier espoir pour ce qui est du rtablissement de la vitalit sociale dans ces montagnes. Cette tude dans les Abruzzes, une rgion bien connue pour ses centres architecturaux antiques, analyse l'effet des parcs nationals sur les conditions sociales et conomiques de la population montagnarde et les nouveaux rles fonctionnels que les centres montagnards peuvent jouer. Ces rsultats peuvent fournir un point de rfrence pour la politique de protection de l'environnement et les mesures de conservation dans toutes les chanes de montagnes italiennes. /// Italienische Berggebiete, insbesondere die auf der Halbinsel, unterliegen zur Zeit Vernderungen. Auf soziale und konomische Krisen, die zu drastischer Entvlkerung whrend der vergangenen 30 Jahre fhrten, folgt jetzt ein neuer Abschnitt, der das Interesse an den Berggebieten wieder aufleben lt. Die rauhen Gegenden des Zentralapennin sind kologisch bedeutsam und kulturell wertvoll. Hinzu kommt, da die Zentren von vielen historischen Stdten, deren Grndung bis ins 13. und 14. Jahrhundert zurckgeht, in ihrer ursprnglichen Festungsform gut erhalten geblieben sind. In jngster Vergangenheit wurden durch nationale Gesetzgebung viele Nationalparks gegrndet. Einzigartige Tierhabitate, reizvolle Landschaftsgebiete und die historische Bedeutung von vielen Gemeinden gaben dazu den Ausschlag. Dies ist ein letzter Versuch, fr ausreichende Lebensbedingungen in den Berggegenden zu sorgen. Diese Studie betrifft die Abruzzen - ein Gebiet, das fr seine historischen, architektonischen Zentren bekannt ist - und sie untersucht den Einflu, den National Parks auf die sozialen-und konomischen Lebensbedingungen der Berggemeinden haben, und sie zeigt neue Aufgaben, die diese Gemeinden wahrnehmen knnten. Die Ergebnisse knnten einen Anhaltspunkt fr die Umweltschutzpolitik liefern und einen Mastab fr die Erhaltung aller anderen italienischen Berggebiete setzen.
10.2307/3673453|The two mountains of the Sudan, Jebel Marra and the Imatong Mountains, are defined, their altitudinal belts described, and the interplay between soil, vegetation, and land use is discussed and analysed. Relevant government policies and development strategies are described and their economic and ecological impacts examined. Existing research is reviewed and the national research organizations and strategies are assessed. Due to their relatively cooler weather, increased rainfall, and valuable timber, the two mountains have always attracted human settlement and "development projects". Environmental degradation, particularly hillside erosion, has increased with increasing population pressure and misuse of resources. Proper introduction and implementation of agro-forestry systems will maintain the soil and vegetation cover and are the only ecologically sound solution. /// Cette tude dfinit les deux montagnes du Soudan, le djebel Marra et les monts Imatong, dcrit leurs zones altitudinales, discute et analyse l'interaction entre le sol, la vgtation et l'utilisation des terres. Elle dcrit galement les lignes de conduite et les stratgies de dveloppement adoptes par le Gouvernement pour ces rgions, et en examine l'impact conomique et cologique. Les travaux de recherche en cours sont passs en revue, et l'organisation de la recherche au niveau national ainsi que les stratgies mises en oeuvre sont examines d'une manire analytique et critique. A cause de leur temps relativement frais, des pluies abondantes et des resources en bois de valeur, ces deux montagnes ont toujours favoris le peuplement humain et les "projets de dveloppement". La dgradation de l'environnement, en particulier l'rosion sur les flancs de cteaux, a augment en rapport avec la pression dmographique croissante et l'exploitation abusive des ressources. L'introduction et la mise en oeuvre judicieuses de systmes d'agro-foresterie permettront de conserver le sol et la couverture vgtale, et constituent la seule solution qui soit cologiquement viable. /// Die beiden Berge des Sudan, der Jebel Marra und der Imatong, werden definiert, ihre Hhengrtel beschrieben, und die Interaktion zwischen Bden, Vegetation und Landnutzung analysiert. Politische Massnahmen der Regierung und Entwicklungsstrategien werden beschrieben, und ihre oekonomischen und oekologischen Auswirkungen betrachtet. Ein Ueberblick ber bestehende Forschungsprogramme wird gegeben, und die nationale Forschungspolitik wird unter die Lupe genommen. Der Jebel Marra und der Imatong weisen ein relativ khleres Klima auf und erhalten hhere Niederschlge. Dadurch knnen wichtige Bauhlzer wachsen, was diese Berge schon immer zu bevorzugten Siedlungsrumen machte. Auch fr "Entwicklungsprojekte" waren sie Zielgebiete. Degradation der Umwelt und im speziellen Erosion an den Hngen ist unter dem Einfluss des Bevlkerungsdruckes und der damit zusammenhngenden falschen Nutzung der Ressourcen bedeutend geworden. Die einzige oekologisch angepasste Lsung ist die Einfhrung und Anwendung von Agroforstwirtschaftssystemen, die Bden und Vegetationsdecke erhalten helfen.
10.2307/3674112|The quality of fallow lands in northern Mindanao, the Philippines, was assessed with a farm survey and soil sampling in order to understand land-use dynamics under upland commercial vegetable production systems. Twenty-one percent of commercial vegetable growers practiced fallow systems, with an average re-cultivation period of four years. The soils of the fallow lands were highly acidic, nutrient poor, and higher in exchangeable aluminum compared to lands currently under cultivation. Land fallowing was more prominent on large farms and those with higher farm labor requirements. Two distinct groups of land fallowers were identified. The first represented fallowers with a positive net return from vegetable crops while the second, and larger, group represented land fallowers with negative net return from vegetable crops. Re-cultivation of fallow lands was more common in the second group. To rejuvenate fallow lands, timber tree planting was the most preferred option of the first group while fruit trees were preferred by the second group. In light of the apparently slow rate of soil fertility regeneration, the lack of capital among most land fallowers, and the increasing demand for arable land to raise farm income, planting of trees on cultivated lands before their being set aside as fallow for natural fertility regeneration is suggested as a potential measure to increase farm income and the sustainability of upland commercial vegetable production under fallow systems.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r15|         ,  ,           ,      .           ,    ,             .     ,     ,   ,   ,    .           ,   ,       .  ,      ,            ,                .                 , , ,     ,   ,    .
10.2307/3673737|Changes in economy and land use are under way in the Indian Transhimalayan region of Ladakh, creating both negative and positive prospects for wildlife conservation in this sparsely populated and previously remote area. New livestock breeds, irrigation developments, farming practices, foreign tourists, and a large military presence are changing the way people view and use the mountainous land that surrounds them. With only 0.3% of the land currently arable, changes in wildlife and natural resource conservation are most apparent on Ladakh's extensive rangelands which are apparently undergoing a redistribution of use associated with social changes and recently introduced animal husbandry and farming practices. Internationally endangered species such as the snow leopard, several wild ungulates, and the black-necked crane provide special incentive for conservation efforts in what are some of the best remaining natural areas in the mountainous regions to the north of the Himalayan crest. The success of newly created protected areas for wildlife conservation in Ladakh rests on an understanding of the effects of various development directions, a commitment to environmentally sensitive development amid the many competing demands on Ladakh's natural resources, conservation laws appropriate to human needs, and a clear recognition that solutions can be neither directly adaptable from other mountainous areas nor even widely applicable across the Himalayan region. /// Des changements dans l'conomie et l'utilisation des terres sont en train de se produire dans le rgion transhimalayenne du Ladakh en Inde, entranant des expectatives ngatives aussi bien que positives pour la conservation de la faune dans cette zone faiblement peuple et jusque dans ces derniers temps isole. Les nouvelles espces de bestiaux, les projets d'irrigation, les pratiques agricoles, les touristes trangers et la prsence d'installations militaires importantes ont modifi la manire dont la population peroit et utilise le milieu montagnard qui les entoure. Si l'on considre qu' prsent seulement 0,3 pour cent des terres sont arables, les changements dans la conservation de la faune et des ressources naturelles sont plus apparents dans les grands pturages du Ladakh; ces pturages semblent subir une redistribution de leur utilisation associe aux changements sociaux et aux pratiques d'levage du btail et de culture qui ont t introduites rcemment. Les espces menaces  l'chelle internationale, comme le lopard des neiges, plusieurs onguls sauvages et la grue  col noir, fournissent une forte justification pour les projets de conservation dans ces zones naturelles qui comptent parmi les meilleures encore prserves dans les rgions montagneuses situes au nord de la crte himalayenne. Le succs des zones protges qui ont t rcemment cres pour la conservation de la faune du Ladakh est bas sur une comprhension des effets de diverses approches vis--vis du dveloppement, un engagement total envers un dveloppement respectant l'environnement dans le cadre des demandes multiples sur les ressources naturelles du Ladakh, des lois sur la conservation appropries aux besoins de la population, et une admission claire que les solutions ne peuvent ni tre directement adaptes  partir d'autres zones montagneuses, ni tre applicables  la totalit de la rgion himalayenne. /// Im indischen Transhimalaya Gebiet von Ladakh verndern sich die konomie und die Landnutzung-was in diesem sprlich besiedelten und frher abgeschiedenen Gebiet Vor- und Nachteile fr den Artenschutz mit sich bringt. Neue Arten bei der Viehzucht, Bewsserungsprojekte, neue Landwirtschaftsmethoden, auslndische Touristen und ein groes militrisches Kontingent verndern die Art und Weise, in der die Bevlkerung das sie umgebende Land sieht und nutzt. Da nur 0,3% des Gebietes anbaufhig sind, werden Vernderungen beim Artenschutz und bei der Erhaltung der Naturressourcen auf den ausgedehnten Flchen Ladakh's besonders auffllig. Diese Gebiete unterliegen einer Nutzungsordnung, die sich aus sozialen Vernderungen und krzlich neu eingefhrten Ackerbau- und Viehzuchtmethoden ergibt. Tiere, die global geschtzt sind, wie der Schneeleopard, verschiedene wilde Huftiere und die schwarzhalsigen Kraniche geben Erhaltungsbestrebungen besondere Motivation, denn die bergigen Regionen nrdlich des Himalaya Kammes gehren zu den besterhaltenen unter den verbliebenen Naturlandschaften. Der Bestand der neuerlich geschaffenen Schutzgebiete in Ladakh hngt vom Verstndnis der Auswirkungen verschiedener Entwicklungsprojekte ab, ebenso von der Verpflichtung fr umweltgerechte Entwicklung innerhalb der vielen konkurrierenden Anforderungen an Ladakh's Naturressourcen. Gesetzgebung auf dem Gebiet des Artenschutzes mu den menschlichen Bedrfnissen angepat sein, und es mu erkannt werden, da Lsungen von anderen Bergregionen nicht unbedingt bernommen werden knnen und oftmals fr das Himalayagebiet unzutreffend sind.
25578209|Multivariate regression analysis, combined with residuals correction, was carried out to develop a precipitation prediction model for the Daqing Mountains of Inner Mongolia in northern China. Precipitation data collected at 56 stations between 1955 and 1990 were used: data from 48 stations for model development and data from 8 stations for additional tests. Five topographic factors-altitude, slope, aspect, longitude, and latitude-were taken into account for model development. These topographic variables were acquired from a 100m resolution digital elevation model (DEM) of the study region, and the mean values of the sub-basin in which a precipitation station is located were used as the values of the respective variables of that station. The multivariate regression model can explain 72.6% of the spatial variability of precipitation over the whole year and 74.4% of variability in the wet season (June-September). Precipitation in the dry season (October-May) is hard to model owing to little rainfall (21.78% of annual rainfall) and a different synoptic system. Interpolation-based residuals correction did not significantly improve the accuracy of our model, which shows that our model is quite effective. The model, as presented in this paper, could potentially be applied to other mountains and in mountain climate research.
10.2307/3673021|The western High Atlas mountains, which contain the highest peaks in North Africa, are one of the least developed areas of Morocco. For many centuries sedentary peasant communities have survived by exploiting the area's meagre natural resources, despite the high altitude and arid climate. The agricultural system has always been composed of two complementary and integrated land-use types: intensive cropping on irrigated terraces and raising livestock - many species but mainly sheep and goats. The analysis of a small test area in the upper Naffis valley shows that destabilization processes have begun to disturb the equilibrium of the mountain ecosystem. This is primarily due to the very rapid population growth and to the increasing socio-economic requirements. Pressure on the land, together with the pursuit of new incomes (by emigration or by increasing flock size) has lead to degradation of the natural vegetation in the short term and, in the long term, to the danger of collapse due to potential depopulation and decline of agricultural activities. /// Le Haut Atlas occidental reprsente probablement la montagne la plus originale au Maroc, compte tenu d'abord des caractres de son systme naturel (c'est un massif ancien trs lev et intensment rod, mais o l'aridit climatique est dominante) et surtout de son systme socio-conomique; depuis de nombreux sicles, des communauts de paysans sdentaires se sont acharnes  y exploiter au maximum les maigres ressources naturelles. C'est ainsi que le systme agricole type comporte toujours deux composantes complmentaires et intgres: des cultures intensives et soignes dans les terrasses amnages et irrigues, et un levage poly-espces gnralement extensif, o dominent les ovins et les caprins. Partant d'une petite rgion (la haute valle du Naffis), l'analyse de l'volution de cet cosystme montagnard rvle que l'quilibre ancien de celui-ci est en cours de dstabilisation tant donn l'accroissement dmographique rapide actuel, et la ncessit de satisfaire des besoins socio-conomiques lmentaires. La pression accrue sur la terre, et la recherche de nouveaux revenus, soit par l'migration, soit par la progression de l'levage, font peser sur cette montagne deux risques majeurs:  court terme, c'est la vgtation naturelle qui se dgrade rapidement;  long terme, on peut se demander si un clatement du systme agricole ancien n'est pas  craindre, compte tenu du dpeuplement potentiel et de la dsaffection vis--vis des activits agricoles. /// Der westliche Hohe Atlas stellt wahrscheinlich das typischste Gebirge Marokkos dar, nicht nur wegen seiner Naturbedingungen (Hhe, Alter, Erosion, Ariditt), sondern auch was sein sozio-konomisches System betrifft. Seit mehreren Jahrhunderten versuchen die sesshaften Bauern soviel wie mglich aus ihren bescheidenen Ressourcen herauszuholen. Das landwirtschaftliche System besteht aus zwei verschiedenen komplementren Komponenten: intensive und sorgfltig gepflegte Kulturen auf irrigierbaren Terrassen und eine vielseitige, aber im allgemeinen extensive Viehzucht mit Ziegen und Schafen. Im Hochtal von Naffis hat eine Studie gezeigt, dass das ehemalige kologische Gleichgewicht unter dem Druck der Bevlkerungszunahme destabilisiert wird. Der zunehmende Druck auf das Land und die Suche nach neuen Einkommen, sei es durch Auswanderung oder vermehrte Viehzucht wirken sich auf dieses Gebirge in zweifacher Weise negativ aus: kurzfristig ist eine rasche Degradierung der natrlichen Vegetation festzustellen. Auf lange Sicht kann man sich fragen, ob nicht eine Auflsung des ehemaligen Landwirtschaftssystems zu befrchten ist, wenn man eine mgliche Entvlkerung und eine Abneigung zur buerlichen Arbeit in Betracht zieht.
90001388|One of the direct effects of introducing high-speed railway lines is a significant reduction in travel times between major cities. This is particularly relevant in mountain areas. It not only makes cities more easily reachable with more sustainable transport systems but can also encourage different travel behavior and reduce environmental pressures on sensitive areas. A comprehensive analysis of the spatiotemporal effects of the introduction of high-speed railways in the Alpine arc has not yet been developed. To help fill this gap, this study uses multidimensional scaling and the geographical information system to illustrate the timespace compression. This term indicates the erosion of spatial and temporal distances in the areas of the Alps directly affected by the new railway lines. Six trans-Alpine high-speed railway lines are analyzed, comparing current and projected travel times by train. A time-based map is created to show the timespace compression in every transversal direction, particularly on the French and the Austrian side of the Alps. Implications in terms of local accessibility are also analyzed, focusing on the Autonomous Province of Bolzano/Bozen-South Tyrol. Finally, the paper discusses the importance of time-based maps for the understanding of sociospatial dynamics and the possible implications for spatial development.
3674055|This paper presents results from studies in 4 mountain regions in East Africa, 2 in Ethiopia (Simen Mountains, Bale Mountains), and 2 in Uganda (Rwenzori Mountains, Mount Elgon). The focus is on the ericaceous vegetation that forms the (upper) treeline ecotone at all sites. There is little evidence for climatic control of the patchy appearance of this belt in all afroalpine environments. Since traces of former fires were observed in all ranges, repeated burning is most probably responsible for the present appearance of the ericaceous vegetation in East Africa. The fires observed were almost exclusively lit by local people, who utilize the afroalpine zone for poaching, livestock grazing, and honey hunting. Although these fires are man-made and not strictly natural, they help to maintain a structurally and biologically diverse environment.
10.2307/3673516|Newspapers, journals, official reports, published books, and oral accounts are examined for references to frost and drought in Papua New Guinea from 1982 to the 1880s and a record of probable events is established. Climatological and documentary sources from Indonesia are then examined as a proxy record of frost and drought in PNG and the record is taken back to the 1870s. The association between the quantitative and qualitative records of frost and drought in PNG is examined alongside a composite record of the SO/ENSO phenomena. Frost occurs under a range of general meteorological conditions, but in those ENSO events that have a major west-Pacific impact drought is normal, and wide areas are exposed to the risk of repeated frost. However, one of the worst single 'famine' events uncovered in the highland record did not arise from frost, but from other causes. /// Des journaux, revues, rapports officiels, livres publis et interviews enregistres, remontant jusqu'en 1880  partir de 1982, sont examins en vue d'y trouver des rfrences  la gele et la scheresse en Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine (PNG), et un historique des vnements probables est tabli. Des informations climatologiques et documentaires en provenance de l'Indonsie, remontant jusqu'en 1870, sont ensuite examines en tant que donnes indirectes sur la gele et la scheresse en PNG. La relation entre les donnes quantitatives et qualitatives relatives  la gele et la scheresse en PNG est examine en parallle avec le phnomne d'El Nio/Oscillation Sud. La gele se produit dans une certaine gamme de conditions mtorologiques gnrales, mais en ce qui concerne les occurrences de EN/OS qui ont un impact majeur sur le Pacifique ouest, la scheresse est normale, et de grandes aires sont sujettes  des geles frquentes. Nanmoins l'un des cas les plus srieux de 'disette' enregistr dans les hautes terres n'a pas t caus par la gele, mais par d'autres facteurs. /// Zeitungen, Journale, offizielle Berichte, Bcher und mndliche berlieferungen werden als Quellen fr Frost- und Drreperioden in PNG von 1982 zurck bis 1880 berprft, und ein Bericht ber die wahrscheinlichen Ereignisse wird angefertigt. Klimatologische - und Dokumentarquellen aus Indonesien werden dann als reprsentativer Bericht ber Frost und Drre in PNG herangezogen und bis 1870 zurckverfolgt. Die Verknpfung von quantitativen und qualitativen Aufzeichnungen ber Frost und Drre in PNG wird mit einem vielseitigen Bericht ber das SO/ENSO Phnomen verglichen. Frost tritt in einem weiten Bereich von allgemeinen meteorologischen Vorgngen auf; aber bei den ENSO Vorgngen, die weitreichenden Einflu im Westpazifik haben, ist Drre normal und groe Gebiete sind wiederholter Frostgefahr ausgesetzt. Jedoch entstand eine der schlimmsten Hungersnte, die der Hochlandbericht aufdeckt, nicht durch Frost, sondern hatte andere Ursachen.
10.2307/3673450|The general relief of the ECOWAS countries (Economic Community of West African States) is simpler than that of East Africa. Only a small area of land is over 915 m asl, and the highest point is Vogel Peak in Nigeria (2,040 m). These highlands are within the broad woodland/savanna moist vegetation belt and consequently the lower slopes have occasional patches of rainforest. The higher altitudes contain mixtures of grasses, epiphytes, ferns, and a few temperate species. There is little evidence of floristic affinities between the flora of the different mountains, and a high proportion of the flora is apparently endemic to particular mountains. Despite their inaccessibility there are opportunities for the development of the forestry resources. It is recommended that the ECOWAS states, with assistance from international agencies, explore the potential resources of the highlands, not only for forestry but for protection of biological and gene-pool sanctuaries; steps should be taken to develop montane forestry programmes before the finite resources of the neighbouring lowlands have been over-exploited. /// Le relief des pays de la communaut conomique de l'Afrique occidentale est plus simple que celui de l'Afrique orientale. Seulement une petite partie des terres se trouve  plus de 915 m, le point le plus lev tant le pic Vogel au Niger, avec une altitude de 2.040 m. Ces hautes terres se trouvent au sein de la large ceinture humide de bois et de savanne, et donc les pentes  plus basse altitude comportent parfois des zones de fort tropicale humide. Plus haut, on trouve diffrentes herbes, des piphytes, des fougres et quelques espces de climat tempr. Il ya peu d'indications d'affinits entre les flores des diffrentes montagnes, et une grande partie de la flore semble tre endmique aux montagnes particulires. Bien que les ressources forestires soient relativement inaccessibles, des possibilits existent nanmoins. Il serait dsirable que les pays de la communaut conomique de l'Afrique occidentale, avec l'aide d'organisations internationales, valuent les ressources potentielles des hautes terres, non seulement pour la foresterie mais aussi pour la protection des reserves biologiques et gntiques. Des mesures devraient tre prises pour dvelopper des programmes de foresterie montagnarde avant que les ressources limites des basses terres avoisinantes ne fassent l'objet d'une exploitation abusive. /// Die Topographie in den 16 ECOWAS-Lndern (Economic Community of West African States) ist einfacher gegliedert als in Ostafrika. Nur wenige Gebiete liegen hher als 915 meter .M., und der hchste Punkt der Region, der Vogel-Berg in Nigeria, ist 2040 m .M. Diese Hochlnder sind in den Zonen Savanne, Feuchtsavanne und Trockenwald zu situieren, und in tiefer gelegenen Regionen findet man noch einzelne Flecken von Regenwald. In hher gelegenen Gebieten trifft man auf Grser, Epiphyten, Farne und einige Arten, die auch in gemssigten Zonen vorkommen. Viele Arten scheinen fr einzelne Berggebiete endemisch zu sein, und es sind nicht sehr viele Verwandtschaften zwischen der Flora der einzelnen Bergregionen festzustellen. Durch die Unzugnglichkeit der Bergwelt bedingt, ist ein riesiges Potential fr Erforschung, Konservierung, und Nutzung der Wlder noch ungenutzt; auch als Erholungsraum ist ein Eignungspotential vorhanden. Tatschlich haben die Bauerngesellschaften der Hochlnder bereits eine Forstwirtschaft entwickelt, die sich auf die gesellschaftlichen Bedrfinisse und die oekologischen Gegenbenheiten absttzt. Dies fehlt in den Tieflndern vllig. Fr internationale Organisationen bieten sich grosse Mglichkeiten im Bereich von Erforschung von seltenen genetischen Ressourcen und deren Schutz. Langfristig gibt es fr die ECOWAS-Lnder und auch fr andere Lnder mit hnlichen Bedingungen keine andere Lsung als die Erforschung und Entwicklung der Ressourcen der Berggebiete. Entsprechende Entwicklungsprogramme sollten in Angriff genommen werden, bevor die Ressourcen der Tieflnder vollstndig bernutzt sind.
mounresedeve.30.3.304|Agriculture has a long history in Georgia; it has led to a great variety of ancient crops. However, this diversity is under threat for many reasons. First, introduced crops have caused a loss of traditional cultivars, because the introduced crops are preferred due to their higher yield. Moreover, agricultural machines such as forage and grain combine harvesters imported to Georgia are constructed for widely distributed, imported crops and cannot be used to harvest local cultivars. Until recently, genetic erosion of ancient crop varieties was not a problem in the mountain areas of Georgia, which until the 1990s constituted a depository of local crop varieties of wheat, barley, rye, oat, common millet, traditional legumes, vegetables, herbs, and spice plants with specific varieties adapted to mountain conditions. These mountain areas worked as a depository because local mountain communities preserved their traditional ways of life and socioeconomic structures. Their traditional agricultural equipment, used on a large scale until the 1990s, still allows them to maintain areas under cultivation (with grain or other crops) on steep slopes and at high elevations where moderntractors cannot be used.Moreover, some old landraces of wheat and barley are still being used to prepare bread and beer for religious rituals. Currently, many endemic and native representatives of crop plants are in danger of extinction. International nature conservation institutions and Georgian scientific and nongovernmental organizations have developed plans to preserve the genetic resources of local cultivars.
3674414|This article analyzes a project concerned with the conversion of agricultural land into forests and the impact on local communities in the upper Min River Basin in China. The aim of the project, called "Grain for Green" (Tui Geng Huan Lin), is to improve watershed conditions, enhance biodiversity, and conserve natural resources. Results from a participatory socioeconomic survey showed that the basic living standards of farmers were guaranteed by government subsidies because some of their cultivated land was converted into protected forest. The common perception is that although farmers were happy to participate in the project because they became less dependent on agriculture and were able to diversify their income, they were worried about their future after 8 years of government subsidies and preferred to plant forests for economic rather than ecological reasons. There is also a fear that if subsidies end, farmers may turn forestland into sloping cultivation land. To guarantee sustainable implementation of the Grain for Green Project, farmers discussed options with local government officials. In face-to-face interviews, they discussed issues such as basic cropland protection, educational investment, out-migration of the workforce, hydroelectricity exploitation, and tourism development.
mounresedeve.34.1.56|The Fedchenko glacier system harbors the longest glacier (77 km) outside of the polar areas. It has a great influence on the local economy and ecology as a water resource. The glacier area in the Fedchenko basin was investigated using Landsat TM images in 1992, Landsat ETM+ images in 2000, and ALOS/AVNIR2 images in 2006. The total area was 835.9 km
10.2307/3673464|In large areas of the Austrian mountain region tourism represents the only economic alternative to alpine farming, and for decades its development has been promoted. There has been a great expansion of winter sports facilities and especially the development of mass skiing on glaciers. Opinions on glacier-skiing areas have differed widely right from the start, and the supporters as well as the opponents have put forward ecological, economic, and social arguments. The supporters comprise mainly inhabitants of the mountain communities involved; the opponents live primarily in urban areas. This paper aims to present the perspective of the locals, that is, of the population groups that are immediately affected. Their evaluation of glacier-skiing is predominantly positive although they have increasingly developed an objective, critical view. This enables them to take advantage of the favourable effects of such large-scale tourist projects while, at the same time, avoiding the negative ones. /// Dans beaucoup de rgions des Alpes autrichiennes, le tourisme reprsente la seule alternative conomique  l'agriculture de montagne. En consquence l'amnagement touristique y est encourag depuis des dcennies. L'expansion du ski alpin et l'quipement des glaciers pour le ski de masse jouent dans ce sens un rle particulier. Les opinions concernant les domaines de ski sur glacier taient cependant, au dbut, trs partages. De la part de leurs partisans comme de leurs adversaires des arguments d'ordre cologique, conomique et social alimentaient la controverse. Parmi les personnes favorables viennent tout d'abord les habitants de la montagne tandis que les adversaires se recrutent essentiellement dans les rgions urbaines. Nous exposerons ici le point de vue et les perspectives de la population locale, c'est  dire de ceux qui sont directement concerns. En gnral ce groupe a une apprciation trs positive  l'gard du ski sur glacier, sur lequel il fonde de grands espoirs conomiques. Cependant on voit de plus en plus s'lever des opinions critiques parmi les montagnards eux-mmes, ce qui devrait leur permettre de mieux profiter des effets bnfiques des grands projets d'quipement touristiques et de mieux se protger contre les effets ngatifs. /// In weiten Teilen des sterreichischen Alpenraumes bildet der Tourismus die einzige konomische Alternative zur Berglandwirtschaft. Sein Ausbau wird daher seit Jahrzehnten forciert. Die Ausweitung des Schisports und die Erschlieung der Gletscher fr den Massenschilauf spielen dabei eine besondere Rolle. Die Meinungen ber die Gletscherschigebiete waren jedoch von Anfang an geteilt, und es wurden sowohl von den Befrwortern als auch von den Gegnern kologische, konomische und soziale Argumente ins Treffen gefhrt. Zu den Befrwortern zhlen in erster Linie die Bewohner der Berggebiete, whrend die Gegner vor allem in den stdtischen Rumen zu finden sind. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird versucht, die Perspektive der Einheimischen, d.h. der unmittelbar betroffenen Bevlkerung darzustellen. Diese Bevlkerungsgruppe bewertet die Gletscherschigebiete im allgemeinen sehr positiv und sie verbindet mit ihnen hohe konomische Erwartungen. Sie entwickelt jedoch in zunehmendem Mae eine objektiv-kritische Sicht: Das versetzt sie in die Lage, die gnstigen Wirkungen solcher touristischer Groprojekte in Hinkunft besser zu nutzen und die negativen Effekte strker zurckzudrngen.
3674275|We studied the seed bank and above-ground vegetation in a replicated field experiment with sites ungrazed for 22 years as well as three different grazed sites in seminatural grasslands in central Argentina. We examined the relationship between vegetation and seed bank composition, and tested 3 hypotheses predicting decrease in seed bank richness, decrease in seed bank abundance, and divergence of seed bank species composition from vegetation composition during succession. Grazing changed species abundance and the vertical structure of the vegetation but did not cause loss of species. Most of the taxa in the seed bank occurred in the vegetation. Seed bank richness, diversity, and abundance decreased significantly during grassland succession following cessation of grazing. Although in general the most abundant species in the vegetation at each site were also dominant in the respective seed bank, seed bank and vegetation composition differed greatly after cessation of grazing. The seed bank at sites undisturbed over the long term does not appear to be an important source of seedling recruitment after disturbance in these grasslands.
10.2307/3673205|Sikkim is much more densely populated than Bhutan, has a much higher population growth rate, and has incurred serious environmental losses at the expense of the poor. Bhutan, unlike other Himalayan countries, is not overpopulated; its environmental condition is far superior, and, while constant care is required, its government has been able to contain much more effectively the negative impacts of foreign aid and development. /// La densit de la population et le taux de croissance dmographique du Sikkim sont plus levs qu'au Bhoutan, et l'environnement y a t srieusement endommag, au dtriment des pauvres. A l'oppos d'autres pays himalayens, le Bhoutan n'est pas surpeupl et son environnement est en bien meilleur tat. Bien qu'une attention continuelle soit ncessaire, le gouvernement du Bhoutan a russi  contrler les effets contraires des programmes d'aide au dveloppement. /// Im Vergleich zu Bhutan ist Sikkim dichter besiedelt, hat eine grere Wachstumsrate und hat durch die Armen groen Umweltschaden erlitten. Bhutan ist im Vergleich mit anderen Himalaya Lndern nicht berbevlkert, seine Umweltbedingungen sind viel besser und wenn auch stndige Aufsicht erforderlich ist, so konnte seine Regierung die negativen Auswirkungen von Auslandshilfe und Entwicklung besser in Schach halten.
10.2307/3672989|The concepts of ecological stability, instability, and lability are discussed and defined; they should be used only as general concepts. Ecological stability is the continued existence of an ecological system or its capability to restore the original state after a change. It is important to distinguish between natural and anthropogenic stability and instability. According to the presence or absence of disturbance factors (extraordinary factors) and the amplitude of the oscillations of the parameters under consideration the following types of ecological stability can be distinguished: constancy, cyclicity, resistance, and elasticity. For every investigation of stability special criteria and scales of observation must be elaborated. Based on the example of plant communities of the Alps general conclusions are drawn: (1) no ecological system is stable in respect to all possible disturbance factors; (2) different types of stability can occur within the same ecological system; (3) the same disturbance factor can have completely different effects in very similar ecological systems; (4) depending on the criteria and scales of observation the same ecological phenomenon can be considered stable or unstable and evaluated negatively or positively. Thus statements about stability are only of limited value unless it is clearly specified which criteria and scales of observation are used, which disturbance factor is being considered, and which type of stability is occurring. A list of principles contributing to ecological stability is presented; it can be used as a checklist for assessing the risk of instability. /// Les concepts de stabilit, d'instabilit et de labilit ecologiques sont discuts et dfinis; ils devraient tre employs seulement comme concepts gnraux. La stabilit cologique est l'existence continue d'un systme cologique ou sa capacit de revenir  l'tat original aprs un changement. Il est important de faire une distinction entre stabilit (instabilit) naturelle et anthropogne. Les types de stabilit cologique suivants sont distingus en raison de la prsence ou absence de facteurs de perturbation (facteurs extraordinaires) et de l'amplitude des oscillations du paramtre considr: constance, cyclicit, rsistance et lasticit. Il est discut que chaque analyse d'un cas de stabilit exige l'laboration de critres appropris. Bases sur l'example de l'cologie de prairies des Alpes les conclusions gnrales suivantes sont tires: (1) Il n'existe aucun systme cologique qui soit stable envers tous les facteurs de perturbation possibles. (2) Dans le mme systme cologique des types de stabilit diffrents peuvent tre raliss. (3) Des cosystmes semblables peuvent ragir de manire trs diffrente  l'gard du mme facteur de perturbation. (4) En fonction des critres choisis le mme phnomne cologique peut tre considr comme stable ou instable et jug de manire positive ou ngative. Cela prouve que les affirmations gnrales concernant la stabilit ne peuvent pas tre employes sans spcifier clairement les critres employs ainsi que le facteur de perturbation et le type de stabilit. Une liste de principes contribuants  la stabilit cologique est prsente; elle peut tre employe comme "checklist" pour juger le risque d'instabilit. /// Die Begriffe kologische Stabilitt, Instabilitt und Labilitt werden diskutiert und definiert; sie sollten nur als allgemeine Oberbegriffe verwendet werden. Oekologische Stabilitt ist das Bestehenbleiben eines kologischen Systems und die Fhigkeit nach Vernderungen in die Ausgangslage zurckzukehren. Es ist wichtig zwischen natrlicher und anthropogener Stabilitt (Instabilitt) zu unterscheiden. Aufgrund des Vorhandenseins oder Fehlens von Fremdfaktoren und aufgrund der Schwankungen des betrachteten Merkmals werden folgende Typen kologischer Stabilitt unterschieden: Konstanz, Zyklizitt, Resistenz, und Elastizitt. Fr jede Beurteilung der Stabilitt sind spezielle Kriterien und Mastbe zu erarbeiten. Am Beispiel von Pflanzengesellschaften der Alpen wird dargelegt: (1) Kein kologisches System ist bezglich allen mglichen Fremdfaktoren stabil. (2) Verschiedene Typen von Stabilitt knnen im selben kologischen System verwirklicht sein. (3) Derselbe Fremdfaktor kann sich in hnlichen kologischen Systemen ganz verschieden auswirken. (4) Je nach den gewhlten Kriterien und Mastben kann dasselbe kologische Phnomen als stabil oder als instabil angesehen und positiv oder negativ bewertet werden. Somit sind allgemeine Aussagen ber Stabilitt wissenschaftlich und praktisch nur beschrnkt brauchbar, sofern nicht dargelegt ist, welche Beurteilungskriterien und-mastbe gewhlt wurden, sowie welcher Fremdfaktor und welcher Stabilittstyp betrachtet wurden. Es wird eine Liste von Prinzipien, die zu kologischer Stabilitt beitragen, dargelegt; sie kann u.a. als Checkliste fr die Beurteilung des Risikos von Instabilitt dienen.
10.2307/3673340|Since the pioneer studies of Carl Troll considerable work has been done on the geoecology of tropical highlands in Latin America. Less emphasis has been devoted to the study of human activities in different altitudinal belts. In particular, little work has been undertaken on this topic in the Sierra region of Ecuador, located in a transition zone between the permanently humid paramo and the seasonally arid puna. This paper is based on a field investigation of a study area in the Patate-Pelileo region located in the Eastern Cordillera of Ecuador carried out during the summer of 1981. The chosen site lies in a transition zone between the semi-arid Cuenca of Ambato and the humid eastern slopes of the Cordillera. Five major altitudinal belts of agricultural activity are represented between the valley floor of the Patate River (2,000 m) and the upper slopes of surrounding Cerros (about 3,700 m). Apart from the different types of agricultural resources and their altitudinal range, the hillside belts of agricultural systems exhibit a number of distinct seasonal agricultural calendars, productivity, and land prices. /// Depuis les travaux d'avant-garde de Carl Troll, des recherches considrables ont t consacres  la go-cologie des hautes montagnes tropicales de l'Amrique latine. Cependant, l'tude des activits humaines dans les diffrentes bandes altitudinales a reu moins d'attention. C'est surtout le cas  l'gard de la Sierra en Equateur, qui est situe dans une zone de transition entre les Andes Pramo d'une humidit quasi-permanente et les Andes Puna d'une aridit saisonnire. Cette tude est base sur des travaux effectus sur le terrain en t 1981 dans la rgion de Patate-Pelileo, situe dans la Cordillre orientale de l'Equateur. Le site choisi se trouve dans une zone de transition entre la Cuenca semi-aride d'Ambato et les pentes orientales humides de la Cordillre. Dans la prsente communication, l'auteur distingue cinq bandes altitudinales d'activit agricole entre le fond de la valle du fleuve Patate (2.000 m) et les pentes suprieures des Cerros avoisinants (aux alentours de 3.700 m). Outre leurs diffrences en termes de ressources agricoles et de distribution altitudinale, ces bandes rvlent des calendriers agricoles, une productivit, et des prix de la terre qui sont bien distincts. /// Sptestens seit den Arbeiten von Carl Troll hat die Geo-Okologie der tropischen Gebirge Lateinamerikas erhebliche Beachtung gefunden. Dagegen nahm die Erforschung menschlicher Aktivitten in verschiedenen Hhenzonen einen geringeren Raum ein. Dies trifft vor allem auf die Sierra von Ecuador zu, die in einer bergangszone zwischen den stndig feuchten Pramo-Anden und den halb ariden Puna-Anden liegt. Die vorliegende Arbeit basiert im wesentlichen auf Felduntersuchungen, die im Sommer 1981 in der Patate-Pelileo Region in der Ostkordillere von Ecuador durchgefhrt wurden. Das Studiengebiet liegt in einem bergangsbereich zwischen der semi-ariden Cuenca von Ambato und der humiden Ostflanke der Cordillera. Fnf hauptschliche Hhenstufen landwirtschaftlicher Aktivitt werden unterschieden, zwischen der Talsohle des Rio Patate (2000 m) und den obersten Hangbereichen der umliegenden Cerros (etwa 3700 m). Die Hhengrtel landwirtschaftlicher Systeme zeichnen sich durch verschiedenartige landwirtschaftliche Produkte, Produktivitt, Landpreise, und einen bestimmten jahreszeitlichen Rhythmus landwirtschaftlicher Ttigkeiten aus.
10.2307/3673523|The last thousand years of glacier fluctuations and glacier-climate responses have been studied in the Tien Shan mountain region of southern USSR. Several hundred glacial moraines have been dated, using lichenometry and dendrochronology in conjunction with radiocarbon dating, studies of lake-level changes, and archeological and historical data. Comparisons are made with data from the Caucasus, the Alps, and other mountain regions. Broad conclusions of importance to the International Geosphere-Biosphere Program are given and areas where additional research is needed are identified. Many Tien Shan glaciers show evidence of advances that predate the conventional time span of the Little Ice Age; many advances and recessions have occurred synchronously, although the magnitude of such trends varied significantly between regions and within the same region; fluctuations in equilibrium-line altitudes were more pronounced in the outer, or more maritime, areas and became progressively less prominent toward the interior where the climate is more continental. While it may be claimed that glacier-climate analysis has been developed to the point where climate forecasting is feasible, the recent anthropogenic impacts on the atmosphere and their potential for climate change cannot yet be incorporated into such forecasting. This is because the complex relationships between natural variations in precipitation and temperature are not sufficiently well understood and because the record of glacier fluctuation is by no means fully systematic. Nevertheless, if the pattern of the last thousand years in the Tien Shan persists, one can expect pseudo-cyclic oscillations of summer temperature with an amplitude of about 2C and a periodicity of 30-50 years. /// Les fluctuations des glaciers et des rponses glacier-climat au cours des mille dernires annes ont t tudies dans la rgion montagneuse de Tien Shan au sud de l'U.R.S.S. Plusieurs centaines de moraines glaciaires ont t dates par lichnomtrie et dendrochronologie concurremment avec une datation au radiocarbone, des tudes du changement de niveau des lacs, et des donnes archologiques et historiques. Des comparaisons ont t effectues avec des donnes en provenance du Caucase, des Alpes et d'autres rgions montagneuses. Des conclusions gnrales, importantes pour le Programme international gosphre-biosphre, en sont tires et les travaux de recherche  effectuer sont identifis. Un grand nombre de glaciers du Tien Shan portent les marques de progressions qui se sont produites avant la priode gnralement reconnue comme la petite re glaciaire; beaucoup de progressions et de rgressions se sont produites synchroniquement, bien que l'amplitude de telles tendances a vari sensiblement d'une rgion  l'autre et dans le mme rgion; les fluctuations d'altitude de la ligne d'quilibre sont plus accentues dans les rgions priphriques, ou moins maritimes, et deviennet progressivement plus prononces vers l'intrieur o le climat est plus continental. Bien que l'on puisse affirmer que l'analyse glacier-climat a t dveloppe jusqu'au point o les prvisions de climat sont possibles, les impacts anthropogniques rcents sur l'atmosphre et leur potentiel vis--vis d'un changement de climat ne peuvent pas encore tre incorpors dans de telles prvisions. La raison en est que les relations complexes entre les variations naturelles de prcipitation et de temprature ne sont pas suffisamment bien connues et que l'enregistrement des fluctuations glaciaires n'a pas t effectu d'une manire systmatique. Nanmoins, si le rgime de changement qui s'est tabli au cours de mille dernires annes dans le Tien Shan persiste, on peut s'attendre  des oscillations pseudo-cycliques de la temprature estivale, avec une amplitude d'environ 2C et une priodicit de 30  50 ans. /// Im Tien Shan Berggebiet der sdlichen UdssR wurden glaziale Fluktuationen und glazial-klimatische Reaktionen ber den Zeitraum der vergangenen 1000 Jahre untersucht. Hunderte von glazialen Mornen wurden unter Anwendung von Lichenologie und Dendrochronologie in Verbindung mit Kohlenstoffdatierung zeitlich bestimmt. Daneben wurden auch Vernderungen des Wasserspiegels in Seen anhand archologischer und historischer Daten datiert. Vergleiche mit Daten aus dem Kaukasus, den Alpen und anderen Berggebieten wurden gemacht. Allgemeine Schlufolgerungen, die Bedeutung fr das Internationale Geosphre-Biosphre Programm haben, werden gezogen und solche Bereiche hervorgehoben, die zustzliche Forschung erfordern. Viele Gletscher im Tien Shan Gebiet zeigen Spuren ihres Vormarsches, die zeitlich der Periode des "Little Ice Age" vorangehen. Weitere Vormrsche und Rckgnge verliefen gleichzeitig, obwohl das Ausma dieser Bewegungen in verschiedenen Gebieten und innerhalb der gleichen Region sehr unterschiedlich war. Fluktuationen in den Gleichgewichtslinien der Hhen waren aufflliger ausgeprgt in entfernter gelegenen, eher maritimen Gebieten und wurden weniger zum Landinnern hin, wo Kontinentalklima vorherrscht. Selbst wenn behauptet wird, da eine glazial-klimatische Analyse soweit entwickelt ist, da Klimavorhersagen mglich sind, so knnen die gegenwrtigen anthropogenen Einwirkungen auf die Atmosphre und ihre Mglichkeit zur Klimanderung nicht in diese Vorhersagen eingeschlossen werden. Ein Grund dafr sind die komplexen Verhltnisse zwischen natrlichen Niederschlagsschwankungen und der Temperatur, die bisher nur ungengend verstanden sind; ein weiterer Grund liegt darin, da die Aufzeichnungen der glazialen Fluktuationen keineswegs systematisch durchgefhrt wurden. Falls die Vorgnge der vergangenen 1000 Jahre im Tien Shan Gebiet anhalten, kann man pseudo-zyklische Schwankungen in der Sommertemperatur von ungefhr 2C eine Periodizitt von 30 bis 50 Jahren erwarten.
mounresedeve.33.3.280|Increasingly, attention in regional, national, and international water governance arenas has focused on high-altitude wetlands. However, existing local water management practices in these wetlands are often overlooked. This article looks at the irrigation activities of alpaca herders in the community of Ccarhuancho in the Central Andes of Peru. For more than two centuries, they have been constructing smallscale irrigation canals to maintain and expand the local wetlands, called bofedales. The seminomadic character of alpaca herders complicates irrigated wetland activities, such as operation and maintenance. Climate change and human and animal population pressure have increased not only the importance of these irrigation systems but also of local conflicts and communal decision making. Local irrigation activities in Ccarhuancho go unnoticed in broader water governance arenas because of its remoteness, limits to what popular new analytical tools can measure, a general undervaluation of wetlands, and a tendency of the canals to merge over time with the surrounding bofedales, making them less visible. Nevertheless, these man-made systems account for 40% of the wetlands in the study area and risk being seriously degraded or destroyed without local water management. With climatic changes affecting existing natural wetlands, the local herders were the first to recognize and respond to these changes and to defend the wetlands against degradation. Their efforts are, however, largely overlooked, even though such local water governance practices are crucial for the success of regional and national water governance in the Andes and other mountain areas. (Note: The title of this paper is an adaptation of Netting's [1974] paper The system nobody knows about small-scale irrigation in the Swiss Alps.)
mounresedeve.32.2.149|The green economy is increasingly being promoted as a way of creating socially and environmentally viable forms of development. Using the specific case of an attempted nongovernmental organization (NGO) intervention in a minor peasant community in the Recuay region of the Peruvian Andes, this article raises the question of how to get from green economy as a theory of development to green economy as a tool of governance. The article is based on 12 months of ethnographic fieldwork in the region. Peru has experienced a decade of rapid growth, but this impressive progress hides the fact that large numbers of rural poor have been left untouched by the national economic boom. An examination of the household economy through the idea of ecologies of production underscores the social, economic, and environmental embeddedness of Andean household economies and explores pathways to the market. Articulation and governance are the main concerns when it comes to understanding the ways in which the peasant economies are maintained through environmentally embedded social relations, which in turn govern how natural resources and ecosystems are managed. The article concludes by pointing to three issues of importance with regard to a green economy: (1) In conditions of poverty, economically risky investments are rarely sought; (2) matters of governance inform production; and (3) articulation to the market is crucial in terms of production input and output.
mounresedeve.34.1.13|Although mountain regions are thought to be at lower risk of plant invasions, the diversity and cover of non-native plants is increasing in many alpine ecosystems, including the Andes. We reviewed vegetation surveys in Aconcagua Provincial Park in the dry Andes of Argentina to determine what non-native plants occur in the park and if their distribution is associated with tourism use. This high-altitude park is a popular tourism destination for hikers, with nearly all access by foot and pack animals (mules and horses) that are used for transport. Non-native plant diversity was low (21 species in the region, 16 species in the park) compared to some other mountain regions but included common mountain species from Europe, most of which can be dispersed by tourists and commercial operators on clothing and by pack animal dung. Nearly all non-native plants were restricted to lower altitudes, with no non-natives found above 3420 masl. Most non-native plants were restricted to sites disturbed by tourism use, particularly areas trampled by hikers and pack animals, except for 2 common non-native species, Taraxacum officinale and Convolvulus arvensis, which were also found in undisturbed vegetation. The relatively low cover and diversity of non-native plants at higher-altitude sites may reflect one or a combination of the following: climatic barriers, less human disturbance, and a lag in the dispersal of non-native species from lower altitudes within the park. This study highlights that even protected mountain areas with limited prior human use and nearly no road access can be invaded by non-native plants because of their popularity as mountaineer destinations. Management actions that could help minimize the further spread of non-native plants include limiting the introduction of non-native seeds on vehicles, clothing, and equipment and in dung; reducing trampling damage by restricting visitor use to designated trails; and restoring damaged sites.
25578202|Timberline changes in the Chornohora, the highest mountain range of the Ukrainian Carpathians, are related mainly to human activity. The most important factor influencing the timberline has been animal husbandry, with summer grazing on mountain pastures. Using historical maps and contemporary satellite data, we found that the timberline in the western Chornohora moved up by 80 m on average between 1933 and 2001, and the area of pastures (polonynas) shrank by one-third. The fastest advance of the timberline resulted from the expansion of spruce (Picea abies) and was detected far from working livestock farms. The smallest changes occurred in the case of deciduous (beech, ie Fagus silvatica, and sycamore, ie Acer pseudoplatanus) timberlines and near working farms.
10.2307/3673163|Switzerland has a very low degree of self-sufficiency in food and energy and therefore attaches a high priority to its food security. Nationally this means an input-intensive agricultural technology and a higher priority for agricultural production in a sustainable sense than for ecological concerns. Is modern agricultural technology detrimental to the environment in the mountainous regions of the country? Evidence indicates that support capacities have not been reached. The destabilizing factors are uncontrolled abandonment of agricultural land and nonagricultural activities, such as tourism. It is suggested that only pragmatic approaches hold promise for the solution of present-day problems. Operational programmes are needed to maintain an ecological balance. Minimum data are a necessity for decision makers because their ability to use long reports in specialized jargon is very limited. Scientists should have the courage to accept and promote more systematically "common sense" approaches and to rely more strongly on the experience and problem-solving ideas of local people. Agriculture, more location specific than many other human activities, requires data and information with a local content. The same holds true for the analysis of environmental and ecological problems, especially in mountain areas. /// Etant donn que la Suisse est loin de raliser son autarcie das les domaines de l'alimentation et de l'nergie, elle attache une trs grande importance  la scurit de son approvisionnement en denres alimentaires. A l'chelle nationale, ceci veut dire qu'il est ncessaire d'appliquer une technologie agricole permettant une culture intensive et de faire passer la production agricole avant les besoins de l'cologie (dans des limites raisonnables). La technologie agricole moderne est-elle prjudiciable  l'environnement dans les rgions montagneuses du pays? Selon l'auteur les limites suprieures de la mise en valeur agricole sont loin d'tre atteintes. Les instabilits sont dues pour l'essentiel  un abandon incontrl des terres agricoles et aux activits sans rapport avec l'agriculture, telles que le tourisme. Les conclusions relvent que la solution doit tre cherche dans une approche pragmatique du problme: il est urgent de donner  l'cologie une assise consistant en programmes oprationnels. Les responsables doivent pouvoir fonder leurs dcisions sur des donnes simples, car les longs rapports rdigs dans le jargon des spcialistes sont difficiles  comprendre. Quant aux scientifique, ils devraient avoir le courage de reconnatre et d'encourager plus souvent des mesures relevant du "bon sens", et s'intresser plus srieusement aux expriences faites par les habitants des rgions concernes et aux solutions prconises par ces derniers. En tant qu'activit de nature plus spcifiquement locale que la plupart des autres activits humaines, l'agriculture a besoin de donnes et de renseignements touchant des espaces rduits. Il en va de mme des problmes particuliers  l'cologie et  l'environnement. /// Die Schweiz misst der Ernhrungssicherheit einen hohen Stellenwert bei, weil ihr Selbstversorgungsgrad fr Nahrungsmittel und Energietrger sehr tief ist. Als Folge wird in der nationalen Politik einer input-intensiven landwirtschaftlichen Erzeugung (im nachhaltigen Sinne) Vorrang gegenber der Oekologie eingerumt. Sind nun aber die heutigen landwirtschaftlichen Produktionsmethoden berhaupt schdlich fr die Umwelt in den Berggebieten? Der Autor erbringt den Nachweis, dass die oberen Belastungsgrenzen fr den Einsatz landwirtschaftlicher Produktionsmittel nicht erreicht werden. Destabilisierend wirken eher die unkontrollierte Brachlegung landwirtschaftlicher Nutzflchen und nichtlandwirtschaftliche Aktivitten wie Tourismus. Die Schlussfolgerungen zeigen, dass nur pragmatische Problemlsungen Erfolg versprechen: Die Oekologie bentigt dringend operationell definierte regionale Programme. Die Landwirtschaft muss in dieselben einbezogen werden, um festzustellen, ob Schdigungen der Umwelt wirklich oder nur vermeintlich sind. Fr Entscheidungstrger sind minimale Daten eine Notwendigkeit, weil deren Belastungsgrenze fr lange Berichte in Fachjargon sehr beschrnkt ist. Wissenschaftler sollten noch vermehrt den Mut haben, Problemlsungen nach "gesundem Menschenverstand" zu akzeptieren und zu frdern und ernsthafter sich bemhen, regionale und lokale Ideen und Kenntnisse zu bentzen. Die Landwirtschaft, eine sehr lokalspezifische menschliche Ttigkeit, verlangt Daten und Informationen sehr kleinrumiger Natur. Dasselbe trifft zu fr die Relevanz von Umweltfragen und oekologischen Problemen.
mounresedeve.36.1.41|Forests provide direct protection to human settlements from hydrogeomorphic hazards. This paper proposes a method for assessing the effect of natural disturbances on the functionality of direct protection forests (DPFs) in order to prioritize management interventions. We georeferenced disturbance data for wildfires, wind and snow damage, avalanches, and insects and overlaid them to a region-wide DPF map. Within each disturbance polygon, we used a Landsat-5 TM image to identify DPFs with insufficient vegetation cover, by using a maximum likelihood classifier of 6 spectral bands plus 5 vegetation indices. For each disturbance agent, we fitted a generalized linear model of the probability of finding a forested pixel, as a function of topography, time since disturbance, distance from disturbance edge, summer precipitation, and drought in the disturbance year. DPFs covered almost half of total forest area in the study region. Disturbance by insects occurred in more than one sixth of all forests. Avalanche and wildfire occurred each in about one tenth of total forest area, and wind and snow disturbance in only 1%. In the last 50 years, disturbances had a recurrence rate of 3% every 10 years. Almost one sixth of DPFs are currently lacking sufficient forest cover. Wildfires resulted in the highest rate of nonforested pixels (42% of all DPFs), followed by avalanches (21%). Forest recovery was explained by time elapsed, distance from edge (for conifers), and aspect. Summer precipitation and drought had a mixed influence. Our approach to assessing the effect of disturbances on the functionality of DPFs is reproducible in all mountain regions using institutional or open-access geographic data and provides a tool to prioritize DPF management by indicating where restoration of protection is most urge
3674413|Spatial patterns in socioeconomic data reveal issues and trends that would otherwise be missed by data aggregation to political or other units. Geographic Information System (GIS) tools provide display and analysis capabilities that are underutilized by many social scientists. The present article combines field-based surveys that maintain locational information with GIS tools to examine gender roles, responsibilities, and workloads in a spatial context for a case-study watershed in Nepal. Adult women outworked men by an average of 3.8 hours per day. Spatial differences in workloads are related to road access, with women living near the road working longer days, and men near the road participating more in "typically" female tasks such as collecting drinking water. Households with poor access have larger landholdings, greater total production, and are more reliant on subsistence agriculture. Households with road access use more agrochemicals, have smaller landholdings, and are more reliant on off-farm employment to meet their families' needs. GIS helps communicate these spatial trends more clearly and quantifies key issues when combined with statistical analysis. The use of field-based participatory techniques, aerial photographs and quantitative GIS and statistical analysis is infrequent in gender analysis but provides social scientists with powerful tools for investigating variability. In this study, the significant influence of the road on socioeconomic issues was highlighted, along with the need to focus development activities spatially.
mounresedeve.36.2.130|The expansion of renewable energies is regarded as a key way to mitigate global climate change and to ensure the provision of energy in the long term. However, conflicts between these goals and local nature conservation goals are likely to increase because of the additional space required for renewable energies. This is particularly true for mountainous areas with biodiversity-rich ecosystems. Little effort has been undertaken to systematically compare different renewable energy sources and to examine their environmental impacts using an interdisciplinary approach. This study adapted the concept of the ecological footprint to examine the impact on ecosystem services of land use changes involved in exploiting renewable energy sources. This innovative approach made it possible to assess and communicate the potentials of those energy sources in light of both space consumption and sustainability. The European Alps are an ideal test area because of their high energy potentials and biodiversity-rich ecosystems and the high demand for multiple ecosystem services. Our results demonstrate that energy consumption in the Alps could not be covered with the available renewable energy potentials, despite the utilization of large parts of the Alpine land area and the majority of larger rivers. Therefore, considerable effort must be invested in resolving conflicting priorities between expanding renewable energies and nature conservation, but also in realizing energy-saving measures. To this end, the approach presented here can support decision-making by revealing the energy potentials, space requirements, and environmental impacts of different renewable energy sources.
25164198|Through its biodiversity, landscape, and culture, the Swiss Alpine region has great social and economic significance. The Alpine landscape and its natural resources yield a whole range of benefits that are utilized by a large number of stakeholders who have widely differing interests in use and protection of these resources. Management of landscape development processes is a trans-sectoral task, requiring that different stakeholders work together. Conflicts need to be resolved and sustainable solutions need to be found and implemented. The present article describes how Systemic Landscape Development, a methodological approach for participatory control and organization of these processes, was applied to deal with the complex challenge of a deteriorating protection forest above a motorway of international importance in Central Switzerland. The resulting Stotzigwald Platform project took place as part of the Swiss National Research Program NRP 48, Landscapes and Habitats of the Alps.
10.2307/3673517|This paper explores the palaeogeographic evidence on environmental conditions in the mountains during the whole period of human occupation. The high country of Papua New Guinea (above c. 2,000 m) has been used by people since the late Pleistocene, and some form of agricultural occupation, involving forest clearance, goes back to at least 2,000 BP, and possibly to 4,000 BP, though the main movement into the high valleys belongs only to the last 300 years. It is important in understanding present-day adaptations to know if climatic variability has been constant during this time. Whatever conditions were like in the first half of the Holocene, there have been important changes since 5,000 BP, including four neo-glaciations. Evidence is sought from within New Guinea, and across the Pacific, in an attempt to establish the limits of the possible within an unknown area. The most critical evidence is at the upper limit of forest where periodic major fire is indicated, linking with the probability of severe drought events from time to time. These are probably related to ENSO, but the evidence is unclear. There may have been longer-term variations, but their effect at the regional level of the highland valleys cannot be established. It is concluded, however, that events at least as severe as those encountered during the short period of record have almost certainly taken place throughout the duration of agricultural occupance in the high valleys; it could be that recorded events have been less severe than some events in the past. Important problems are indicated for palaeogeographic research. /// Cet article explore les donnes palogographiques sur les conditions existantes dans les rgions montagneuses au cours de l'entire priode de prsence humaine. Les hautes terres de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine (au-dessus de 2.000 m environ) ont commenc  tre peuples  la fin du plistocne, et certaines activits agricoles bases sur le dfrichement des forts remontent  2.000 ans au moins, peut-tre mme 4.000 ans, bien que la migration principale dans les hautes valles ne remonte qu' environ 300 ans. Pour comprendre les adaptations qui se produisent en ce moment, il est important de savoir si les variations climatiques ont t uniformes tout au long de cette priode. Indpendamment des conditions existantes au cours de la premire moiti de l'holocne, des changements importants sont survenus dans les 5.000 dernires annes, y compris quatre no-glaciations. Des donnes sont recherches en Nouvelle-Guine et dans le Pacifique, en vue de dterminer les limites d'une prsence humaine possible dans une zone inconnue. Les signes les plus significatifs apparaissent  la limite suprieure des forts, indiquant des incendies priodiques importants, ce qui correspond  la probabilit de scheresses srieuses ayant svi  certaines priodes. Ces scheresses sont probablement lies au phnomne de El Nio/Oscillation Sud, mais la relation n'est pas certaine. Il est possible qu'il y ait eu des variations  plus long terme, mais leur effet au niveau rgional des hautes valles ne peut pas tre tabli. On peut nanmoins conclure que des vnements au moins aussi srieux que ceux qui se sont produits au cours de la courte priode connue se sont vraisemblablement produits pendant toute la dure de prsence humaine et d'agriculture dans les hautes valles. Il est mme possible que les vnements rapports aient t moins srieux que certains vnements du pass lointain. D'importants problmes sont identifis pour la recherche paleogographique. /// Diese Verffentlichung untersucht die palogeo-graphischen Beweismittel fr Umweltbedingungen in den Bergen ber den Zeitraum menschlicher Besiedelung. Das Hochland von Papua Neu-Guinea (oberhalb ca. 2000m) ist seit dem spten Pleistozn besiedelt und landwirtschaftliche Bettigung, einschlielich Waldrodung, geht bestimmt 2000 und mglicherweise sogar 4000 Jahre zurck. Die Hauptbesiedelung der Hochlnder geschah jedoch erst in den vergangenen 300 Jahren. Will man heutige Anpassungen verstehen, ist es wichtig, zu wissen, ob die klimatischen Bedingungen whrend dieser Zeit sich verndert haben. Was auch immer die Bedingungen in der ersten Hlfte des Holozn waren, in den vergangenen 5000 Jahren sind wichtige Vernderungen, darunter vier Neu-Vergletscherungen geschehen. Beweismaterial wird fr Gebiete innerhalb Neu-Guineas und im gesamten Pazifik zusammengetragen, mit dem Ziel, die Grenzen mglicher Besiedelung innerhalb eines unbekannten Gebietes festzustellen. Die wichtigsten Belege findet man an der oberen Baumgrenze, wo es Anzeichen fr regelmige Grofeuer gibt, die gelegentlich mit ausgedehnten Drreperioden in Zusammenhang gebracht werden knnen. Sie stehen wahrscheinlich mit dem ENSO Phnomen in Verbindung, wenn auch diese Relation unklar ist. Mglicherweise gab es auch langfristigere Vernderungen, deren Einflu auf der regionalen Ebene der Hochlandtler aber nicht nachgewiesen werden kann. Es folgt mit einiger Sicherheit, da whrend der gesamten Zeitspanne menschlicher Besiedelung in den Hochtlern Ereignisse stattgefunden haben, die ebenso einschneidend waren, wie die whrend des kurzen Zeitraums, der mit Aufzeichnungen belegt ist-es kann aber auch sein, da die aufgezeichneten Ereignisse weniger gravierend waren als solche in frherer Vergangenheit. Wichtige ungelste Probleme fr die palogeographische Forschung werden aufgezeigt.
10.2307/3672961|A high frequency of slope failures, in both time and space, accounts for extremely high rates of denudation (about <tex-math>$14\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>) in the Kolpu Khola catchment area. The nature of the landslides has been defined by surveys of their morphometry and the mechanical properties of the material in 15 typical cases (about 10 percent of those available in the <tex-math>$30\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> basin). In addition, precipitation records from nearby stations provide an estimate of the role played by meteorological factors in landslide inception and development. These analyses point to the basic importance of material controls of the landslides. Particularly important is the brittle behaviour of the weathered bedrock in which the failures occur. Compared with this, the importance of rainfall is slight. Other factors which combine to help explain the high incidence of catastrophic landsliding in the catchment include its great relief, seasonally high water tables and a history of recent deforestation as agriculture has been extended onto steep slopes. /// La frequence leve des ruptures d'quilibre de pente,  la fois dans le temps et dans l'espace, a pour consquence un degr lev de dnudation (environ <tex-math>$14\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>) dans le bassin du Kolpu Khola. La nature des glissements de terrain a t tablie par des levs de leur morphomtrie et des proprits mcaniques du matrial dans 15 cas reprsentatifs (environ 10% des cas envisageables dans ce bassin de <tex-math>$30\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>). De plus, les donnes pluviomtriques des stations avoisinantes ont permis d'estimer le rle des facteurs mtorologiques dans le dclenchement et le dveloppement des glissements de terrain. Les rsultats ont fait ressortir l'influence dterminante du matriel rocheux sur les glissements de terrain. La nature friable du soubassement altr, dans lequel les ruptures d'quilibre apparaissent, est particulirement importante. En comparaison, les prcipitations ne jouent qu'un rle mineur. D'autres facteurs se combinent galement pour expliquer la frquence leve de glissements catastrophiques dans le bassin: la haute nergie, le niveau lev de la nappe phratique en certaines saisons et la srie de rcents dboisements dus  l'extension de l'agriculture sur les pentes raides. /// Die grosse zeitliche und rumliche Hufigkeit von Anbrchen in den Hngen fhrt zu extrem hohen Denudationsraten (zirka 14 mm/Jahr) im oberen Einzugsgebiet des Kolpu Khola. 15 typische Rutschungen (= zirka 10% der jngeren Rutschungen im <tex-math>$30\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> grossen Gebiet) wurden bezglich ihrer Morphometrie und der mechanischen Eigenschaften des betreffenden Erdmaterials untersucht und charakterisiert. Niederschlagsdaten von benachbarten Stationen erlaubten eine Abschtzung der Bedeutung von meteorologischen Faktoren fr die Auslsung und Entwicklung von Rutschungen. Diese Untersuchungen zeigen die wichtige Rolle der Materialeigenschaften auf. Wichtig ist vor allem das brchige, zerbrechliche Verhalten des verwitterten Festgesteins in welchem die Rutsche auftreten. Im Vergleich dazu spielen die Niederschlagsverhltnisse eine bescheidene Rolle. Zustzlich knnen folgende Faktoren ebenfalls fr die grosse Hufigkeit von schadenbringenden Rutschen im betrachteten Gebiet verantwortlich gemacht werden: Grosse Reliefenergie, saisonal hohe Wasserspiegel und jngere Waldrodungen mit anschliessendem Ackerbau in steilen Lagen.
25164097|Trade with Tibet and the factors associated with its maintenance (agriculture and livestock) were the prime occupation of Johaaris and Darmis tribesmen until 1962, when the Sino-Indian war brought an immediate end to this thriving lifeline. The loss of trade brought about drastic changes in the transhumant lifestyle-fewer households arriving at their summer homes, a smaller livestock population, disappearance of traditional handicrafts, and increased exploitation of wild medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs), with traditional crops being replaced by more remunerative crops such as chives (Allium stracheyii) and caraway (Carum carvi) as the chief source of livelihood. The present study highlights the causal factors behind changes in the lifestyles of these traditional people in Uttarakhand, India, and the concomitant changes in crop biodiversity and MAPs in the region. It concludes with proposals for possible alternatives for a sustainable future for these people.
25164131|Distribution and community structure of treeline birch (Betula utilis D. Don) forest in a trans-Himalayan dry valley was studied in Manang (central Nepal) with the major focus on regeneration. Along 5 vertical transects, a total of 41 square quadrats (10 m  10 m) were sampled to determine the importance value index (IVI) of tree species, distribution pattern of seedlings and saplings, and soil attributes. Regeneration was assessed by a density-diameter curve. Moisture plays an important role in spatial (horizontal) distribution of Betula utilis. Pure Betula forest forming the treeline was mature, with high basal area (2.3%), but mixed Betula forest at lower elevations was young. This might have developed after large-scale clear cutting of Abies spectabilis. If not severely disturbed, mixed Betula forest may be replaced by Abies spectabilis. In general, Betula utilis was regenerating, as evident from a reverse J-shaped density-diameter curve for both forests. However, the distribution of seedlings and saplings was spatially heterogeneous and appeared to depend on canopy cover. The stands with highest seedling and sapling densities of Betula utilis had no trees. Betula seedlings were absent where the tree density and basal area (BA) exceeded 20 stems/100 m and 1.0% respectively. It was apparent that Betula seedlings could not establish under their own closed canopy even if they produced viable seeds. Partial canopy opening may induce seedling establishment and hence continuous regeneration of Betula utilis at mature stands. The treeline formed by Betula utilis was abrupt-the anthropo-zoogenic type-without the krummholz zone.
10.2307/3673286|The representation of glaciers on maps has been practised for nearly 400 years. The first large-scale maps for glaciological purposes were drawn in the nineteenth century and since 1879 exact contour maps have been produced as a research tool in the field of glaciology. Three examples of glacier maps are described and their usefulness and possible application to glacier research are discussed. /// La reprsentation de glaciers sur cartes est pratique depuis presque 400 ans. Les premires cartes  grande chelle destines  des fins glaciologiques ont t dresses au dix-neuvime sicle, et depuis 1879 des cartes prcises  courbes de niveau ont t publies pour satisfaire aux besoins de la recherche dans le domaine. Trois exemples de cartes de glaciers sont passs en revue; leur utilit et leur application possible  la recherche glaciologique sont examines. /// Seit beinahe 400 Jahren sind Gletscherdarstellungen in Karten bekannt. Im 19. Jahrhundert entstehen gromastbige Karten zu gletscherkundlichen Zwecken. Ab 1879 werden exakte Hhenlinienkarten als Hilfsmittel fr die Gletscherkunde hergestellt. Aufgabe und Mglichkeiten solcher topographischer Gletscherkarten werden beschrieben. Dem Artikel liegen drei Kartenbeispiele bei.
3674345|On the basis of interviews in 2 Huli-speaking villages in the Papua New Guinea Highlands, genealogical charts for 1678 persons, alive or dead, representing 5 generations, were reconstructed to investigate the change in intrapopulation migration patterns in response to modernization and environmental degradation in their habitats. Migration flows from less modernized and thinly populated areas to more modernized and densely populated areas predominated among the older generations, whereas flows in the opposite direction prevailed among the younger generations. This observation is attributable to the disparities in modernization that have increased since the establishment of an administrative center and to the resulting shortage of garden areas around the overpopulated center, respectively. A gold rush in the end of the 1980s may also have been a cause for the migration flow toward the northern, less modernized area.
3674230|The Western Carpathian forests are of extraordinary importance, not only as production forests but also in terms of general and local public interest. Apart from being the source of economically vital products for local people, they play a very important role for neighboring countries in protecting soil and water resources in which these countries also have an interest. The total forest acreage in Slovakia has increased by more than 10% during the last 40 years, and total growing stock represents <tex-math>$190\ m^{3}\ per\ hectare$</tex-math>. But the condition of forests in the last decades has markedly deteriorated (Figures 1 and 2). Slovakia is currently exploring ways and means of restoring its forests to a healthy condition.
3674511|Amenity migration, the movement of people for pleasure rather than economic reasons, has become a major phenomenon in mountainous regions of western North America. Research suggests that planning to promote and manage amenity migration can contribute to the sustainable development of mountain communities. The present article reports the results of a rapid reconnaissance of the capacities of hinterland mountain municipalities in British Columbia, Canada, to plan for amenity migration. Low capacity was found in awareness and technical understanding of the phenomenon.
mounresedeve.33.1.29|Reforestation programs have been proposed as a remedial measure to tackle deforestation and forest ecosystems degradation. Because one of the main constraints to the implementation of restoration practices is lack of funding, these programs need to be carefully planned to efficiently use the economic and human resources invested. In this study we present a geospatial decisionmaking tool to identify suitable areas for restoration. The overall approach entails (1) the use of the simple multiattribute rating technique (SMART) to identify and rank the attributes according to their importance for prioritizing areas for restoration and (2) the implementation of 01 integer programming to select the areas that maximize the environmental benefit. The approach is exemplified through a case study in central Mexico's mountainous state of Estado de Mxico, encompassing an area just above 2 million ha. Specialists in different aspects of reforestation selected the following attributes to identify priority areas for reforestation: erosion, land use/land cover, position in the watershed, soil type, terrain slope, and precipitation. In total, 644,642 ha were classified under very high priority for reforestation. Of these, 17,059 ha were selected to maximize the environmental benefit without exceeding the available budget. The selected sites were mainly in the forested zones of steeply sloped mountains. Although the multiattribute decision analysis, the optimization model, and the spatial analysis were only loosely coupled, their combination proved to be an innovative and practical approach to systematically identify priority areas for reforestation on a yearly basis.
10.2307/3673285|The concept of the detailed geomorphological mapping of the GMK-priority project, German Science Society (DFG), in the Federal Republic of Germany, can be characterized as an analytical approach to a complex graphic relief representation. The information is presented on a map by several symbols which may overlie each other and yet are printed together. Thus, for every relief element, the relief properties, geomorphic interpretation, and additional data are given. The legend using a modular form has been successfully applied in regions with high relief in Europe and elsewhere. The geomorphological map sheet Knigssee is presented as an example and discussed. /// Le concept du lev gomorphologique dtaill utilis dans le cadre du projet prioritaire GMK du Conseil allemand pour la recherche (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft) peut tre caractris comme une approche analytique pour la reprsentation graphique complexe du relief. L'information est prsente sur la carte au moyen de plusieurs symboles qui peuvent tre superposs mais qui sont nanmoins imprims ensemble. De cette manire, les proprits du relief, l'interprtation gomorphologique, et d'autres donnes sont fournies pour chaque lment du relief. La lgende est prsente sous forme modulaire et a t applique avec succs aux rgions  haut relief de l'Europe et d'autres parties du monde. La carte gomorphologique Knigssee est prsente  titre d'exemple et passe en revue. /// Die Konzeption der geomorphologischen Detailkarten des GMK-Schwerpunktprogrammes der Deutschen Forschungsgemeinschaft in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland kann als ein analytischer Ansatz fr eine graphisch komplexe Reliefdarstellung charakterisiert werden. Die Informationen werden in verschiedenen trennbaren Schichten angeboten (z.B. Neigungen, Substrate u.a.), die auf der Karte zusammen ausgedruckt werden. So werden fr jedes Reliefelement Reliefeigenschaften, geomorphogenetische Erklrung und zustzliche Daten angegeben. Die Legende, die ein Baukastensystem verwendet, wurde erfolgreich innerhalb und auerhalb Europas angewendet, auch in Regionen mit Hochgebirgsrelief. Als ein Beispiel der GMK 25 (d.h. Geomorphologische Karte 1:25 000) ist das Blatt 16 Knigssee aus dem Alpenbereich beigelegt und wird erlutert.
3674650|Tanzania, with many mountain ranges, has outstanding biodiversity due to diverse ecosystems. It is one of 14 biodiversity hotspot countries in the world. The majority of Tanzanian men and women depend directly on natural resources, biodiversity, and knowledge and experience of how to ensure their family's food security. Women and local communities have possessed specialized knowledge and skills relating to selection and conservation of genetic resources and biodiversity for centuries. However, this knowledge is being eroded by modernization, underestimation, and lack of awareness. The FAO LinKS project (Gender, Biodiversity and Local Knowledge Systems for Food Security), which started in 1998, has worked mainly in the agricultural sector, aiming to raise awareness of men's and women's knowledge about the use and management of the agro-biodiversity systems that they depend on for food security. The project has strengthened the capacity of agricultural institutions to apply approaches that recognize the knowledge of men and women farmers in their programs and policies, and has assisted in the creation of a Trust Fund to propagate local knowledge issues in the country.
mounresedeve.36.1.56|In the Georgian Caucasus, unregulated grazing has damaged grassland vegetation cover and caused erosion. Methods for monitoring and control of affected territories are urgently needed. Focusing on the high-montane and subalpine grasslands of the upper Aragvi Valley, we sampled grassland for soil, rock, and vegetation cover to test the applicability of a site-specific remote-sensing approach to observing grassland degradation. We used random-forest regression to separately estimate vegetation cover from 2 vegetation indices, the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and the Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index (MSAVI
25578199|In far-western and mid-western Nepal, where food shortages are prevalent, migration to India for work purposes has been a common livelihood strategy for a large part of rural households for at least two or three generations. In this paper, the focus is on male migrants who are part-time peasants in Nepal and part-time workers in Uttarakhand, northern India. Strategies to choose both a destination and work are studied in order to understand the spatial dimensions of migration. Factors such as the availability of work, networks, proximity, and concepts about space influence the choice of a destination made by migrants, who have to find a balance between constraints and ambitions.
10.2307/3673688|The District of Laikipia on the northwest piedmont of Mt. Kenya has undergone rapid population growth through immigration of large numbers of subsistence farmers. Most of these small-scale farmers have retained the traditional land-use practices that evolved in a more moist and therefore more productive homeland. This is resulting in severe environmental pressure. Household strategies attempt to balance crop-farming, livestock production, off-farm employment, family networking, and community cooperation. Risk-avoiding strategies have not included adaptation of original farming techniques. Possible solutions to the increasing number of problems may lie in the development of small-scale and medium-sized economic enterprises in the small rural centers. However, further socioeconomic studies are urgently required. /// Le district de Laikipia sur le pimont nord-ouest du mont Kenya a subi une croissance dmographique rapide cause par l'immigration d'un grand nombre d'agriculteurs de subsistance. La plupart de ces petits fermiers continuent  pratiquer les formes traditionnelles d'utilisation des terres adaptes  un milieu plus humide et donc plus productif; une pression norme sur l'environnement en a rsult. Chaque famille dpend de la culture, de l'levage, du rseau familial et de la coopration au niveau de la communaut. Les stratgies visant  viter les risques n'ont jusqu' prsent pas inclus l'adaptation de techniques agricoles originales. Des solutions possibles au nombre croissant de problmes peuvent tre lies au dveloppement d'entreprises conomiques  petite chelle et de petite taille dans les petits centres ruraux. Nanmoins, des tudes socio-conomiques additionnelles ont besoin d'tre effectues d'urgence. /// Die Bevlkerungsdichte im Distrikt von Laikipia in den nordwestlichen Vorbergen des Mt. Kenia hat durch die verstrkte Zuwanderung von Subsistenzbauern schnell zugenommen. Die Mehrzahl dieser Kleinbauern hat die traditionellen Landnutzungsmethoden, die in ihrem feuchteren und daher ergiebigeren Heimatland blich waren, beibehalten. Daraus ergibt sich eine starke Belastung der Umwelt. Die Bemhungen der Haushalte gehen dahin, zwischen Feldfruchtanbau, Viehzucht, Arbeitsverpflichtungen auerhalb des Farmbetriebes, Familienverflechtung und Gemeindekooperation ein Gleichgewicht zu finden. Die Absicht, Risiken zu vermeiden, hat bisher eine Verbesserung der alten Bebauungsmethoden nicht zugelassen. Die Bildung von landwirtschaftlichen Klein- und Mittelbetrieben in den lndlichen Zentren knnte eine Lsung fr die stndig wachsenden Probleme sein. Weitere sozio-konomische Untersuchungen sind jedoch dringend notwendig.
mounresedeve.32.3.304|Pasture use in the Kyrgyz Republic has changed significantly as a result of fundamental political, economic, and societal changes following the collapse of the Soviet Union and the subsequent changes in people's livelihoods. Government institutions criticize current land use patterns as unsustainable and the cause of degradation. But at the local level, pasture quality is rarely seen as a major problem. This article uses a qualitative approach to examine the tension between these views and addresses current land use practices and related narratives about pasture degradation in rural Kyrgyzstan. By focusing on meanings ascribed to pastures, it shows how people closely relate current practices to the experiences and value systems of the Soviet period and to changing identities emerging in the post-Soviet transformation process. It argues that proper understanding of resource degradation issues requires adequate consideration of the context of meaning constructed by local resource users when they make sense of their environment.
3674629|The upper Yangtze River is extremely rich in hydropower, with 9 large-scale hydropower projects planned and 2 under construction. Current and projected large-scale hydropower projects pose difficult challenges as well as great hope for development of local impoverished areas. There are great difficulties in coordinating hydropower development and local regional development, owing to gaps in national policies, clear separation between enterprise and local communities, and problems with local management and the local economy. The local government faces the dilemma of supporting national hydropower development on the one hand, and safeguarding the interests of local people on the other. Local regional development requires general planning and a proper national policy for resettling dam migrants. A special national eco-district is proposed to delimit reaches in the upper Yangtze River area that will provide ecological security for the developed reaches and the dams lower down on the Yangtze River.
10.2307/3673511|The west-Pacific drought of 1972-1973 was accompanied in the highlands of Papua New Guinea by frosts of a severity not experienced since 1941. The food crops of between 130,000 and 150,000 people were severely damaged or destroyed. The Government instituted a major programme of famine relief, at the same time discouraging the traditional strategy of outmigration to stay with hosts, the importance of which the authorities were largely unaware. This paper, rewritten from a report prepared in 1973, reviews the event, then the famine relief programme and its effectiveness. Administration and mission perspectives are contrasted with those of the highland people, and an attempt is made to reconstruct what actually happened in 1972. The relief programme is criticized as an over-reaction on the part of the authorities, and in conclusion some later perspectives are introduced; in contrast to what happened in 1941, no one died and few were seriously hungry for long. None the less, the cost of Government intervention was high, and many mistakes were made. /// La scheresse qui a svi dans l'ouest du Pacifique en 1972-1973 a t accompagne dans les hautes terres de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine par des geles d'une rigueur inconnue depuis 1941. Les rcoltes destines  alimenter de 130.000  150.000 personnes ont t srieusement endommages ou dtruites. Le gouvernement a institu un programme important de secours aux victimes de la disette, tout en prenant des mesures pour dcourager la stratgie traditionnelle de migration qui consiste  aller se rfugier chez des htes, une stratgie dont les autorits avaient sous-estim l'importance. Cet article, rvis  partir d'un rapport crit en 1973, passe en revue les vnements, puis le programme de secours et son efficacit. Les perspectives de l'administration et de la mission sont compares  celles des habitants des haute terres, et une tentative est faite de reconstituer ce qui s'est effectivement pass en 1972. Le programme de secours est critiqu en tant que raction trop vive de la part des autorits et, en matire de conclusion, des perspectives nouvelles sont prsentes; compar  la situation de 1941, personne n'est mort de faim et peu de gens ont srieusement souffert de la disette pendant une longue priode de temps. Nanmoins, le cot de l'intervention gouvernementale a t lev et beaucoup d'erreurs ont t commises. /// Strenger Frost in den Hochlndern von Papua Neu-Guinea, wie es ihn seit 1941 nicht mehr gegeben hatte, war die Begleiterscheinung der Drreperiode im westlichen Pazifik in den Jahren 1972-73. Die Ernte von 130 000 bis 150 000 Menschen war schwer geschdigt oder vernichtet. Die Regierung veranlate ein umfangreiches Hilfsprogramm gegen Hungersnot; untersttzte aber nicht die traditionelle Strategie, zu Gastfamilien auszuweichen, da die Behrden die Wichtigkeit solcher Schritte nicht erkannt hatten. Die vorliegende Verffentlichung, auf einem Bericht von 1973 basierend, untersucht das Geschehen, das Hilfsprogramm und seine Wirksamkeit. Behrdliche und organisatorische Perspektiven werden denen der Hochlandbevlkerung gegenbergestellt, und es wird versucht, zu rekonstruieren, was 1972 tatschlich geschah. Das Hilfsprogramm wird als berreaktion der verantwortlichen Behrde kritisiert und abschlieend werden die gewonnenen Erfahrungen zusammengefat. Im Vergleich zu den Geschehnissen von 1941, gab es keine Todesflle und niemand litt fr lngere Zeit unter Hunger. Dennoch waren die Kosten fr das Eingreifen der Behrde hoch, und viele Fehler wurden begangen.
25164101|The present paper analyzes the changes in migration patterns of a Tibetan-style transhumance livelihood system for a period of 20 years in northwest Yunnan, China. Between 1984 and 2005, the average number of pastures for rotational use in the 12 investigated villages decreased from 6.2 to 3.9, and the average number of stops on the annual migration route decreased from 8.3 to 5.8. The number of days during which the animals depend on stall feeding and low-elevation shrubs increased from 231.3 to 270, while those spent in forest belts decreased by 32.6% and those in alpine rangelands by 25.5%. These changes have intensified the pressure on low-elevation ecosystems and grazing resources. Winter fodder supply, rather than carrying capacity based on overall grazing resources at all elevations, should be used to determine the scale of pastoral development. Encroachment of woody plants is a major cause of alpine rangeland degradation, which used to be unjustifiably attributed to a growing livestock population. Reintroduction of traditional management tools such as burning can effectively increase the area of available rangeland resources and curb localized degradation processes by evening out grazing pressure.
3674486|Biomass productivity, botanical composition, and soil physical properties were studied under conditions with and without application of manure. The study was conducted at the Debre Zeit station of the International Livestock Research Institute, located 5 km from Addis Ababa in the Ethiopian highlands. The aim of the study was to assess the effect of manure on botanical composition, plant biomass, and water infiltration rates. There were 3 treatments: no grazing, moderate grazing (MDG = 1.8 animal unit months [AUM]/hectare), and heavy grazing (HVG = 4.2 AUM/hectare), each replicated 4 times. Removing cow dung from grazed plots decreased biomass production. Species richness was higher on manured plots than on nonmanured plots. The water infiltration rate was low on grazed and nongrazed plots with no manure when compared with the manured plots.
10.2307/3673456|The Bale Mountains National Park area of Ethiopia is an extensive high-altitude montane plateau. It is the catchment area for four major rivers, supplying water to parts of Ethiopia and Somalia and supporting irrigation and hydroelectric schemes. The forested flanks of the massif regulate water flow to these rivers. Many endemic species of fauna and flora are found in the area, which is also an important reservoir of genetic material. Management of the area presently falls under several departments and needs to be coordinated for the long-term benefit of the area and its populace. /// Le Parc national du massif du Bal en Ethiopie est un plateau de grande tendue  l'tage montagnard. Il constitue la surface de captation des eaux de quatre fleuves importants, assurant l'alimentation en eau de certaines parties de l'Ethiopie et de la Somalie et permettant des projets d'irrigation et d'hydrolectricit. La couverture forestire des flancs du massif rgularise l'coulement des eaux vers ces fleuves. Un grand nombre d'espces endmiques de la faune et de la flore se trouvent dans cette rgion, qui constitue galement un rservoir important de matriel hrditaire. La gestion des ressources dpend maintenant de plusieurs organismes et devrait tre coordonne pour que cette rgion et sa population puissent en bnficier  long terme. /// Der Bale Nationalpark in Aethiopien umfasst ein ausgedehntes, hochgelegenes Gebirgsplateau sowie dessen tiefer gelegenes Umland. Die Einzugsgebiete von vier grossen Flssen beginnen in diesem Gebirge. Diese Flsse versorgen Teile Aethiopiens und Somalias und speisen Bewsserungssysteme und Wasserkraftwerke. Die aufgeforsteten Flanken des Massivs regulieren den Wasserhaushalt der Flsse. Viele endemische Faunaund Flora-Arten kommen in diesem Gebiet vor, das ein wichtiges Reservoir von genetischem Material darstellt. Die Verwaltung des Parks fllt zur Zeit in die Kompetenz verschiedener Institutionen und sollte besser koordiniert werden.
10.2307/3673539|Relationships between soil erosion on hillside farms and forest conversion to farmland in adjacent national parks were examined in the Bayhang watershed near Leyte Mountains National Park, Philippines, and the Sungai Ning watershed near Kerinci-Seblat National Park, Indonesia. A random sample of hillside farms revealed widespread evidence of accelerated soil erosion in both watersheds, including splash and sheet erosion, and rill and gully formation. Erosion under line transects and on enclosed runoff plots revealed mean soil losses of 422 t/ha during the first six months of cultivation on recently cleared farms in Bayhang and 3.8 t/ha during the cropping year on continuously cultivated farms in Sungai Ning. Analysis of eroded sediments and uneroded soils revealed erosion-induced reductions in soil productivity. Soil erosion and land degradation were found to contribute to forest conversion in both national parks. The farmers' response to land degradation in Bayhang was to clear forest for new farms in Leyte Mountains National Park, while farmers in Kerinci replaced nutrient-demanding crops with cassava, and cleared forest for new farms in Kerinci-Seblat National Park. Potentially sustainable and appropriate soil conservation and economic development activities for use in the two watersheds are reviewed. /// Dans le bassin hydrographique de Bayhang, prs du parc national des Montagnes de Leyte, et dans celui de Sungai Ning prs du parc national de Kerinci-Seblat en Indonesie, les rapports entre l'rosion du sol sur les fermes  flanc de coteau et la conversion de la fort en terres cultives dans les parcs nationaux qui leur sont contigus furent examins. Un chantillon prlev au hasard rvla d'importants signes d'rosion rapide du sol dans les deux bassins hydrographiques, y compris l'rosion  cause des clasboussures et des torrents d'eaux, et la formation de ruisselets et de ravines. L'rosion sous les lignes de sectionnement transversal et sur les surfaces d'coulement des eaux rvla des pertes moyennes du sol de 422 t/ha pendant les six premiers mois de culture sur les fermes recemment dfriches de Bayhang, et 3.8 t/ha pendant l'anne de recolte sur les fermes cultives constamment de Sungai Ning. L'analyse des sdiments rods et des sols non-rods rvla des rductions de productivit du sol des  l'rosion. Dans les deux parcs nationaux, il apparat que l'rosion du sol et la dgradation des terres contribuent  la conversion de la fort. Au Bayhand les fermiers ont ragi  la dgradation des terres en dfrichant de nouvelles fermes dans le parc national des Montagnes de Leyte, tandis que les fermiers de Kerinci ont remplac des cultures exigeant des substances nutritives avec la culture du manioc, et ont dfrich de nouvelles fermes dans le parc national de Kerinci-Seblat. Des activits menant au dvloppement conomique et  la conservation du sol, en utilisant des mthodes soutenables et adaptes aux deux bassins hydrographiques, sont examines. /// Die Beziehung zwischen Bodenerosion auf Bergfarmen und Rodung in benachbarten Nationalparks wurde an der Bayhang Wasserscheide nahe des Leyte Mountains National Park, Philippinen, und an der Sungai Ning Wasserscheide nahe des Kerinci-Seblat National Park, Indonesien, untersucht. Eine Zufallsauswahl von Bergfarmen erbrachte umfassendes Beweismaterial fr beschleunigte Bodenerosien an beiden Wasserscheiden, einschliesslich splash und sheet erosion und rill und gully. Erosionsstudien in abgegrenzten Parzellen und Untergrundtransekten ergaben Bodenverluste von 422 t/ha whrend der ersten sechs Monate der Bebauung auf frisch gerodeten Anbauflchen in Bayhand und 3.8 t/ha pro Anbauperiode auf Farmen mit durchgehender Kultivierung in Sungai Ning. Analysen von erodierten Sedimenten und unbeschdigten Bden demonstrierten eine erosionsbedingte Minderung der Bodenproduktivitt. Bodenerosion und Minderung der Bodenqualitt tragen zu Rodungen in beiden Nationalparks bei. Die Bauern in Bayhang reagieren auf den Bodenverfall mit Kahlschlgen und der Anlage neuer Farmen im Leyte Mountains National Park, whrend die Bauern in Kerinci teils anspruchsvolle Bodenfrchte durch Cassava ersetzen, teils neue Anbauflchen in den Kerinci-Seblat National Park roden. Mgliche Programme fr dauerhafte und angemessene Bodenerhaltung und wirtschaftliche Entwicklung werden diskutiert.
10.2307/3673097|The Northern Andes is ecologically unique among the world's equatorial mountain ecosystems and is also the most highly developed. Land-use practices since the European colonization and recent population increases have upset the ecological balance and resulted in agricultural utilization of steep slopes and lowland tropical forest areas. This had led to deforestation, accelerated erosion, increased runoff, flooding, silting of streams, and sedimentation of lakes and reservoirs. Loss of life and property due to natural disasters has increased as a result of settlement in hazard-prone sites. Measures to stabilize the environment and restore ecological balance include watershed management, land capability classification, and reforestation. Ecological research needs of the region include reforestation and forest protection techniques, mountain hazard mapping, watershed management models, indigenous agricultural and resource utilization systems, technologies to improve productivity of small farmers, and human population studies of migration and nutritional status. /// Du point de vue cologique, les Andes du Nord est une rgion unique parmi les systmes cologiques des montagnes sous l'quateur et c'est galement la rgion la plus dveloppe. Les modes d'utilisation des terres depuis la colonisation Europen et les augmentations dmographiques rcentes ont bouleverss l'quilibre cologique et ont donn lieu  une utilisation agricole des pentes raides et des rgions en fort dans les plaines tropicales. Par consquence, la rgion a subi du dboisement, de l'erosion acclre, des coulements plus importants, des inondations, de l'envasement des ruisseaux, et de la sdimentation des lacs et des rservoirs. Les pertes de vie et de proprit du fait des dsastres naturels ont augment  la suite d'une colonisation des sites susceptibles aux accidents. Des mesures permettant une stabilisation de l'environnement et une rtablissement de l'quilibre cologique comprennent la gestion des bassins versants, la classification de la capacit des terres, et le rboisement. Les domaines ncessitant une recherche plus approfondie de la rgion sont les techniques de rboisement et de protection des forts, la cartographie des zones dangereuses des montagnes, les modles de gestion des bassins versants, les systmes d'utilisation des ressources et de l'agriculture indigne, les technologies permettant d'amliorer la productivit des petits exploitants, et les tudes dmographiques de l'etat des migrations et de nutrition. /// Die Umwelt der nrdlichen Anden ist unter den quatorialen Bergregionen einzigartig und in der Kultivierung am weitesten fortgeschritten. Bodennutzungsmethoden, unverndert seit der europischen Kolonisation, und neuerliches Bevlkerungswachstum haben das kologische Gleichgewicht gestrt, verursacht durch die landwirtschaftliche Nutzung steiler Hanglagen und tropischer Waldgebiets im Tiefland. Die Folgen waren Abholzung, beschleunigte Erosion, erhhter Wasserablauf, berflutung, Versandung der Flsse und Ablagerungen in Seen und Reservoirs. Die Besiedelung gefhrdeter Gebiete hat ausserdem die Verluste an Leben und Eigentum durch Naturkatastrophen ansteigen lassen. Massnahmen, die Umwelt zu stabilisieren und das kologische Gleichgewicht wiederherzustellen, schliessen eine Regelung des Wasserablaufs, Klassifizierung der Boddennutzung und Aufforstung ein. Eine kologische Umstrukturierung dieses Gebietes ist in folgenden Bereichen notwendig: Aufforstung und Waldschutzmethoden, Kartieren von Berggefahren, Modelle zur Regelung des Wasserablaufs, lokale Nutzungsschemen fr Landwirtschaft und Naturschtze, Verfahren zur Ertragsteigerung der Kleinbauern und Studien ber Abwanderung der Bevlkerung und ihren Ernhrungszustand. /// Los Andes del norte es una zona ecolgicamente nica entre los ecosistemas de montaas ecuatoriales del mundo y es tambin la ms altamente desarrollada. Las prcticas en la utilizacin de la tierra desde la colonizacin europea y los recientes aumentos de poblacin han trastornado el equilibrio ecolgico y han producido como resultado el que se usen para la agricultura las laderas escarpadas y las zonas de bosques tropicales de las tierras bajas. Esto ha traido como consecuencia inundaciones, sedimentaciones de lodo en los arroyos, desforestacin, erosin acelerada, incremento en los escurrimientos y sedimentacin de lagos y embalses. Ha aumentado el nmero de vidas y de propiedades que se pierden debido a los desastres naturales por causa del asentamiento de la poblacin en lugares propensos a desastres. Las medidas para estabilizar el medio ambiente y restaurar el equilibrio ecolgico incluyen la administracin de las vertientes, la clasificacin de las tierras de acuerdo a su capacidad y la reforestacin. Las necesidades de las investigaciones ecolgicas de la regin incluyen tcnicas de reforestacin y proteccin de bosques, construccin de mapas que indiquen los peligros de las montaas, modelos de administracin de las cuencas, sistemas de agricultura indgena y de uso de los recursos, tecnologas para mejorar le productividad de los agricultores modestos y estudios de poblacin humana en el campo de las migraciones y de los estados de la nutricin.
10.2307/3673810|The cloud forest on Pasochoa Volcano is one of the last remnants in the inter-Andean valley of Ecuador. Both natural and human disturbances have contributed to the development of the present-day vegetation. Repeat air photography with subsequent ground truthing was used to quantify and describe changes in vegetation in two natural (pramo and forest) and two anthropogenic (crop and pasture) landscape categories. The proportion of spatial area covered by each of these categories in the study area was evaluated during four time intervals spanning 31 years (1956-1987) as human population increased in the region. These data indicated an overall decrease (-11%) of pasture and agricultural fields; an increase (+5%) of pramo, attributed to fire and grazing pressure at higher elevations; and an increase (+7%) of forest, in part the result of legal protection and active management. Transects revealed that populations of native bamboo, Chusquea scandens, accounted for some of the recent vegetation classified as forest from air photographs, particularly on unstable slopes and in areas of recent human disturbance; implications of bamboo density on patch dynamics and slope stability are discussed. Continued legal recognation and management are needed to protect this relict forest and to restore similar habitat in the northern Andes. /// La fort subtropicale du volcan Pasochoa constitue l'une des dernires forts reliques de la valle inter-andine de l'Equateur. Les perturbations naturelles et humaines combines ont contribu au dveloppement de la vgtation actuelle. Des photographies ariennes rptes, avec vrification ultrieure de la ralit du terrain, ont t utilises pour quantifier et dcrire les changements de vgtation dans deux catgories de paysages naturels (pramo et fort) et anthropogniques (cultures et pturages). Les superficies respectives des diffrentes catgories de paysages incluses dans l'tude ont t values sur quatre intervalles de temps couvrant 31 annes (1956-1987), en fonction de la croissance dmographique dans la rgion. Ces donnes indiquent une rduction gnrale (-11%) des pturages et des champs agricoles, une augmentation (+5%) du pramo, attribue aux feux de broussailles et au pacage  haute altitude, et une augmentation (+7%) de la fort, en partie due  la protection lgale et  une gestion active. Les transects ont rvl que les peuplements de bambou natif, Chusquea scandens, constituaient une partie de la vgtation rcente classifie comme fort sur les photographies ariennes, en particulier sur les versants instables et dans les zones de perturbations humaines rcentes; les implications de la densit du bambou sur la dynamique des parcelles et la stabilit des versants sont examines. Il faut reconnatre le statut de cette fort relique pour la protger et restaurer un habitat similaire dans les Andes septentrionales. /// Im Inter-Anden Tal von Ecuador hat sich ein Feuchtwaldgebiet am Pasochoa Vulkan, als eines von wenigen noch existierenden, erhalten. Zur gegenwrtigen Vegetation haben natrliche und anthropogene Einflsse beigetragen. Serien von Luftaufnahmen zusammen mit nachfolgender Besttigung der Gelndestruktur wurden ausgewertet, um Vegetationsvernderungen in zwei natrlichen (Paramo und Wald) und zwei anthropogenen (Feldfruchtanbau und Weideland) Gelndekategorien quantitativ zu erfassen und zu beschreiben. ber insgesamt 31 Jahre (1956-1987) wurde das Flchenverhltnis dieser Kategorien fr vier Zeitabschnitte, in denen die Bevlkerung im Untersuchungsgebiet zunahm, ausgewertet. Die Daten zeigten insgesamt einen Rckgang (-11%) an Weideland und bestellten Feldern, eine Zunahme (+5%) an Paramo, was in hheren Lagen durch Weidedruck und Abbrand erklrt wird, und eine Zunahme (+7%) an bewaldeten Flchen, zum Teil das Ergebnis von Waldschutz und aktivem Management. Einzelstudien der Luftaufnahmen zeigten, da fr Waldgebiete einheimische Bambusstnde, Chusquea scandens, als Teil der neuen Vegetation klassifiziert werden konnten, insbesondere an instabilen Hngen und auf Flchen, die anthropogenen Einwirkungen unterlagen. Es wird diskutiert, wie Flchendynamik und Hangstabilitt von der Wachstumsdichte der Bambusstnde beeinflut werden. Weitere Untersuchungen und die Problemerkennung der Ergebnisse sind notwendig, um diesen Reliktwald zu schtzen; auch um hnliche Bedingungen in den nrdlichen Anden wieder herzustellen.
10.2307/3673357|This paper delineates bioclimatic zones of the Colorado Front Range. It develops a methodology which might be useful for making inventories of mountain bioclimates in other parts of the world. Following a description of the vegetation and the climate of the Front Range some insight is gained into the bioclimatic systems of the area by examining the applicability of established climatic classifications. The main part of the paper explains procedures for distinguishing the bioclimatic zones. The variables employed in determining the zones are the ratio of growing season thawing degree days to growing season precipitation, summer mean temperature, and growing season soil moisture deficit. Aspect is examined as a possible method of determining second order bioclimatic divisions. In attempting to determine the bioclimatic divisions, the study (1) establishes the feasibility of applying existing climatic classifications to the area, (2) identifies important bioclimatic variables, (3) points out the limits of present understanding of the role of aspect in the area, and (4) provides information on the possibility of extrapolating the bioclimatic zones identified in Boulder County to other parts of the Front Range and beyond. /// Cette tude dfinit les zones bioclimatiques des contreforts des Montagnes Rocheuses au Colorado, et prsente une mthodologie qui pourrait tre utilise, sous une forme ou une autre, pour inventorier les bioclimats montagnards dans d'autres parties du monde. Partant d'une description de la vgtation et du climat des contreforts des Rocheuses, l'tude donne un aperu des systmes bioclimatiques de la rgion en examinant l'applicabilit des classifications climatiques actuelles. La majeure partie de cette tude concerne les techniques permettant de diffrencier les zones bioclimatiques. Les variables utilises pour dterminer les zones sont le rapport entre les degrs jours de dgel et la prcipitation pendant la saison de croissance, la temprature moyenne pendant l't, et le dficit d'humidit du sol pendant la saison de croissance. L'orientation est galement considr comme un moyen possible de dterminer les divisions bioclimatiques du second ordre. Cette tentative de dtermination des divisions bioclimatiques a permis d'accomplir les tches suivantes: (1) tablir la validit d'appliquer  cette rgion les classifications climatiques actuelles, (2) identifier les variables bioclimatiques importantes, (3) considrer les limites de la connaissance actuelle sur le rle de l'aspect dans la rgion, et (4) obtenir de l'information sur la possibilit d'extrapoler les zones bioclimatiques identifies dans le comt de Boulder  d'autres parties des contreforts des Montagnes Rocheuses et ailleurs. /// Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt die bioklimatischen Zonen im Gebiet der Colorado Vorberge. Eine Methodik wird entwickelt, die auch fr bioklimatische Zonengliederung in Berggebieten anderer Teile der Welt infrage kommt. Nach einer Beschreibung der Vegetation und des Klimas der Vorberge kann man die Anwendbarkeit bestehender klimatischer Klassifikationen berprfen und so Einblick in die bioklimatischen Systeme eines Gebietes gewinnen. Der Hauptteil dieses Beitrags erklrt die Methodik, die zur Unterscheidung bioklimatischer Zonen angewandt wurde. Die ausgewhlten Variablen sind, whrend der Wachstumsperiode, das Verhltnis der frostfreien Tage zu den Zeiten mit Niederschlag und das Defizit in Bodenfeuchte, und auerdem die mittlere Sommertemperatur. Es wird untersucht, ob die Hanglage eine mgliche, wenn auch nur untergeordnete Rolle bei der Feststellung bioklimatischer Gliederungen spielt. Der Versuch, zu bioklimatischen Einteilungen zu kommen, ergab folgende Einblicke: (1) die Mglichkeit, existierende klimatische Einteilungen fr das Gebiet anzuwenden, (2) die Identifizierung der wichtigsten klimatischen Variablen, (3) das beschrnkte gegenwrtige Verstndnis ber die Rolle, die die Hanglage in einem Gebiet spielt, (4) die Anwendungsmglichkeit der bioklimatischen Zonen - im Landkreis Boulder gewonnen - auf andere Vorgebirgsregionen und darber hinaus.
10.2307/3674099|A study of farming systems and the socioeconomic circumstances of ethnic minority farmers was carried out in the uplands of Northern Thailand. The region is susceptible to land degradation: soil fertility depletion; weed infestation; and soil erosion. In particular, soil erosion has attracted the attention and mobilized the efforts of many government organizations, non-government organizations, and others. However, most attempts to introduce soil-conservation technologies, thus far, have met with little success. The aim of the study was to better understand the reasons for the poor adoption of soil-conservation practices disseminated by various rural development projects and to propose alternative actions. The most popular soil-conservation practices used for extension purposes include hillside ditches, alley cropping with leguminous tree hedgerows, grass strips, and incorporation of perennials within cropping systems. These practices were developed on experimental stations in the region and else-where and delivered as 'technical packages' to farmers. Most farmers have remained reluctant to adopt them, regardless of whether they have participated in extension projects. The many reasons for this include agronomic inadequacy of some of them, poor financial returns, lack of capital, social marginalization of some farmers, labor constraints, the absence of land tenure, and poor interactions with extension services. Most farmers recognize that soil erosion is a problem, although soil fertility depletion and weed pressure are often their main immediate concern. To reduce the impact of soil erosion both in the fields and down-stream, more participatory interactions between extension agents and farmers are needed; this should lead to identification of solutions that are economically viable, ecologically sound, and politically realistic.
mounresedeve.32.3.294|As in many other high mountainous regions, local people in the Eastern Pamirs (Tajikistan) use biomass fuels, mainly teresken shrubs, to heat their houses during the winter months. This overuse of already scarce natural resources results in serious land degradation. Since 2006, thermal insulation measures have been disseminated and financed through microloans. This case study analyzes the impacts of thermal insulation in Murgab, the main town in the Eastern Pamirs, where thermal insulation measures have been implemented in 159 households since 2008. Although clients are more interested in increased comfort than in fuel savings, according to quantitative data collected in 2010 and 2011, thermal insulation measures led to a 20 to 30% savings in heating energy on average. However, it is mainly better-off households that are aware of energy efficiency issues and willing to invest in thermal insulation. In contrast, poorer households are the main teresken users, but they rarely have their houses insulated due to a lack of awareness and a low ability to repay loans. Therefore, the approach to introducing thermal insulation has only had a small effect on teresken consumption until now.
10.2307/3673729|The growth of a lake on the Imja Glacier, Khumbu Himal, was traced from maps and photographs supplied by several sources. There were five small ponds in the 1950s. A single lake with islands formed by 1975. A small island existing in 1978 had disappeared in 1980. The lake area was <tex-math>$0.54\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1984, and had become slightly larger by 1991. The comparison of the lake water volumes of "Imja Glacier Lake" and of the lakes which burst in 1977 and 1985 suggests that future outbursts of "Imja Glacier Lake" may cause catastrophic damage below. Today, the spillway morphology at the surface of the debris-covered ice near the glacier terminus is changing noticeably, indicating rapid expansion of the lake toward the west. As this proceeds, the possibility for catastrophic outburst will become greater, even if the lake level is lowered. Recent observations indicate a maximum depth of more than 90 m and an average depth of 40-50 m; thus the potential for a major outburst is much higher than previously anticipated. Glaciological and hydrological investigations and a monitoring program should be undertaken in order to mitigate potential catastrophic damage at the lower elevations. /// La croissance d'un lac situ sur le glacier Imja, dans le Khumbu Himal, a t retrace  l'aide de cartes et de photographies obtenues  partir de diffrentes sources. Cinq petits tangs taient prsents dans les annes 1950. Un lac avec des les s'est form en 1975. Une petite le apparente en 1978 a disparu en 1980. La surface du lac tait de <tex-math>$0,54\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> en 1984; en 1991, elle tait un peu plus grande. La comparaison des volumes d'eau du "lac du glacier Imja" avec ceux des lacs qui se sont dgorgs en 1977 et en 1985 suggre que dans le futur des ruptures du "lac du glacier Imja" risquent de causer des dgts catastrophiques plus bas dans la valle. A prsent, la morphologie du dversoir  la surface de la glace couverte de dbris, prs du front glaciaire, change sensiblement, indiquant une expansion rapide du lac vers l'ouest. Quand cela se produit, la probabilit d'une rupture catastrophique deviendra plus leve, mme si le niveau du lac est abaiss. Des observations rcentes indiquent une profondeur maximale de plus de 90 m et une profondeur moyenne de 40  50 m; pour cette raison, le risque d'une rupture majeure est beaucoup plus lev que prvu. Des tudes glaciologiques et gologiques, et un programme de surveillance doivent tre mis en oeuvre afin d'attnuer les dgts catastrophiques potentiels plus bas dans la valle. /// Anhand von Landkarten und Fotografien, die von verschiedenen Quellen stammten, wurde das Anwachsen eines Sees auf dem Imja Gletscher, Khumbu Himal, verfolgt. In den 50iger Jahren gab es fnf kleine Seen. Bis 1975 hatte sich ein einziger See mit Inseln gebildet. Eine kleine Insel, die 1978 noch vorhanden war, war 1980 verschwunden. Die Flche des Sees betrug im Jahre 1984 <tex-math>$0,54\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> und war bis 1991 noch etwas angewachsen. Ein Vergleich der Wassermenge im "Imja Gletschersee" mit der von Seen, die 1977 und 1985 barsten, zeigt, da eine hnliche zuknftige Katastrophe des "Imja Gletschersees" talabwrts schwere Schden verursachen wrde. Zur Zeit verndert sich nahe des Gletscherendes die Morphologie der berlaufrinne an der Oberflche des mit Gesteinsschutt bedeckten Eises bemerkenswert und zeigt eine schnelle Ausdehnung des Sees nach Westen an. Diese Entwicklung erhht die Gefahr einer berflutungskatastrophe auch dann, wenn der Wasserspiegel gesengt wird. Neuerliche Beobachtungen ergaben eine maximale Wassertiefe von ber 90 m und eine Durchschnittstiefe von 40-50 m; woraus folgt, da die Gefahr fr eine Flutkatastrophe viel grer ist, als bisher angenommen. Glaziologische und hydrologische Untersuchungen sollten in Verbindung mit regelmigen Aufzeichnungen gemacht werden, um potentielle Katastrophenschden talabwrts zu mindern.
10.2307/3673933|Mountain cloud forests (also known as nebelwald, fort nphliphile, bosque de ceja montaa, and several other names) are characterized by the presence of persistent or frequent wind-driven cloud. The net precipitation is significantly enhanced by direct canopy interception of cloud water. This, combined with low water use by the vegetation due to reduced solar radiation and vapor deficit, canopy wetting, and general suppression of evapotranspiration, results in net additions to the water yield of the watershed. If these forests are removed an important water supply function is lost. Cloud forests have great biological diversity value, especially because they contain a very high proportion of nationally or regionally endemic species. The most serious threats ranging from climate change to alien species introductions are described; strategies for achieving conservation and better management of cloud forests are discussed and, finally, from a symposium and workshop attended by cloud forest researchers and managers, a set of high priority research topics is presented. /// Les forts nphliphiles (mountain cloud forest, nebelwald, bosque de ceja montana, et bien d'autres dsignations) sont caractrises par la prsence de nuages persistants ou frquents, pousss par les vents. La hauteur nette des prcipitations est sensiblement augmente par l'interception directe de l'eau des nuages par la vote des arbres. Ce phnomne, combin avec la basse consommation d'eau par la vgtation, cause par la radiation solaire rduite et le dficit de vapeur, le mouillage de la vote des arbres, et une suppression gnrale de l'vapotranspiration, augmente nettement l'apport d'eau du bassin versant. Si ces forts sont limines, une importante source d'approvisonnement en eau sera perdue. Les forts nphliphiles prsentent une grande valeur du point de vue de la diversit biologique, en particulier du fait qu'elles contiennent un trs grand pourcentage des espces endmiques nationales ou rgionales. Les dangers les plus srieux, depuis les changements de climat  l'introduction d'espces trangres, sont dcrits; des stratgies de prservation et de meilleure gestion des forts nphliphiles sont examines. Finalement, une liste de sujets de recherche prioritaires, base sur les activits d'un symposium et d'un atelier auxquels ont particip des chercheurs et des responsables de la gestion des forts nphliphiles, est prsente. /// Montane Nebelwlder (mountain cloud forest, foret nphliphile, bosque de ceja montana, und viele weitere Bezeichnungen existieren dafr) sind dadurch charakterisiert, da in ihnen Bedingungen herrschen, die Wlder permanent oder zumindest hufig wind-verursachten Wolken aussetzen. Die Nettobetrge der zur Verfgung stehenden Wassermengen werden betrchtlich durch die direkte Aufnahme von Wolkenfeuchtigkeit im oberen Dachstock des Waldes erhht. Dieses Phnomen trgt in Verbindung mit einer geringen Wasseraufnahme der Vegetationsdecke infolge reduzierter Einstrahlung und Verdunstungsdefizite, Walddachbefeuchtung und einer allgemein verringerten Evapotranspiration zu einer hheren Netto-Wassermenge im Einzugsbereich bei. Falls diese Wlder vernichtet werden, wird eine wichtige Wasserversorgungsquelle aufgegeben. Nebelwlder weisen eine hohe Biodiversitt auf, insbesondere aufgrund ihrer Eigenschaft als Trger national oder regional endemischer Arten. Dieser Beitrag beschreibt die wichtigsten Gefahrenpotentiale fr den Erhalt der Nebelwlder in einem Spektrum von Klimawandel bis hin zum Einzug fremder Arten. Weiterhin werden Manahmen zur Erhaltung und verbesserten Verwaltung von Nebelwldern diskutiert. Letztlich werden die Ergebnisse eines Arbeitstreffens von Nebelwaldforschern und Verantwortlichen prsentiert, die eine Priorittenliste fr zuknftige Forschungen einfordern.
10.2307/3674254|This paper investigates changes in land cover, land-tenure policies, and market pressures in Baka village, Yunnan Province, China. Before 1950 local farmers engaged in many forms of collective behavior including common property management, religious rites, and other activities led by clan leaders. Between 1950 and 1978 peoples' communes governed the management of most lands. All farming activities were organized, and the amount of land to be farmed was determined according to instructions from upper administration levels. The implementation of the Household Responsibility System after 1979 gave individual households greater incentives to produce cash crops. These changes caused a demise in the planting of traditional crops, increased differentiation between rich and poor, and a gradual decline in collective forms of land management.
10.2307/3673949|Facilitation during plant succession is predicted to be an important mechanism in extreme environments whereby facilitating species moderate the micro-habitat and allow colonization by secondary species. This paper proposes two criteria for exploring facilitation. (1) Does the proposed facilitator modify the physical environment? (2) Does this modification enable colonization by later species? Failure to demonstrate either of these criteria is sufficient reason to reject the facilitation hypothesis. Criterion 1 can be addressed in a brief field season, and determines whether the more detailed physiologic and fitness studies of criterion 2 are warranted. These criteria can be used to allocate effort in extreme environments where research is difficult, and we apply them to evaluate possible facilitation by Chesneya nubigena on a glacial moraine in the Nepal Himalaya. This study demonstrates that Chesneya moderates the physical environment (criterion 1) by forming soil, increasing organic composition, and by raising soil temperatures, perhaps providing a micro-habitat suitable for colonization by grasses and forbs. Physiological and fitness benefits conferred on the secondary species (criterion 2) remain to be demonstrated. /// La facilitation pendant la succession vgtale constitue probablement un mcanisme important dans les environnements extrmes, de par le fait que les espces facilitatrices modrent le micro-habitat et permettent la colonisation par des espces secondaires. Cet article propose deux critres d'exploration de la facilitation. (1) Est-ce-que le facilitateur propos modifie l'environnement physique? (2) Est-ce-que cette modification permet la colonisation par des espces ultrieures? S'il est impossible de satisfaire l'un de ces critres, l'hypothse de facilitation doit tre rejete. Le critre no 1 peut tre abord lors d'une brve campagne sur le terrain; les rsultats dterminent si les tudes plus dtailles sur la physiologie et la valeur adaptative du critre no 2 sont justifies. Ces critres peuvent tre utiliss pour allouer des ressources aux environnements extrmes o la recherche est difficile; nous les appliquons pour valuer la facilitation possible par Chesneya nubigena sur une moraine glaciaire de l'Himalaya npalais. Cette tude dmontre que Chesneya modre l'environnement physique (critre no 1) en formant du sol, en augmentant la composition organique et la temprature du sol, peut-tre mme en fournissant un micro-habitat propice  la colonisation par des espces herbaces et des dicotyldones herbaces. Les avantages en termes de physiologie et de valeur adaptative pour les espces secondaires (critre no 2) restent  dmontrer. /// Bei der Frderung der Pflanzenfolge unter extremen Umweltbedingungen gibt es eine Hypothese, nach der geeignete Pflanzenarten den Mikro-Habitat dahin gnstig beeinflussen, da das Wachstum von Sekundrarten gefrdert wird. In dieser Arbeit werden zwei Kriterien vorgeschlagen, die hilfreich sind, Frderung der Pflanzenfolge zu erkennen. (1) Verndert der in Erwgung gezogene Frderer das physikalische Umfeld? (2) Lt diese nderung das Wachstum von spteren Arten zu? Wenn keines dieser Kriterien zutrifft, gibt es ausreichend Grund, die Frderungs-Hypothese abzulehnen. Kriterium 1 kann mit einer kurzen Feldstudie beantwortet werden und ihr Ausgang bestimmt, ob die detaillierten physiologischen und eignungsspezifischen Studien, die Kriterium 2 erfordert, gerechtfertigt sind. Beide Kriterien dienen dazu, den Untersuchungsaufwand, der unter extremen Bedingungen recht hoch sein kann, zu bemessen. Wir wenden beide Kriterien an, um mgliche Frderung durch Chesneya nubigena auf einer Gletschermoraine im Himalaya Nepals auszuwerten. Diese Studie zeigt, da Chesneya das physikalische Umfeld (Kriterium 1) durch Humusbildung, Zunahme der organischen Anteile und Ansteigen der Bodentemperaturen gnstig beeinflut, und dadurch Voraussetzungen fr das Wachstum von Grsern und Krutern schafft. Ob die Sekundrarten von den verbesserten Wachstumsbedingungen Nutzen ziehen, mu noch nachgewiesen werden (Kriterium 2).
mounresedeve.30.3.232|Direct seeding has recently regained favor as an alternative method to conventional planting for restoration of degraded and/or abandoned sites. This study reports the establishment and growth performance of 2 pioneer (Pinus kesiya and Schima wallichii) and 2 later-successional (Keteleeria evelyniana and Quercus serrata) native trees broadcasted or buried on 14 former grazing lands in Laos. Seedling establishment was assessed 9 months after sowing; height, diameter growth, and mortality were measured 1, 3, and 5 years after direct seeding and subjected to analysis of variance. Significant interspecies and intersite variations were detected for most of the measured parameters (P , .05). Seedling establishment success was better for buried seeds of Q. serrata (4965%) and K. evelyniana (2059%) than for broadcasted seeds of P. kesiya (1350%), S. wallichii (334%), and K. evelyniana (622%). Intersite variation might be related to topography-induced microhabitat conditions. The annual rate of mortality, averaged over all sites, was significantly (P, .0001) high for S. wallichii (38  1%) followed by P. kesiya (30  2.0%), Q. serrata (29  2%), and K. evelyniana (22  4%). The 2 pioneer species achieved better diameter and height growth than the later-successional species. We conclude that direct seeding seems to be possible for rehabilitation of abandoned sites, provided that the seeds are buried to avoid the risk of seed desiccation and predation; the seeding rate of pioneer species is reduced to avoid a high mortality rate, and species-site matching is well defined to minimize topography-induced changes in a microhabitat.
10.2307/3673404|Changes in vigour and demography of subalpine Picea abies (L.) Karst were assessed on a regional basis in the Swedish Scandes. The study was based on repeat photography from fixed points in 1972/73 and in 1985/86. Crown thinning was already in an advanced stage in 1972/73. Approximately 75 percent of the studied population had a crown thinning of more than 20 percent. This process progressed during the study period, when about 30 percent of the spruce experienced further thinning of 20 percent or more. The general character of vigour decline was unidirectional discoloration (reddish brown) of young supranival needles. It is suggested that the basic cause is summer (June-August) temperature decline since the early 1960s. It may be related also to increased frost hazard in late spring and early summer, due to earlier dehardening and growth initiation in response to a general warming in May and early June which has occurred since the early 1970s. /// Les changements de vitalit et de dmographie affectant l'espce subalpine Picea abies (L.) Karst ont t valus sur une base rgionale dans la chane des Scandes en Sude. L'tude repose sur des photographies prises en 1972/73  partir de points fixes, et rptes en 1985/86. L'tiolement des cimes tait dj prononc en 1972/73. Environ 75 pourcent de la population examine montrait alors un tiolement de cime suprieur  20 pourcent. Ce processus a continu au cours de la priode couverte par l'tude, si bien qu'environ 30 pourcent des spruces ont subi en tiolement additionnel de 20 pourcent ou plus. En gnral, le dclin de la vitalit est caractris par une dcoloration unidirectionnelle (brun rouge) des jeunes aiguilles supranivales. L'hypothse est avance que la cause fondamentale rside dans la baisse de temprature estivale (Juin-Aot) enregistre depuis le dbut des annes 60. Ce dclin peut aussi tre li au risque accru de gele vers la fin du printemps et le dbut de l't, d  et un dbut de croissance plus avancs en rponse  un rchauffement gnral en mai et dbut juin qui se manifeste depuis le dbut des annes 70. /// Vernderungen in Wachstumskraft und Demographie der subalpinen Picea abies (L.) Karst wurden auf regionaler Basis im schwedischen Scandes Gebiet untersucht. Der Studie wurden Photofolgen von einem fixierten Standort aus den Jahren 1972/73 und 1985/86 zugrunde gelegt. Bereits in den Jahren 1972/73 war das Ausdnnen von Baumkronen im vorangeschrittenen Stadium. Circa 75% des untersuchten Bestandes hatte Wipfel, die mehr als 20% gelichtet waren. Dieser Prozess schritt whrend der Untersuchungszeit voran, wobei ca. 30% der Fichten einen weiteren Nadelverlust von 20% oder mehr erlitten. Im allgemeinen uerte sich ein Verlust an Wachstumskraft in der Verfrbung (rtlich braun) der jungen, ber dem Schnee liegenden Nadeln. Ein Rckgang der Sommertemperatur (Juni-Aug.) seit Anfang der 60er Jahre wird als Hauptursache angesehen; daneben mag erhhte Frostgefahr im Sptfrhjahr und Frhsommer eine Rolle spielen, da seit den frhen 70er Jahren ein allgemeiner Wrmetrend im Mai und Juni beobachtet wurde, was zu verfrhtem Wachstum und Anpassung fhrte.
3674316|The Sky Walk-Sky Trek project is located in Monteverde at approximately 1700 m above sea level in the Tilarn Mountains of northern Costa Rica. It has been cited as an example of a totally rural tourism initiative, and its quality has been praised worldwide. The Sky Walk offers visitors-including the disabled-an opportunity to experience different levels of biodiversity in the cloud forest on a series of suspended bridges connected by trails. The Sky Trek is a more adventurous experience, consisting of a series of cables (for sliding across canyons) and trails. Besides having an educational component, the project has made a positive, well-recognized contribution to forest regeneration on abandoned pastureland. Moreover, it illustrates the problems and challenges of community participation in tourism microenterprises. Size is not necessarily a criterion for success in tourism projects: a small-scale tourism project must be creative and responsible and must show familiarity with its product and its customer base.
10.2307/3673686|This paper analyses the vertical distribution of people and their livestock in the Shewa and Wello regions of Ethiopia. The greatest concentrations of human population are in the 2,600-2,800 m belt and there is a clear decline between 2,200 and 2,400 m. The distribution of animals is similar to that of the population. These findings differ from those that were expected at the beginning of the study, based on the assumption that the pastoralists in the lowlands owned many more livestock than the peasant farmers in the upper belts. In-migration appears to be concentrated in the 2,600-3,000 m belt, with a secondary increase below 1,400 m. This may be due to the topography; the upper areas are relatively flat or undulating whereas the middle belts have a corrugated landscape and the steep slopes are a constraint to cultivation and settlement. The lowest belts have higher incidence of drought and environmentally-related diseases. To avert catastrophic population pressure between 2,600 and 3,000 m, it is necessary to raise agricultural productivity through the introduction of improved farming techniques. A longer-term solution may lie in the encouragement of small-scale specialized farming and agro-industrial enterprises. The development of irrigation and disease control could open up large areas in the lower belts. It is concluded that the traditional symbiotic relationship between highland peasant cultivation and lowland pastoral economy is giving way to market forces and that competition may replace cooperation. /// Cet article analyse la rpartition verticale des habitants et du btail dans les rgions du Shewa et du Wello en Ethiopie. Les plus grandes concentrations de population humaine se trouvent dans la ceinture altitudinale comprise entre 2,600 et 2,800 mtres; la population dcrot nettement entre 2,200 et 2,400 mtres. La rpartition des animaux est semblable  celle de la population humaine. Ces rsultats diffrent de ceux auquels on pouvait s'attendre au dbut de l'tude, si l'on se base sur l'hypothse que les pasteurs des basses terres possdent plus de btail que les cultivateurs des ceintures altitudinales suprieures. L'immigration semble tre concentre dans la ceinture comprise entre 2,600 et 3,000 mtres, avec une augmentation secondaire au-dessous de 1,400 mtres. La topographie peut en tre la cause du fait que les ceintures suprieures sont relativement plates ou vallonnes, alors que les ceintures moyennes prsentent un relief accident et les pentes escarpes s'opposent  la culture et au peuplement. Les ceintures altitudinales infrieures sont plus sujettes  la scheresse et aux maladies lies  l'environnement. Pour viter une pression dmographique catastrophique dans la ceinture altitudinale comprise entre 2,600 et 3,000 mtres, il est indispensable d'augmenter la productivit agricole en introduisant des techniques de culture plus avances. Une solution  long terme peut consister  encourager la culture spcialise  petite chelle et les entreprises agro-industrielles. Le dveloppement de l'irrigation et de la lutte contre les maladies permettrait d'exploiter des belts tendues dans les ceintures altitudinales infrieures. L'article conclut que la relation symbiotique traditionnelle entre la culture paysanne des hautes terres et l'conomie pastorale des basses terres cde progressivement aux forces du march et que la comptition risque de remplacer la coopration. /// Diese Verffentlichung analysiert die zahlenmige Verteilung von Mensch und Vieh in den Hhenlagen der Shewa und der Welo Region Athiopiens. Die Bevlkerungsdichte ist am grten im Grtel von 2,600-2,800 m und nimmt dann zwischen 2.200 und 2.400 m deutlich ab. Die Verteilung der Tiere folgt der der Bevlkerung. Diese Tatsachen widersprechen den Erwartungen zu Beginn der Studie, die annahmen, da Tierhalter in den Tieflanden mehr Vieh besen als Bauern in hher gelegenen beltn. Die Zuwanderung ist besonders auf den Grtel zwischen 2,600-3,000 m konzentriert; an zweiter Stelle folgt das Gebiet unter 1,400 m. Dies ergibt sich wahrscheinlich aus der Topographie. Die hheren Lagen sind relativ eben oder leicht hgelig, whrend die mittleren Grtel zerklfteter sind, wobei steile Hnge die Kultivierung und Besiedelung einschrnken. Die Tallagen dagegen werden wegen hufiger Drreperioden und umweltbedingter Krankheiten gemieden. Um im Gebiet zwischen 2,600 und 3,000 m eine katastrophale Entwicklung durch den Bevlkerungsdruck zu vermeiden, mu die landwirtschaftliche Produktion durch die Einfhrung von verbesserten Anbaumethoden gesteigert werden. Eine langzeitliche Lsung mag darin liegen, spezialisierten Anbau in kleinem Ausma und agro-industrielle Kleinbetriebe zu frdern. In den niedrigeren Lagen knnten groe Gebiete durch die Entwicklung verbesserter Bewsserungsanlagen und durch bessere Krankheitsberwachung erschlossen werden. Abschlieend wird bemerkt, da die traditionelle Symbiose zwischen Hochland-Farmbestellung und Tiefland-Weidewirtschaft den Weg fr eine Marktwirtschaft freigibt, und da Konkurrenz die bisherige Kooperation ersetzen knnte.
mounresedeve.31.3.252|The Indus River basin supplies water to the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world, providing water for 90% of the food production in Pakistan, which contributes 25% of the country's gross domestic product. But Pakistan could face severe food shortages intimately linked to water scarcity. It is projected that, by 2025, the shortfall of water requirements will be ~32%, which will result in a food shortage of 70 million tons. Recent estimates suggest that climate change and siltation of main reservoirs will reduce the surface water storage capacity by 30% by 2025. The per capita water storage capacity in Pakistan is only 150 m
mounresedeve.30.3.252|Invasive plants have spread all over the world, including the Himalayan region. In 2009, the distribution pattern of invasive alien plants was studied on 38 plots, from 100 to 4200 m, in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, India. Eighteen invasive alien plants (frequency >5%) from 7 families were recorded, of which 15 species (83.3%) were from North and South America. The most common plants by both frequency and coverage (>50%) were
mounresedeve.29.1.30|This study investigated the sustainability of combining forest grazing and timber harvesting with selection felling in a cool broadleaved community forest (CF) in Bhutan. Forest grazing and timber production are critical livelihood activities for many farmers throughout the world, so it is important to understand under what conditions the 2 activities can be combined. The study was based on a household survey to quantify livestock holdings and grazing patterns, a comparison of 2 forest inventories to assess forest structure and regeneration, and a study of stumps to quantify harvesting intensities. During a 5-year period the number of cattle grazing inside the CF significantly decreased and the number of naturally regenerated tree seedlings and saplings significantly increased. There were no other changes in forest management practices during the period that would affect natural regeneration, and there were no significant changes in the volume of wood harvested or the volume/number of standing trees (with a diameter at breast height 10 cm). We concluded that moderate intensities of forest grazing (0.4 cattle*ha
10.2307/3673129|The preliminary results of the 1981 Nepal Census are analysed with respect to urbanization and population movement to the Terai. The paper reports a process of transformation wherein Nepal is shifting from a rural hill and mountain society to an urban-subtropical plains state. /// Les rsultats prliminaires du recensement du Npal effectu en 1981 sont analyss par rapport  l'urbanisation et au dplacement de la population vers la rgion du Terai. Cette tude trace les lignes selon lesquelles la socit npalaise, jusqu'ici rurale et base dans les collines et les montagnes, se dplace vers un pays urbain des plaines subtropicales. /// Die vorlufigen Ergebnisse der Volkszhlung in Nepal aus dem Jahre 1981 werden im Hinblick auf die Urbanisierung und die Bevlkerungsabwanderung ins sdl. Nepal (Terai) analysiert. Die Verffentlichung berichtet ber die Umgestaltung Nepals von einem buerlichen Bergvolk zu einer mehr urbanisierten Bevlkerung im subtropischen Flachland.
3674347|The present article addresses the deterioration of 12 forest geosystems located in a mountain range to the west of Mexico City. On the basis of identification of plant species that are indicators of environmental deterioration, as well as application of a Deterioration Index that considers these species in relation to the richness, vertical structure, and total cover of the climax forest facies-representing the most developed and stable evolutionary stage of each geosystem-forest geosystems are classified according to the present stage of deterioration that affects the best preserved forests in each case.
10.2307/3674034|The paper reviews experiences of the Doon Valley Integrated Watershed Management Project, with emphasis on the evolution of a participatory "process orientated" approach aimed at developing community capabilities to sustain the increased natural resource production systems introduced by Project activities. The focus is on promoting convergent planning and strengthening the skills and institutional capacities of the rural communities, as well as of the government agency responsible for implementation. The major conclusions are: (1) that human resource development should precede external technical watershed management activities; (2) that under the participatory approach, external implementors need to be encouraged to merge their technical skills with the indigenous skills of villagers in order to achieve a convergent approach. The initial focus of watershed management projects should be on communities and the adjacent areas under their influence, rather than on the physical aspects of watersheds. Women proved to be most receptive and capable of forming cohesive groups to manage natural resources, with livelihood-generation as the primary trigger. Actual priorities perceived by villagers through participatory (PRA-based) planning frequently differ from "targets" and priorities defined by outside planners. Conventional watershed management activities are rarely perceived by villagers as priorities, creating frustration for the external implementors and demanding flexibility in inputs, budgets, and phasing. The project produced initial improvements in living conditions and in local involvement by people in man-again natural resources. This was supplemented by physical soil and water conservation measures and community-managed grass and fodder tree plantations. The consequent reduction in pressure on intervening forest areas should favor natural eco-regeneration. Moreover, the increased environmental awareness and involvement of the villagers is expected to facilitate protection of afforestation programs beyond the village limits.
mounresedeve.33.3.294|In the high mountain valleys of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, gravity-flow irrigation systems support the production of grains, fodder, vegetables, herbs, and fruits as well as wood for fuel and construction purposes. In the Soviet and post-Soviet periods, major changes in the organization of society and agriculture have occurred which, when combined with the effects of population growth and outmigration in recent decades, have fundamentally altered the normative and organizational arrangements that had sustained hill irrigation in the past. This article presents 2 case studies, one from the Alaikuu area of Tar Valley, Osh Province, Alai mountain range, southern Kyrgyzstan, and the other from the upper Shokhdara Valley in Gorno-Badakhshan, Pamir mountain range, eastern Tajikistan. A combination of rights and obligations form the foundation of self-managed offtake systems, the rules for which reflect existing social relationships. The importance of authority to the effective management of these systems is highlighted. Multiple forms of authority coexist at the local level in the Alai and Pamir ranges because of the recent introduction of formal local government and water governance reforms in both countries and the persistence of informal local political institutions, such as the court of elders in Alaikuu and the village headman in Shokhdara. Population growth and diversified livelihood strategies, especially migration, have encouraged a degree of individualisman attitude that undermines the recognition of authority required for the collective management of hill irrigation systems. An understanding of the heterogeneous role of authority in irrigation management that does not privilege externally created formal institutions is required for government and nongovernment agencies to support hill irrigation and mountain agriculture.
mounresedeve.30.4.320|Remote areas devoid of roads and tourist transport infrastructure are increasingly appreciated in urbanized countries because they provide the opportunity to experience tranquillity, solitude, and pristine nature, which are recreational qualities that contrast with the stress of urban life. In Switzerland as a whole, larger roadless areas are rare, but they are still common in southern Switzerland as the inventory of remote areas, which was established in this study, shows. A crucial dilemma for tourism development in remote areas is the paradoxical situation that the installation of tourism facilities and services can reduce the experiential qualities of these areas that attracted the tourists in the first place. This study seeks possible solutions for this dilemma by analyzing the attitudes of 230 visitors to 2 remote areas of southern Switzerland with a questionnaire-based survey. The case study areas represented one moderately remote area (Val Cama) and one extremely remote area (Val di Lodrino). The respondents were divided into 3 different visitor types along the purism scale: purists, neutralists, and nonpurists. The percentage of purists was 45% in the extremely remote Val di Lodrino versus 24% in the moderately remote Val Cama. There was a consensus among all visitor types that the existing traditional cultural landscape and the path network should be preserved and that the construction of new road or cable-car access should be avoided. The development of new huts, paths, and services was found to be controversial. A major policy recommendation of the study is to gear tourism supply in remote areas to the needs of different visitor types by carefully assessing the impact of measures on remoteness and concentrating new facilities and services in the more accessible parts of a remote area, while preserving more remote conditions in the other zones.
3674461|The tourist industry in the European Alps has always been greatly threatened by natural disasters. As far as tourism is concerned, the so-called "indirect" effects of these disasters have proven to be more important than the direct damages. The former consist mainly of loss of earnings, which can result for example from the closure of access roads or the decommissioning of cable cars and ski lifts. In fact, it is the combination of a drop in the number of overnight stays with the absence of day trippers over several days which makes the outcome of a natural disaster an extraordinary event for the tourist industry. As long as natural disasters remain relatively rare occurrences, tourist resorts in the Alps can generally cope with them. Should the frequency of these events increase substantially as a result of global warming, however, tourism and the entire Alpine economy could face serious problems in the future.
3674179|The spatial distribution of 961 debris flows in the Upper Aragn and Gllego valleys (Central Spanish Pyrenees) was analyzed. Most were located in the Flysch Sector (with a colluvium mantle derived from strongly tectonically modified materials), between 1000 and 1400 m above sea level, on 25-35 gradients with sunny exposure. These gradients were either hillslopes covered by frequently burned scrubland, abandoned fields, or reforested land, confirming the influence of land use and disturbed landscapes on the occurrence of debris flows.
mounresedeve.33.3.207|Improving water governance in the Andes is one of Peru's biggest challenges. This article examines the state's role in the water supply of an Andean community. Thirty years ago the community resisted the state's interference in its water management but now it has adopted a state model. The present article examines this change in the context of 2 occasions: the Peruvian state's investment in a new channel in the area and the community's confrontation with the state to gain access to this infrastructure. In the article, it is suggested that rather than viewing the confrontation as a form of resistance against the state's interference in Andean irrigation, we can see it as a way of opposing the state's water policy that privileges Peru's coastal desert at the cost of the country's highlands. It argues that, paradoxically, the community's success in challenging this policy and gaining rights to new water sources has prompted it to recognize the state as a legitimate water governor. The article concludes that, to overcome Andean communities' distrust of the state, the state must allow communities to play an active role in water management and assure water equity in Peru.
10.2307/3673061|The French Southern Alps have experienced a very extensive reafforestation during the last hundred years, both by spontaneous growth of trees and by deliberate replantation. This has been possible because of a major decrease in population that led to a reduction of agricultural activities and in the numbers of grazing animals, especially sheep and goats, and widespread abandonment of land. The new forests, however, are now partly threatened with disappearance in the future. This is because the manner of original plantation, leading to dense, uniform stands, severely reduces the possibilities for natural regeneration. The problem of thinning and cutting is expensive and further inhibited by a local population concerned with preservation of the forest cover. The problem requires serious attention if progressive deterioration is to be averted. /// La surface des forts des Alpes franaises du Sud a considrablement augment depuis un sicle  cause d'un reboisement  la fois spontan et volontaire. Ceci a t rendu possible par une importante diminution de la population,  l'origine de trs nombreux abandons de terres cultives et de pturages par les troupeaux de moutons et de chvres. Mais les forts d'origine anthropique sont menaces de disparation dans l'avenir. Elles ne se rgnrent pas spontanment  cause de la densit de leur couvert provoqu par le mode de plantation adopt. Il faudrait procder soit  des claircies onreuses soit  des coupes  blanc que la population rprouve. Ce problme doit srieusement retenir l'attention si l'on veut empcher qu'il ne s'aggrave. /// Die bewaldeten Flchen in den franzsischen Sdalpen haben sich im Laufe des letzten Jahrhunderts als Folge einer gleichzeitig natrlichen und von Menschenhand betriebenen Aufforstung betrchtlich ausgedehnt. Diese Aufforstung wurde durch einen erheblichen Rckgang der Bevlkerungszahl begnstigt, da gleichzeitig viele Acker- und Weideflchen fr Schafe und Zegen aufgegeben wurden. Auf lange Sicht aber sind knstlich gepflanzte Wlder in ihrer Existenz bedroht: Die gewhlte Anbauform mit viel zu dichter Belaubung regeneriert sich nicht von selbst. Es mssen sehr kostspielige Lichtungen und Kahlschlge vorgenommen werden, die aber von der konservierungsbewuten Bevlkerung nicht leicht akzeptiert werden. Dieses Problem verdient besondere Aufmerksamkeit, um einer Verschlimmerung der Lage vorzubeugen.
3674674|Initiating a process of informed decision-making for sustainable development requires the following: a) the values and objectives to be pursued need to be negotiated among all concerned stakeholders of a specific territorial unit; b) these stakeholders should have access to a comparable level of knowledge; and c) the decisions taken and the subsequent actions initiated should have a positive impact on all dimensions of sustainability. In the remote Tajik Pamir mountains, a special effort was made to fulfill the above 3 principles by developing and applying a new methodological approach to sustainable development. The paper presents the results of a multi-year baseline study project in which 10 sectors ranging from agriculture to natural hazards were assessed by a transdisciplinary Swiss-Tajik research team. This knowledge base was enhanced in a development strategy workshop that brought together stakeholders from the local to the international levels. The methodology applied was found appropriate to initiate a broad reflection and negotiation process among various stakeholder groups, leading to a joint identification of possible measures to be taken. Knowledge-and its enhancement through the involvement of all stakeholder levels-appeared to be an effective carrier of innovation and changes of attitudes, thus containing the potential to effectively contribute to sustainable development in marginalized and resource-poor mountain areas.
mounresedeve.31.4.357|Technical snowmaking has become an important measure in winter tourism destinations to deal with decreasing snow reliability, seasonal weather variability, and growing customer demand. This study analyzes tourists' attitudes toward technical snowmaking, their preferences for snow reliability, and other factors that influence destination choice. We interviewed tourists at 3 Swiss winter tourism destinations: Davos, Scuol, and Braunwald. In addition, we analyzed the impact of technical snowmaking on the regional economy in Davos with a scenario analysis based on a simplified model of the regional economy related to tourist behavior. The 3 destinations showed large regional and seasonal differences in tourists' attitudes toward technical snowmaking and the importance of factors that influence destination choice. Generally, technical snowmaking is being increasingly accepted among tourists. It can be considered as insurance for snow reliability. In major tourist destinations that focus on skiing for winter tourism, the potential damage to mountain railways and hotels from lack of snow can be great enough to justify the costs of technical snowmaking. But snow reliability is not the most crucial factor that affects the attractiveness of destinations in general. Our results show that the European Alpine landscape and a wide choice of activities in the winter as well as the summer season are the most important factors that influence destination choice. In some cases, therefore, it may be economically reasonable to refrain from technical snowmaking and redirect investment to tourist attractions independent of snow conditions.
mounresedeve.33.4.424|Although precipitation is important to climatology, hydrology, and agricultural research, the spatial pattern of precipitation over the Tibetan Plateau is difficult to determine because of complex surface conditions and a sparse rain gauge network. In the present article, a method we named FETCH_OCKbased on a combination of Yin et al's Fetch method (2008) and ordinary cokriging (OCK)is proposed; it was used to estimate monthly summer precipitation over the Tibetan Plateau, which has limited rain gauge observations and a restricted satellite precipitation dataset. First, the monthly ground observations measured by rain gauges were interpolated using OCK, with a digital elevation model (DEM) as the covariant. Second, the spatial variability of the precipitation monitored by satellite was extracted from the Climate Prediction Center morphing (CMORPH) satellite precipitation dataset by calculating a parameter (FETCH) developed from Yin et al's Fetch parameter. Finally, the precipitation datasets estimated by OCK were corrected by the FETCH parameter derived from the CMORPH satellite precipitation dataset. Summer (June to August) precipitation over the Tibetan Plateau from 2005 to 2009 was estimated using this model. The precipitation datasets estimated by FETCH_OCK were tested using ground observations from 55 independent rain gauges. The results indicate that the FETCH_OCK model not only is an improvement compared with the input precipitation datasets (OCK and CMORPH) but also performs better than other widely used precipitation datasets, including universal kriging with DEM as a covariant and Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission 3B43. The present study aims to correct the smoothing effect of kriging interpolation models and to provide a more accurate precipitation dataset for the Tibetan Plateau.
10.2307/3673986|This paper examines population change in the upper Braldu Valley of the Karakoram range in northern Pakistan between 1900 and 1990. Population has declined over the 90-year period of observation and the majority of that decline is accounted for by females. Thus, villages in the Braldu offer an apparent exception to the oft-cited pattern of population growth, not only in Baltistan but in the Himalaya region as a whole. The paper discusses apparent demographic trends in a contemporary and historical context and questions the extension of vague, unqualified, context-independent population statistics to an area where apparently they do not apply. It argues that only by interpreting demographic change from within such a local context can the relevance of population control policies be scrutinized. This paper is not an exhaustive demographic analysis but presents data from a little-studied region of the Himalayan area and is meant to open avenues for future research there. /// Cet article examine l'volution de la population de la valle du Braldu dans le massif du Karakoram, Pakistan du Nord, entre 1900 et 1990. La population a dclin pendant la priode d'observation de 90 ans et la majorit de ce dclin affecte les femmes. Les villages de la valle du Braldu constituent donc une exception apparente au phnomne familier de croissance dmographique, non seulement dans le Baltistan, mais aussi dans l'ensemble de la rgion de l'Himalaya. Cet article discute des tendances dmographiques apparentes dans un contexte contemporain et historique, et remet en question l'extension de statistiques dmographiques vagues, catgoriques et indpendantes du contexte  une zone o elles ne semblent pas s'appliquer. Il suggre que seule l'interprtation de l'volution dmographique dans un tel contexte local permet d'examiner la pertinence des politiques de rgulation dmographique. Cet article ne reprsente pas une analyse dmographique exhaustive, mais il prsente des donnes relatives  une rgion mal tudie de la rgion de l'Himalaya et se propose d'ouvrir des avenues pour de futures recherches  cet endroit. /// Diese Verffentlichung untersucht fr den Zeitraum von 1900 bis 1990 nderungen in der Bevlkerungszahl im oberen Braldu Tal in der Karakorum Kette des nrdlichen Pakistan. Whrend des Beobachtungszeitraums von 90 Jahren hat die Bevlkerungszahl abgenommen, wobei der weibliche Anteil grer war. Die viel zitierte Annahme, da die Bevlkerungsdichte im gesamten Himalaya Gebiet zunimmt, trifft fr die Gemeinden im Braldu Tal nicht zu. Vor modernem und historischen Hintergrund werden in der vorliegenden Verffentlichung demographische Entwicklungen diskutiert. Die Anwendung von vaguen, unqualifizierten, aus dem Zusammenhang gerissenen Statistiken ber Bevlkerungsdichte wird in Frage gestellt, wenn sie sich auf ein Gebiet beziehen, fr das sie berhaupt nicht zutreffen. Die Wirksamkeit von Manahmen zur Bevlkerungskontrolle kann nur dann vernnftig untersucht werden, wenn die demographischen Bedingungen des lokalen Rahmens bercksichtigt werden. Diese Studie liefert keine detaillierte demographische Analyse, sondern ihre Aussagen ber ein wenig untersuchtes Gebiet im Himalaya sollen dort weitere Untersuchungen anregen.
10.2307/3673874|The natural resources of the Atlas mountains play a vital role in the Moroccan economy and there is increasing concern that they will become afflicted by the levels of environmental damage already reported for the Rif. Although policies to protect watersheds have been operative for many years, population pressure and government policy have combined to encourage more intensive land-use practices giving rise to fears of widespread land degradation. However, a review of the existing evidence suggests that whilst sites of intense erosion damage can be found, there is little support for a general fall in productivity. There are signs that the mountain residents are attempting to adapt their production systems to the opportunities and pressures created by greater interaction with the rest of the economy. With few exceptions, existing research methodologies have polarized the relationship between physical and human factors whereas appropriate policy formulation demands that they are integrated. A number of new research techniques offer the opportunity to provide a more holistic planning framework. /// Les ressources naturelles des montagnes de l'Atlas jouent un rle primordial dans l'conomie marocaine, et l'on craint de plus en plus qu'elles ne soient affectes par le mme degr de dommage cologique constat dans le Rif. Bien que la politique de protection des bassins versants a t en vigueur pendant des annes, la pression dmographique et la politique gouvernementale ont conjointement encourag des pratiques d'utilisation des terres plus intensives, qui risquent de produire une dgradation des terres sur une grande tendue. Nanmoins, une valuation des observations existantes suggre qu'en dpit de l'existence de sites d'rosion pousse, une chute de productivit gnrale ne semble pas apparente. Il semblerait que les habitants des montagnes essaient d'adapter leurs systmes de production aux possibilits et aux contraintes issues d'une plus grande interaction avec le reste de l'conomie. A quelques exceptions prs, les mthodes de recherche existantes ont polaris la relation entre les facteurs physiques et humains, alors que la formulation d'une politique approprie ncessite que ces facteurs soient intgrs. Un certain nombre de nouvelles techniques de recherche offrent la possibilit de fournir une structure de planification plus holistique. /// Die Naturressourcen des Atlas Gebirges spielen eine wichtige Rolle in der marokkanischen Wirtschaft. Derzeitig gibt es Befrchtungen, da sie von hnlichen Umweltschden bedroht sind wie es bereits im Rif Gebirge der Fall ist. Obwohl Manahmen zum Schutz von Wassereinzugsgebieten seit vielen Jahren in Kraft sind, haben Regierungsplanungen und der zunehmende Bevlkerungsdruck zu intensiverer Landnutzung gefhrt, was zu einer weitreichenden Verschlechterung des Bodens fhren mu. Eine Untersuchung der vorliegenden Ergebnisse liefert jedoch kaum Anhaltspunkte fr einen generellen Produktivittsrckgang, wenn auch an vereinzelten Stellen Erosionsschden zu beobachten sind. Es gibt Anzeichen dafr, da die Bergbewohner ihre Produktionssysteme anpassen, um innerhalb der Mglichkeiten und Zwnge eine breitere Verflechtung mit der brigen Wirtschaft zu erreichen. Mit wenigen Ausnahmen hat die Entwicklungspolitik die Beziehungen zwischen physikalischen und menschlichen Faktoren dahin polarisiert, da es wnschenswert bleibt, mit den festgelegten Manahmen eine Integration zu frdern. Verschiedene neue Entwicklungsmodelle bieten sich fr die Planung eines ganzheitlichen Systems an.
3674559|The popularity of operating chairlifts at alpine ski areas in the summer to accommodate activities such as hiking and mountain biking is growing, especially in North America. Research has been conducted on environmental impacts of summer use at ski areas, but the social aspects have received little empirical attention. This paper describes summer visitors' (1) demographics; (2) activities and other trip characteristics; (3) motivations; and (4) experiences and satisfaction with lift ticket fees, management strategies, conflicting activities, and other on-site conditions. Data were obtained from visitor surveys (n = 548) conducted from July to September 2000 at 5 separate sites at the Whistler Mountain ski area in Canada. Hikers, sightseers, and mountain bikers were the main activity groups. Overall satisfaction was high, but visitors were not satisfied with every aspect of their experience. Many were displeased with crowding, environmental impacts, lift ticket fees, lack of educational/interpretive information provided, and overflights by helicopter tours. Responses, however, differed among the sites, suggesting the need for managing each site separately. Explanations for these findings and implications for managers and researchers are discussed.
mounresedeve.30.1.42|Editor's note: As a response to the reality of the impacts of climate change both on ecosystems and local people in the broader Himalayan region, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and two technical partners, UNESCOIHE Institute for Water Education and San Diego State University (SDSU), undertook scientific studies focusing on high-altitude wetlands. Around 200 papers were consulted by experts to write the review upon which the present article is based. A detailed report of the review is currently being produced; this article summarizes the key findings and recommendations.
mounresedeve.31.3.242|The Indus River Basin is characterized by downstream areas with the world's largest irrigation system, providing food and energy security to more than 215 million people. The arid to semiarid basin is classified as a net water deficit area, but it also suffers from devastating floods. Among the four basin countries, Pakistan is most dependent on water originating in high mountain catchments and is therefore most vulnerable to climatic, socioeconomic, and other global changes that are impacting both supply and demand. Given the consensus that there is a lack of systematic and consistent hydrological, meteorological, biophysical, and socioeconomic data to promote integrated water resources management (IWRM) at the basin scale, an international consultation of scientists, water managers, and development partners was organized in 2010. These experts suggested developing a long-term Indus Basin Research Program aiming to build a robust, consolidated, and shared scientific knowledge base and thus improve understanding of the coupled human and ecological processes and their interrelationships in the basin. This paper summarizes the rationale for initiating such a coordinated multidisciplinary research, knowledge management, and capacity development process aiming to support water management policies and programs from design stage to implementation, using the framework of integrated river basin management (IRBM). The paper further stresses the need to implement IRBM using IWRM tools, recognizing that multiple factors and actors play critical roles in improving management of water and other natural resources to enhance overall water productivity. The steps needed to initiate and consolidate national and international institutional coordination, capacity development, and policy support to operationalize an IRBM process are spelled out. A longterm research and capacity-building program for international organizations and scientists is recommended to foster transboundary cooperation and scientific collaboration.
mounresedeve.34.4.396|Natural regeneration was studied at 7-year-old native species regeneration sites on abandoned lands in central mountain areas of Hainan Island, off China's southern coast. Using linear sampling, 7 belt transects (each 5 m in width, with a cumulative length of 2000 m) were established and then subdivided into 400 plots (5  5 m). Plant regeneration was surveyed on each plot. For each woody species, the life stage, mature height, dispersal mode, and successional status were assessed. The regenerating woody community at the sites was found to be species-rich, with 40 species identified. However, the community was dominated by a subset of secondary forest pioneer species, such as
10.2307/3673554|This study deals with changing land-use patterns in the mountains and highlands of southeastern Africa, in the countries of Lesotho, Malawi, South Africa, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe. Here, destruction of the environment contrasts with strict conservation policies-policies that are incorporated into strong government legislation but which are not applied. The differences in land-use patterns, development strategies, and planning can be explained by different economic standards and stages of socio-economic development. /// Cet article traite des changements dans les modes d'utilisation du sol pour les montagnes et hautes terres du sud-est de l'Afrique, c'est--dire les pays suivants: Lesotho, Malawi, Afrique du Sud, Swaziland et Zimbabwe. Dans cette rgion, la destruction de l'environnement fait contraste avec de strictes mesures de conservation qui font partie de la lgislation gouvernementale mais qui ne sont pas appliques. Les diffrences entre modes d'utilisation du sol, stratgies de dveloppement et planification peuvent tre expliques par diffrents standards conomiques et stades de dveloppement socio-conomique. /// Diese Studie befat sich mit den sich verndernden Formen der Landnutzung, Planung und Anbaumethoden in den Bergen und Hochlndern Sdostafrikas, insbesondere in Lesotho, Malawi, Sdafrika, Swaziland und Simbabwe. Verschiedenartige Konzepte werden angewandt, um eine zerstrerische Landnutzung der Bergebiete zu vermeiden und geschdigte Gebiete wiederherzustellen. Strategien zur Landnutzung, -erhaltung und -entwicklung mssen vor dem Hintergrund sich verndernder sozio-konomischer Bedingungen gesehen werden. Bei der Planung von Erhaltungsmanahmen spielen die Regierungen eine immer wichtiger werdende Rolle Gleichzeitig mu bei Erhaltungsbemhungen die Aufklrung der lndlichen Bevlkerung verbessert und ihre Beteiligung gewonnen werden.
10.2307/3673948|Devastating monsson season floods in the central Nepal Himalaya have been difficult to predict with any precision, reliability, or accuracy. Deforestation is often blamed as the principal cause of flooding. This paper uses field data at 22 stream crossings, together with drainage basin morphometric data and forest cover data, to determine the dominant controls on bank-full discharge from monsoon storms. Results demonstrate that 82 percent of the variation in bank-full discharge can be explained as a function of drainage area alone; forest cover did not add explanatory power. Findings from this study can be used to guide planning for future projects that will be affected by flood hazards in the central Nepal Himalaya, including irrigation, hydropower, and footbridge construction. /// Les inondations dvastatrices de mousson dans l'Himalaya du Npal central sont difficiles  prdire avec prcision, fiabilit et exactitude. La cause principale des inondations est souvent attribue  la dforestation. Cet article utilise les donnes collectes  22 passages de cours d'eau, ainsi que les donnes morphomtriques du bassin hydrographique et les donnes de couverture forestire, pour dterminer les facteurs dominants de rgulation du dbit proche du dbordement produit par les temptes de mousson. Les rsultats dmontrent que 82 pour cent de la variation du dbit proche du dbordement peuvent s'expliquer uniquement en fonction du bassin hydrographique, la couverture forestire ne fournissant aucun claircissement supplmentaire. Ces rsultats peuvent tre utiliss pour aider  la planification de projets futurs exposs aux dangers d'inondation dans l'Himalaya du Npal central, y compris l'irrigation, l'nergie lectrique et la construction de passerelles  pitons. /// Vorhersagen von verheerenden berschwemmungen whrend des Monsun im Himalaya von Zentralnepal sind weder zuverlssig noch genau. Oft wird Entwaldung als Hauptgrund fr berschwemmungen verantwortlich gemacht. Diese Arbeit benutzt Feldmessungen an 22 Flukreuzungen zusammen mit morphometrischen Daten aus den Einzugsgebieten und ber deren Bewaldung, um die Hauptparameter zu bestimmen, die die Ablaufvorgnge bei Hochwasser whrend der Monsunregenflle beschreiben. Ergebnisse zeigen, da 82% der Unterschiede in den Abfluraten bei Hochwasserstand nur als Funktion der Struktur des Abflugebietes allein erklrt werden knnen; Bewaldung, dagegen, beeinflut die Vorhersage nicht. Die Ergebnisse dieser Studie knnen Richtlinien fr zuknftige Projekte liefern, die im Himalaya von Zentralnepal durch berschwemmungen gefhrdet werden knnten. Solche Projekte betreffen z.B. den Bau von Bewsserungsanlagen, Wasserkraftwerken und Fugngerbrcken.
3674552|Environmental degradation caused by urbanization of the Andean piedmonts and related pre-mountain systems can be observed along both Chilean and Argentinean slopes, with a consequent decrease in vegetation productivity, biomass and soil moisture, and generation of heat islands. This leads to degradation of Andean environmental services such as water infiltration and flood control. Fragmentation of vegetation patches and corridors are among the other main impacts on the natural environment. These land cover and land use changes have in turn increased the frequency and magnitude of natural hazards, and the concentration of air, water and soil pollution. Unfortunately, this makes large Latin American cities examples of unsustainable development. Urban sprawl seems to be directly related to the increase in total imperviousness areas, runoff coefficients, and the interruption of the ecological integrity of the Andean watershed. Significant impacts can also be observed on the social environment, as the recent urbanization process has substantially increased social segregation and socio-ecological fragmentation in cities. Urban planning and regulations have not explicitly taken account of the environmental effects of urbanization on mountains in Chile. Urban development urgently needs to be strategically assessed in social and environmental terms, and not only as a relevant component of economic growth. The introduction of ecological planning and consideration of environmentally sensitive areas as a relevant form of regulation are proposed here.
mounresedeve.35.3.278|Approximately 211 million people live in the Hindu KushHimalaya region. Although poverty levels in this region are high, there is a lack of cohesive information on the socioeconomic status of its populations that would enable decision-makers to understand different manifestations of poverty and design effective poverty alleviation programs. Hence, the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD), in consultation with international and regional partners, has developed the Multidimensional Poverty Measure for the Hindu KushHimalayas (MPM-HKH). This measure aims to identify and describe poor and vulnerable households across the Hindu KushHimalaya regionwhich is predominantly rural and mountainous and covers several of the world's least developed countriesin a consistent manner. This article documents how the MPM-HKH was developed and demonstrates the utility of this approach, using Nepal as an example, by analyzing household survey data from 23 districts. The analysis gives important clues about differences in the intensity and composition of multidimensional poverty across these locations, which highlights the need for location-specific poverty alleviation strategies. The findings should help decision-makers to identify areas of intervention and choose the best measures to reduce poverty.
mounresedeve.36.3.380|The Mountain Societies Research Institute (MSRI) conducts transdisciplinary research for development, with the goal of improving the livelihoods and well-being of mountain societies in Central Asia and building their resilience in a rapidly changing socioeconomic, political, and biophysical environment. MSRI is a core institute of the Graduate School of Development at the University of Central Asia (UCA), working alongside the Institute of Public Policy and Administration (IPPA). Beyond research, MSRI also engages in building Central Asian capacities to contribute to sustainable mountain development; serves as a knowledge hub for scholars, development practitioners, and policy-makers; and contributes to the development of UCAs academic programs, which will be offered in the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, and Kazakhstan.
3674392|In Norway, as in many other countries, new protected areas are currently being established and managed with strong policy references to "local participation." Is this policy implemented in a way that incorporates the concern for gender equality? The present article provides data from a study of 2 cases in which new protected areas have recently been established. The first is the Dovre Mountains Conservation Plan (Verneplan for Dovrefjell), which was adopted in 2002 and includes Dovrefjell-Sunndalsfjella National Park. In the second case, the focus is on an area which was established in 2004 as the Geiranger-Herdalen Landscape Protected Area (landskapsvernomrde). It is argued that one could expect Norway-perhaps more than any other country-to implement local participation in protected area establishment in a way that ensures gender equality. However, the results of the study show that local participation within the context of conservation issues ignores policies and legislation on gender equality. These findings are analyzed and causes for this state of affairs are shown to reside in structural features on the one hand, and the lack of demand for female candidates in local elections and appointments on the other. It is concluded that the main factor explaining this situation is neglect by Norwegian conservation authorities of their responsibility for gender mainstreaming. Efforts to legitimate conservation with reference to local participation are seen as problematical when local women are involved only to a very limited extent.
mounresedeve.31.2.131|The aims of this study were to describe the biometrics and the spatial and age structure of a population of Norway spruce, to compare vertically connected sections of the timberline ecotone, and to assess the possibility of regeneration of a Norway spruce population under the conditions of the ecotone developing above the former pastoral timberline in the Hrub Jesenk Mountains, Czech Republic. In the first stage, we established the age of the populations by means of an agegirth nonlinear regression model in a research polygon (RP) with an area of 3.5 ha. The degree of coverage was determined by using geographic information system methods. The total number of cones in the RP was counted, and 50 cones were taken for laboratory investigation of their germination capacity and the number of seeds per cone. The distribution of trees in clonal generations was examined for 10 clonal groups, and the characteristics of layering were explored by measuring the preserved layered branches. To verify the trends found in the first stage of research, we conducted an analysis of the age of all specimens on 8 control plots (50 m  30 m) in other parts of the mountain range. The results show that the timberline ecotone is rising gradually and that the forest-free area may become significantly reduced. Up to 3 generations of trees of clonal origin were found in the RP. A greater intensity of vegetative regeneration was observed in the upper section of the RP. Moreover, the seed-based regeneration proved to be successful in the RP, and living, germinating seeds were found even in the top parts of the RP.
10.2307/3673041|Hmong (Meo) people comprise about 11 percent of the minority people in the Thai highlands, and are the most notorious opium producing group. Development activities among Hmong and other opium producers have focused on introduction of substitute cash crops and reforestation of Imperata grassland. Because opium is a cash crop they have incorrectly assumed that any crop with an equivalent cash yield can be readily substituted. They have ignored unique features of opium (low bulk, very high value, easy to store, transport and sell, direct utility as a medium of exchange to hire labourers). Planning has failed to allow for population growth and has generally ignored indigenous views of economic problems or spontaneous efforts to cope with them. This paper considers direct sales of crafts and forest and farm products in lowland markets as one spontaneous response, and also comments on the indigenous view of the role of education in development. Fifty Hmong merchants in Chiang Mai and two in Bangkok were interviewed between March and September 1979. Slightly more than half were women; ages ranged from 10 to over 60. They are of two types, those who sell farm and forest products, and sellers of crafts. They generate substantial amounts of cash and contribute to the support of large numbers of family members. None of the produce they sell is related to crop substitution activities. No development efforts are directed at improving the efficiency of their operations. Hmong merchants are apparently pioneers in a process which is bringing increasing numbers of Hmong and other highlanders out of the mountains; some (especially craft sellers) because they see economic opportunity there, while others (sellers of produce such as kindling and bamboo shoots) because they cannot make a living in the mountains. Education, which is now becoming widespread in the highlands, is seen by Hmong craft sellers as important to commercial success in the lowlands, but is not seen by produce sellers as important for success in agriculture. Craft sellers, who require a capital investment in inventory, are more likely to come from households with good access to agricultural land than are produce sellers, who gather or produce their own products. Indigenous efforts at development, such as those of Hmong merchants should be taken into account in development planning, both because of the development activities themselves, and because of what these activities reveal about the willingness of these people to act as entrepreneurs and to innovate. /// Le peuple Hmong (Meo) reprsente environ 11 pour-cent des minorits tablies dans les rgions montagneuses de la Thalande, et constitue le groupe producteur d'opium le plus notoire. Les activits de dveloppement des Hmongs et autres producteurs d'opium se sont concentres sur l'introduction de cultures commerciales de remplacement et le reboisement des herbages d'Imperata. Comme l'opium est lui-mme une culture commerciale, ils ont presum incorrectement que toute culture ayant un rapport quivalent pouvait tre substitue facilement. En fait, l'opium prsente des caractristiques uniques: haute valeur pour une faible masse; facilit de stockage, de transport, et de vente; utilisation directe comme moyen d'change pour l'embauche de main-d'oeuvre. La planification n'a pas tenu compte de la croissance dmographique et, en gnral, a ignor les attitudes indignes envers les problmes conomiques, ou les efforts spontans pour les rsoudre. Cette tude considre la vente directe des produits artisanaux, agricoles et forestiers sur les marchs des plaines comme une rponse spontane, et examine les attitudes indignes envers le rle de l'ducation dans le dveloppement. Cinquante commerants Hmongs  Chiang Mai et deux  Bangkok ont t interviews entre mars et septembre 1979. Un peu plus de la moiti de l'chantillon tait compos de femmes, et l'ge des participants s'tendait de 10  plus de 60 ans. Deux types de commerants doivent tre distingus: les marchands de produits agricoles et forestiers, et les marchands de produits artisanaux. Ce commerce est d'un gros rapport et contribue  supporter de grandes familles. Aucun des produits vendus n'est li aux activits de substitution de cultures, et aucun effort de dveloppement n'est orient vers l'amlioration du rendement de leurs exploitations. Les commerants Hmongs sont apparemment  l'origine d'un processus par lequel les peuples des rgions montagneuses descendent en nombre croissant vers les plaines. Certains, en particulier les marchands de produits artisanaux, le font parce qu'ils y voient des possibilits commerciales, alors que d'autres, tels que les marchands de produits comme le petit-bois et les pousses de bambou, le font parce qu'ils ne peuvent pas gagner leur vie dans les montagnes. L'ducation, qui se rpant  prsent dans les rgions montagneuses, est considre par les marchands de produits artisanaux comme un atout essentiel pour le succs commercial dans les plaines, mais son importance est moindre pour le succs dans l'agriculture, du point de vue des marchands de produits agricoles. La vente des produits artisanaux, ncssitant un investissement en capital pour constituer l'inventaire, est plus vraisemblablement assure par les familles ayant un bon accs aux terres arables, plutt que les marchands de produits agricoles ou forestiers qui rcoltent ou produisent leurs propres denres. Les efforts indignes vers le dveloppement, tels que ceux des commerants Hmongs, doivent tre pris en compte dans la planification,  cause des activits de dveloppement elles-mmes, mais aussi pour ce que ces activits rvlent sur la volont de ces peuples  jouer un rle d'entrepreneurs et  innover. /// Ungefhr 11% der Minderheitsbevlkerung im Thai Hochland sind Hmong. Unter den Opiumerzeugern sind sie die bekanntesten. Entwicklungsanstrengungen fr die Hmong und fr andere Opiumerzeuger konzentrieren sich auf die Einfhrung von Ersatzfeldfrchten, die zum Verkauf geeignet sind, und auf die Aufforstung der Imperata Grasflchen. Opium ist eine ausschliesslich zum Verkauf bestimmte Feldfrucht, und es wurde irrtmlich angenommen, dass sie durch andere eintrgliche Arten ersetzt werden kann. Dabei wurden jedoch die besonderen Merkmale von Opium bersehen (z.B. kleine Masse mit sehr hohem Verkaufswert, leicht aufzubewahren, zu transportieren und zu verkaufen, als Tauschmittel zum Anheuern von Arbeitskrften geeignet). Planungen liessen das Bevlkerungswachstum unbercksichtigt und haben im allgemeinen die einheimischen Vorstellungen der konomischen Probleme oder die ad hoc Versuche, damit fertig zu werden, ignoriert. Diese Verffentlichung sieht in den direkten Verkufen von handgefertigten Produkten sowie von Holz- und Farmerzeugnissen auf den Mrkten des Flachlandes einen solchen spontanen Versuch, ausserdem wird zur Frage der Erziehung bei der Entwicklung Stellung genommen. Eine Umfrage wurde mit fnfzig Hmong Kaufleuten in Chiang Mai und zwei aus Bangkok zwischen Mrz und September 1979 durchgefhrt. Mehr als die Hlfte davon waren Frauen, das Alter lag zwischen 10 und ber 60. Zwei Grupper konnten unterschieden werden: Eine, die Holz- und Farmprodukte verkauft und eine zweite, die handgefertigte Gegenstnde anbietet. Beide nehmen beachtliche Geldbetrge ein und tragen zum Unterhalt vieler Familienangehriger bei. Keins dieser Verkaufserzeugnisse hat aber etwas mit Entwicklungsmassnahmen, Feldfrchte zu ersetzen, zu tun. Anstrengungen, den Wirkungsgrad dieser Unternehmungen zu verbessern, fehlen. Die Hmong Kaufleute sind offenbar Pioniere bei dem Prozess, immer mehr Hmong Hochlandbewohner aus den Bergen zu bringen (besonders wenn sie Verkufer handgefertigter Produkte sind), weil wirtschaftliche Mglichkeiten gegeben sind. Die zweite Gruppe dagegen (Verkufer von Landertrgen wie Brennholz oder Bambussprossen) verlsst die Berge, weil sie dort ihren Lebensunterhalt nicht verdienen knnen. Erziehung, die in Berggegenden jetzt weit verbreitet ist, wird von Hmong Kaufleuten als wichtiger Schlssel zum wirtschaftlichen Erfolg im Flachland angesehen. Verkufer von Landertrgen dagegen betrachten Erziehung als unwichtig fr den wirtschaftlichen Erfolg. Verkufer von handgefertigten Gegenstnden, die Kapitalinvestierung in der Lagerhaltung erfordern, kommen meistens aus Haushaltungen, denen mehr landwirtschaftliches Nutzland zur Verfgung steht als den Verkufern der Landprodukte, die ihre Ware erst sammeln oder vorbereiten mssen. Einheimische Bemhungen, wie sie von den Hmong Kaufleuten ausgehen, sollten bei der Entwicklungsplanung bercksichtigt werden. Dies einerseits, weil sie im Sinne der Entwicklung sind, zum anderen weil sie den Initiativen dieser Menschen, als Unternehmer und Pioniere zu fungieren, Rechnung tragen.
mounresedeve.29.3.220|Underutilized plant species play a fundamental role in the livelihoods of poor communities living in harsh environments such as mountain areas, although they only have a small share in production and trade. Emmer (
10.2307/3674111|Preliminary studies on late-Holocene deforestation and modern degradation of alpine meadows in the central Wutai Shan were made during a Sino-German joint expedition in 1995. Since the 5th century, Wutai Shan has been one of the most sacred sites for Buddhist pilgrims in China. Periods of extensive deforestation and intensive land use occurred, at least during the Ming and Qing dynasties (AD 1368-1911). By the end of the 19th century Wutai Shan had become widely deforested. However, several radiocarbon dates on wood and charcoal fragments recovered from the base of the loessic sediment that rests directly on the bedrock and debris pavement in the upper meadow region above 2,400 m indicate that timberline in the summit area experienced significant lowering between 2,000 and 3,000 years ago. Due to recent grazing activities in the meadow region, grazing steps (terracettes) and various sub-types of turf-destruction features have developed, mainly along the frequently used grazing routes and in the pasture lands. Although the overall extent of turf damage by over-grazing appears to be slight at present, any further increase in grazing pressure will likely produce an acceleration in the rates of soil erosion and vegetation loss. This may cause irreversible damage to the sensitive alpine meadow lands of the Wutai Shan. The entire Wutai Shan massif occupies an area no greater than 300 km<sup>2</sup> and the alpine meadow comprises only a small part of the total.
10.2307/3673725|This is a compound paper derived from the field guidebook prepared for the 1989 Salzburg Symposium on Mountain Hazard Geomorphology. It consists of seven separate parts, each prepared by one of the three co-authors. The first constitutes an introduction to the hazard geomorphology of the Tyrol and Vorarlberg, Austrian Alps. It provides outlines of the geology, tectonics, glacial history, topography, and present-day climate of the larger region within which the detailed field demonstrations of the excursion were set. Special attention is paid to the tztal and its long history of natural disasters. The second part is a description of the Hall-Mils alluvial fan in the vicinity of Innsbruck. It provides a basis for understanding much of the Pleistocene and Holocene evolution of the Inn Valley terraces and alluvial fans, which are closely related to the development of the human settlements and the varying degree of hazard they sustain, depending upon their precise location. The details of the Enterbach torrent and alluvial fan are given in the third section, with special attention to the 1969 debris flow disaster which destroyed 42 of the pre-existing 44 check-dams and caused US $1.8 million in damages to the village of Inzing and vicinity. Part four is an account of the giant landslide of Kfels that, about 8,700 years ago, collapsed into the tztal between the sites of the present-day villages of Lngenfeld and Umhausen. The earlier volcanic and meteorite impact hypotheses are reviewed and the current explanation of a giant landslide is presented. The force of the impact on the opposite valley wall was equivalent to a moderate-scale earthquake and the kinetic energy along the glide planes was sufficient to melt some of the underlying rock to create frictionite. The account of the 1987 tztal flood disaster, as part five, demonstrates that mountain hazards remain a serious threat to this prime Alpine center of tourism and winter sports. Part six indicates that during the thirteenth, and seventeenth to nineteenth centuries the tztal was even more hazardous than today. When the Gurgl and Vernagt glaciers extended to their historic maxima, ice-dammed lakes formed that periodically experienced catastrophic drainage and devastated the valley below them. The seventh and final article demonstrates how clear-cutting in the mountain forests of Schesa, near Bludenz, Voralberg, in the late-1770s, led to the development of an immense gully with recurrent disasters between the late-eighteenth century and the present. Taken together, these several parts combine studies in geology, geomorphology, and climatology, historical documentation, and the knowledge of the limited success of technical solutions, to demonstrate the complexity of mountain hazards research. They also demonstrate the need for caution, as well as a sound legal basis, for human intervention in high energy mountain terrain. /// Cet article composite est tir du guide prpar pour le Symposium sur la gomorphologie des dangers de montagne, qui s'est tenu  Salzburg en 1989. Il comporte sept sections, chacune tant rdige par l'un des trois co-auteurs. La premire section constitue une introduction  la morphologie des dangers de montagne, pour le Tyrol et le Vorarlberg, dans les Alpes autrichiennes. Il fournit des sommaires de la gologie, de la tectonique, de l'histoire glaciaire, de la topographie, et du climat actuel, pour la rgion dans laquelle les dmonstrations relatives  l'excursion ont t effectues. L'tztal fait l'objet d'une attention particulire, du fait de ses longs antcdents de catastrophes naturelles. La seconde section est une description du cne alluvial de Hall-Mils au voisinage d'Innsbruck. Il fournit les informations de base permettant de comprendre une grande partie de l'volution au cours du Plistocne et de l'Holocne des terrasses et des cnes alluviaux de la valle de l'Auberge, qui sont troitement lis au dveloppement des peuplements humains et au niveau variable de danger auxquels ils sont exposs, selon leur emplacement prcis. Les dtails pour le torrent Enterbach et le cne alluvial sont fournis dans la troisime section, en particulier la coule de dbris de 1969 qui a dtruit 42 des 44 barrages-dversoirs fixes existants, et a caus 1,8 million $ US de dgts au village d'Inzing et aux alentours. La quatrime section dcrit le glissement de terrain gant de Kfels, qui s'est produit il y a environ 8 700 ans et s'est effondr dans l'tztal entre les sites des villages contemporains de Lngenfeld et d'Umhausen. Les hypothses concernant l'activit volcanique antrieure et l'impact mtoritique sont passes en revue et l'explication actuelle d'un glissement de terrain gant est prsente. La force de l'impact sur le versant oppos de la valle tait quivalent  un tremblement de terre de force moyenne, et l'nergie cintique le long des plans de rorientation minralogique tait suffisante pour faire fondre la roche sous-jacente pour former de la frictionite. La description de l'inondation catastrophique de l'tztal en 1987, c'est--dire la cinquime section, dmontre que les dangers de la montagne constituent une menace srieuse pour ce centre important de tourisme et de sports d'hiver. La sixime section indique que durant le treizime sicle et entre le dix-septime et le dix-neuvime sicles, l'tztal tait plus dangereux qu'il ne l'est aujourd'hui. Lorsque les glaciers de Gurgl et de Vernagt s'taient avancs jusqu' leur maximum historique, des lacs se sont forms derrire des barrages de glace, et ont fait l'objet de drainages catastrophiques qui ont dvast la valle plus en bas. La septime et dernire section dmontre comment la coupe rase des forts montagnardes de Schesa, prs de Bludenz, Voralberg,  la fin des annes 1770, a entran le dveloppement d'un immense ravin associ  des catastrophes priodiques entre la fin du dix-huitime sicle et l'poque actuelle. Prises dans leur ensemble, ces diffrentes sections combinent des tudes portant sur la gologie, la gomorphologie, la climatologie, la documentation historique, et la connaissance du succs limit des solutions techniques, pour dmontrer la complexit de la recherche sur les dangers de montagne. Elles dmontrent galement le besoin d'une approche prudente et d'un fondement juridique solide, en ce qui concerne l'intervention humaine dans un terrain montagnard  haute nergie. /// Die Beitrge fr diese Verffentlichung entstammen dem Handbuch ber Geomorphologie der Gebirgsgefahren, das fr das 1989 Symposium in Salzburg vorbereitet worden war. Insgesamt sind es sieben Beitrge, die mindestens je einen der drei Mitverfasser als Autor haben. Der erste Beitrag ist eine Einfhrung in die Gefahrengeomorphologie der sterreichischen Alpen von Tirol und Vorarlberg. Er umreit Geologie, Tektonik, Glazialgeschichte, Topographie und das gegenwrtige Klima eines greren Gebietes, in dem detaillierte Felduntersuchungen durchgefhrt werden. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit gilt dem tztal und seiner weit in die Vergangenheit zurckgehenden Geschichte der Naturkatastrophen. Der zweite Beitrag ist eine Beschreibung des alluvialen Fchers von Hall-Mils in der Umgebung von Innsbruck. Sie ist die Grundlage fr ein Verstndnis der pleistoznen und holoznen Entwicklung der Inntalterrassen und der alluvialen Fcher. Hand in Hand mit dieser Entwicklung verlief auch die Besiedelung, wobei der unterschiedliche Gefahrengrad einer bestimmten Lage eine wichtige Rolle spielte. Detaillierte Angaben ber den Enterbach Wildbach und den alluvialen Fcher finden sich im dritten Beitrag. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit gilt der Gerllawinenkatastrophe von 1969, die 42 der ursprnglich 44 vorhandenen Staudmme zerstrte, und in der Gemeinde Inzing und Umgebung einen Sachschaden in Hhe von US $ 1,8 Mill. anrichtete. Im vierten Beitrag wird ber den gigantischen Erdrutsch von Kfels vor ca. 8.700 Jahren berichtet, der das tztal zwischen den heutigen Gemeinden von Lngenfeldt und Umhausen heimsuchte. Frhere Hypothesen ber vulkanische- und meteoritische Einflsse werden berprft, und die gegenwrtige Interpretation eines riesigen Erdrutsches wird vorgestellt. Die Wucht dieses Vorganges auf die gegenberliegende Talwand kam einem mittleren Erdbeben gleich, und die kinetische Energie entlang der Gleitflchen war ausreichend, Teile des tieferliegenden Gesteins zu schmelzen und Frictionite entstehen zu lassen. Beitrag fnf beschftigt sich mit der tztaler berschwemmungskatastrophe im Jahre 1987, und zeigt, da Gebirgsgefahren diesen beliebten, alpinen Touristenort und Wintersportplatz weiterhin ernsthaft bedrohen. Beitrag sechs verweist darauf, da das tztal whrend des 13. Jahrhunderts und vom 17. bis 19. Jahrhundert gefhrdeter war, als es heute der Fall ist. Diese Zeitrume mit der grten Ausdehnung der Gurgl- und Vernagtgletscher sind bekannt; wobei Eisdmme Stauseen bildeten, die sich regelmig unter katastrophenhnlichen Umstnden entleerten und das tieferliegende Tal verwsteten. Der siebente und letzte Beitrag zeigt, wie Kahlschlag in den Bergwldern um Schesa bei Bludenz, Vorarlberg, in den spten 1770-iger Jahren eine immense Rinne entstehen lie, die zu wiederholten Naturkastrophen zwischen dem spten 18. Jahrhundert und der Gegenwart fhrte. Die sieben Einzelbeitrge vereinen Studienergebnisse ber Geologie, Geomorphologie, Klimatologie und historische Dokumentation; daneben liefern sie die Erkenntnis, da technische Lsungen nur begrenzten Erfolg haben, und da die Erforschung der Bergefahren ein sehr komplexes Gebiet ist. Auerdem wird aufgezeigt, da bei menschlichen Eingriffen in Gebirgsterrain mit aufgestauter Energie Vorsicht und vernnftige legale Grundlagen notwendig sind.
10.2307/3673535|Local systems of management are increasingly acknowledged as central to the conservation and sustained utilization of Nepal's upland natural resources. If local resource management systems are to be effective, we must understand not only how existing systems function, but also how relationships between them and larger policies and institutions encourage or hinder their evolution. This paper presents examples of local systems for forest protection and landslide control on private lands in two panchayats of Gorkha District. The opportunities and limitations for further local resource management initiative posed there by national policy and externally-sponsored development projects are also examined. Both a large, "top-down" development project and a more grassroots NGO program have had little success in fostering local management of common resources, which appears to be additionally hampered by the perception that common lands are ultimately the domain of the government. The paper suggests that local management systems organized around specific resources are likely to be more effective than those expected to conform to administrative boundaries and institutions, and that local knowledge can be augmented by outside institutional and technical inputs. /// Les systmes locaux de gestion des ressources sont de plus en plus reconnus comme tant d'une importance primordiale pour la conservation et l'utilisation  long terme des ressources naturelles de hautes terres du Npal. Pour que ces systmes soient effectifs, il est indispensable de comprendre non seulement comment ils fonctionnent  prsent, mais aussi comment leurs relations avec les politiques et institutions plus vastes encouragent ou freinent leur volution. Cette article prsente des exemples de systmes locaux de protection des forts et de lutte contre les glissements de terrain, sur des terres prives situes dans deux panchayat du district de Gorkha. Il examine galement les possibilits et limitations lies  la politique nationale et aux projets de dveloppement financs de l'extrieur, en ce qui concerne la continuation des efforts locaux de gestion des ressources. Un important projet de dveloppement dirig de "haut en bas", de mme qu'un programme non-gouverne mental au niveau de la population rurale, n'ont gure russi  encourager la gestion locale des ressources communes, dj dcourage par la perception que les terres communes appartiennent en fait au gouvernement. Cette tude suggre que des systmes locaux de gestion organiss autour de certaines ressources particulires seraient plus effectifs que des systmes soumis  des barrires administratives et  la direction d'institutions, et que les connaissances locales pourraient tre enrichies par des contributions d'ordre technique et administratif de l'extrieur. /// Managementpraktiken auf Gemeindeebene werden mehr und mehr als wichtiger Faktor zur Erhaltung und anhaltenden Nutzung der Naturressourcen im Hochland von Nepal erkannt. Wenn lokales Ressourcenmanagement wirksam sein soll, mssen wir nicht nur verstehen, wie die bestehenden Systeme funktionieren, sondern auch auf welche Art sie mit greren Unternehmungen und Institutionen verflochten sind, die ihre Entwicklung frdern oder hindern. Diese Verffentlichung gibt Beispiele von Gemeindepraktiken beim Waldschutz und bei der Erdrutschkontrolle auf privaten Flchen in zwei Gemeinden (panchayats) des Gorkha Distrikts. Daneben werden Mglichkeiten und Grenzen fr weitreichende Unternehmungen im lokalen Ressourcemanagement, die sich aus der Landespolitik und den auerstaatlich gefrderten Entwicklungsprojekten ergeben, untersucht. Sowohl ein groes "top-down" Entwicklungsprojekt als ein bodenstndiges NGO Programm waren wenig erfolgreich, das lokale Management der Gemeinderessourcen zu frdern; wobei die Ansicht, das Gemeindeland sei letztlich Sache der Regierung, zustzlich hinderlich war. Diese Verffentlichung bekundet, da Management auf Gemeindeebene fr spezielle Ressourcen wirksamer ist als solches, von dem erwartet wird, da es mit administrativen Schranken und Einrichtungen konformiert, und da es mglich ist, rtliche Kenntnisse durch technische und institutionelle Inputs zu frdern.
10.2307/3673512|The people at Yumbisa in the high Enga country (2,650 m) suffered complete loss of their crops in the frosts of 1972. Most of them migrated either to sites at lower altitude where they had land, or to stay with hosts. Over the following three years they migrated to and fro between these 'refuge' sites and their home valley. This paper traces the events, describes the social basis of migration, and concludes that for these frost-vulnerable people, the maintenance of dispersed gardens and social relations with potential hosts constitute a successful adaptive strategy. Inequalities in access to refuge are also discussed. /// La population de Yumbisa dans la haute rgion de Enga (2.650 m) ont perdu la totalit de leurs rcoltes  la suite des geles de 1972. La plupart des habitants ont alors migr vers des sites plus bas o ils possdaient des terres, ou bien ils se sont rfugis chez d'autres paysans. Au cours des trois annes suivantes, ils ont fait la navette entre ces sites 'refuges' et leur valle d'origine. Cet article retrace les vnements qui sont survenus, dcrit les bases sociales de la migration, et conclut que pour cette population expose aux prils de la gele, le maintien de jardins disperss et de relations sociales avec des htes possibles constitue une bonne stratgie d'adaptation. Les ingalits en termes d'accs aux 'refuges' sont galement discutes. /// Die Klteperiode im Jahre 1972 zerstrte in Yumbisa, im hochgelegenen Enga Gebiet (2.650 m), die gesamte Ernte. Die Mehrzahl der Bevlkerung wanderte daraufhin in niedrigere Lagen ab; dort hatten sie entweder Landbesitz oder konnten bei Gastgebern unterkommen. Whrend der folgenden drei Jahre pendelten sie zwischen diesen Zufluchtsorten und ihrem Heimattal hin und her. Diese Verffentlichung verfolgt die Vorgnge, beschreibt die soziale Grundlage der Migration und kommt zu dem Schlu, da fr diese klteanfllige Bevlkerungsgruppe die Unterhaltung von verstreutem Landbesitz und gesellschaftlichen Beziehungen zu mglichen Gastfamilien eine erfolgreiche Anpassungsstrategie ist. Auerdem werden die ungleichen Zufluchtsmglichkeiten aufgezeigt.
mounresedeve.33.1.4|Recent studies of future food production in South Asia generally agree that the conditions for production will radically change in the years to come, in particular due to climate change and market variations. However, because we do not know how conditions will be modified and what adaptations will be required by farmers, the article assumes that innovative farming systems will cope best with changes, whatever those changes turn out to be. The challenge, then, is to identify circumstances that either promote or hamper innovation. A comparative analysis of 2 farming communities in the Himalayas concludes that no single parameter can explain the observed variation of agricultural innovation. Rather than restricting analyses to innovation systems that consist of social institutions only, the article proposes an approach that includes social actors, as well as natural resources, in processes that produce innovative places. In this study, water availability, farm size, and an active national nongovernmental organization are parameters that encourage innovation.
10.2307/3673443|Over-exploitation of mountain resources in the Usambara Mountains has led to serious hazards, such as deforestation, soil erosion, flooding, sedimentation, and disturbance of the hydrological balance. External and internal forces influenced by geoecological factors have generated internal demographic pressure. The results are increasing pressure on marginal hill forests, firewood, and animal fodder, and decreasing soil fertility and, as a consequence, a low level of economic activity and a low standard of living. This has produced a general disturbance of the ecological balance and outmigration of young able persons from the Usambaras. This paper discusses some geoecological factors influencing over-utilization and land degradation of the Usambara Mountains. /// La surexploitation des ressources naturelles dans les monts Usambara prsente des risques srieux tels que la dforestation, l'rosion du sol, les inondations, la sdimentation, et la perturbation du bilan hydrologique. Des forces externes et internes, influences par des facteurs gologiques, ont engendr une pression dmographique interne. Cela signifie des contraintes accrues sur les forts en marge des montagnes pour la production de bois de chauffage et de fourrage pour le btail, et une baisse de la fertilit du sol, donc une activit conomique restreinte et un bas niveau de vie. Cette situation a entran une perturbation gnrale de l'quilibre cologique et une migration des jeunes en ge de travailler. Cette tude examine certains facteurs gologiques qui influencent la surexploitation et la dgradation des terres dans les monts Usambara. /// Uebernutzung natrlicher Gebirgsressourcen hat in den Usambara-Bergen zu ernsthaften Gefahren von Entwaldung, Bodenerosion, Ueberschwemmung und Strung des hydrologischen Gleichgewichts gefhrt. Aeussere und innere Krfte, die durch geokologische Faktoren beeinflusst sind, haben internen demographischen Druck geschaffen, der sich auf marginale Hgelwlder, auf Brennholz, Tierfutter und abnehmende Bodenfruchtbarkeit auswirkt. Als Folge davon resultiert eine geringe konomische Aktivitt, ein tiefer Lebensstandart, eine Strung des kologischen Gleichgewichts und die Auswanderung der jungen, fhigen Leute aus den Usambara-Bergen. Der vorliegende Artikel diskutiert einige geokologische Faktoren, welche Uebernutzung und Degradation der Usambara-Berge beeinflussen.
mounresedeve.32.2.169|Environmental education (EE) has recently been included in school curricula in India to improve understanding of ecosystems, their functions, and the effect of human actions on them. The need for EE is more pronounced in Ladakh, in the Indian Trans-Himalaya, where recent development activities pose challenges for the fragile mountain ecosystem and for traditional livelihoods. Inclusion of EE in school curricula by the Jammu & Kashmir State Education Board and a conservation education program organized jointly by various government and nongovernmental agencies across Ladakh are some of the significant steps taken. As part of the Wildlife Institute of India's collaborative conservation education program, a questionnaire survey was conducted to explore Ladakh school teachers' knowledge of and attitude toward wildlife and conservation. In all, 277 government school teachers took part in the study. Results of the study highlight that teachers in Ladakh are aware of local biodiversity and have favorable attitudes toward conservation. However, responses to specific statements on snow leopards (Panthera uncia) were found to be unfavorable. Despite a high percentage of respondents agreeing that conservation of snow leopards was important, they also were considered as a threat to the local economy. The study identifies the need for intensive preservice and in-service environmental education programs to spread conservation awareness.
25164149|Chitral is a landlocked and mountainous region of northern Pakistan located in the Hindu Kush mountains, with a total population of around 400,000 in 50,000 households. The inhabitants of Chitral face a variety of problems associated with climatic hazards throughout the year, such as heavy snowfall in winter, flash floods in summer, glacial outbursts, soil erosion, landslides, occasional earthquakes, and subsequent outbreaks of disease. In such a fragile environment, the collective action of local communities through grassroots institutions-Village and Women's Organizations (V/WOs) and the second generation of these institutions, Local Support Organizations (LSOs)-has been instrumental in effectively tackling these problems. LSOs play the role of a laboratory for engagement by civil society and developing institutional mechanisms to address development challenges, including natural hazards and disasters in the area.
mounresedeve.32.4.420|Can existing Afro-alpine tourism promote poverty mitigation and resolve regional disparities? This article explores the significance of alpine tourism in the Mt Kenya region based on analysis of the state of the art and official statistical data along with own surveys, mapping activities, and household observations. The results show that economic benefits from mountaineering tourism in the Mt Kenya region are smaller than commonly calculated, and that low and inconsistent incomes are distributed unevenly. There are clear parallels to the critical situation in the Rwenzori Mountains in Uganda: Alpine tourism does not reduce regional income disparities and largely fails to promote sustainable development. The article also takes a closer look at the development effects of community-based tourism, drawing from the example of the Mt Kenya Guides and Porters Safari Club (GPSC), a community-based tourism organization operating from Naro Moru, at the fertile western foot of Mt Kenya. Results show that this form of tourism stabilizes the livelihoods of rural households, contributes to community welfare, and reduces the vulnerability of families. The GPSC's democratic organizational structure with elected and regularly rotating offices prevents the enrichment of only few members and ensures even distribution of benefits to all members and to the whole community. Overall, however, there is not enough tourism in the study area to initiate sustainable regional development in the foreseeable future.
25163992|Dendrological and climatological measurements were carried out during the vegetative period at four observation stations along vertical and longitudinal transects through a valley to the south of the Simplon Pass (Valais, Switzerland). The habitats for larch (Larix decidua), spruce (Picea excelsa), and mountain pine (Pinus montana) differ in aspect, altitude, and in distance from the timberline. The dendrological measurements show that growth patterns are similar over large areas, both for individuals of one species at the same site as well as for trees from different sites. Thus, a comparison between different species is possible. Individual trees, however, cannot be regarded as representative for one species at a specific habitat. The study showed that the conditions in the habitat are of much greater importance for a species than endogenous or individual factors, and that climate exerts a dominating influence. Climatological measurements showed that there are direct correlations between tree-ring growth and weather. Twelve hundred correlations for each tree species and habitat were prepared. Temperature is the dominating factor; depending on the distance of the habitat from timberline there are delays of up to one week. The temperature of + 5 C seems to be critical and below this growth is retarded. The well-known hypothesis, that at higher altitudes temperature is a limiting factor, is substantiated. Other factors, especially precipitation and humidity, are less significant. These results show that larch seems to be the most suitable tree species for reforestation at high altitudes. It is superior to spruce and mountain pine in growth efficiency and intensity. /// Des mesures dendrologiques et climatologiques ont t effectues pendant la priode vgtale  quatre stations d'observation - profile verticale et longitudinale - dans la valle sud du Simplon (Valais, Suisse). Les habitats de mlzes (Larix decidua), d'picas (Picea excelsa) et de pins (Pinus montana) se distinguent dans l'exposition, l'altitude et la distance de la limite d'arbres. Les mesures dendrologiques montrent des concordances du dveloppement de la croissance non seulement pour la mme espce d'arbres au mme et au diffrents habitats, mais aussi entre les diffrents espces d'arbres. C'est la preuve dircte que la synchronisation de diffrents espces de conifres pour la dendrochronologie est possible. Mais toutefois, un seul arbre ne peut pas reprsenter une espce d'arbre ou un habitat entier. Les recherches montrent que les conditions de l'habitat concernant la croissance des cernes sont beaucoup plus important que les facteurs endognes ou individuels typiques d'une espce. Ils peuvent tre reconnu dans l'influence dominant du climat. Les mesures climatologiques montrent des connexions de la croissance des cernes avec les influences atmosphriques. Pour chaque espce d'arbre et habitat, mil deux cents corrlations sont prsentes. La temprature est le facteur dominant dans la structure complxe du climat. Dpendant de la distance de la limite d'arbres, on remarque des retardements de l'influence jusqu' une semaine. Par son abaissement sous la valeur de + 5 C, le minimum de temprature effectue une influence ngative, gnant la croissance. L'hypothse bien connu que la temprature aux lieus levs soit le valeur limitant la croissance, peut tre confirm par les mesurages. Des autres facteurs, particulirement la prcipitation et l'humidit, passent au second plan. Les rsultats montrent que le mlze semble tre l'espce d'arbre le plus convenable au reboisement des hautes altitudes. Il est suprieur  l'pica et au pin concernant la largeur des cernes et l'intensit de la croissance. /// Dendrologische und klimatologische Messungen werden whrend der Vegetationsperiode an vier Beobachtungsstationen eines Talquer - und eines - lngsprofiles auf der Simplon-Sdseite (Wallis, Schweiz) durchgefhrt. Die Standorte von Lrche (Larix decidua), Fichte (Picea excelsa) und Bergfhre (Pinus montana) unterscheiden sich durch Exposition, Hhenlage und Waldgrenzentfernung. Die dendrologischen Messungen zeigen, dass der Wachstumsverlauf weitrumig vergleichbar ist. Sowohl innerhalb einer Baumart am selben und an verschiedenen Standorten wie auch zwischen den Baumarten sind die bereinstimmungen offensichtlich. Damit wird direkt nachgewiesen, da Synchronisationen fr die Dendrochronologie unter verschiedenen Nadelbaumarten mglich sind. Dennoch zeigt sich, da Einzelbume nicht als reprsentativ fr eine Baumart und einen Standort gelten knnen. Die Bedingungen des Standortes sind sehr viel bedeutender als arttypische endogene oder individuelle Faktoren. Sie knnen im berprgenden Einflu der Witterung erkannt werden. Die im Bestandesgefge erhobenen klimatischen Messungen zeigen direkte Zusammenhnge in der Beeinflussung des Jahrringzuwachses durch die Witterung auf. Die umfangreichen Auswertungen mittels statistischer Verfahren - wovon pro Baumart und Standort 1200 Korrelationen dargestellt werden - versuchen, das komplexe Witterungsgefge mglichst weitgehend zu erfassen. Dabei wird ersichtlich, dass der dominierende Faktor die Temperatur ist. Je nach Entfernung des Standortes von der Waldgrenze treten verzgernde Beeinflussungen von bis zu einer Woche auf. Bedeutend ist offenbar der + 5 C-Wert, durch dessen Unterschreiten sich das Temperaturminimum wachstumshemmend auswirkt. Mit diesen Untersuchungen wird die bekannte Hypothese, wonach in Hochlagen die Temperatur als limitierende Wertgre auftritt, messend besttigt. Die anderen Faktoren - insbesondere Niederschlag und Feuchtigkeit - spielen eine untergeordnete Rolle. Diese Resultate zeigen, dass fr Hochlagenaufforstungen die Lrche als geeignetste Baumart erscheint. Sie ist der Fichte wie der Bergfhre sowohl im Jahrringzuwachs wie in der Wuchsintensitt berlegen.
mounresedeve.29.1.82|The signature of Colorado's Rocky Mountains are the 58 named mountain peaks that exceed an elevation of 14,000 feet (4267 m), referred to as the Fourteeners. For decades, 53 or 54 peaks were widely accepted as Fourteeners, but all US Geological Survey-named, recognized, and frequented Fourteeners are included here to bring the total to 58. This article documents factors that affect mountain climbing in Colorado, USA, and discusses the potential for adverse environmental impacts from the increasing number of climbers visiting the Fourteeners, presumably from the adjacent major population center of the Denver, CO, metropolitan area. The first goal was to determine from summit registers the amount of climbers (Fourteener-visits) on any given 14,000-foot peak by month and by year. The second goal identified distance and accessibility factors that have a significant effect on relative annual mountain climbing frequency. Findings provide important insights on identifying potential preservation needs and tourism management within heavily visited rural mountain environments.
25164183|The Drakensberg is the highest mountain range in southern Africa and is considered a valuable natural and economic resource; it is also a primary tourist destination in the region. The present article compares recent tourism development and management in the well-established Royal Natal National Park (RNNP) and the adjoining Mnweni Valley, which is a developing center and former apartheid homeland. Trends in tourist characteristics, governance, and revenue streams are presented for the two centers. Although the Mnweni region has experienced significantly greater percentage growth in visitor numbers than the RNNP over the last few years, it currently lacks the capacity to ensure adequate conservation of the mountain environment. Given the considerable contrasts in mountain tourism development in the Drakensberg, it is essential to establish mountain sustainability networks and collaboration between local and regional "actors."
10.2307/3673198|Natural erosion is widespread in the alpine, arid, steep, low-populated district of Mustang, located north of the Dhaulagiri-Annapurna Himal. The geomorphic map shows a predominance of slow-moving surficial processes (periglacial solifluction, wind deflation) which induce only limited hazards and risks. Rapid, massive processes (rockfalls, landslides, mud/debris flows, bank erosion) are more limited in extent and their location is controlled by the litho-structural variations of the sedimentary bedrock, the glaciers, and the snow distribution; yet they are responsible for major, unpredictable hazards. Man-induced erosion is concentrated in the alpine pastures and along the growing axis of administrative and tourist development of the Kali Gandaki valley. The map of geomorphic hazards and risks shows a concentration in the Kali Gandaki valley and tributaries. The active processes and hazards in contrast to those noted in Khumbu Himal are related to geological and bioclimatic factors, since the Khumbu is a monsoon-influenced, forested, crystalline area where long glacial tongues have developed. In the Mustang district further development, if not controlled, might create more hazards problems in the near future because of the fragility of this desert environment. /// Le district montagneux du Mustang, situ au nord des massifs du Dhaulagiri et de l'Annapurna, se caractrise par de fortes pentes, un climat dsertique et une trs faible densit de population. La carte des phnomnes gomorphologiques montre que l'rosion est surtout d'origine naturelle. Les processus morphodynamiques lents et superficiels (solifluxion priglaciaire, dflation olienne) sont gnraliss; ils occasionnent des dgts limits aux risques faibles. En revanche, les processus de masse  volution rapide (boulements, glissements, coules de boue et de dbris, sapement de berges) sont trs localiss, selon les variations litho-structurales du substrat sdimentaire, la rpartition des glaciers et de la couverture neigeuse; ils peuvent provoquer des dgts de grande ampleur, totalement imprvisibles et donc  forts risques. L'rosion anthropique n'apparat que dans l'tage de la pelouse alpine (pturages) et le long de la valle de la Kali Gandaki, une axe de dveloppement touristique et administratif en plein essor. La carte des risques gomorphologiques fait apparatre une concentration de ceux-ci dans les deux domaines pr-cits, pelouse alpine et valle de la Kali Gandaki. Ces rsultats, compars  ceux obtenus dans le Khumbu Himal - la rgion de l'Everest - montrent que les contrastes de processus d'rosion et de dgts observs d'une rgion  l'autre relvent de facteurs gologiques et surtout bio-climatiques, le Khumbu tant une rgion  substrat cristallin, couverte de forts, affecte par la mousson estivale et occupe par de longues langues glaciaires. Au Mustang, l'accroissement incontrl des installations humaines dans la valle de la Kali Gandaki pourrait faire apparatre des problmes cologiques plus graves encore tant donne la fragilit de ce milieu dsertique. /// Natrliche Erosion ist im alpinen, trockenen, steilen und dnn besiedelten Mustang Distrikt, der nrdlich des Dhaulagiri-Annapurna Himal liegt, weitverbreitet. Die geomorphologische Karte zeigt, da langsame Oberflchenvorgnge (periglaziales Abgleiten von feuchter Erde, Deflation), die nur beschrnkte Gefahren herbeifhren, berwiegen. Schnelle, massive Vorgnge (Steinschlag, Erdrutsche, Schlamm- und Gesteinsflsse, Ufererosion) sind in ihrem Ausma begrenzter, und ihre Lokalitt wird durch verschiedene Strukturen des sedimentren Urgesteins, den Gletschern und der Schneeverteilung kontrolliert; dennoch sind sie Ursache grerer, unvorhersagbarer Gefahren. Durch Menschen verursachte Erosion konzentriert sich auf das bergige Weideland und entlang des Kali Gandaki Tals, hervorgerufen durch wachsende Verwaltungs- und Touristenentwicklung. Die Karte der geomorphischen Gefahren und Risiken zeigt eine Konzentration im Kali Gandaki Tal und seinen Zuflssen. Unterschiede in aktiven Vorgngen und Gefahren, die im Khumbu Himal erkannt wurden, beziehen sich auf geologische und bioklimatische Faktoren, da das Khumbu - ein vom Monsun beeinflutes, bewaldetes, kristalinisches Gebiet ist, in dem sich lange, glaziale Landzungen entwickelt haben. Wegen der Fragilitt der Wstenumwelt im Mustang Distrikt knnte weitere Entwicklung, falls unkontrolliert, in naher Zukunft vermehrte Gefahrenprobleme schaffen.
10.2307/3673682|This introductory paper notes the importance of the African mountains and highlands in providing resources for concentrations of dense populations in lowland areas and explores how scientific information can be readily applied and adopted for effective land management and policy making. The basic environmental problem is shortage of food and the farmers need to be taught environmentally sound land-use practices in face of the present land crisis. What is needed is an integrated action plan for African mountains and highlands. Governmental ministries should encourage and coordinate environmentally sound planning policies including programs such as land-use surveys and should work in close collaboration with scholars and researchers. Examples from Kenya are given. /// Cet article de base souligne l'importance des montagnes et des hautes terres africaines du point de vue des ressources disponibles pour les zones densment peuples des basses terres et montre comment les connaissances scientifiques peuvent tre appliques et adoptes pour une gestion effective des terres et l'laboration d'une politique rationnelle de dveloppement. Le problme environnemental de base tant la disette, il est indispensable d'enseigner aux fermiers des pratiques d'exploitation des terres respectant l'environnement si l'on veut faire face  la crise actuelle. Un plan d'action intgr pour les montagnes et les hautes terres africaines est ncessaire. Les services gouvernementaux doivent encourager et coordonner une politique de planification respectant l'environnement, y compris des programmes tels que des levs d'exploitation des terres, et doivent travailler en collaboration troite avec les chercheurs. Des exemples relatifs au Kenya sont prsents. /// In dieser einfhrenden Verffentlichung wird gezeigt, wie wichtig die afrikanischen Berge und Hochlande bei der Erstellung von Ressourcen fr das dichtbesiedelte Tiefland sind. Daneben wird untersucht, ob verfgbare wissenschaftliche Information beim Landmanagement und bei der Planung leicht angewandt und nachvollzogen werden kann. Das grte Umweltproblem ist die Nahrungsmittelknappheit; und den Bauern mssen angesichts der gegenwrtigen Landkrise brauchbare, umweltfreundliche Landnutzungsmethoden beigebracht werden. Dafr wird ein integrierter Plan fr die afrikanischen Berge und Hochlande gebraucht. Die Regierung sollte umweltgeeignete Planungen frdern und integrieren und dabei mit Forschern und Wissenschaftlern eng zusammenarbeiten. Beispiele aus Kenia werden gegeben.
10.2307/3673196|Ladakh, located in the Trans-Himalayan ranges, was a relatively isolated and unknown region with little or no influence of industrial technology until the 1960s. The traditional way of life and institutions, based on the tenets of Buddhism, were geared to the finite resource base and the limited capacity of the environment to support population growth. Following the 1962 border conflict and the opening of Ladakh to tourists in 1974, the traditional structure began to change with the impetus provided by exogenous impulses. This paper examines the traditional network of linkages and the trend of changes that have taken place in the last two decades. It also identifies some important issues that require further analysis. /// Jusqu'en 1961, le Ladakh, une rgion situe dans les chanes trans-himalayennes, tait relativement isole et inconnue, et n'avait gure t touche par la technologie industrielle. Le mode de vie et les institutions traditionnelles, bass sur les principes du bouddhisme, taient bien adapts aux ressources limites de la rgion et  la faible capacit de l'environnement de soutenir une croissance dmographique importante. A la suite de la guerre de frontires de 1962 et l'ouverture du Ladakh au tourisme en 1974, la structure traditionnelle a commenc  changer en rponse aux influences extrieures. Cette tude examine le rseau traditionnel de liens et la direction des changements qui se sont produits au cours des deux dernires dcennies. Elle identifie galement un certain nombre de questions qui devraient tre examines plus en dtail. /// Bis in die 60er Jahre war Ladakh - in den Trans-Himalaya Gebirgszgen gelegen - ein relativ isoliertes, unbekanntes Gebiet, kaum oder berhaupt nicht beeinflut von industrieller Technologie. Um das Bevlkerungswachstum zu tragen, wurden die berlieferte Lebens- und Gesellschaftsart, auf der Lehre des Buddhismus', den endlichen Ressourcen und begrenzten Umweltmglichkeiten angepat. Nach dem Grenzkonflikt im Jahre 1962 und der ffnung Ladakh's fr Touristen im Jahre 1972 hat sich die berlieferte Struktur, angetrieben von Impulsen von auen, gendert. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht das traditionelle Verflechtungsnetz und die Tendenzen von Vernderungen, die in den vergangenen zwei Jahrzehnten stattfanden; gleichzeitig zeigt sie wichtige Probleme auf, die in Zukunft noch untersucht werden mssen.
10.2307/3672965|The Mount Kenya area must respond to an increasing number of demands on its renewable resources nowadays. The agricultural production of the fertile footzone of the mountain must be increased continually because of the rapid growth in both population and the production of cash crops. The extension of cultivation threatens the continuing existence of the lower forest belt. The mountain itself risks aesthetic damage from lack of carefully planned tourism. Therefore it is necessary to study the region's most important characteristics in order to realise an effective development planning. This paper includes contributions to the knowledge of the soils, as well as assessing their ecological and agricultural significance. A multi-coloured soil map, scale 1:125,000, accompanying this paper (folded-in), portrays the topographical spread and the soil properties. The mountain is subdivided into four pedo-ecological belts. In the top area the soils are shallow, stony, and rich in organic matter. Andosols and peat soils are dominant on the upper slopes and the lower slopes are characterised by highly weathered, deep soils with argillic horizons. On the plain to the west and northwest of Mount Kenya, fine textured soils with dark topsoils are common. They have developed on volcanic ash and pyroclastic rocks. Tables 3 to 6 summarize the ecological peculiarities of the soil belts. Localities of the profile sites, profile descriptions, and laboratory data of eight selected profiles are included in an appendix. /// La rgion du Mount Kenya devient de plus en plus importante dans plusieurs domaines: La production agricole doit tre augmente continuellement  cause de l'accroissement rapide de la population et de l'augmentation des produits agricoles d'exportation, l'largissement de la zone cultive menace l'existence de la fort. La montagne risque de perdre de son attraction si l'on n'arrive pas  contrler les activits touristiques. Il est donc ncessaire d'tudier les particularits essentielles de cette rgion afin qu'un amnagement effectif puisse tre ralis. Cette tude contient quelques contributions  la connaissance des sols, de mme qu' leur signification cologique et agricole. La carte des sols complte par des photos, montre la distribution et les caractristiques des sols. La montagne est subdivise en quatre units pdo-cologiques: Dans la rgion des sommets existent surtout des sols qui sont influencs par des processus de la gele. Dans la zone alpine infrieure on rencontre des andosols et des sols marcageux, dans la zone forestire des sols ferralitiques. Dans la plaine ouest  nord-ouest de la montagne des sols riches en matriel argileux dominent. Les tables 3  6 contiennent des compilations des proprits cologiques des diffrentes zones de sols. L'appendice 1 est une concentration des localits des profils, des descriptions des profils et des rsultats laboratoires de 8 profils slectionns. /// Das Gebiet des Mount Kenya wird in neuer Zeit stets strkeren Belastungen ausgesetzt: Die Produktion von landwirtschaftlichen Gtern muss in der fruchtbaren Fusszone stndig gesteigert werden (Zunahme der Bevlkerung, vermehrter Anbau von landwirtschaftlichen Exportgtern), dabei entsteht ein Druck auf die untere Waldgrenze. Der Berg selber bt eine immer grsser werdende Anziehungskraft auf den wachsenden Tourismus auf, Eingriffe in den Naturhaushalt sind schon heute sichtbar. Diese Voraussetzungen zwingen zu einer sorgfltigen Planung der Entwicklung dieses Raumes, einige dafr bentigte Grund-lagenstudien bestehen bereits, weitere sind zur Zeit noch im Gang. Diese Verffentlichung, Auszge aus einer umfangreicheren Arbeit, enthlt Beitrge zur Kenntnis der Bden, sowie zu deren Bedeutung im kologischen System und als Pflanzenproduktionsmittel fr den Menschen. Die Bodenkarte, ergnzt durch Photos, zeigt die Verbreitung und Eigenschaften der Bden. Der Berg wird in vier pedo-kologische Einheiten unterteilt: In der Gipfelregion sind flachgrndige, von Frostwechsel geprgte Bden verbreitet. Im oberen Hangbereich dominieren Andosole und Moorbden, im unteren Hangbereich tiefgrndige, einen fortgeschrittenen Entwicklungsgrad aufweisende Bden. In der Ebene W-N.W. des Berges kommen v.a. tonreiche Bden mit dunklem Obergrund vor. Die Tabellen 3-6 enthalten Zusammenstellungen der kologischen Eigenheiten der einzelnen Bodengrtel. Appendix 1 fasst Lagemerkmale, Profilbeschreibungen und Labordaten von 8 ausgewhlten Bodenprofilen zusammen.
3674532|Irrigation in general and pressurized irrigation in particular are at an early stage of development in Eritrea. Currently, there are only about 28,000 ha under surface irrigation systems. There is no proper assessment of the extent of pressurized irrigation systems, but it has been estimated at less than 1000 ha. Smallholder irrigation technologies developed by International Development Enterprises (IDE) and consisting of bucket, drum, and micro-sprinkler kits were introduced in several villages in the highlands at the beginning of 2001 by the Center for Development and Environment (CDE). Joint research has been conducted by CDE and the Asmara College of Agriculture and Aquatic Science since March 2001 to assess the social, economic, and technical preconditions for successful implementation of the technology. As used here, the term "smallholder" refers to farmers who manage farms smaller than 1 ha entirely on their own, with little or no input from external government resources.
10.2307/3673425|Microcomputer-based Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are proving to be a most powerful tool in land resource evaluation. In this paper, examples on how to use this technology are provided for national, district, and watershed evaluation. At the national level a spreadsheet was developed to determine consumption/production balances for food, feed, and fuelwood using the Land Resource Mapping Project (LRMP) and current population growth data as a basis. With the GIS technique, national maps were produced to indicate districts with surplus, sufficiency, and deficit situations for the three resources for 1981, 1989, and 2000. For Kabhre District, which showed deficits for food, feed, and fuelwood, runs of the model were made to illustrate what would be required to eliminate these deficits. Studies were made to determine how much increase in crop yields, how much population migration, how much livestock reduction, and how much expansion in forest plantations would be needed to arrive at food, feed, and fuelwood sufficiency levels in this district. In all cases, the effort required to achieve sustainable conditions appears to be enormous. Finally, GIS techniques were applied to the Jhikhu Khola watershed where a three-year monitoring program is under way to determine water balances, sediment budgets, erosion rates, and soil fertility changes in five sub-basins and two integrating stations in the watershed. GIS techniques facilitated the production of microclimatic maps of the watershed and these in combination with soil maps can be used to develop an afforestation plan that matches site conditions with desirable tree species. GIS also plays a key role in the selection and extrapolation of sub-basins and in evaluating agricultural land most subject to soil fertility decline. /// Les systmes de traitement de donnes gographiques, articuls autour de microprocesseurs, constituent maintenant un outil trs puissant pour l'valuation des ressources terrestres. Cet article prsente des exemples d'utilisation de cette technologie pour l'valuation des bassins hydrographiques au niveau national et local. Au niveau national, un tableau lectronique a t labor pour dterminer les balances entre production et consommation pour la nourriture, le fourrage et le bois de chauffage, sur la base d'informations fournies par le Projet de reprage des ressources terrestres et des donnes actuelles de croissance dmographique. Ces techniques informatiques ont permis de dresser des cartes  l'chelle nationale, identifiant le niveau (surplus, suffisance, dficit) de ces trois ressources dans les diffrents districts, pour les annes 1981, 1989, et 2000. Dans le cas du district de Kabhre, dficitaire en termes des trois ressources, le modle a t appliqu pour montrer comment ces dficits peuvent tre limins. Des tudes ont t faites pour dterminer dans quelle mesure l'augmentation des rcoltes, la migration des habitants, la rduction du btail et l'augmentation de la plantation de forts peuvent contribuer  assurer des niveaux suffisants de nourriture, fourrage et bois de chauffage dans ce district. Dans tous les cas, les efforts requis pour arriver  des conditions soutenables semblent tre normes. Finalement, les techniques informatiques ont t appliques au bassin hydrographique de Jhikhu Khola, dans le cadre d'un programme de surveillance de trois ans visant  dterminer les balances d'eau, les budgets de sdiments, les vitesses d'rosion et les changements de fertilit du sol dans cinq sous-bassins et deux emplacements d'intgration dans le bassin hydrographique. Les techniques informatiques ont facilit l'laboration de cartes micro-climatiques du bassin, et, combines avec des cartes du sol, elles peuvent tre utilises pour dvelopper un plan d'afforestation avec des espces d'arbres bien adaptes aux conditions du site. Ces techniques jouent galement un rle primordial dans la slection et l'extrapolation de sous-bassins et dans l'valuation des terres agricoles sujettes  un dclin de la fertilit du sol. /// Rechnergesttzte Geographische Informations Systeme (GIS) sind ein sehr wirksames Hilfsmittel bei der Bewertung von Landesressourcen. Diese Verffentlichung liefert Beispiele dafr, wie diese Technik bei der Erfassung von Landes, regionalen und Wasserscheidenmerkmalen genutzt wird. Auf landesebene wurde eine Aufstellung des Verhltnisses zwischen Verbrauch und Erzeugung von Nahrungsmitteln, Viehfutter und Brennholz gemacht, wobei als Grundlage Daten vom Land Resource Mapping Project (LRMP) und derzeitige Daten ber das Bevlkerungswachstum dienten. Mit Hilfe der GIS Methode wurden Landkarten erstellt, die fr 1981, 1989 und 2000 berschu-, Gleichgewicht- und Defizitzonen der drei Ressourcegruppen angeben. Fr den Kabhre Distrikt wurde mit dem Rechner simuliert, was ntig ist, die Mngel an Nahrungsmitteln, Viehfutter und Brennmaterial zu beheben. Die Ergebnisse wurden dann daraufhin untersucht, welche Steigerung der Ernteertrge, Migration der Bevlkerung, Reduktion des Viehbestandes und Ausweitung des Waldanbaus ntig sind, um Nahrung, Viehfutter und Brennmaterial in diesem Distrikt auf ein ausreichendes Niveau zu bringen. Alle Beispiele zeigen, da enorme Bemhungen erforderlich sind, um ausgeglichene Verhltnisse zu erreichen. Abschlieend wurden die GIS Verfahren im Gebiet der Jhikhu Khola Wasserscheide angewendet. Hier luft ein 3-Jahres-berwachungsprogramm, das Wasserbestnde, Sedimentmengen, Erosionsraten und nderungen in der Bodenfruchtbarkeit fr fnf Nebenbecken und zwei Sammelzentren bestimmt. GIS Methoden ermglichten die Erstellung von mikro-klimatischen Karten des Wasserscheidegebietes, die zusammen mit Bodenkarten benutzt werden knnen, Aufforstungsplne zu erstellen, die erwnschte Baumarten den Lagebedingungen anpassen. Auerdem spielt GIS eine wichtige Rolle bei der Bestimmung und Vorhersage von Nebenbecken und in der Beurteilung der land-wirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen, die am strksten einer Verschlechterung der Bodenfruchtbarkeit ausgesetzt sind.
mounresedeve.29.3.241|We studied the effect of new types of slow-release micronutrient fertilizers on crop production in the Himalaya. These were biorelease fertilizers of zinc, iron, manganese, copper, boron, and molybdenum synthesized in a laboratory. Trials were conducted at Pithoragarh (1240 m), Kumaon Himalaya, with radish (
10.2307/3673654|The Himalayan alder (Alnus nepalensis D. Don)-large cardamom (Amomum subulatum Roxb.) intercrop grown in the Middle Hills of eastern Nepal was studied as a model highland agroforestry system. Sixty-six sites were sampled and 42 farmers were interviewed in four districts of the Kosi and Mechi Zones of the Eastern Development Region to develop site index curves and quantify biomass productivity. Edaphic and physiographic parameters were correlated with site indices. Annual tree biomass production was estimated at 14 t/ha/yr for a typical plantation cycle, with an average 11 t/ha/yr annual increase in standing biomass after thinning. Tree component standing biomass accumulation was estimated by site index classes, and used to derive a predictive equation for average total standing biomass (273 t/ha) at a plantation reference age of 25 years. Biomass and productivity estimates were correlated with results from farmer interviews and used to quantify annual cardamom production (364 kg/ha), labor requirements (237 man days/yr), and gross annual income (US $864/ha). Fuelwood requirements for cardamom processing (2.6 t/ha/yr), and removal of wood through thinning (3.2 t/ha/yr), were also quantified. Conservation and service functions provided by the agroforestry system are described. /// La culture en lignes alternantes d'aulne himalayen (Alnus nepalensis D. Don) et de cardamome gante (Amomum subulatum Roxb.) dans les montagnes mdianes de l'est du Npal a t tudie en tant que systme modle d'agroforesterie montagnarde. Soixante six sites ont t examins et quarante deux cultivateurs ont t interviews dans quatre districts des zones Kosi et Mechi dans la rgion de dveloppement orientale, dans le but de tracer des courbes d'indices de site et d'valuer la productivit biomassique. Les paramtres daphiques et physiographiques ont t mis en corrlation avec les indices de site. La production annuelle de biomasse d'arbres a t estime  14 t/ha pour un cycle de plantation typique, avec une augmentation annuelle moyenne de 11 t/ha en termes de biomasse sur pied aprs claircissage. L'accumulation de biomasse sur pied compose d'arbres a t estime au moyen de classes d'indices de site et utilise pour driver une quation de prdiction de la biomasse totale sur pied moyenne (273 t/ha), pour un ge de rfrence de 25 ans pour les plantations. Les estimations de biomasse et de productivit ont t corrles avec les rsultats d'interviews avec les cultivateurs et utilises pour valuer la production annuelle de cardamome (364 kg/ha), la main-d'oeuvre annuelle ncessaire (237 journes de travail) et le revenu annuel brut (864 US $/ha). La consommation annuelle de bois de chauffage pour le traitement de la cardamome (2,6 t/ha) et l'extraction annuelle de bois par claircissage (3,2 t/ha) ont galement t values. Les fonctions de conservation et de service assures par le systme d'agroforesterie sont dcrites. /// In den Middle Hills des stlichen Nepal wurden Erlenbestnde (Alnus nepalensis D.Don) und zwischengepflanzter Kardamom (Amomum subulatum Roxb.) als Beispiel fr ein agroforstwirtschaftliches Modell der Hochlande untersucht. Um Kurven fr den Lagenindex zu entwickeln, die den Biomassenertrag quantitativ darstellen, wurden 66 Lagen erfat und 42 Bauern aus vier Distrikts der Kosi und Mechi Zonen, die Teil der Eastern Development Region sind, befragt. Bodenbedingte und physiographische Parameter wurden mit den Lagenindices korreliert. Fr einen typischen Wachstumszyklus wurde der jhrliche Biomassenertrag aus Bumen auf 14 t/ha/Jahr geschtzt, mit einer durchschnittlichen jhrlichen Steigerung von 11 t/ha/Jahr in verbleibender Biomasse nach dem Lichten. Die Zunahme in Biomasse fr den Baumbestand wurde mittels Klassen fr den Lagenindex abgeschtzt, und eine Vorhersagegleichung wurde fr den durchschnittlichen Gesamtbestand an Biomasse (273 t/ha) ber den Bezugszeitraum von 25 Jahren abgeleitet. Abschtzungen der Biomasse und der Produktivitt wurden mit Ergebnissen von Bauernumfragen korreliert und dazu benutzt, die jhrliche Kardamomproduktion (364 kg/ha), den Arbeitsaufwand (237 Mann Tage/Jahr) und das jhrliche Bruttoeinkommen (US $864/ha) quantitativ abzuschtzen. Das ntige Brennholz zur Kardamomverarbeitung (2,6 t/ha/Jahr), sowie Holzverlust durch Lichten (3,2 t/ha/Jahr) wurden ebenfalls bercksichtigt. Konservierungs- und Nutzungsfunktionen, die das agroforstwirtschaftliche Modell liefert, werden beschrieben.
mounresedeve.33.4.381|Traditionally, agricultural systems in the Himalayan region of Nepal rely on livestock, forestry, and crop production. The extraction of litter, tree fodder, and grasses from the forest ensures a netmovement of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) from the forest to the agricultural land. This study assessed the sustainability of farming systems by computing the C and N input and output of the agroecosystem. The study was conducted in the buffer zone of Sagarmatha National Park in Nepal. A questionnaire survey, field measurements, and laboratory analysis of samples were used to determine the C and N inputs and fluxes in the systems. Forest litter is a major source of C and N for agricultural land, as is fodder from the forest fed to livestock (lopping of trees, grazing). Amounts that are fairly significant are supplied by human waste. To produce the average amount of 40 kg N ha
mounresedeve.34.1.36|This study estimated average annual soil loss and clarified its spatial distribution and impact on reservoirs in the upper Mekong River basin in Yunnan Province, China. A quantitative grid-based estimation was made using a Universal Soil Loss Equation model in a geographic information system framework, along with remote sensing and other source data. The results suggest that the average annual soil loss in most of the area ranged from 0 to 2853 t/ha/y, with a mean value of 19.8 t/ha/y. We estimated that a little more than half (61.0%) of the study area undergoes minimal erosion; this was primarily observed in the south, and more particularly in the southeast portion of the study area. Almost one fifth (19.2%) of the study area was estimated to undergo low erosion; this was primarily found in the central and southwest portions of the study area. Moderate soil erosion was observed in 8.5% of the study area. We estimated 11.3% of the study area to undergo high or extreme erosion; these locations were concentrated in the northern part of the study area. Soil erosion appeared most frequently at the mean elevation and mean slope zone. Dams on the upper reaches were found to be threatened by the presence of sediment.
mounresedeve.32.3.353|This article explores how physical remoteness influences the quality of life of people living in mountain communities in Afghanistan's Badakhshan Province. Basing its analysis on data obtained from a quality of life assessment carried out in Badakhshan, the article compares how quality of life indicators differed between villages that are more remote in terms of their access to markets, services, and transport, and those that are closer to small urban economic hubs. Indicators in a range of domains including the household economy, built environment, health, and education were poorer in remote villages. However, less tangible aspects of life such as trust between people, social cohesion, cultural life, and people's own perceptions of the quality of their lives were similar or better in these locations. Nevertheless, we argue that remoteness acts as an important barrier to improving many aspects of health and wellbeing in remote mountain villages. Market-led approaches by themselves are inadequate for helping to promote quality of life improvements in these communities. This research suggests that the holistic framework, mixed funding, and innovative approaches that the Aga Khan Development Network is pursuing as the main implementing partner of the National Solidarity Program in the province including infrastructure development, strengthening local governance, and cross-border development programs with Tajikistanstand a better chance of improving quality of life.
10.2307/3673051|The ecological management of the Atzera Hills which surround the City of Lae, Papua New Guinea is an example of the integration of agriculture and forestry. The severe erosion of the hills, caused by heavy rainfall and by destruction of forests due to the extensive cutting of trees for firewood and clearing of the hillsides for food gardening, is destroying the human use potential of the Atzera Hills. The present paper describes how agro-forestry techniques are being used, not only to rehabilitate and conserve this valuable hill resource but also to supply food and fuelwood on a sustained basis to the neighbouring community which consists mainly of displaced people. /// La gestion cologique des Monts Atzera qui entourent la ville de Lae en Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine est un exemple d'intgration de l'agriculture et de la sylviculture. La forte rosion cause par les prcipitations abondantes et la destruction des forts (abattage abusif pour le bois de chauffage et dfrichage des versants pour la culture) est en passe de dtruire les possibilits d'exploitation des Monts Atzera. Cette tude dcrit la manire dont les techniques agro-forestires sont utilises, non seulement pour restaurer et conserver ces ressources naturelles incomparables, mais aussi pour produire en permanence des denres alimentaires et du bois de chauffage pour la communaut avoisinante compose en grande partie de personnes dplaces. /// Das kologische Management der Atzera Berge, die die Stadt Lae, Papua Neuguinea, umgeben, ist ein Beispiel fr die Integration von Land- und Forstwirtschaft. Das menschliche Nutzungspotential der Atzera Berge wird durch die fortgeschrittene Erosion der Berghnge zerstrt. Die Ursache dieser Erosion sind schwere Regenflle und die Vernichtung von Waldflchen durch Abholzung zur Brennholzgewinnung und die Rodung der Hnge fr Nutzgrten. Die vorliegende Verffentlichung beschreibt nicht nur, welche agro-forstwirtschaftlichen Methoden angewendet werden, um diese wertvolle Naturressource zu rehabilitieren und zu konservieren, sondern auch wie fr die umliegenden Anwohner, die vorwiegend Heimatvertriebene sind, die Nahrungsmittel- und Brennholzversorgung sichergestellet wird.
mounresedeve.29.3.230|Little qualitative and quantitative information is available on bamboo and cane ecology and management. Harvesting of these two nonwood forest products (NWFPs) takes place on a substantial scale, exacerbated by commercialization, thereby exerting pressure on supply with a significant detrimental impact on the species. This article examines the resource availability of bamboo,
10.2307/3673145|This paper is a sequel to the paper by Kienholz et al. (1983) which presents various natural and cultural aspects of the Kathmandu-Kakani area in the Middle Mountains of Nepal. Maps of land use and geomorphic damages were also presented and they provide most of the basic information for the maps described here. The Base Map, scale 1: 10,000 (MHM Map No. 3), has the following objectives: (1) to summarize all essential information and synoptic representation gathered during the research activities; (2) to provide a connecting link between the basic information - geology, soil physics, actual damage, land use - and the final hazards map; and (3) to present the results of methodological and cartographic experimentation. The maps include the following categories of information (ranking by priorities): actual damage by erosion and landsliding, areas protected by forests, potential damage by erosion and landsliding. Streams and supplementary information are also shown. The legend is detailed. It gives information about the influence of human activities on the development of geomorphic damage and about preventative measures. The Map of Mountain Hazards and Slope Stability, scale 1: 10,000 (MHM Map No. 4), is based upon interpretation of the results of the basic research shown on the Base Map. The hazard assessment of the single unit areas was accomplished by fieldwork. The map shows the following information ranked by level of detail: (1) degree of hazard; (2) differentiation between direct hazard to life and property and indirect hazard caused by severe soil loss; (3) differentiation between hazard assessment based on confirmed facts and that based on supposition; and (4) type of hazard (such as soil erosion, landsliding, and gullying). Both the Base Map and the Map of Mountian Hazards and Slope Stability show clearly that the cultivated slopes of the upper Kolpu Khola watershed are the most endangered in the field area. In the Kathmandu Valley only the steep slopes of the Tar terraces along the stream banks are significantly affected by hazards. However, some large areas are endangered by floods during the summer monsoon season. The large forest areas are mostly stable. After deforestation, however, increased soil erosion and landsliding should be anticipated. /// Cet expos fait suite aux articles de Kienholz et al. (1983) dans lesquels diffrents aspects naturels et culturels de la rgion de Kathmandu-Kakani sont prsents. La carte d'utilisation du sol et une carte des dgts gomorphologiques sont dcrits plus en dtails et discuts; elles sont importantes pour les cartes prsentes dans cet expos. La carte de base 1: 10 000 (carte-MHM No 3) possde les fonctions suivantes: (1) rsum et reprsentation synoptique des bases obtenues de la rgion-test; (2) lien entre les rsultats des recherches de base (gologie, mcanique du sol, dgts actuels, utilisation du sol, etc.) et la carte des dangers; et (3) rsultat d'une tude mthodique et cartographique. La carte contient les catgories d'informations suivantes (selon leur ordre de priorit): dgts actuels dus  l'rosion et aux glissements de terrain, terrains protgs par les forts, zones dangereuses. Des courants d'eau et des informations complmentaires y figurent galement. La lgende est trs dtaille et transmet aussi des informations quant  l'influence de l'homme sur le dveloppement de dommages gomorphologiques ainsi que concernant la signification cologique des dgts et les mesures de prvention. La carte des dangers naturels et de la stabilit d'une pente (Carte-MHM No 4) est fonde sur l'interprtation des faits exposs des recherches entreprises apparaissant sur la carte de base. L'analyse des diffrentes surfaces se fit finalement sur le terrain avec l'utilisation de formulaires (Figures 7 et 8). A diffrents stades, les cartes nous donnent les informations suivantes: (1) degr de danger; (2) diffrenciation entre dangers directs pour l'homme et dangers indirects causs par la perte de terrains; (3) diffrenciation entre surfaces rellement dangereuses et celles qui le sont supposes; et (4) genre de danger (glissement, rosion, etc.). Ainsi que le montrent la carte de base et la carte des dangers naturels et de stabilit d'une pente, les versants suprieurs de Kolpu Khola utiliss pour l'agriculture prsentent de grands dangers de glissements de terrains et d'rosion. Dans le bassin de Kathmandu, par contre, on ne doit observer pratiquement que les pentes raides des terrasses des Tars ainsi que les rives de cours d'eau. Pourtant, pour des surfaces considrables subsiste un danger d'inondation durant la mousson. Les plus grandes forts sont actuellement relativement stables. En cas de dboisement, on devrait pourtant s'attendre  des rosions et des boulements. /// Dieser Aufsatz schliesst an den Artikel von Kienholz et al. (1983) an, wo verschiedene Aspekte der Natur- und Kulturlandschaft des Kathmandu-Kakani Gebietes dargestellt sind. Dort sind auch die Landnutzungskarte und eine Karte der geomorphologischen Schden nher beschrieben und diskutiert, welche einen wichtigen Teil der Grundlagen fr die Karten verkrpern, die im vorliegenden Beitrag vorgestellt werden. Die Base Map 1: 10 000 (MHM-Karte Nr. 3) hat folgende Funktionen: (1) Zusammenfassung und synoptische Darstellung der ber das Untersuchungsgebiet erarbeiteten Grundlagen; (2) Bindeglied zwischen den Ergebnissen aus den Grundlagenuntersuchungen (Geologie, Bodenmechanik, aktuelle Schden, Landnutzung, usw.) zur eigentlichen Gefahrenkarte; und (3) Resultat einer methodischen und kartographischen Studie. Der Karteninhalt gliedert sich nach folgenden Inhaltsgruppen (Reihenfolge nach Prioritten: Aktuelle Erosions- und Rutschungs-schden, durch Wald geschtzte Gebiete, Gebiete mit potentieller Gefhrdung. Zustzlich werden die Fliessgewsser und ergnzende Informationen dargestellt. Die Legende ist sehr ausfhrlich gehalten und vermittelt auch Informationen ber die Einflsse des wirtschaftenden Menschen auf die Entwicklung von geomorphologischen Schden sowie ber die kologische Bedeutung der Schden und ber Prventivmassnahmen. Die Karte der Naturgefahren und Hangstabilitt (MHM-Karte Nr. 4) basiert auf der Interpretation der in den Grundlagenuntersuchungen aufgearbeiteten und in der Base Map zu einem grossen Teil dargestellten Fakten. Die Beurteilung der einzelnen Einheitsflchen erfolgte schliesslich im Feld unter Verwendung von Formularen (Figures 7 und 8). In verschiedenen Detaillierungsstufen vermittelt die Karte folgende Informationen: (1) Grad der Gefhrdung; (2) unterscheidung zwischen direkten Gefahren fr den Menschen und Gefhrdung der Existenzgrundlagen durch Bodenverlust; (3) Unterscheidung zwischen Flchen mit gesicherter Gefahrenbeurteilung und solchen mit weniger sicherer Aussage sowie; (4) Art der Gefhrdung (Rutsch, Erosion, usw.). Sowohl die Base Map als auch die Karte der Naturgefahren und Hangstabilitt zeigen, dass vor allem die ackerbaulich genutzten Hnge des obersten Einzugsgebietes des Kolpu Khola in erheblichem Ausmasse durch Rutschungsprozesse und Erosion gefhrdet sind. Im Kathmandubecken sind diesbezglich praktisch nur die steilen Bschungen der Tar-Terrassen sowie die Uferbereiche der Fliessgewsser zu beachten. Dagegen besteht fr erhebliche Flchen eine Ueberflutungsgefahr whrend der Monsunzeit. Die grsseren Waldgebiete sind im heutigen Zustand relativ stabil. Im Falle einer Entwaldung msste jedoch auch dort mit Erosion und Rutschaktivtt gerechnet werden.
mounresedeve.34.1.27|Soil and water conservation (SWC) measures are needed to control erosion and sustain agricultural production in mountain regions. This study assessed the costs and benefits of indigenous SWC measures in a predominantly rural watershed in Sikkim Himalaya, India, from 2009 to 2010. Physical data were obtained through field measurements of soil erosion and runoff in plots with and without SWC measures; further information was collected through a structured questionnaire survey of 150 farm households. Major costs and benefits of various measures implemented in the study area were quantified using net present value, internal rate of return, time horizon, discount rate, payback period, and sensitivity analysis. For a 10-year period and with a 6% discount rate, all the practices were found to have a positive net present value and to help ensure economic and environmental sustainability. The sensitivity analysis showed that the most widespread SWC practices are worth implementing. Some practices not only prevented nutrient loss and retained soil moisture but also provided additional income and increased crop yield. Our findings suggest that agroforestry and vegetative barriers are the most favorable practices.
10.2307/3673619|Despite extensive research in this High Arctic mountainous archipelago over the last ninety years, few quantitative-process data have been obtained, especially from inland areas. The objectives of the 1988-1989 Japanese expedition to Svalbard included the study of periglacial processes, the collection of basic data on the internal structure of pingos, and the construction of a detailed geomorphological map (scale 1:10,000) of two inland areas in order to relate pingo and ice-wedge polygon formation to the history of glaciation. The two field study areas were the upper Adventdalen and Reindalen, central Spitzbergen. The program included drilling, levelling, installation of temperature sensors with automatic data loggers, and erection of frost-heave frames. Over 500 photographs were taken, with helicopter support. The project enabled the establishment of an extensive system of reference points for future remeasurement. /// Malgr les recherches extensives effectues dans cet archipel arctique de hautes montagnes au cours des quatre-vingt-dix dernires annes, peu de donnes quantitatives relatives aux processus ont t obtenues, en particulier pour les zones  l'intrieur des terres. Les objectifs de l'expdition japonaise de 1988 au Svalbard couvraient l'tude de processus priglaciaires, la collecte de donnes de base sur la structure interne des pingos, et l'laboration d'une carte gomorphologique dtaille (chelle 1/10.000) de deux zones  l'intrieur des terres, en vue de lier l'historique de la glaciation  la formation de pingos et de coins de glace en forme de polygones. Les deux zones d'tude taient l'Adventdalen suprieur et Reindalen dans le Spitzbergen central. Le programme a inclus les activits de forage, de nivelage, d'installation de capteurs de temprature avec enregistreurs de donnes automatiques, et de construction de structures rsistantes au foisonnement par le gel. Plus de 500 photographies ont t prises,  l'aide d'hlicoptres. Le projet a permis d'tablir un rseau extensif de points de rfrence pour les mesures qui seront effectues dans le futur. /// Trotz umfangreicher Erforschung dieser bergigen Inselgruppe der Arktis whrend der vergangenen 90 Jahre, stehen, insbesondere fr die Inlandgebiete, kaum quantitative Daten zur Verfgung. Die Aufgabenstellung der japanischen Expedition nach Svalbard im Jahre 1988 umfate Untersuchungen der periglazialen Prozesse, Aufzeichnungen von Grunddaten ber die innere Struktur von Erdhgeln (pingo), und die Erstellung einer detaillierten, geomorphologischen Karte (Mastab 1:10 000) von zwei Inlandgebieten, mit der Absicht, Erdhgel und polygonale Eiskeilformationen mit vergangenen Vergletscherungsvorgngen in Beziehung zu setzen. Die beiden untersuchten Gebiete waren das obere Adventdalen und Reindalen in Zentralspitzbergen. Das Forschungsprogramm umfate Bohrungen, Planierungen, das Anbringen von Temperatursensoren mit automatischer Datenaufzeichnung und das Aufstellen von durch Frost bewegten Merahmen. Mit Hilfe eines Hubschraubers wurden ber 500 Fotos aufgenommen. Das Projekt erstellte ein umfangreiches System von Bezugspunkten fr knftige Nachmessungen.
10.2307/3674007|Makalu-Barun National Park and Conservation Area, recently established by His Majesty's Government, Nepal, protects a broad range of Eastern Himalayan forest types, ranging from near-tropical dipterocarp monsoon forest (400 m) to subalpine conifer stands (4,000 m). Forests span five bioclimatic zones (tropical, subtropical, lower and upper temperate, and subalpine), but ecotones are poorly defined. Below 2,000 m forests are strongly affected by subsistence agriculture, although some ecologically significant stands remain at those elevations. Above 2,000 m, a cool, humid climate suppresses agricultural activity and forests are usually extensive. An interesting transition occurs in the temperate zone from forests dominated by broadleaf evergreen (Quercus-Lauraceae) to broadleaf deciduous (Acer-Magnolia) taxa. Subalpine stands show an increased dominance by conifers (Juniperus, Abies) along a transect from outer, southern slopes to the inner valleys. Aspect is ecologically important at all elevations, but controls different ecological variables (seasonal moisture availability, temperature, snow cover) at different elevations. The Makalu-Barun area exhibits the high regional diversity expected of a physiographically complex, low-latitude mountain region. /// Le parc national et l'aire de conservation du Makalu-Barun, rcemment tablis par le gouvernement du Npal, protge une gamme tendue de types de fort de l'Himalaya de l'est, de la fort diptrocarpe quasi-tropicale de mousson (400 m) aux peuplements subalpins de conifres (4 000 m). Les forts couvrent cinq zones bioclimatiques (tropicale, subtropicale, tempres infrieure et suprieure, et subalpine), mais les cotones sont mal dfinis. Au-dessous de 2,000 m, les forts sont fortement affectes par l'agriculture de subsistance, bien que des peuplements cologiquement importants sont prservs  ces altitudes. Au-dessus de 2,000 m, un climat frais et humide empche les activits agricoles et les forts sont en gnral tendues. Une transition intressante se produit dans la zone tempre, des forts domines par les essences sempervirentes  larges feuilles (Quercus-Lauraceae) aux essences caduques  larges feuilles (Acer-Magnolia). Les peuplements subalpins exhibent une dominance accrue des conifres (Juniperus, Abies) le long d'un transect s'tendant des versants extrieurs sud aux valles intrieures. L'exposition est cologiquement importante  toutes les altitudes, mais elle rgit diffrentes variables (disponibilit saisonnire d'humidit, temprature, couverture nivale)  diffrentes altitudes. La zone du Makalu-Barun possde la grande diversit rgionale normalement associe  une rgion montagneuse complexe de basse latitude. /// Der Makalu-Barun National Park und sein Naturschutzgebiet, die vor kurzem von der nepalesischen Regierung offiziell erffnet wurden, schtzen einen fr den stlichen Himalaya typischen, vielfltigen Waldbestand, der von beinah tropischem Monsunwald mit Flgelfruchtgewchsen (400m) bis zu subalpinen Nadelbumen (4000m) reicht. Waldgebiete erstrecken sich ber fnf bioklimatische Hhenzonen (tropische, subtropische, untere und obere gemigte und subalpine), wobei die einzelnen kozonen schlecht definiert sind. Die Waldgebiete unterhalb 2000m werden durch Subsistenz-Landwirtschaft stark belastet, soda nur einige kologisch bedeutende Bestnde in dieser Hhenlage verbleiben. Die Waldflchen oberhalb 2000m sind sehr ausgedehnt, da das khle, feuchte Klima landwirtschaftliche Nutzung nicht zult. Die gemigte Zone zeigt einen interessanten Wechsel von Bestnden mit berwiegend breitblttrigen, immergrnen Arten (Quercus-Lauraceae) zu breitblttrigen Laubbumen (Acer-Magnolia). Subalpine Bestnde entlang einer Trennlinie von den ueren sdlichen Hngen zu den inneren Tlern bestehen fast ausschlielich aus Nadelbumen (Juniperus, Abies). Alle Hhenlagen sind kologisch wichtig, aber das Erscheinungsbild des Waldes wird hhenabhngig von unterschiedlichen Variablen bestimmt (u.a., saisonbedingter Feuchtigkeitsvorrat, Temperatur, Schneedecke). Der ausgesprochen vielfltige Waldbestand des Makalu-Barun Gebietes ist typisch fr eine physiographisch komplexe Gebirgsregion in niedrigen Breiten.
10.2307/3673339|Geological and petrographical investigations of the Khumbu area, Nepal, were undertaken to provide basic data for the United Nations University mountain hazards mapping project. Six litho-tectonic units were distinguished by petrographical means: Basal Paragneisses, Migmatitic Orthogneisses, Upper Khumbu Gneiss Complex, Upper Paragneisses, Tertiary Leuco-granites, Everest Meta-Sediments. Investigations of subsurface conditions showed that the topographical relief of the area depends largely on lithology, structures, and the depositional or erosional character of the Late-Cenozoic glaciations. Mass wasting plays a major role in the accumulation of debris cover. The valley system has been interpreted as a deep pre-glacial primitive surface, with V-shaped troughs and elevated platforms, which have been overprinted by glaciation. Erosional activity of the river system is occurring at present although most of the landforms are relatively stable. /// Les tudes gologiques et ptrographiques dans la rgion du Khumbu, Npal, ont t menes en vue d'tablir une base pour le reprage des risques naturels. Six units litho-tectoniques ont t distingues l'une de l'autre  l'aide de leur nature ptrographique: une srie basale de paragneiss, des orthogneiss migmatiques, un complexe gneissique suprieur, une srie suprieure de paragneiss, des leucogranites tertiaires, la srie mta-sdimentaire de l'Everest. Les investigations des lements du soubassement ont montr que le relief topographique de la rgion dpend principalement de la lithologie, des structures, des cycles glaciaires et de leur dpts, ainsi que de l'rosion qui s'ensuit. L'accumulation de dbris de roche sur la surface a pour la plupart son origine dans des mouvements de masse. L'origine du rseau des grandes valles a t interprt comme tant antcdent et pr-glaciaire. Un trac d'entailles en V et de plates-formes leves d'une surface primitive a subi des changements par des dformations tectoniques et des cycles glaciaires et erosifs. L'activit rosive du rseau fluvial continue. La plupart des formes terraines dcrites sont, par contre, plutt inactives de nos jours. /// Geologische und petrographische Untersuchungen im Khumbu-Gebiet, Nepal, dienen als Grundlage zur Erstellung einer Gefahrenhinweiskarte. Sechs litho-tektonische Einheiten konnten anhand von petrographischen Kriterien unterschieden werden: basale Paragneise, migmatische Orthogneise, ein oberer Khumbu Gneiskomplex, obere Paragneise, tertire Leukogranite und eine meta-sedimentre Everest-Serie. Untersuchungen des Untergrundes haben gezeigt, dass das topographische Relief im Gebiet vorwiegend von der Lithologie, den Strukturen, der Vergletscherung und deren Ablagerungs- und Erosionsformen abhngig ist. Massenselbstbewegungen haben eine nicht unwesentliche Rolle beim Aufbau der Schuttbedeckung gespielt. Der Ursprung des Flussnetzes wurde interpretiert, als in einem System von V-Grben mit erhhten Plattformen einer primitiven, pr-orogenen und pr-glazialen Oberflche wurzelnd. Dieses System, entlang tektonischer Hauptachsen, wurde strukturell und glazial, wie auch erosiv berprgt. Whrend die fluviatile Erosion noch heute andauert sind dagegen die meisten anderen beschriebenen morphodynamischen Landformen heute relativ inaktiv.
4096457|Contrary to the trend of rapid deforestation continuing across Asia, regional assessments point to recent increases in forest cover in China, including Yunnan Province, since the implementation of dramatic forestry policy changes. There is debate about whether the statistics that describe increasing forest cover adequately account for forest status and quality. In this context, the present article aims to quantify forest cover and land use changes in a Tibetan-dominated rural township in northwest Yunnan, China-an ecologically important region affected by recent forest policy changes. Three sequences of Landsat satellite imagery dating from 1981 to late 1999 and other digital datasets were used in a rules-based hybrid classification approach, achieving acceptable accuracy assessment scores. The results show an average aggregate decline in conifer forests of 23%, mostly due to an active logging industry. Much of this forest has converted to shrubland, which increased in area by over 100%. Grassland also increased, mainly at the expense of cultivation, as a response to increasing dependence on livestock by the rural communities, although high elevation rangelands decreased in area due to changing livelihoods and restrictions by the government on grazing and deliberate burning. Using the accepted definitions of forest and shrubland categories, it was difficult to depict forest and shrubland dynamics due to variation in forest regeneration and afforestation, dieback-affected forests, secondary succession of disused rangelands, and a variety of other mixed community types. Conversion analysis revealed significant forest-shrubland exchanges occurring even during the 1990s when reduction in overall forest cover slowed considerably. The results support the view that the standard categorizations and representations of land cover only portray a partial picture of forest status, as they do not account for multiple conversions that occur between different land covers over time. Due to ongoing forestry programs and increasing utilization of forest resources by local communities, these conversion issues may be significant, with implications for forest quality and biodiversity. Our understanding of China's forest status will be improved by correlating inventory data with finer-scale spatial datasets to enable conversion analysis in representative ecological regions. This will advance our knowledge of China's forest status and the effectiveness of forest policy for both local rural community needs, as well as for broader ecological conservation.
3674147|Mitigating global environmental problems requires most societies to focus on sustainability. To support the corresponding reorientation of priorities, researchers need to complement their rather isolated investigations of individual phenomena with studies that involve humans more deeply. The scientific community must continue to contribute to both the accumulation and the implementation of knowledge. To effectively translate knowledge into action, all actors and all parties affected must be involved. Because international agreements on measures to mitigate key problems of global change are very difficult to reach, they must be complemented by regional views, which have a much greater chance of enactment. The syndrome approach evoked in this article-which is based on an earlier collaborative study-is a research framework that can provide the necessary scientific basis for regional decisions within a global context. It seems particularly appropriate for identifying and tackling problems of global change in mountain regions.
10.2307/3673875|The mountain escarpment between Makkah (Mecca) and Taif in Saudi Arabia is wooded, scenic, and relatively undisturbed. Two species of juniper, Palaearctic and Afrotropical, overlap there for thirty kilometers. Extensive development is proposed for the region. In 1991 the National Commission for Wildlife Conservation and Development sponsored a university student-staff study of an area of 600 km<sup>2</sup>. This paper gives the results of their survey with recommendations for protection of the natural vegetation, the establishment of a nature reserve with related recreational facilities, and for sustainable development. /// L'escarpement montagnard situ entre Makkah et Taf en Arabie Soudite est bois, pittoresque et relativement intact. Deux espces de genvrier, palaeartique et afrotropical, s'y chevauchent sur trente kilomtres. Un dveloppement touristique extensif est envisag pour la rgion. En 1991, la commission nationale pour la conservation de la faune et le dveloppement touristique a patronn une tude mene par des tudiants et du personnel universitaire, et portant sur une zone de 600 km<sup>2</sup>. Cet article prsente les rsultats de cette tude avec les recommandations visant  la protection de la vgtation naturelle, l'tablissement d'une rserve naturelle avec des facilits de rcration, et  une agriculture viable. /// Der Gebirgseinschnitt zwischen Makkah und Taif, Saudi Arabien, ist bewaldet, landschaftlich reizvoll und weitgehend unberhrt. Zwei Wacholderarten, Palaearctic und Afrotropical, wachsen ber eine Ausdehnung von 30 km nebeneinander. Dieses Gebiet ist fr weitreichende Erschlieung vorgesehen. Im Jahre 1991 frderte die National Commission for Wildlife Conservation and Development eine von Professoren und Studenten durchgefhrte Untersuchung eines 600 km<sup>2</sup> groen Gebietes. Der vorliegende Aufsatz diskutiert die Ergebnisse, gibt Empfehlungen zum Schutz der natrlichen Vegetation, die Schaffung eines Naturschutz- und Freizeitgebietes, und der Landwirtschaft.
25164184|The present article analyzes the land use dynamics caused by hydropower dam construction in 1973 in the Fincha'a watershed (1318 km), a tributary of the Blue Nile. Aerial photos (1957 and 1980) and an ASTER satellite image of 2001 were used to make 3 land use maps of the watershed using a geographic information system (GIS). The 239-km water reservoir inundated 100 km of grazing land, 120 km of swamp, 18 km of cropland, and 1.2 km of forestland. In 2001, cropland covered 77% of the land potentially available for community use, indicating that there is hardly any free land available for expansion to accommodate new farmers. Relocated communities operate on relatively small parcels of land situated either on steep slopes or in flood-prone areas. Consequently, they exhaustively utilize the trees available on their holdings, and convert grassland and bushland to cropland, without applying sufficient soil conservation measures. Farmers resettled at or near bodies of water and swamps, however, are affected by seasonal fluctuations of water levels that very often inundate croplands, grazing land, and homes. The demand for cropland and grazing land is increasing as reservoir and swamp areas expand and new families are created. Soil erosion in steep areas can no longer be reduced in the traditional farming system. These enforced land use changes, combined with a lack of appropriate land management practices, may increase erosion and reservoir sedimentation. This could affect food security and electric power production in the near future.
mounresedeve.35.2.104|In Ladakh, India, a mountainous region prone to natural hazards, particularly floods, it is critical to adapt disaster risk reduction (DRR) measures to the local environment. The floods that struck Ladakh in 2010 created momentum for local authorities and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to engage in DRR initiatives in order to better prepare people to cope with and recover from emergencies. This paper analyzes the way DRR approaches in Ladakh, from the central government to the district level, take both vulnerability and capacity into account. National and state policies are integrated and reflect the vulnerability concept quite well. However, as the case of Ladakh shows, establishing policies does not guarantee that appropriate practices will follow. Although NGOs' relief efforts in 2010 were praised for building on local communities' context and capacities, most practitioners still view DRR through a hazard-focused lens. Likewise, the policy framework for DRR does not yet address the socioeconomic construction of disasters and is not translated into adequate interventions that build on lessons learned during the 2010 emergency. Development obstacles, such as corruption, may also compromise efforts to translate DRR policies into appropriate and sustainable practices. However, local development projects that enhance the resilience of local mountain communities exist and could be valued as effective DRR. Emphasis should be placed on the practical integration of DRR in sustainable development efforts in order to better tackle disasters.
3674158|Studies on phenology and growth from distribution in an alpine pasture of Garhwal Himalaya were undertaken from 1988 to 1998. One hundred seventy-one species were recorded and classified as 5 different growth forms. These species were also classified as early- and late-growing type, on the basis of initiation of their aerial sprouts. Cushion-forming forbs generally emerge as the season commences, that is, immediately after snowmelt. However, the vegetative growth of grasses and other forbs peaked randomly after arrival of the monsoon. Phenophases of different species at higher elevations respond to the availability of the soil moisture and nutrient regimes as well as to temperature and different photoperiodic induction. The spectrum of life forms in the region indicated a hemicryptophytic and geophytic plant climate.
10.2307/3673256|Snow avalanches present a major hazard to transportation links throughout the mountains of western North America. Historic information for the southern boundary of Glacier National Park, Montana, was examined. Winters of high-magnitude avalanche occurrence are frequent in the area. Tree-ring data collected on two particularly hazardous paths were compared to the historic record. A tree-ring response index of 40 percent was determined as indicative of high-magnitude avalanche activity. Major avalanche winters can be expected approximately every five years. The combined history of major avalanche winters is very similar to historic and tree-ring records of high-magnitude avalanches from central portions of the Park 50 km away, and is somewhat similar to a history developed by others in the Canadian Selkirk Mountains 500 km to the northwest. /// Les avalanches de neige presentent un gros danger pour les voies de transport dans les rgions montagneuses de l'Amrique du Nord occidentale. Cette tude passe en revue les donnes historiques disponibles sur la partie sud du Parc National Glacier, dans l'Etat du Montana. Les hivers accompagns de grosses avalanches sont frquents dans la rgion. Des donnes sur les cernes des arbres, rassembles pour deux coules particulirement dangereuses, ont t compares aux donnes historiques. Il a t dtermin qu'un indice de rponse de 40% pour les cernes d'arbres indiquait l'occurence de grosses avalanches. On peut s'attendre  des hivers accompagns de grosses avalanches environ tous les cinq ans. Pour cette rgion, l'historique combin des hivers accompagns de grosses avalanches est similaire aux donnes historiques et physiques (cernes des arbres) sur les grosses avalanches au milieu du parc,  50 km de l, et relativement similaire  historique labor par d'autres chercheurs pour les montagnes Selkirk canadiennes,  500 km au nord-ouest. /// Schneelawinen bedrohen die Verkehrswege in den Bergen des westlichen Nordamerikas. Historische Daten aus dem sdlichen Grenzgebiet des Glacier National Parks in Montana wurden untersucht. Winter, in denen schwere Lawinen auftreten, sind in diesem Gebiet hufig. Jahresringdaten von Bumen wurden an zwei besonders gefhrlichen Lawinenlufen registriert und mit Daten aus der Vergangenheit verglichen. Ein "response" Index der Baumjahresringe von 40% wurde als Kennwert groer Lawinenaktivitt festgelegt. Winter mit solchen groen Schneelawinen kann man etwa alle 5 Jahre erwarten. Die Beschreibung lawinenreicher Winter wird von historischen und Baumringdaten aus dem etwa 50 km entfernten Kerngebiet des Parkes untersttzt, und sie ist hnlich den Aufzeichnungen, die von anderer Seite fr den 500 km nordwestlich gelegenen kanadischen Selkirk Gebirgszug vorliegen.
25164098|Rural-urban migration is having a considerable socioeconomic and environmental effect in mountain regions. In response, most rural development programs discourage outmigration on the grounds that it has negative social consequences and compromises ecological sustainability. However, rural-urban migration generally improves the living standards of migrants and leads to the disintensification of land use in fragile ecosystems with low productivity, thus stimulating ecosystem recovery and improving watershed and biodiversity protection-as shown by experience in the Caribbean and South America. These advantages have emerged even in the absence of any planning and could be maximized if international funding agencies, NGOs, and local governments re-evaluated rural development strategies. At a minimum, rural-urban migration is a reality that should not be ignored. More importantly, rural-urban migration provides an opportunity to improve the living conditions of marginal populations while protecting the environment.
10.2307/3673526|The Andes in Ecuador have maintained an agricultural population since at least 3500 B.P., but the stability is now threatened by progressive and accelerating degradation of agricultural resources, especially soil. The Paute watershed, in the southern provinces of Caar and Azuay, was chosen to illustrate traditional resource use and to examine current efforts to ameliorate resource degradation and soil loss, because a large hydroelectric project downstream which supplies over 65 percent of Ecuador's power is threatened by siltation. Three approaches to resource conservation within the Paute watershed are discussed: restoration of degraded cropland; preservation of remaining native vegetation; and the introduction of alpaca as an alternative to sheep and cattle husbandry. The areas where erosion rates are highest and the standard of living of farmers is lowest represent only five percent of the total area, but they produce a disproportionate part of the sediments reaching the Paute. Thirty-five percent of the area in which native vegetation survives has been declared "protective forests"; this includes native paramo, secondary brushlands, and primary forest. A four-year study has proved that alpaca are adaptable and competitive with most existing land uses. To the extent that native grass cover is maintained, as in the paramo, and introduced grass cover is extended at the expense of crops, as on the steep slopes of the eastern Cordillera, it is anticipated that soil, vegetation, and water resources will be protected and farmers will enjoy improved incomes. However, the quantitative benefits for soil conservation of the introduced measures have yet to be determined. /// Les Andes de l'Equateur ont soutenu une population agricole depuis au moins 3500 ans, mais la stabilit est maintenant menace par une dgradation progressive et de plus en plus rapide des ressources agricoles, en particulier le sol. Le bassin hydrographique du Paute, dans les provinces mridionales de Caar et Azuay, a t choisi pour illustrer l'utilisation traditionnelle des ressources et examiner les efforts actuels de rduction de la dgradation des ressources et de la perte du sol, du fait qu'en aval un amnagement hydro-lectrique proudisant 65 pourcent de l'lectricit de l'Equateur risque de s'envaser. Trois mthodes de conservation des ressources dans le bassin hydrographique du Paute sont considres: restauration des terres cultives dgrades; prservation de la vgtation indigne restante et introduction de l'alpaga comme solution de rechange pour l'levage de moutons et de bovins. Les zones o les taux d'rosion sont les plus levs et le niveau de vie des fermiers le plus bas ne reprsentent que 5 pourcent de la superficie totale, mais elles contribuent dmesurment  la production de sdiments qui aboutissent dans le Paute. Trente cinq pourcent de la zone dans laquelle la vgtation indigne survit a t dclar "forts protges"; cela inclut le paramo indigne, la brousse secondaire et la fort primaire. Une tude de quatre ans a dmontr que l'alpaga est adaptable et se compare favorablement  la plupart des modes existants d'utilisation des terres. Dans la mesure o la couverture d'herbes indignes est maintenue, comme dans le paramo, et que la couverture d'herbes rapportes est dveloppe au dtriment des cultures, comme sur les pentes raides de la Cordillre orientale, on peut s'attendre  ce que le sol, la vgtation et les ressources en eau soient protges et que le revenu des fermiers augmente. Nanmoins, les bienfaits quantitatifs de ces mesures en ce qui concerne l'rosion du sol n'ont pas encore t dtermins. /// In den Anden von Ecuador gibt es seit ber 3500 Jahren eine Landbevlkerung, deren Stabilitt jetzt durch progressive, sich laufend verschlechternde landwirtschaftliche Ressourcen, insbesondere des Bodens, gefhrdet ist. Das Gebiet der Paute Wasserscheide in den sdlichen Caar und Azuay Provinzen wurde ausgewhlt, um die traditionelle Ressourcennutzung zu illustrieren. Derzeitige Bemhungen zum Einhalt der Ressourcenverschlechterung und des Bodenverlustes werden untersucht, da ein groes Wasserkraftwerk fluabwrts, das 65% von Ecuador's Energie liefert, durch Verschlammung besonders gefhrdet ist. Es werden drei Methoden zur Ressourcenerhaltung im Gebiet der Paute Wasserscheide diskutiert: Regenerierung von heruntergewirtschaftetem Ackerland, Erhaltung der noch vorhandenen heimischen Vegetation, und Einfhrung der Alpakas als Alternative zur Schaf- und Rinderzucht. Die Gebiete, in denen die Erosionstrate am hchsten und der Lebensstandard der Bauern am niedrigsten ist, reprsentieren nur 5% des Gesamtgebietes, aber sie erzeugen einen unverhltnismig hohen Sedimentanteil, der den Paute erreicht. Ungefhr 35% des Gebietes, in dem heimische Vegetation berlebt, wurde zum "Naturschutzgebiet" erklrt, dazu gehrt heimische Bergwiese (Paramo), Sekundrbusch und ursprngliche Bewaldung. Eine 4-Jahresstudie hat gezeigt, da Alpakas fr fast alle mglichen Landnutzungsarten anpassungsfhig sind und mit traditioneller Viehzucht konkurrieren knnen. Solange heimischer Grasbewuchs erhalten bleibt, wie in der Paramo, und neu eingefhrter Grasbewuchs auf Kosten von den Getreidefeldern ausgedehnt wird, wie auf den steilen Hngen der stlichen Cordillera, erwartet man, da der Boden, die Vegetation und die Wasserressourcen sich nicht verschlechtern. Den Bauern sollten solche Manahmen ein verbessertes Einkommen sichern. Die quantitativen Vorteile der eingefhrten Manahmen zur Bodenerhaltung mssen jedoch noch festgestellt werden.
3674298|The hydrology of the Alps in Switzerland and New Zealand is compared. Similarities and differences in topographical features, climate and weather characteristics, precipitation, and streamflow are identified. Precipitation and runoff are much higher in the Southern Alps of New Zealand, whereas the proportion and influence of snow to rainfall is greater in the Swiss Alps. Despite differences related to continental versus island characteristics and different altitudinal ranges, both Alps are important for producing water resources for downstream regions. Swiss evaporation data were used to improve knowledge of evaporation in the Southern Alps. Comparison of water volumes involved in the hydrological cycle highlighted the fact that the Southern Alps are one of the highest water-yielding regions of the world's temperate zones.
3674315|Mountains of the Mediterranean have been inhabited for centuries, and mountain villages have served as havens from pirates, disease, and oppressive invaders. These villages are characterized by difficult but enduring subsistence economies that have grown and declined in cyclical patterns, each time adjusting to population growth and abandonment as a result of war or famine. In Greece this pattern changed decisively in the 20th century. Throughout the century 80% of the population shifted from mountain villages to the lowlands or emigrated to the United States, Europe, and Australia, resulting in the massive abandonment of rural mountain areas. As depopulation increased, leaving only aging grandparents, schools and health services were closed, and forests recolonized the slopes traditionally kept open as grazing pastures for sheep and goats. The village of Dadia in the Rhodope mountains has experienced a reversal of this trend since the 1990s, thanks to major efforts by conservation organizations, the government, the European Union (EU), the private sector, and the local population to introduce ecotourism in the area. Thus, a remote mountain region with a rich history and unique cultural and natural diversity has become a model of successful nature conservation and economic revival.
mounresedeve.35.3.264|Satellite imagery has proven extremely useful for repetitive timeline-based data collection, because it offers a synoptic view and enables fast processing of large quantities of data. The changes in tree crown number and land cover in a very remote watershed (area 1305 ha) in Nepal were analyzed using a QuickBird image from 2006 and an IKONOS image from 2011. A geographic object-based image analysis (GEOBIA) was carried out using the region-growing technique for tree crown detection, delineation, and change assessment, and a multiresolution technique was used for land cover mapping and change analysis. The coefficient of determination for tree crown detection and delineation was 0.97 for QuickBird and 0.99 for IKONOS, calculated using a line-intercept transect method with 10 randomly selected windows (11 ha). The number of tree crowns decreased from 47,121 in 2006 to 41,689 in 2011, a loss of approximately 90 trees per month on average; the area of needle-leaved forest was reduced by 140 ha (23%) over the same period. Analysis of widely available very-high-resolution satellite images using GEOBIA techniques offers a cost-effective method for detecting changes in tree crown number and land cover in remote mountain valleys; the results provide the information needed to support improved local-level planning and forest management in such areas.
mounresedeve.29.2.114|Linking scientific knowledge with political decision-making has never been an easy task. This is also the case in the forestry sector, especially with its wide array of stakeholders at local, national, and global levels. Considerable constraints appear to exist in translating innovative ideas generated through science into practical application for policymaking and on-the-ground forest management. Over the past few years, the International Union of Forest Research Organizations (IUFRO) therefore has addressed the issue of the sciencepolicy interface through in-depth study by a special task force, and by providing training on the subject for the forest science community in developing countries. This paper reports on the results and ongoing activities of these IUFRO initiatives, including a best practices guide on how to work effectively at the interface of forest science and forest policy and a training program that has been implemented in Africa, Asia, and Latin America over the past few years. As an example of successful training in sciencepolicy interfacing, we present results of a workshop focused on mountain forestry development. This workshop was organized for scientists from developing countries in Africa and Asia in conjunction with the International Conference on Mountain Forests in a Changing World held in Vienna, Austria, in April 2008. Experiences gained in implementing the training on sciencepolicy interfacing for scientists from developing countries show that interaction between the science community and decision-makers is very limited. Although in some developing countries there are established formal processes for reporting research results to the government at higher levels, greater efforts in terms of resources and awareness creation are required for more effective integration of scientific knowledge into policy-making. The sciencepolicy guidelines and training presented in this paper are an essential step toward this end.
25164185|The Andean cat (Leopardus jacobitus), one of the world's most threatened felids, forms part of the little-known carnivore guild occurring in the dry areas of the High Andes. Although human-carnivore conflicts are among the major causes of carnivore population decline, no data are available on this issue for the High Andes. We report here the results of the first survey of human perceptions of, and attitudes towards, carnivores in the high-altitude Andes of Argentina. Interviews with 50 adults and 226 schoolchildren revealed that pumas (Puma concolor) and foxes (Lycalopex culpaeus) are considered pests for preying upon livestock and are actively hunted by adults. Although perceptions of the Andean cat and the Pampas cat (Leopardus colocolo) were more positive, especially among schoolchildren, they are also frequently killed by local people. We suggest that, contrary to what was previously thought, hunting might be affecting the conservation status of the Andean cat and of some puma populations in the High Andes of Argentina, and that education strategies may help to improve human attitudes, particularly in the case of the endangered Andean cat.
3674153|The human dimension of development processes in high mountain regions regularly escapes appropriate assessment due to a lack of applicable methods. Comparative data are lacking, and it is difficult to substantiate the position of mountain societies within nation-states. In view of the International Year of Mountains, consideration should be given to the focus of research and the need for comparative approaches. Using examples from case studies in South Asian high mountain regions, this article introduces an approach that applies widely known human development indicators to different regional levels. Evaluating the results and interpreting the dimensions of these indicators reveal pressing problems in mountain research as well as fields for further investigation.
10.2307/3673091|The steep-sloped and highland areas of Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador have been mapped to identify principal erosion hazards and recommended land use based on topography, climate, and soil characteristics. The map indicates that 50 percent of the Northern Andes is on slopes of above 8 percent gradient or in intermontane valleys and on highland plateaus; only 14 percent of this steepland area is adequate for cropping systems. Recommended land uses include protection management (55 percent), range management (5 percent), and forestry and pasture (26 percent). Agricultural research and management strategies are discussed based on preserving natural resources and intensifying their rational use. /// Les zones montagneuses et en pentes rapides du Venezuela, de la Colombie et de l'Ecuador ont t traces sur des cartes pour pouvoir identifier les principaux risques d'rosion et dterminer la meilleure utilisation des terres en fonction des conditions topographiques, climatriques et du sol. La carte montre que 50 pourcent de la rgion des Andes du Nord est situe sur des pentes d'inclinaison suprieure  8 pourcent, dans les valles entre les montagnes, et sur des plateaux de montagnes. Quatorze pourcent seulement de cette zone escarpe est propice  des systmes de cultures. Les utilisations recommandes sont la gestion protectrice (55 pourcent), la gestion des champs (5 pourcent), la sylviculture et pturages (26 pourcent). Une description est fournie des tudes agricoles et des stratgies de gestion visant  la protection des ressources naturelles et une intensification d'utilisation rationnelle. /// Die Gebiete mit steilen Abhngen und die Hochebenen von Venezuela, Kolumbien und Ecuador wurden kartiert, um hauptschliche Erosionsgefahren festzustellen und Bodennutzungen zu empfehlen, die Topographie, Klima und Bodenbeschaffenheit bercksichtigen. Eine solche Karte verdeutlicht, dass 50% der Gebiete der Nord-Anden entweder ein Geflle von mehr als 8% haben oder aus Gebirgstlern und Hochebenen bestehen. Nur 14% des steilen Gebietes eignen sich fr den Ackerbau. Folgende Bodennutzung wird empfohlen: Unter Naturschutz (55%), offene Landflchen (5%), sowie Wald- und Weidewirtschaft (26%). Landwirtschaftliche Forschung und Verwaltungsrichtlinien, die auf Erhaltung der Bodenschtze und der Intensivierung ihrer vernnftigen Nutzung beruhen, werden diskutiert. /// Se ha dibujado un mapa de las zonas montaosas y de las zonas escarpadas de Venezuela, Colombia y Ecuador con vistas a identificar los riesgos de erosin principales y el uso ms recomendable de la tierra basado en la topografa, el clima y las caractersticas del suelo. El mapa indica que el cincuenta por ciento de los Andes del norte se halla en laderas con una inclinacin de ms del ocho por ciento o en valles entre montaas o en altiplanos en las tierras altas; tan slo el catorce por ciento de esta zona de tierras escarpadas es adecuado para establecer sistemas de cosechas. Los usos de la tierra que se recomiendan incluyen la administracin de la proteccin (55 por ciento), la administracin de las cordilleras (5 por ciento) y bosques y pastos (26 por ciento). Las investigaciones agrcolas y las estrategias administrativas se discuten en base a preservar los recursos naturales y a intensificar su uso racional.
90001379|The Thulokhola watershed of the Nuwakot district in the midhills region of Nepal can be considered typical of climate change-related stresses in the region. To assess the status of water resources and document farmers perceptions of and adaptation to climate change impacts in this watershed, we invited community groups to monitor water quality and conducted 6 focus group meetings, 3 participatory rural appraisals, and spring and household surveys in 2011 and 2012. Historical precipitation data from a nearby weather station and discharge data for the Tadi Khola, the nearest major river, were also analyzed. The spring survey results confirmed farmers perceptions and showed that 73.2% of the springs used as water sources had a decreased flow and 12.2% had dried up over the past 10 or more years, as recognized by local residents. In response to the severe decline of precipitation and the drying up of springs, local communities have implemented some climate change adaptation measures, such as constructing water tanks at water sources, using pipes to transport drinking water, diverting water from other springs, digging deeper wells, and traveling farther to wash clothes and fetch drinking water. To enhance drinking water supplies and ensure the agricultural, ecological, and environmental integrity of the watershed, initiatives such as comprehensive research on springs and groundwater hydrology, a spring rejuvenation program, and community capacity building for water sustainability and climate change adaptation are suggested.
3674613|Mycotoxins are naturally occurring toxic chemical compounds produced by fungi infesting agricultural crops both during crop growth and storage. Such secondary metabolites, when ingested, can produce toxic syndromes in humans. This study is the first survey that documents the occurrence of mycotoxins in stored barley in Tibet Autonomous Region [P.R. China]. Twenty-five samples of barley collected from Tibet were analyzed for the presence of aflatoxins, fumonisins, ochratoxins, zearalenone, deoxynivalenol, and T-2 toxin using an easy, sensitive, competitive direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Ninety-six percent of the samples were contaminated with zearalenone at concentrations ranging from 25 to 270 g/kg. Seventy-six percent of the samples were contaminated with T-2 toxin at concentrations ranging from 1 to 163 g/kg. In contrast, deoxynivalenol was observed in only 12% of the samples, with toxin concentrations ranging from 25 to 270 g/kg. Aflatoxin was observed in only 4% of the contaminated samples.
10.2307/3673966|This paper introduces a special edition of Mountain Research and Development on integrating natural and social environmental science. In recent years, environment and development research has been rocked by discovering that so-called problems, such as Himalayan environmental degradation, or desertification, are not the problems researchers once thought. However, labeling these models as 'myths' is problematic because myths may either mean a demonstrably false statement or a socially constructed repository of local wisdom. This paper, and those following, present ways to combine both meanings of myth by integrating social and natural science, thus allowing critical debate about biophysical processes at the same time as acknowledging social constructions of environment. As such, this forms part of a growing trend towards adopting Cultural Theory, the 'new' ecologies, and critical realism in environmental research, all of which provide alternatives to positivism or post-modern deconstruction of environmental discourse. Such research included adopting typologies of environmental perception, long-term environmental histories, 'hybrid' research combining social and natural science, and building local institutional capacity for integrating different environmental knowledge. It is argued that integrating natural and social environmental science is essential in order to avoid accepting environmental 'myths' uncritically, yet also to provide an epistemologically realist basis to local development. /// Cet expos prsente une dition spciale de Recherche et Dveloppement en Montagne sur l'intgration de la science naturelle et sociale de l'environnement. Ces dernires annes, la recherche sur l'environnement et le dveloppement a t branle en dcouvrant que les soi-disant problmes tels que la dgradation ou la dsertification de l'environnement himalayen n'taient pas des problmes auxquels les chercheurs pensaient auparavant. Toutefois, tiqueter ces modles comme "mythes" est problmatique car les mythes sont soit des dclarations manifestement fausses soit un dpositaire, socialement construit, de sagesse locale. Cet expos, et ceux qui suivent, prsentent des faons de runir les deux sens du mot mythe en intgrant la science sociale et naturelle, et en permettant ainsi un dbat critique sur les processus biophysiques tout en reconnaissant les constructions sociales de l'environnement.  ce titre, ceci constitue une tendance croissante  l'adoption de la Thorie Culturelle, de "nouvelles" cologies et d'un ralisme critique dans la recherche sur l'environnement. Ces derniers offrent tous des alternatives au positivisme ou  la dconstruction postmoderne du discours sur l'environnement. Cette recherche implique l'adoption de typologies de perception de l'environnement, de l'histoire  long terme des environnements, d'une recherche hybride runissant la science sociale et naturelle et la cration de moyens institutionnels locaux pour intgrer les diffrentes connaissances sur l'environnement. On affirme que l'intgration de la science naturelle et sociale de l'environnement est essentielle afin d'viter une acceptation inconditionnelle des "mythes" sur l'environnement et d'offrir nanmoins une base pistmologiquement raliste au dveloppement local. /// Der vorliegende Text stellt eine Sonderausgabe von Mountain Research and Development vor, in der es um die Integration von Natur- und Sozialwissenschaften geht. In den letzten Jahren ist die Umwelt- und Entwicklungsforschung durch die Entdeckung erschttert worden, da sogenannte Probleme wie die Umweltdegeneration im Himalaja oder die allmhliche Ausbreitung der Wsten nicht solche Probleme darstellen, wie Forscher einst dachten. Diese Modelle jedoch als "Mythen" zu bezeichnen ist problematisch, denn Mythen knnen entweder nachweislich falsche Behauptungen oder sozial konstruierte Quellen lokaler Erkenntnisse sein. Der vorliegende Text, wie auch die nachfolgenden Texte, zeigt Wege auf, beide Bedeutungen von Mythen durch eine Integration von Sozial- und Naturwissenschaften zu kombinieren und somit eine kritische Errterung der biophysikalischen Prozesse zu ermglichen und gleichzeitig kologische Sozialkonstruktionen anzuerkennen. Als solches ist dies Bestandteil eines zunehmenden Trends, die Kulturtheorie, die "neuen kologien" und einen kritischen Realismus in der Umweltforschung anzunehmen, die samt und sonders Alternativen zum Positivismus oder zur postmodernen Dekonstruktion kologischer Abhandlungen bieten. Zu solchen Forschungen gehrt die Annahme von Typologien kologischer Wahrnehmung, die langfristige Beobachtung von Umweltentwicklungen und "hybride" Forschungen, die Sozial- und Naturwissenschaften miteinander verbinden. Hierzu gehrt auch die Schaffung lokaler Institutionen, in denen unterschiedliche Kenntnisse ber die Umwelt zusammengefhrt werden. Es wird behauptet, da die Integration von Natur- und Sozialwissenschaften von groer Bedeutung dafr ist, eine unkritische Akzeptanz von "Umweltmythen" zu verhindern. Gleichzeitig bieten sie jedoch auch eine epistemologisch realistische Grundlage fr eine lokale Entwicklung.
90013238|The Himalayas are predicted to experience more than 3 times the mean global rise in temperature, as well as erratic rainfall patterns and an increased likelihood of total monsoon failures. While many ecosystem manipulation experiments aiming at understanding the effects of altered precipitation, temperature, and carbon dioxide are conducted globally, such experiments are rare in Asia, particularly in the Himalayas. To fill this gap, we simulated late onset of monsoon precipitation, as well as total monsoon failure, in a multiyear drought stress experiment in Bhutan. Two treatments, 100% throughfall exclusion and ambient control plots, were applied to 725 m
3674291|These lines by J. K. Baxter capture something of the ambivalent role played by the South Island High Country in the collective psyche, science, and public policy of New Zealand. As Kevin O'Connor, Professor of Range Management, put it in 1993: "Most people in New Zealand would be disconcerted if their mountain skylines to familiar landscapes were removed. Nevertheless, the influence of New Zealand mountains on its national consciousness does not appear to have great significance in policy..." Nowhere is this more apparent than in regard to landscape issues. This article focuses on the landscape of the South Island High Country. We first define the High Country, describe its distinctive landscapes, and provide an overview of its landscape history. We then identify and review trends and issues in landscape change.
10.2307/3673746|The impact of cattle on caulescent Andean rosettes was studied in the Paramo de Piedras Blancas, Venezuela. Cattle were introduced into the Andes by the Spaniards in the late 1500s, but probably did not affect this paramo until the 19th century. Cows feed on the leaves of one species, Coespeletia timotensis, as a diet supplement mainly during the dry season, but avoid other rosettes. Browsing is concentrated on the intermediate size-classes of rosettes, and seedlings and plants taller than 120 cm are less affected. Cattle stay mostly close to streams and swales, where groundcover is higher. Rosette foliage along these areas is intensely browsed. In the study, rosette cover on a browsed plot had dropped 37.2%. A moist, densely vegetated slope was also visited by cows, which browsed rosettes there, but cattle avoided the steepest, blocky talus slopes. Animal traffic along the heavily utilized valley floor has caused the loss and thinning of the sheaths of dry marcescent leaves which remain attached to the stems of C. timotensis. Rosettes on the steeper, more inaccessible slopes and outcrops have not been affected. Several possible ecological effects of cattle predation on Andean rosettes are discussed. /// L'impact des bovins sur les rosettes gantes a t tudi dans le Paramo de Piedras Blancas, au Vnzuela. Les bovins ont t introduits dans les Andes  la fin du seizime sicle, mais n'ont commenc  affecter ce paramo qu'au dix-neuvime. Les bovins mangent les feuilles de l'espce Coespeletia timotensis en tant que complment alimentaire, surtout pendant la saison sche, mais vitent les autres rosettes. Ils broutent surtout les plantes de taille moyenne; les jeunes plantes et celles de plus de 120 cm sont moins affectes. Les bovins restent en gnral au voisinage des ruisseaux et des dpressions marcageuses, l o la couverture vgtale est plus haute; par consquent, ces zones sont soumises  un abroutissement intensif. L'tude a montr que la couverture de rosettes d'une parcelle a diminu de 37,2 pour cent. Les bovins ont galement brout les rosettes sur une pente humide  vgtation dense, mais ils ont vit les pentes d'boulis plus raides. Le passage de bestiaux au fond des valles trs frquentes a caus une perte et un amenuisement des gaines de feuilles marcescentes sches qui restent attaches aux tiges de C. timotensis. Les rosettes situes sur les pentes plus raides et inaccessibles, et sur les affleurements, n'ont pas t affectes. Plusieurs effets cologiques possibles de la dprdation des rosettes andines par les bovins sont passs en revue. /// Im Gebiet des Paramo de Piedras Blancas, Venezuela, wurden Belastungen durch Rinder auf den Bewuchs mit groen Rosettengewchsen untersucht. Rinder wurden im spten 16. Jahrhundert in den Anden eingefhrt, wahrscheinlich beeintrchtigten sie jedoch die Paramo-Flchen bis ins 19. Jahrhundert kaum. Rinder nutzen, hauptschlich whrend der Trockenzeit, die Bltter einer Rosettenart, Coespeletia timotensis, als Nahrungszusatz, meiden dagegen andere Rosettenarten. Ihr Grasen konzentriert sich auf die Arten mittlerer Gre und auf Smlinge; whrend Pflanzen, die grer als 120 cm sind, weniger attraktiv sind. Die Rinder weiden meistens an Bchen oder in feuchten Niederungen, wo der Bewuchs hher ist. Diese Flchen werden dann intensiv abgegrast. In der Studie war der Rosettenbewuchs eines abgeweideten Gebietes um 37,2% zurckgegangen. Khe weideten auch auf feuchten, dicht bewachsenen Hngen und fraen dort die Rosettengewchse ab; sehr steile Gerllhnge wurden jedoch gemieden. Viehwechsel entlang der stark genutzten Talsohlen zerstrte oder zumindest reduzierte wesentlich die Pflanzendecke von welken Blttern, die bei der Art Coespeletia timotensis am Stengel bleiben. Rosettenbewuchs an steileren, unzugnglicheren Hngen und an Felsvorsprngen war nicht betroffen. Die unterschiedlichen kologischen Belastungen der Anden durch den Rosettenabfra der Rinder werden errtert. /// El impacto del ganado vacuno en rosetas Andinas caulescentes fu estudiado en el Pramo de Piedras Blancas, Venezuela. El ganado fu introducido en los Andes por los espaoles a finales del siglo 16, pero probablemente no afect este pramo hasta el siglo 19. Las vacas comen las hojas de una especie, Coespeletia timotensis, como suplemento a su dieta, principalmente durante la estacin seca, pero evitan las otras rosetas. El pastoreo se concentra en las plantas de clases de altura intermedia; las plntulas y rosetas mayores de 120 cm son menos afectadas. El ganado permanece en general cerca de arroyos y caadas, donde la cobertura vegetal es alta. El follaje de las rosetas a lo largo de estas reas es intensamente pastoreado. En el estudio, la cobertura de rosetas en una parcela pastoreada se redujo en un 37.2%. Una pendiente hmeda y densamente vegetada fu tambien visitada por el ganado, que ramone las rosetas alli, pero el ganado evit los empinados talos rocosos. El trnsito de animales a lo largo del fondo del valle, rea de mucho uso, ha causado la prdida y disminucin de la cubierta persistente de hojas secas que permanecen adheridas a los troncos de C. timotensis. Las rosetas en las pendientes ms inclinadas e inaccesibles y sobre afloramientos rocosos no han sido afectadas. Se discuten varios posibles efectos ecolgicos de la predacin del ganado vacuno en las rosetas Andinas.
10.2307/3673943|This study examines changes in shortwave energy received over a snow surface as a function of varying atmospheric and topographic characteristics. Shortwave radiation data were collected at three study sites (Silverton, the Ophir Pass Substation, and Red Mountain Pass) near Silverton, Colorado for a one-week period during both January and March of 1991. Diffuse radiation was the only source of radiation for 30-45% of daylight hours in January and approximately 25-30% of daylight hours in March due to the high topographic barriers surrounding the sites. In addition, a clear sky, solar radiation model by Mountain (1990) was calibrated and used to determine the degree to which precipitable water, aerosols, and topography influence shortwave receipt at a surface. Significant terrain factors clearly affected shortwave values, whereas precipitable water and aerosols played a minimal role. Ratios of the measured to estimated global radiation were computed for the three study sites and provided a pooled mean of 0.992. Coefficient of determination ( r<sup>2</sup>) values were high for observed global radiation values versus modeled estimates. /// Cette tude examine les variations de l'nergie  ondes courtes reue par une surface neigeuse en fonction des variations des caractristiques atmosphriques et topographiques. Les donnes de rayonnement  ondes courtes ont t collectes  trois sites d'tude (Silverton, la sous-station d'Ophir Pass et le Red Mountain Pass) prs de Silverton au Colorado, pendant une semaine en janvier, puis en mars 1991. Le rayonnement diffus constituait la seule source de rayonnement pendant 30  45% des heures diurnes en janvier et environ 25  30% des heures diurnes en mars,  cause des hautes barrires topographiques entourant les sites. De plus, le modle de rayonnement solaire en ciel clair de Mountain (1990) a t talonn et utilis pour dterminer le degr auquel l'eau prcipitable, les arosols et la topographie influencaient la rception des ondes courtes par une surface. Les facteurs de terrain significatifs ont affect les valeurs ondes courtes, alors que l'eau prcipitable et les arosols ont jou un rle mineur. Les rapports entre le rayonnement global mesur et le rayonnement estim ont t calculs pour les trois sites d'tude et ont fourni une moyenne commune de 0,992. Le coefficient de dtermination ( r<sup>2</sup>) tait lev pour les valeurs de rayonnement global observes compares aux estimations fournies par le modle. /// Dieses Forschungsprojekt untersucht die Energieschwankungen von Kurzwellenstrahlung auf Schnee als Funktion von verschiedenen atmosphrischen und topographischen Bedingungen. Die Kurzwelleneinstrahlung wurde ber einen Zeitraum von jeweils einer Woche im Januar und Mrz 1991 bei Silverton, Colorado, USA, (37 48N, 107 40W) an drei Stellen gemessen: in Silverton, an der Ophir Pa-Station und am Red Mountain Pa. Diffuse Strahlung allein stellte 30 bis 45% der Tageswerte im Januar und etwa 25 bis 30% der Tageswerte im Mrz dar aufgrund der Hhe der topographiswchen Barrieren, die die Mestellen umgeben. Auerdem wurde ein Model zur Messung von Sonneneinstrahlung bei klarem Wetter von Mountain (1990) kalibriert, um den Einflugrad von verfgbarem atmosphrischen kondensierten Wasserdampf, Aerosole und der Topographie auf die Kurzwelleneinstrahlung an der Oberflche zu bestimmen. Es war offensichtlich, da die Hhe des umliegenden Terrains Kurzwellenstrahlungswerte beeinflut, wohingegen der Einflu von verfgbarem, atmosphrischen, kondensierten Wasserdampf und Aerosolen nur eine geringe Rolle spielt. Das Verhltnis der gemessenen zu den berechneten Werten fr die Kurzwelleneinstrahlung wurde fr alle drei Mestellen hergestellt und ergab ein zusammengefates Mittel von 0,992. Die r<sup>2</sup>-Werte waren hoch fr die gemessene Strahlung im Vergleich zu den Modelschtzungen.
3674676|In the past decade, water shortage on the western and northern slopes of Mount Kenya and particularly in the adjoining lowland areas has reached a severity not experienced before. Rapid population growth and rising demand for irrigation are increasing the pressure on water resources, as can be demonstrated by an inventory of water abstractions from the Naro Moru River. A total of 98 abstraction points were documented within a river section of only 30 km, providing water to about 30,000 people. However, about 97% of the abstracted water is used for irrigation of 9% of the total catchment area. In 2002, about 30% of the annual discharge and 80 to 100% of the low flow discharge of the Naro Moru River was abstracted by furrows, gravity pipes, and pumps. The highland-lowland system of the Upper Ewaso Ng'iro Basin, with Mount Kenya functioning as a crucial water tower, has reached and repeatedly exceeded the limits of water availability in the past decade. In contrast to the heavily decreasing low flow discharge, the mean discharge does not show any decreasing tendency. This is due to higher flood flows, which may be induced by accelerated runoff generation due to land use change. The present study seeks to support Water Users' Associations (WUAs, ie self-help initiatives aiming to mitigate conflicts over the allocation of water) by providing them with up-to-date information about demand, supply and use of river water, as well as tools and methods for improving water management.
10.2307/3674113|The extent of protected areas is increasing worldwide. Traditionally, a great deal of the protected lands have been situated in ecologically and economically marginal regions, such as mountains, often on state-owned land. In recent years, however, new designations have increasingly been applied to areas with more private land, more people, greater economic activity, and thus have resulted in a higher degree of conflict. Due to several forces, public involvement in natural resource planning is developing rapidly. This development is largely driven by environmental management institutions as a means to improve efficiency and equity in planning processes. Although well intended, these efforts often meet with problems caused by a lack of understanding of the community perspectives on resource conflicts. In this study we discuss our experiences from following the process of expansion of a national park in southern Norway. We argue that it is essential to understand the complex relationships and meanings local people develop with their surroundings in order to facilitate negotiation over contested issues. This has important implications for the way managers apply different types of knowledge, develop strategies, and communicate with local interests.
25578200|Upper-elevation villagers in Nepal harvest large numbers of 5-10 cm diameter trees to construct itinerant herders' shelters. The harvest of these poles, as well as fuelwood and tree-leaf livestock fodder, may be altering upper-elevation forest structure and resource availability in Nepal. Near a village in west-central Nepal, we evaluated the sustainability of Symplocos ramosissima poles harvested for herders' shelter construction by comparing estimates of harvest and replenishment rates under 4 scenarios of spatial distribution of harvest within 3 equal-area forest types: 1) harvest evenly distributed, 2) harvest only in forest type closest to area of hut construction, 3) harvest in two closest forest types, 4) harvest in each forest type proportional to recent use patterns, as deduced from the density of stumps of pole-sized S. ramosissima. Mean density  SE of pole-size S. ramosissima was 375  32 stems ha. Tree-ring analysis of 24 pole-size S. ramosissima indicated a mean age of 35 years and a mean of 11 years to grow from 5 cm to 10 cm dbh. Comparisons of harvest and replenishment rates suggest that only harvest scenario 1 (even distribution) was sustainable. Harvest scenario 2 (closest forest type) and scenario 3 (two closest forest types) were unsustainable. Harvest scenario 4 (proportional to stump desnity) was sustainable in the two farther forest types, but unsustainable in the forest type closest to agricultural fields.
10.2307/3674022|The Cordillera Central in the Dominican Republic, island of Hispaniola, exceeds 3,000 m in height. Schubert and Medina (1982) identified possible relict glacial geomorphic features on air photographs. Modern mid-elevation lapse rates of <tex-math>$-8.5{{}^\circ}{\rm C}\ {\rm km}^{-1}$</tex-math> yield plausible paleo-snowlines below peak elevations with sea-surface temperature depressions between 2 and 8C, although paleo-dynamics of the tradewind inversion may be more important. This paper reports results of initial field reconnaissance during 1996. In addition to surfaces interpreted as modern and as Tertiary relicts, there are also features that post-date surfaces of postulated Tertiary age yet are unexplained by modern processes. These include diamictons, cirque-like depressions, incised alluvial fans, block fields, and debris lobes (interpreted by Schubert and Medina, 1982, as solifluction remnants). It is concluded that the climate of Hispaniola has not been complacent during the Quaternary because the present climatic state cannot explain the observed landscape. /// La Cordillre centrale de la Rpublique dominicaine, le d'Hispaniola, a une altitude suprieure  3000 mtres. Schubert et Medina (1982) ont provisoirement identifi des caractres gomorphiques glaciaires reliques sur des photographies ariennes. Les gradients adiabatiques modernes, de <tex-math>$-8,5{{}^\circ}{\rm C}\ {\rm km}^{-1}$</tex-math> aux altitudes moyennes, fournissent des limites palolithiques plausibles des neiges permanentes au-dessous des cotes les plus leves, avec des abaissements de temprature de 2  8C  la surface de la mer, bien que la dynamique palolithique de l'inversion des alizs puisse tre plus importante. Cet article prsente les rsultats d'une reconnaissance initiale sur le terrain effectue en 1996. En plus des surfaces interprtes comme modernes et comme reliques tertiaires, on a galement identifi des caractres postrieurs aux surfaces postules du Tertiaire qui  prsent ne sont pas expliques par les processus modernes. Ces caractres englobent des diamictons, des dpressions en forme de cirque, des cnes alluviaux inciss et des lobes de dbris (interprts par Schubert et Medina en 1992 comme tant des reliques de solifluxion). La conclusion en est que le climat de l'le d'Hispaniola n'a pas t uniforme au cours du Quaternaire du fait que l'tat climatique actuel ne peut expliquer le paysage observ. /// Die auf der Insel Hispaniola gelegene zentrale Kordillere der Dominikanischen Republik erreicht eine Hhe von mehr als 3000 m. Schubert und Medina (1982) identifizierten anhand von Luftaufnahmen mgliche berbleibsel von Vergletscherungsstrukturen. Heutige Temperaturnderungsraten in mittlerer Hhe von <tex-math>$-8.5{{}^\circ}{\rm C}\ {\rm km}^{-1}$</tex-math> ergeben zusammen mit zwischen 2 und 8C gelegenen Temperaturerniedrigungen der Meeresoberflche plausible Palo-Schneegrenzen unterhalb der Gipfelhhen, wenngleich Palodynamiken der Passatwind-Inversionen wichtiger gewesen sein mgen. Der hier vorgelegte Beitrag enthlt die Ergebnisse einer 1996 durchgefhrten Erstuntersuchung vor Ort. Zustzlich zu den als modern oder als tertire Relikte eingestuften Felsoberflchen fanden wir Strukturen, die jnger als die postulierten Tertir-Oberflchen waren, aber nicht mit modernen Prozessen erklrt werden knnen. Unter diesen Strukturen waren Diamiktone, Cirqueartige Vertiefungen, tief eingeschnittene Erosionsfcher, Blockmeere, und Gerllflchen (von Schubert und Medina, 1982, als Solifluktionsberbleibsel interpretiert). Abschlieend lt sich sagen, da das Klima auf Hispaniola whrend des Quartrs anders war als heute, da die beobachteten Landschaftsstrukturen nicht mit dem derzeit herrschenden Klima erklrt werden knnen.
3674635|Shifting agriculture has been practiced over large areas in middle-latitude mountains in the Mediterranean basin during periods of strong demographic pressure. On average, such land accounted for about 22.8% of the total cultivated area in the Central Spanish Pyrenees at the beginning of the 20th century. The use of experimental plots between 1992 and 2003 demonstrated that shifting agriculture increased overland flow, suspended sediment, and solute concentration. Total soil loss was about 14 times higher on plots under shifting agriculture than on plots under dense shrub cover, and almost 3 times higher than on permanent sloping fields. Erosion rates ranged between 0.1 and 1.4 t/ha/yr. The abandonment of shifting agriculture practices resulted in rapid plant recolonization and a decrease in runoff and soil erosion. Nevertheless, severe geomorphic processes were found to be still active several decades after abandonment, explaining landscape degradation and the occurrence of shallow landslides.
10.2307/3673293|Mountains occupy about 65 percent of the total land area of China and great differences in altitude occur within short distances. The relief has a significant impact on climate, soil, and vegetation, and research is required to assess and utilize the climatic, biological, and human resources. Only 10.15 percent of the land area of China is cultivated and this comprises 7 percent of the world's farmland and feeds 23 percent of the total world population. The Chinese traditional agricultural system is no longer adequate and more effective management must be given to the mountain environment and especially to tree crops, forestry, and animal husbandry. Exploitation in the past, resulting from ignorance, resulted in low productivity and severe soil erosion. Long-range, comprehensive planning for the future development of the mountains and strict environmental protection codes are necessary. These should be based on the specific physical and economic conditions in each geographic region and each mountain type. The mountain environment of Zhejiang Province is used as a case study. /// Les montagnes occupent environ 65% de la superficie totale de la Chine et des variations d'altitude importantes peuvent se produire  faible distance. Le relief exerce une influence sensible sur le climat, le sol, et la vgtation, et des recherches sont ncessaires pour valuer et utiliser les ressources climatiques, biologiques et humaines. Seulement 10, 15% de la superficie de la Chine sont utiliss pour l'agriculture, ce qui constitue 7% des terres cultives du monde et nourrit 23% de la population mondiale. Le systme traditionnel d'agriculture chinoise n'est plus appropri et l'environnement montagnard doit tre gr plus efficacement, surtout en termes de production de bois, sylviculture, et levage. Les anciennes formes d'exploitation, bases sur l'ignorance, sont caractrises par une basse productivit et une rosion srieuse du sol. Une planification  long terme de l'ensemble du dveloppment des rgions montagneuses, ainsi que des codes svres pour la protection de l'environnement, sont indispensables. Ils doivent tre bass sur les conditions physiques et conomiques particulires de chaque zone gographique et type de montagne. L'environnement montagnard de la province de Zhejiang est utilis pour une tude de cas. /// Etwad 65% der Flche China's ist gebirgig, wobei groe Hhenunterschiede ber kleine Entfernungen auftreten. Das Relief hat bedeutenden Einflu auf Klima, Bodenbeschaffenheit und Vegetation und Forschung ist notwendig, um die klimatischen, biologischen und menschlichen Ressourcen abzuschtzen und zu nutzen. Bisher ist nur 10,15% der Flche China's landwirtschaftlich kultiviert; was 7% des globalen Acker-landes ausmacht und 23% der Weltbevlkerung ernhrt. Das traditionelle chinesische landwirtschaftliche System ist unzureichend und eine effektivere Bewirtschaftung der Berggebiete ist ntig, besonders bei der Holzgewinnung, in der Forstwirtschaft und Viehzucht. Der Ausbeutung in der Vergangenheit, die aus Unwissenheit geschah, folgten niedrige Produktivitt und starke Bodenerosion. Langfristige, umfassende Planung zur Entwicklung der Berggebiete und striktere Umweltschutzgesetze sind ntig. Diese sollten auf spezifischen physikalischen und wirtschaftlichen Merkmalen jedes einzelnen geographischen Gebietes und seiner Gebirgsart basieren. Die Bergwelt der Zhejiang Provinz wird als Fallstudie benutzt.
10.2307/3673451|Burundi was once covered with forests but these have been decimated in the search for tillable land and pasture and for construction timber, fuel, and charcoal production to supply cities. Severe rains and the topography contribute to erosion. Now steps are being taken to protect the remaining forest. Studies of the flora and fauna have been conducted to better understand the forest resources. The lower limit of the montane region is approximately 1,600 m a.s.l. The flora include about 76 mountain species which represent 7 percent of the general flora of the region. A list of these species is given. /// Le Burondi tait autrefois couvert de forts, mais celles-ci ont t dcimes par la recherche de terres arables et de pturages, et par la production de bois de charpente, de bois de chauffage, et de charbon de bois pour satisfaire aux besoins des villes. La topographie et les pluies abondantes ont contribu  l'rosion. Des mesures ont t prises pour protger le reste des forts. Des tudes de la flore et de la faune ont t effectues dans le but de mieux apprcier les ressources forestires. La limite infrieure de l'tage montagnard se situe  environ 1.600 m. La flore comprend 76 espces montagnardes qui reprsentent 7 pour cent de l'ensemble de la flore de la rgion. Une liste des espces est fournie. /// Frher war Burundi weitgehend von Wldern bedeckt. In letzter Zeit musste aber viel neues Acker- und Weideland erschlossen werden, und Teile der Wlder wurden zudem abgeholzt, um Bauholz und Brennholz sowie Holzkohle fr die Stdte zu gewinnen. Schwere tropische Regenflle und die Topographie trugen das ihre zur Frderung der Erosion bei. In jngster Zeit werden jetzt von zustndigen Kreisen Schritte unternommen, um diesen Prozessen vorzubeugen und die Wlder zu schtzen. Dazu gehren auch Studien zur Fauna und Flora dieser Gebiete. Die untere Grenze der montanen Region in Burundi liegt bei 1600 m .M. 76 Gebirgsbaumarten machen etwa 7% der gesamten Fauna aus. Sie sind in diesem Beitrag aufgelistet und beschrieben.
10.2307/3673944|This study documents and analyzes spatial patterns of variability in 12 trace metals in sand-size and finer sediments over a 2 km segment of a boulder and cobble bed mountain stream. The analysis focuses on concentrations rather than the total metal mass budget, because it is typically variations in metal concentrations that are important for assessing potential environmental impacts. There are no consistent downstream variations in metal concentrations, which indicates that there are no significant geochemical changes or external sources of metals in the study segment. In fact, much of the spatial variability within the stream segment appears to be random, although a dimensionless shear stress model predicts the majority of locations where peak concentrations of metals contained in heavy minerals occur. The dimensionless shear stress model, however, only predicts the potential for enrichment and many sites where potential enrichment is predicted contain low concentrations of metals. Peak concentrations do not appear to be associated with metal-rich sediment waves moving through the system, but instead are probably the result of local hydraulic variability. Sampling of boulder and cobble streams should be stratified by hydraulic environments in order to capture the full range of minimum and maximum metal concentrations within the stream system. /// Cette tude documente et analyse les configurations spatiales de variabilit pour 12 mtaux en traces dans des sdiments  particules de tailles grain de sable et infrieures, sur un tronon de 2 km d'un torrent de montagne  lit de galets et de blocs. L'analyse s'intresse aux concentrations plutt qu'au bilan massique total des mtaux, car ce sont en gnral les concentrations en mtaux qui sont importantes pour l'valuation des impacts potentiels sur l'environnement. Aucune variation cohrente des concentrations en mtaux n'a t observe en aval, ce qui signifie que le tronon  l'tude n'a fait l'objet d'aucun changement gophysique significatif et qu'il ne contient aucune source externe de mtaux. En fait, une grande partie de la variabilit spatiale dans le tronon semble tre alatoire, bien qu'un modle sans dimension de la contrainte de cisaillement prdit la majorit des endroits o des concentrations maximales en mtaux contenus dans des minraux lourds apparaissent. Ce modle ne prdit cependant que le potentiel d'enrichissement, et beaucoup de sites pour lesquels un enrichissement potentiel est prdit contiennent de basses concentrations en mtaux. Les concentrations maximales ne semblent pas tre associes aux vagues de sdiments riches en mtaux se dplaant dans le chevelu hydrographique, mais rsultent probablement de la variabilit hydraulique locale. Des chantillons prlevs dans des torrents  lit de galets et de blocs doivent tre stratifis par environnements hydrauliques afin de capturer la gamme complte de concentration en mtaux minimales et maximales dans le chevelu hydrographique. /// In dieser Arbeit wird in Sedimenten von Sandkorngre (und feiner) die rumliche Verteilung der Hufigkeit von 12 Spurenmetallen analysiert und dokumentiert. Die Proben wurden aus einem 2 km langen, mit Gerll und Felsblcken beladenen Teilstck eines Gebirgsbachs entnommen. Die Analyse erfate hauptschlich Verteilungen und nicht den Gesamtmassenanteil der Metalle, da typische Unterschiede in Metallkonzentrationen zur Erkennung von potentiellen Umwelteinflsse wichtig sind. Fluabwrts gab es kaum Unterschiede in der Variabilitt der Metallverteilungen. Dies Ergebnis zeigt, da im untersuchten Teilstck bedeutsame geochemische Vernderungen oder uere Metallquellen nicht zu erkennen waren. Alles in allem ist die rumliche Variabilitt innerhalb des untersuchten Teilstcks rein statistisch verteilt; wenn auch ein dimensionsloses Scherkraftmodell voraussagt, da Hchstkonzentrationen von Metallen sich in Schwer-Mineralien hufen. Dieses Scherkraftmodell jedoch sagt nur die Mglichkeit fr Anreicherung voraus; viele Stellen, an denen eine Anreicherung prinzipiell mglich war, wiesen jedoch nur geringe Metallkonzentrationen aus. Hchstwerte haben keine Beziehung zu den metallreichen Sedimentflssen im Bachbett, sondern sind wahrscheinlich das Ergebnis von lokaler hydraulischer Variabilitt. Probeentnahmen aus einem mit Gerll und Felsblcken beladenen Bachbett sollten an einem gradlinigen Teilstck vorgenommen werden, um das volle Ausma zwischen minimaler und maximaler Metallkonzentration zu erfassen.
3674231|The capacity of forests to provide sustainable employment opportunities is becoming the focus of greater interest worldwide. In mountain areas, forest resources are a considerable source of livelihood and of multiple economic activities based on a variety of goods and services. A case study from Savoy, France, is presented and discussed here. The results of the study suggest that forest-related activities in mountain regions enhance environmental and socioeconomic benefits, including high-quality goods and services, as well as sustainable employment opportunities.
10.2307/3673092|The northern Andean region is an area of great ecological diversity and relatively high population density. In contrast to other high Andean regions most of the mountainous areas of Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela are well-watered and capable of supporting a variety of food crops. However, soil erosion and the pressure of intensive subsistence agriculture have limited productivity. Moreover, crops that yield carbohydrates are more easily produced than are sources of animal protein. This is especially true where coffee is grown as a cash crop, a system that involves the planting of bananas as shade for coffee plants. A low intake of animal protein is associated with the pattern of mixed subsistence and cash crop economies seen in lower-altitude Andean regions of Colombia. The growth rate and maturation of children reflects this limitation of dietary intake as does the body size of adults. While a determined effort has been made to increase the intake of essential amino acids in north Andean peoples, both ecological and socio-economic factors make progress difficult. Recently improved access to major cities, however, has resulted in the creation of new expectations that are not easily satisfied. This is placing increased difficulties in the way of development of effective land-use strategies. /// La rgion des Andes du Nord est une zone caractrise par une grande diversit cologique et une densit dmographique relativement leve. Par rapport aux autres rgions leves des Andes, la plupart des zones montagneuses de la Colombie, l'Ecuador, et le Venezuela sont alimentes en eau par des puits et sont capables de supporter une grande varit de cultures alimentaires. Toutefois, l'rosion du sol et le poids d'une agriculture de subsistance intensive ont limit la productivit. D'autre part, les cultures qui produisent des hydrates de carbone sont plus faciles  cultiver que les sources de protline animale. C'est particulirement le cas dans les rgions o le caf est cultiv comme une rcolte au comptant, un systme o les bananiers sont plants pour fournir de l'ombre pour les cafiers. Une consommation peu leve de protine animale est associe avec la tendance  des conomies de subsistance et rcoltes au comptant combines que l'on voit dans les rgions des Andes  des altitudes plus basses de la Colombie. Le taux de croissance et de maturation des enfants reflte cette limitation de consommation alimentaire de mme que la taille du corps d'un adulte. Alors qu'un grand effort a t fait  l'effet d'augmenter la consommation des amino-acides essentiels chez la population des Andes du Nord, les facteurs cologiques et socio-conomiques rendent difficile un progrs vritable. Une amlioration rcente des axes aux grandes villes a donn lieu  de nouvelles demandes qui ne sont pas faciles  satisfaire. Ainsi, on voit de plus en plus d'obstacles en face d'un effort de dveloppement de stratgies efficaces d'utilisation des terres. /// Die Gebiete der nrdlichen Anden zeigen grosse kologische Vielfalt und haben eine relativ hohe Bevlkerungsdichte. Die gebirgigen Regionen von Kolumbien, Ecuador und Venezuela sind im Gegensatz zu anderen hochgelegenen Andengebieten gut mit Wasser versorgt, was den Anbau einer Vielzahl von Feldfrchten erlaubt. Bodenerosion und der Zwang zu intensiver Landwirtschaft haben jedoch die Ertragsfhigkeit eingeschrnkt. Ausserdem knnen Kohlehydrate liefernde Feldfrchte leichter erzeugt werden als tierisches Eiweiss. Dies gilt besonders fr die Anbaugebiete, in denen Kaffee die Haupterwerbsquelle ist, und Bananenstauden als Schattenspender fr Kaffeepflanzen dienen. Ein geringer Verbrauch an tierischem Eiweiss ist besonders dort zu finden, wo eine Mischung aus Selbstversorgern und Ertragswirtschaft besteht, so wie man sie in den niedriger gelegenen Andengebieten Kolumbiens vorfindet. Die Wachstumsrate und Reife der Jugendlichen spiegeln hier diese einseitige Ernhrung ebenso wider wie die Krpergrsse der Erwachsenen. Obwohl Anstrengungen gemacht wurden, den Verbrauch lebenswichtiger Aminosuren unter der Bevlkerung der Nord-Anden zu steigern, erschweren kologische und sozial-konomische Faktoren den Fortschritt. Zustzlich hat der verbesserte Zugang zu den Hauptstdten neue Erwartungen erzeugt, die nicht leicht erfllt werden knnen. Dies alles macht es schwierig, sinnvolle Landnutzungsplne zu entwickeln. /// La regin de los Andes del norte es una zona de gran diversidad ecolgica y de densidad de poblacin relativamente alta. A diferencia de otras regiones altas de los Andes la mayora de las zonas montaosas de Colombia, Ecuador y Venezuela disponen de aguas abundantes, y son capaces de producir un amplio surtido de cosechas. No obstante la erosin del suelo y la presin que la agricultura de subsistencia intensiva ejerce han limitado la productividad. Adems las cosechas que dan carbohidratos son ms fciles de producir que las que proporcionan fuentes de proteina animal. Esto es especialmente cierto all donde se cultiva caf para producir dinero en efectivo. Ese sistema envuelve plantar pltanos para que hagan sombra a las plantas de caf. Las dietas con bajos niveles de proteina se asocian con el modelo de las economas de subsistencia mixta y de cosechas para producir dinero en efectivo que se dan en las regiones andinas de baja altitud de Colombia. La tasa de crecimiento y maduracin de los nios as como el tamao del cuerpo de los adultos reflejan estas limitaciones en la dieta. Si bien se ha llevado a cabo un esfuerzo resuelto para incrementar la cantidad de aminocidos esenciales que las personas de los Andes del norte ingieren, los factores ecolgicos y socio-econmicos contribuyen a hacer difcil este progreso. El acceso a las grandes ciudades que ha sido mejorado recientemente ha traido como resultado la creacin de nuevas esperanzas que no se pueden satisfacer fcilmente. Este hecho est produciendo todava ms dificultades en el proceso de desarrollar estrategias efectivas para el uso de la tierra.
10.2307/3673223|This paper presents an overview of the cultural and economic history of the Himalaya. The growth of trans-montane trade, the development of intensive agriculture, and the distribution of ethnically diverse populations throughout the region are tied to the formation of successive Hindu and Buddhist states. Of central concern are the processes by which the region was integrated into the colonial economy of British India during the nineteenth century. /// Cette tude passe en revue l'histoire culturelle et conomique de l'Himalaya. La croissance du commerce trans-montagnard, l'expansion de l'agriculture intensive, et la rpartition des peuples ethniquement diffrents dans la rgion ont contribu  la formation des Etats successifs, hindou et bouddhiste. L'intrt principal porte sur les processus par lesquels cette rgion a t intgre dans l'conomie coloniale de l'Inde britannique au cours du dix-neuvime sicle. /// Diese Verffentlichung liefert einen berblick ber die kulturelle und wirtschaftliche Geschichte des Himalaya. Das Wachstum des transhimalayischen Handels, die Entwicklung intensiver Landwirtschaft, und die Verteilung ethnisch unterschiedlicher Bevlkerungsgruppen ber das ganze Gebiet stehen in engem Zusammenhang mit der aufeinanderfolgenden Grndung von Hindu- und Buddhist-Staaten. Die Integration dieses Gebietes in die koloniale Wirtschaft des britisch beherrschten Indiens whrend des 19. Jahrhunderts ist von besonderem Interesse. /// Este trabajo examina la historia cultural y econmica del Himalaya. El crecimiento del comercio trans-cordillerano, el desarrollo de la agricultura intensiva y la distribucin de distintas poblaciones tnicas en toda la region, estn relacionadas con la formacin de sucesivos estados hindes y budistas. De inters principal son los proceses por medio de la cuales la regin fue integrada a la economa colonial de la India inglesa durante el siglo diecinueve.
10.2307/3673355|The Bakrwal, a nomadic ethnic group numbering some 10,000 in Jammu and Kashmir in the western Himalaya, practise sheep and goat husbandry and utilize the various biotopes of the different altitudes. Their winter pasturelands lie mainly in the Acacia-Carissa woodlands at about 500-1,000 m between Kathua and Jammu in the southeast and south and Riasi and Punch in the north and northwest, respectively. Their herds feed on the leaves of boughs and twigs lopped en route by the shepherds. The individual Bakrwal families spend the summer in montane pastures between about 3,000 and 4,400 m, to the north-northwest and northeast of the Kashmir basin. The various biotopes utilized are described and the vegetation listed. The yearly migration cycle is represented by the examples of two families. Degradation of the montane biotopes is occurring in Jammu and Kashmir, as elsewhere in the Himalaya. But no constant increase in the numbers of sheep and goats in the state is documented in the census reports for the last decades. At the present time the Bakrwal are integrated in a close network of state development measures, described briefly. The nomads' future depends largely on the degree to which they themselves and the official institutions are prepared to co-operate and compromise between economic growth and the steps urgently required to stabilize the montane ecosystem. /// Il s'agit ici des Bakrwal, un groupe de pasteurs nomades qui vit de l'levage ovin et caprin dans les provinces de Jammu et du Cachemire dans l'Himalaya occidental. Constituant une population d'environ 10.000, les Bakrwal exploitent des biotopes varis aux diffrentes altitudes. Leurs pturages hivernaux se situent entre Kathua  l'est et Poonch  l'ouest (approximativement 500 m  1.000 m) dans des bois d'Acacia-Carissa. Ils estivent au nord et au nord-est du bassin de Cachemire, dans des pturages dont l'altitude varie de 3.000  4.400 m environ. Les diffrents biotopes exploits par les Bakrwal ainsi que la vgtation de ces rgions sont dcrits. Les auteurs illustrent le cycle annuel de migration des familles constituant le groupe en donnent l'exemple dtaill de deux familles. Comme dans tout l'Himalaya, la dgradation du biotope est d'une envergure importante dans ces rgions. Les recensements officiels du btail effectus dans ces rgions n'indiquent toutefois aucune augmentation constante du cheptel ovin et caprin pendant les dernires dcennies. De nos jours, l'interaction entre les Bakrwal et l'Etat est d'une grande importance et l'avenir du groupe dpend largement de la mesure dans laquelle les institutions d'Etat travaillant en coopration avec ces pasteurs aboutiront  un compromis entre la croissance conomique et les mesures indispensables et urgentes pour rtablir l'quilibre cologique. /// Die Bakrwal, eine ziegen- und schafzchtende nomadische Ethnie von ca. 10.000 Personen in Jammu und Kaschmir nutzt die unterschiedlichen Biotope auf den verschiedenen Hhenstufen des Westhimalaya. Ihre Winterweidegebiete liegen hauptschlich in den Acacia-Carissa Wldern, auf einer Hhe von ca. 500 bis 1000 m, zwischen Kathua und Jammu im Sden und Riasi und Punch im Norden. Die Tiere leben dort vom Laub der Bume, das von den Hirten abgeschlagen wird. Den Sommer verbringen die einzelnen Bakrwalfamilien in montanen Weideterritorien zwischen ca. 3000 und 4400 m Hhe nrdlich, nordwestlich und nordstlich des Kaschmirbeckens. Die verschiedenen genutzten Biotope werden beschrieben und einige Vegetationsaufnahmen mitgeteilt. Die jahreszyklischen Wanderungen sind am Beispiel zweier Familien dargestellt. Wie im gesamten Himalayagebiet, so schreitet die Degradation der montanen Biotope auch in Jammu und Kaschmir voran. Aufgrund der vorliegenden Daten ber die Kopfzahlen der Schafe und Ziegen in den letzten Dekaden im Bundesland, scheint hervorzugehen, da kein stetiges Anwachsen der Population vorliegt. Die Bakrwal sind heute in ein dichtes Netz staatlicher Entwicklungsmanahmen eingebunden, die kurz dargestellt werden. Ihre Zukunft hngt weitgehend von der guten Zusammenarbeit kompromibereiter Institutionen und von den dringend notwendigen Manahmen zur Stabilisierung des montanen kosystems ab.
25578192|Pesticides are increasingly used in Pakistan, including in remote Northern areas in the country, for several reasons. A study in Swat Valley investigated the use of pesticides and associated problems, and identified possible remedial measures of an indigenous nature. Soil samples were analyzed and a detailed survey was done in 12 villages, based on interviews with 216 farmers and several in-depth interviews with other stakeholders such as the agriculture department and various pesticide dealers. All the soil samples contained residues of pesticides, 2 of which are known to be highly toxic and accumulate in nature. Thus they represent a potential risk to the health of people and the ecosystem. The various factors contributing to heavy pesticide use include adulteration and the unscientific way pesticides are used, which in turn affects apiculture and populations of fish and migratory birds. Therefore, proper awareness and farmer training may be helpful to avoid use of pesticides, including for fishing, while administrative measures should be adopted against adulteration. Pesticide use can also be minimized by crop rotation, early harvesting, and reviving farmers' collective work system in farmer field schools (FFS).
10.2307/3673715|Four mountainous watersheds within the rapidly developing Ruhengeri Prefecture in northwestern Rwanda show striking heterogeneity in their hydrologic regimes. The fertile steeplands of Ruhengeri Prefecture support some of the highest population densities in the world. They also contain the protected Parc National des Volcans, home to the endangered mountain gorilla. This study presents the first sedimentation data available for the region. Suspended sediment yield ranged widely from 124 t/ km<sup>2</sup> to 19,800 <tex-math>${\rm t}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> during a six-month period from December 1987 to May 1988. The latter figure includes sediment transported during a catastrophic flood in May 1988, and is comparable to the highest measured values worldwide. Precipitation is relatively uniform throughout the region, yet runoff varied from only 19 mm to as much as 1,055 mm during the six-month comparison period. Flood events were highly localized and, in some cases, severe. Land use, geology, and topography are the primary factors in this variance. Consideration of catchment-specific hydrologic and sedimentation data will be important to both sustained agricultural yields and the design of appropriate floodplain infrastructures. Certain catchments characterized by alarmingly high sedimentation rates require immediate stabilization and rehabilitation. /// Quatre bassins hydrographiques de montagne situs dans la prfecture de Ruhengeri, nord-ouest du Rwanda, une rgion en voie de dveloppement rapide, sont caractriss par l'htrognit remarquable de leurs rgimes hydrologiques. Les terres escarpes fertiles de la prfecture de Ruhengeri ont une des plus hautes densits de population du monde. Elles contiennent galement le Parc National des Volcans o rsident les gorilles de montagne, une espce en voie d'extinction. Cette tude prsente les premires donnes de sdimentation disponibles pour cette rgion. L'apport de sdiments en suspension a normment vari, de 124  19.800 t/ km<sup>2</sup> au cours d'une priode de six mois (dcembre 1987  mai 1988). Cette dernire valeur inclut les sdiments transports au cours d'une inondation catastrophique en mai 1988; elle est comparable aux plus hautes valeurs mesures dans le monde entier. Les prcipitations sont relativement uniformes sur l'ensemble de la rgion, mais le ruissellement a nanmoins vari de 19 mm  1.055 mm au cours de la priode d'tude de six mois. Les inondations ont t trs localises et, dans certains cas, srieuses. Le mode d'utilisation des terres, la gologie et la topographie constituent les facteurs primaires de cette variation. L'examen des donnes hydrologiques et sdimentaires relatives  chaque bassin hydrographique aura une grande importance pour maintenir une production agricole suffisante et concevoir des infrastructures appropries pour les champs d'inondation. Certains bassins hydrographiques caractriss par des vitesses de sdimentation extrmement leves ncessitent une stabilisation et une rhabilitation immdiates. /// In der sich schnell entwickelnden Ruhengeri Provinz im nordwestlichen Rwanda zeigen vier gebirgige Wassereinzugsgebiete frappierende Unterschiedlichkeiten in ihren hydrologischen Systemen. Die fruchtbaren Steilhnge der Ruhengeri Provinz ernhren eine Bevlkerung, die mit die dichteste der Welt ist. Der unter Naturschutz stehende Parc National des Volcans in der Ruhengeri Provinz ist Heimat der gefhrdeten Berggorillas. Diese Untersuchung legt fr dieses Gebiet die ersten Daten ber Sedimentation vor. Whrend des 6-monatigen Zeitraums von Dezember 1987 bis Mai 1988 schwankte die Sedimentfracht zwischen 124 t/ km<sup>2</sup> und 19.800 t/ km<sup>2</sup>. Die letztere Zahl schliet die Sedimentfracht whrend einer katastrophalen berschwemmung im Mai 1988 ein, und ist mit den hchsten Werten, die je weltweit gemessen wurden, vergleichbar. Die Niederschlagsmengen in diesem Gebiet sind berall relativ gleichbleibend, trotzdem schwankten die Wasserabflumengen whrend der 6 monatigen Vergleichsperiode von niedrigen Werten von 19 mm bis hin zu 1.055 mm. berschwemmungen waren rtlich begrenzt und in einigen Fllen schwer. Die Hauptfaktoren zur Erklrung der starken Unterschiede liegen in der Landnutzung, Geologie und Topographie. Beachtung der hydrologischen - und Sedimentationsdaten dieser Einzugsgebiete ist sowohl fr langfristige landwirtschaftliche Produktionsvorhersagen wie fr die Planung geeigneter berschwemmungskontrollen wichtig. Bestimmte Einzugsgebiete, die durch alamierend hohe Sedimentziffern charakterisiert sind, erforden sofortige Manahmen zur Stabilisation und Rehabilitation.
3674228|Roughly paralleling the Atlantic coast for 1800 km, Appalachia's peaks and ridges, rising to just over 2000 m, form the axis of eastern North America. Between 1880 and 1920, virtually the entire mountain chain was clear-cut. Severe erosion accompanied the logging. Today's second-growth forests (Figure 1) have matured under the eye of conservation-minded professionals and a sympathetic public determined to prevent a repeat of the first deforestation. Other current environmental issues include forest fragmentation, lack of land use planning, acid mine drainage, acid deposition, and exotic species-all of which degrade the quality of surface waters. Finding solutions for these problems is a constant challenge. In West Virginia, a strategic planning process involving the state's complete political spectrum provided the foundation for launching two programs, one to assess the ecological conditions of the state's watersheds and the other to support the birth and growth of inclusive, consensus-based grassroots watershed groups. A case study illustrates some lessons learned from the second program, focusing specifically on erosion problems.
10.2307/3673773|This paper provides an overview of mountain environmental problems and the role of women in conserving the mountain resource base. There is a remarkable convergence of policy objectives between the themes of sustainable development, environmental conservation, and the advancement of women. These issues are discussed and constraints and opportunities are enumerated. While both mountains and women have begun to receive more global attention in the last two decades they are not yet firmly integrated into the conservation agenda. Nevertheless, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992, made a crucial step in moving mountain and women's issues into better focus. A series of recommendations are made to ensure that this progress is maintained. /// Cet article fournit une vue d'ensemble des problmes affectant l'environnement montagnard et du rle des femmes, en ce qui concerne la conservation de la base de ressources des montagnes. Les objectifs de la politique conomique convergent d'une manire remarquable sur les thmes du dveloppement soutenable, de la conservation de l'environnement, et de l'avancement des femmes. Ces questions sont examines, et les contraintes et possibilits sont passes en revue. Bien que les montagnes et les femmes aient commenc  faire l'objet d'une attention globale accrue au cours des deux dernires dcennies, elles ne sont pas encore suffisamment intgres dans l'agenda de la conservation. Nanmoins, la Confrence des Nations Unies sur l'environnement et le dveloppement, qui s'est tenue  Rio de Janeiro en Juin 1992, a pris les mesures ncessaires pour que les questions relatives aux montagnes et aux femmes reoivent l'attention qu'elles mritent. Des recommandations sont faites pour assurer que ce progrs soit maintenu. /// Diese Verffentlichung gibt einen berblick ber Umweltprobleme im Gebirge und die Rolle der Frau bei der Erhaltung der Gebirgsressourcen. In der Zielsetzung herrscht allgemein bereinstimmung, da bei der Themenwahl kontinuierliche Entwicklung, Erhaltung der Umwelt und das Frauen-Engagement den Vorrang haben. Diese Themen werden im Hinblick auf ihre Grenzen und Mglichkeiten diskutiert. Obwohl in den vergangenen zwei Jahrzehnten sowohl der Bergwelt als auch den Frauen grere Aufmerksamkeit weltweit gezollt wurde, konnten sie bisher keinen festen Platz in der Umweltproblematik etablieren. Die United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, die im Juni 1992 in Rio de Janeiro stattfand, unternahm bedeutsame Schritte, die Gebirgs- und Frauenproblematiken mehr ins Blickfeld rckten. Eine Reihe von Empfehlungen wird gemacht, die sicherstellen sollen, da weitere Entwicklungen in Gang gehalten werden.
10.2307/3673440|Soil erosion risks are measured by means of several indices, such as rainfall erosivity, rainfall intensity, soil erodibility, and drainage density. Many of these parameters cannot be used for studies in developing countries because of a lack of the required data base. In such situations, slope can be used as a valuable index for two reasons: first, slope values can be computed from available maps or air photographs and thus the data base can be prepared, even if it did not previously exist; second, slope steepness directly governs the soil erosion processes, hence it is a good indicator of the potential risk of erosion. Erosion effectiveness of all fluvial processes varies according to the sine of the surface angle of slope. In the study area of the Welo Administrative Region of Ethiopia, seven classes of potential soil erosion risks are identified on the basis of the slope sine values. Broadly speaking, the areas of low erosion risk coincide with the eastern lowland, termed the Afar plains. Here, simple and inexpensive soil conservation measures are adequate to arrest further losses due to erosion. The western highlands, particularly those with elevations of more than 2,000 m asl entail higher risks. Here, the downslope component of gravitational acceleration is strong and this constantly initiates and rejuvenates processes of soil erosion. In these areas, immediate remedial measures are essential. /// Les risques d'rosion du sol sont mesurs au moyen de plusieurs indices, tels que le pouvoir rosif des pluies, l'intensit des pluies, la susceptibilit du sol  l'rosion et la densit du drainage. Beaucoup de ces paramtres ne peuvent pas tre utiliss pour la recherche dans les pays en voie de dveloppement, car les bases de donnes ncessaires ne sont pas disponibles. Dans de tels cas, la pente du terrain peut constituer un indice utile pour les deux raisons suivantes: d'abord, la pente peut tre calcule  partir des cartes ou photographies ariennes disponibles, et donc la base de donnes peut tre cre bien qu'elle n'existait pas prcdemment; ensuite, la pente du terrain rgit directement les processus d'rosion et constitute donc un bon indicateur des risques d'rosion existants. Le pouvoir rosif de tous les processus fluviaux varie en fonction du sinus de la pente du terrain par rapport  l'horizontale. Pour la zone d'tude situe dans la province de Welo en Ethiopie, sept catgories de risque d'rosion du sol sont identifies en fonction du sinus de la pente. En termes gnraux, les zones o le risque d'rosion est bas coincident avec les basses terres de l'est, appeles les plaines de l'Afar. Sur ces lieux, des mesures de conservation du sol simples et conomiques sont suffisantes pour enrayer les pertes des  l'rosion. Par contre, les hautes terres de l'ouest, en particulier celles situes au-dessus de 2.000 m, sont exposes  de plus gros risques. La composante de l'acclration de la pensateur le long des pentes y est leve; elle initie et rgnre continuellement les processus d'rosion. Dans ces zones, des mesures rparatrices immdiates sont indispensables. /// Bodenerosionsgefahren werden mit verschiedenen Indikatoren gemessen, wie z. B. Erosivitt der Niederschlge, Erodibilitt der Bden, Entwsserungsdichte und -textur. Aus Datenmangel knnen viele derartige Methoden in Entwicklungslndern nicht eingesetzt werden. Aus zwei Grnden kann die Hangneigung in solchen Situationen verwendet werden: Erstens kann sie aus Karten oder Luftbildern ermittelt werden und zweitens werden Erosionsprozesse durch die Hangneigung gesteuert. Die Erosionswirkung fluvialer Prozesse variiert mit dem Sinus der Hangneigung. In der Region Welo in Aethiopien wurde mit dem Sinuswert der Hangneigung die potentielle Erosionsgefahr in sieben Klassen identifiziert. Generall haben die stlichen Tieflandteile (Afarebene) eine geringere potentielle Erosionsgefhrdung als die westlichen Hochlandteile Welos oberhalb 2000 m .M. Hier ist die hangabwrts gerichtete Komponente der Gravitationsbeschleunigung stark und verursacht stndig Erosionsprozesse, so dass unmittelbar Gegenmassnahmen notwendig sind.
mounresedeve.35.1.90|Effective governance of natural resources requires robust information about a diverse set of social and ecological dynamics. CONDESAN (the Consorcio para el Desarrollo Sostenible de la Ecorregin Andina) is making progress in the Andean region to generate, manage, and mobilize knowledge about key social, economic, and environmental processes and to make them available to actors who most need it for decision-making. The approaches integrate tools at multiple scales, emphasizing the diverse nature of the drivers and impacts of environmental change and promoting long-term monitoring within collaborative networks. True integration of social and environmental observation platforms is still a challenge, but current progress and future initiatives will allow CONDESAN to generate sound alternatives for the Andes.
mounresedeve.29.3.277|The Centre for Development and Environment (CDE) is a university-based institution that conducts resource- and people-centered research activities for development and policy advice in Switzerland and abroad, guided by a sustainable development approach. Many of the Centre's programs and mandates include a mountain or highlandlowland component; they are presented below. CDE is part of the Institute of Geography at the University of Bern, Switzerland and is the lead institution for the Swiss National Centre of Competence in Research (NCCR) North-South.
4540651|Ancestors, taboos, spirits, rice, and cattle are Madagascar's strongest traditional foundations-indispensable "food" for most, if not all, rural Malagasy people. On the other hand, nationalism, "development," private enterprise, and conservation of biodiversity are unavoidable modern spin-offs of globalization that influence Malagasy life, even in the most remote mountain areas. How do Malagasy people deal with these opposing forces, and can they negotiate ways of life that integrate both traditional and modern values? As illustrated in the present article, experience shows that members of rural civil society, proudly upholding traditional values and remaining strongly rooted in natural and spiritual worlds such as ancestors, spirits, and sacred sites (Figure 1), can become committed actors and promoters of Voluntary Protected Area (VPA) initiatives. Ancestral spirituality, local knowledge and traditional practices, previously seen as obstacles to conservation and development, can-in partnership with scientific ecological and economic understanding-become effective tools and offer solutions for biodiversity conservation and sustainable mountain development.
10.2307/3673221|Agriculture in the hills and mountains of Nepal includes few of the high-yielding crop varieties, chemical fertilizers and pesticides, effective water control, and integration into major commodity markets which characterize agriculture in most areas of the world. Indigenous agriculture maintains a subsistence orientation in which a large proportion of the population is engaged in agricultural work and almost all production is for local use. Rapid population growth induces intensification of subsistence agriculture in which diminishing return on labour is traded for increased production. These processes have also affected cropping choices and land-use strategies, resulting in major environmental and social changes. Although the specific agricultural changes taking place in rural Nepal are unique and conditioned by culture and history, the underlying logic of agricultural intensification and its effect on village communities may be similar in Himalayan Nepal and in the Andes. /// L'agriculture dans les collines et les montagnes du Npal utilise peu les varits de cultures  haut rendement, les engrais chimiques et les insecticides, les mthodes efficaces de distribution de l'eau, et l'intgration dans les principaux marchs de denres alimentaires qui caractisent l'agriculture dans la plupart des pays du monde. L'agriculture indigne reste axe sur l'autoconsommation, c'est  dire qu'un gros pourcentage de la population travaille pour l'agriculture et presque toute la production est consomme localement. La croissance rapide de la population entrne une intensification de l'autoconsommation par laquelle un moindre rendement sur le plan de la main d'oeuvre est hang contre une plus grosse production. Ce processus a aussi affect le choix des cultures et les stratgies d'exploitation des terres, amenant des changements importants dans l'environnement et la vie sociale. Bien que les changements spcifiques qui caractrisent l'agriculture du Npal rural sont uniques et conditionns par la culture et l'histoire, il se peut que les raisons caches de l'intensification agricole et son effet sur les communauts villageoises soient similaires au Npal et dans les Andes. Les donnes descriptives concernant l'autoconsommation en Himalaya sont prsentes pour appeler une comparaison avec les donnes disponsibles sur les Andes. /// Die Landwirtschaft im Hang- und Berggebiet Nepals umfat nur wenige Hochertragssorten, und benutzt weder Kunstdnger, Pestizide, eine effektive Wasserwirtschaft noch Integration in grere Warenmrkte, was Agrarwirtschaften in fast allen anderen Gebieten der Erde auszeichnet. Die berlieferte einheimische Landwirtschaft, in der ein Groteil der Bevlkerung ttig ist, ist berlebensorientiert, und die Ertrge sind fast ausschlielich fr den lokalen Verbrauch bestimmt. Die Selbstversorgerwirtschaft mu wegen des schnellen Bevlkerungswachstums intensiviert werden; dabei werden kleinere Ertrge pro Arbeitskraft gegen erhhte Produktion eingetauscht. Diese Vorgnge haben sich auf die Saatenauswahl und die Landnutzungsplanung ausgewirkt und fhrten in der Umwelt und sozialen Struktur zu greren Vernderungen. Obwohl die landwirtschaftlichen Vernderungen im lndlichen Nepal geschehen und dort durch Kultur und Geschichte geprgt sind, knnen hnliche grundlegende Umstrukturierungen durch landwirtschaftliche Intensivierung in den Dorfgemeinschaften des himalayischen Nepal und in den Anden beobachtet werden. Anschauliche Daten ber Selbstversorgungswirtschaft im Himalaya werden vorgelegt, und ein Vergleich mit Daten aus dem Andengebiet wird vorgeschlagen. /// En la agricultura en las colinas y montaas de Nepal se nota la ausencia de muchas caractersticas de la agricultura en otras zonas: el uso de las variedades de cultivos de alto rendimiento, fertilizantes qumicos y pesticidas, control efectivo del agua e integracin a los mayores mercados de mercanas. La agricultura indgena mantiene una orientacin hacia la subsistencia en la cual una gran proporcin de la poblacin tiene ocupaciones agrcolas y se consume casi toda la produccin en las zonas locales. El crecimiento rpido de la poblacin impone la intensificacin de la agricultura de subsistencia en la cual se disminuye la productividad de la mano de obra para aumentar la produccin total. Estos procesos han cambiado los cultivos y las estrategias del uso de la tierra, provocando as importantes cambios ambientales y sociales. Aunque los cambios agrcolas que se llevan a cabo en el Nepal rural son especficos y determinados por la cultura y la historia, en el Nepal himalayano y en los Andes la lgica fundamental de la intensificacin, agrcola y su efecto sobre las comunidades pueden coincidir. Datos descriptivos sobre la subsistencia agropecuaria en el Himalaya estn presentados para facilitar la comparacin con el caso andino.
10.2307/3674096|In the Central Spanish Pyrenees there is a great diversity of geomorphic processes due to topographic and climatic heterogeneity and altitudinal gradient. Human activity during the last 4,000 years has contributed to the disturbance of the original landscape and its hydro-morphological dynamics. The upper forest belt was destroyed by fire during the Middle Ages in order to provide summer pastures to transhumant livestock. The hillslopes below 1,600 m were cultivated and frequently burnt to improve the soil and pasture quality, even on steep slopes. The most evident consequence of this has been the increase in the sources of sediment. In the subalpine belt, mass movements and dense rill networks have caused severe soil erosion and the expansion of gelifluxion terracettes; in the middle mountain belt overland flow has resulted in stoniness of the soil surface, and debris flows have occurred on hillslopes and along river channels. This paper discusses the effects of human activity on the geomorphic processes in the study area. /// El Pirineo Central espaol se caracteriza por la gran diversidad de procesos geomorfolgicos de acuerdo con la heterogeneidad topogrfica y el fuerte gradiente altitudinal. La actividad humana ha contribuido a alterar el paisaje original y la dinmica hidromorfolgica: el piso superior del bosque fue en gran parte eliminado durante la Edad Media para ampliar la superficie de pastos supraforestales; y las vertientes situadas por debajo de 1,600 m fueron cultivadas en condiciones topogrficas muy difciles. En la actualidad el papel del hombre como agente de transformacin del paisaje es visible de forma general: en el piso subalpino los movimientos en masa y las incisiones poco integradas han causado la prdida de suelo y la expansin de las terracillas y de los procesos de solifluxin; en la montaa media, el arroyamiento difuso ha contribuido a aumentar la proporcin de piedras en superficie. Los autores confirman la importancia de las actividades humanas en el dinamismo de los procesos geomorfolgicos.
90001389|Glacier observation data from major mountain regions of the world are key to improving our understanding of glacier changes: they deliver fundamental baseline information for climatological, hydrological, and hazard assessments. In many mountain ecosystems, as well as in the adjacent lowlands, glaciers play a crucial role in freshwater provision and regulation. This article first presents the state of the art on glacier monitoring and related strategies within the framework of the Global Terrestrial Network for Glaciers (GTN-G). Both in situ measurements of changes in glacier mass, volume, and length as well as remotely sensed data on glacier extents and changes over entire mountain ranges provide clear indications of climate change. Based on experiences from capacity-building activities undertaken in the Tropical Andes and Central Asia over the past years, we also review the state of the art on institutional capacity in these regions and make further recommendations for sustainable mountain development. The examples from Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, and Kyrgyzstan demonstrate that a sound understanding of measurement techniques and of the purpose of measurements is necessary for successful glacier monitoring. In addition, establishing durable institutions, capacity-building programs, and related funding is necessary to ensure that glacier monitoring is sustainable and maintained in the long term. Therefore, strengthening regional cooperation, collaborating with local scientists and institutions, and enhancing knowledge sharing and dialogue are envisaged within the GTN-G. Finally, glacier monitoring enhances the resilience of the populations that depend on water resources from glacierized mountains or that are affected by hazards related to glacier changes. We therefore suggest that glacier monitoring be included in the development of sustainable adaptation strategies in regions with glaciated mountains.
10.2307/3673233|The problems and measuring methods of meteorological experiments in mountainous regions are described by reference to the DISKUS experiment, which was performed in June 1980 in the Dischma Valley (Switzerland). Preliminary results concerning the structure of the thermal wind system in a small mountain valley show that even small mesoscale phenomena are important elements in the description of weather and climate in the mountains. They are likely to be especially important in areas with problems of air pollution. /// Les problmes et les mthodes de mesure concernant les recherches mtorologiques de montagne sont expliques par l'exemple de l'exprimentation DISKUS (1980, valle de Dischma, Suisse). Quelques rsultats prliminaires sur la structure dans vents thermiques dans une petite valle montrent que mme des henomnes peu tendus d'chelle moyenne sont assez importants pour le climat et les types de temps en montage ainsi que pour la distribution des pollutants. /// Am Beispiel des Experiments DISKUS, das 1980 im Dischmatal (Schweiz) durchgefhrt wurde, werden die Probleme und Messmethoden der meteorologischen Forschung im Gebirge dargestellt. Einige vorlufige Ergebnisse ber die Struktur thermischer Windsysteme in einem kleinen Gebirgstal zeigen, dass auch kleinere mesoskalige Phnomene ein wichtiges Glied in der Beschreibung von Wetter und Klima im Gebirge darstellen, und dass sie insbesondere fr Fragen der Luftverschmutzung eine grosse Rolle spielen.
3674079|In Peru, strong growth in urban demand for industrially processed dairy products has induced a rapid increase in milk production along the coast but not so much in the Andean highlands, where an increase in milk production would create the greatest benefits. A farmhousehold optimization model was used to assess the current and changing competitiveness of milk production on the coast (Arequipa and Lima) and in the highlands (Cajamarca). Results show that large farms on the coast, particularly near Lima, are currently the most profitable. However, the high milk prices in Lima are likely to fall because of local market saturation and reduced competition among regional milk buyers. In contrast, milk prices in Arequipa and Cajamarca are expected to rise as a result of increased milk collection by milk processors since milk production costs in these regions are lower and there is a strong incentive to increasingly substitute expensive imported milk powder with locally produced evaporated milk. Improvements in the rural road system and the promotion of agricultural export crops along the coast, particularly in Arequipa, would accelerate the expansion of milk production in the highlands. To improve highland farmers' access to the market, policy makers and development agencies should target their interventions in close collaboration with milk processors. Because they have a strong interest in increasing milk production in their own region, milk processors are also important partners when designing measures to improve farmers' fodder and herd management practices in order to further increase the competitiveness of milk production in the highlands relative to the coast.
10.2307/3673171|The major themes of the UNU Berne-Riederalp Workshop are summarized: 1) definition of terms; 2) discussion of data requirements; and 3) analysis of case studies. It is concluded that, while a formal synthesis of the large amount of material produced by the workshop is impractical, considerable progress has been made in establishing bonds of understanding between scientists of different disciplines and in laying the foundations for better application of knowledge to resource-use decision making. Resource-use problems in tropical as well as in mid-latitude mountain areas are exacerbated more by institutional and socio-economic constraints than by lack of scientific data. Nevertheless rigorous research design can greatly improve the chances for meaningful scientific contribution. There is a clear need for scientists and decision makers to make more efforts to accommodate each other's needs: the reward could be reduction in the considerable waste resulting from poorly-conceived development. /// Les thmes principaux du colloque UNU Berne-Riederalp sont rsums comme suit: 1) dfinition des termes; 2) discussion des besoins en donnes; et 3) analyse des tudes de cas. Bien qu'un analyse rigoureuse de la masse de matriaux produite par le colloque est irralisable, la conclusion est qu'un gros progrs a t fait dans l'tablissement de bases de communication entre scientifiques appartenant  diffrentes disciplines, et dans la mise en place de fondations pour une meilleure application des connaissances au processus de dcision en ce qui concerne l'utilsation des ressources. Les problmes d'utilisation des ressources dans les rgions montagneuses tropicales et de latitude moyenne sont exacerbs par les contraintes institutionnelles et socio-conomiques plus que par le manque de donnes scientifiques. Nanmoins, une organisation rigoureuse de la recherche peut beaucoup amliorer les chances d'une contribution scientifique de valeur. Il apparat clairement que les scientifiques et les responsables en matire de dcisions doivent redoubler leurs efforts pour accommoder leurs besoins rciproques: le rsultat en serait une rduction du gchis considrable rsultant d'un dveloppement mal conu. /// Die Hauptthemen der UNU Berne-Riederalp Arbeitstagung werden zusammengefasst: 1) Definition von Fachausdrcken, 2) Diskussion der bentigten Daten und 3) Analyse von Fallstudien. Obwohl eine Synthese des umfangreichen Datenmaterials, das diese Tagung produziert hat, fr unangebracht gehalten wird, wird gefolgert, dass beachtlicher Fortschritt in der Verstndigung zwischen Wissenschaftlern verschiedener Fachgebiete erzielt wurde, ebenso bei der Anwendung des erworbenen Wissens auf Entscheidungen in der Ressourcennutzung in tropischen wie in Gebirgsgegenden mittlerer Breiten werden mehr durch institutionelle und sozio-konomische Beschrnkungen hervorgerufen als durch des Fehlen wissenschaftlicher Daten. Trotzdem kann allumfassende Forschung die Aussichten fr ntzliche wissenschaftliche Beitrge erhhen. Wissenschaftler und Planer mssen Anstrengungen machen, sich in ihren Bemhungen gegenseitig zu untersttzen: Als Folge knnte die erhebliche Verschwendung, die sich aus schlecht geplanter Entwicklung ergibt, verringert werden.
mounresedeve.29.2.161|In this study, we analyzed the variation of forest land cover in a mountain area of Veneto Region in northeast Italy. The analysis was done by comparing orthorectified aerial photographs taken in 1991 with orthophotos dated 2003, using photo interpretation of points with casual distribution on sample areas, according to a stratified sampling. The study yielded a statistically relevant increment of about 0.095% (ie about 42 ha) of forestland only up to 1500 m above sea level compared with the estimated forest cover for 1990, highlighting that this low increase was mainly due to abandoned grazing; the forest surface area estimate in 1990 was affected by a standard error of approximately 2.8%. We then estimated the carbon sink in the areas where forests had expanded. This was achieved by collecting biometric data in the field, and then using allometric functions. The annual carbon sink was estimated as 0.69 Mg ha
90001383|The dynamics of
25164099|As in many other mountain areas, peripheral regions of the Swiss Alps are experiencing outmigration, especially of younger people, due to lack of opportunities. Winter tourism, often the backbone of regional economies, is declining in many small- and medium-sized resorts. At the same time, agricultural decline is leading to land abandonment and natural reforestation, which may have implications for the sustainability of development in these areas. In a case study of the European Union (EU) BioScene research project, 3 agricultural and land use scenarios were developed for the Surses valley in the Canton of Grisons and assessed with respect to their sustainability implications, including discussions with a local stakeholder group. In mitigating outmigration from this peripheral area, it is important that local people can identify with the development taking place in their region, and with the landscape in which they live. Based on the discussion of the scenarios with local stakeholders and the sustainability assessment, it was possible to formulate policy recommendations.
3674182|Land use/cover changes during the period 1963-1993 and their ecological and socioeconomic implications in Pranmati Watershed in the Indian Himalaya were analyzed on the basis of information extracted from archival records, satellite data, participatory discussions, and field measurement. Agricultural land use was practiced on 14.2% of the watershed area in 1963 compared with 18.5% in 1993. More than 50% of the agricultural expansion occurred in community forests between 1850 and 2400 m and on 20-30 slopes. The increase in area under cash crops, potato, and amaranth accompanied an 86% increase in the mean monetary value of crop produce but at the cost of abandoning the traditional crops Fagopyrum esculentum, F. tataricum, Panicum miliaceum, and Setaria italica. Agricultural land use changes were such that mean manure input at the watershed scale increased by 50%, and fodder output from crops decreased by 40%, implying the increasing pressure on forests. Local forest management institutions have not been adequately empowered to respond to the growing economic aspirations of people and the increasing population pressure. Research and policy support for improvement in traditional soil fertility management practices and forest resource-based economic development opportunities for local people is needed to reduce the threat from agriculture to forest ecosystems.
25164157|Weeds are an increasing threat to the biodiversity of mountain regions worldwide, including in Australia. We reviewed 18 surveys of 401 sites conducted between 1986 and 2004 and examined the distribution and characteristics of common weeds on roadsides in the Snowy Mountains, Australia, to determine the range of natural habitats these weeds are found in, whether they are limited to disturbed sites, whether they are also common in other mountain regions including the Australian Alps, and whether they have invasive traits. There are only 8 common weeds in the Snowy Mountains: Acetosella vulgaris (also known as Rumex acetosella), Hypochaeris radicata, Trifolium repens, Taraxacum officinale, Agrostis capillaris, Dactylis glomerata, Anthoxanthum odoratum, and Achillea millefolium. They occur in areas disturbed by humans, such as along roadsides and around buildings and tracks, from the low-altitude montane zone to the high-altitude high subalpine/alpine zone. They also occur to varying extents in undisturbed native vegetation, reflecting their invasive capacity. These species are all perennial, with high vegetative and/or sexual reproduction, native to Europe, and are found growing on roadsides and in native vegetation in mountains in Europe, North America, South America, and New Zealand. Therefore, it appears that these plants are the usual suspects: common mountain weeds, which may be found worldwide at high altitude.
mounresedeve.30.2.178|The Hindu KushKarakoramHimalayan (HKKH) Partnership Project involves implementation of various applied research and development activities that require integration of diverse data and information as well as interpretation of various forms of information and knowledge, such as system dynamics models, simulation results, historical databases, and technical reports. In order to bring these together and promote interdisciplinary collaboration, communication, and dissemination of information among concerned stakeholders and general public users, an Integrated Web Portal (IWP) with a customized Content Management System (CMS) was developed as part of the HKKH project. Several features that were incorporated as modules are discussed here.
10.2307/3673671|High-altitude coal waste areas are usually difficult to revegetate. However, naturally occurring plant species may be adapted to the extremely harsh substrate of these waste areas. Ten coal waste areas (spoils) of varying ages in the Rocky Mountains in Alberta were analyzed for physical and chemical properties and vegetation composition. Older spoils have a reduced fraction of coarse material, a higher clay content, a greater moisture retention capacity at -1.5 MPa, and higher levels of available N, P, K, and S, as compared to younger spoils, indicating physical and chemical weathering of the spoil rock minerals at the older sites. Natural revegetation of the coal spoils is sparse and patchy with low plant cover and this fact may be attributed to poor moisture and nutrient availability. Colonization by certain species is effective because of their low growth-form, efficient vegetative reproduction mechanism, low nutrient requirements, and/or N-fixing ability. A total of 59 frequently occurring native plant species on coal waste areas were evaluated for their potential in revegetation. A majority of these species seem to have excellent potential for revegetation of high-altitude coal mine disturbed areas in the Rocky Mountains of Alberta. /// La rgnration de la vgtation sur les dblais de mines de charbon  haute altitude est en gnral difficile. Nanmoins, certaines espces vgtales naturelles peuvent tre adaptes au sous-sol extrmement aride de ces zones de dblais. Dix zones de dblais de mines de charbon plus ou moins anciennes dans les Montagnes Rocheuses de l'Alberta ont t tudies en termes de proprits physiques et chimiques, ainsi que de la composition de la vgtation. Les dblais plus anciens contiennent moins de matriaux grossiers, plus d'argile et prsentent une plus grande capacit de rtention d'eau  -1,5 MPa et de plus hautes teneurs en N, P, K et S disponibles que les dblais plus rcents, indiquant une altration physique et chimique des minraux contenus dans les dblais plus anciens. La rgnration naturelle de la vgtation sur les dblais de mines de charbons est trs clairseme et ingale, avec une faible couverture vgtale; cette situation peut tre attribue  un manque d'humidit et de substances nutritives. La colonisation par certaines espces est efficace du fait de leur forme de croissance basse, un mcanisme de reproduction vgtative efficace, des besoins modrs en substances nutritives et/ou leur capacit  fixer l'azote. Au total, 59 espces vgtales frquemment trouves sur les dblais de mines de charbon ont t values en termes de potentiel de rgnration de la vgtation. La majorit de ces espces semblent possder un excellent potentiel pour la rgnration de la vgtation des zones perturbes par les mines de charbon  haute altitude, dans les Montagnes Rocheuses de l'Alberta. /// Die Wiederherstellung der Vegetation auf Abraumhalden des Kohlebergbaus in Gebirgslagen ist normalerweise schwierig. Natrlich vorkommende Pflanzenarten knnten den uerst widrigen Bedingungen dieser Abraumgebiete angepat werden. In den Rocky Mountains von Alberta wurden zehn Abraumhalden verschiedenen Alters nach ihren physikalischen und chemischen Eigenschaften und nach der Verteilung der Vegetation analysiert. Im Vergleich zu jngeren Halden haben die lteren einen kleineren Anteil an grobem Material mit hherem Lehmgehalt, knnen mehr Wasser halten (-1.5 MPa) und haben mehr N, P, K und S zur Verfgung. Das ist die Folge physikalischer und chemischer Verwitterung der Felsmineralien. Natrlicher Neubewuchs auf diesen Abraumhalden ist wegen Wasser- und Nhrstoffmangel sprlich und ungleichmig; der Bewuchs besteht aus niedrigen Pflanzen. Die Anpflanzung von Arten mit niedrigem Wuchs, guter Vermehrung, geringen Nhrstofferfordernissen und/oder der Fhigkeit, den N-Haushalt einzustellen, ist daher anzustreben. Insgesamt wurden 59 der auf Abraumhalden hufig vorkommenden Pflanzenarten nach ihrer Eignung zur Neubepflanzung bewertet. Die Mehrzahl scheint fr Vegetationsrestaurierung auf Abraumhalden in Hhenlagen der Rocky Mountains von Alberta gut geeignet zu sein.
mounresedeve.32.1.92|The integration of Chapter 13 on sustainable development of mountain regions into Agenda 21 at the Rio conference in 1992 (UNCED 1992; see link 1 below) was the starting point for the political globalization of mountains. A wide range of international and national networks have been established since then, and important international organizations are promoting mountain issues. In Switzerland, the Interacademic Commission for Alpine Studies (ICAS) established a network of Swiss scientists in 1994 to promote interdisciplinary research in the field of sustainable mountain development.
3674312|Western Sichuan is not only the key region for soil and water conservation in the upper reaches of the Yangtse River, China, but also the homeland of the Zang (Tibetan), Yi, and Qiang minority nationalities. The forest industry was responsible for 78% of the total revenue in this region before the implementation of a central strategy of natural forest conservation, which prescribed limits on cutting and clearing and the return of cultivated land to forest or pastures. This central strategy resulted in less income for local farmers, increasing the gap in per capita GDP between western Sichuan and the rest of Sichuan. Because ecotourism can improve the natural environment and contribute to economic prosperity, local governments focus on ecotourism when developing their economic policies, and most of the local residents support this focus. Western Sichuan is rich in potential ecotourism resources, especially natural reserves. Ecotourism developments such as Jiuzhaigou Valley-Huanglong offer examples of protection of natural resources and prosperity in minority nationality areas.
10.2307/3673251|This paper shows how biophysical resource inventory data can be used to improve the agricultural land use in Nepal. Using the Kailali district as an example, a modified FAO suitability assessment scheme was used and all land mapping units in the district were evaluated for growing double annual crop rotation sequences under rain-fed conditions and triple annual crop rotation sequences under irrigation. Quantitative comparisons between current land use and improved land use based on optimum suitability showed that, based on currently available yields, the agricultural area can be expanded and overall production can be increased by 96 percent under rain-fed conditions, and by 230 percent under irrigation. By careful maintenance of organic matter, improved use of appropriate crop rotation sequences and modest applications of artificial fertilizers it is possible to maintain long-term soil fertility and to improve the overall crop production in the district. /// Cette tude montre comment les donnes cologiques pourraient tre utilises pour augmenter l'utilisation du sol agricole du Nepal. La mthode choisie pourrait servir de base pour le projet national d'amlioration de l'utilisation du sol et de ce fait augmenter la production agricole. Le district de Kailali a t choisi pour dmontrer comment l'utilisation du sol pourrait tre amliore selon une mthode modifie de la FAO. Une meilleure utilisation du sol et l'accroissement de la production agricole pourraient tre achevs par l'introduction de deux cycles annuels de culture sans irrigation et trois cycles annuels de culture avec irrigation. Les rsultats de cette analyse indiquent que la production agricole pourrait tre augmente de 96% avec double culture annuelle et de 230% avec trois cultures annuelles avec irrigation. Les mesures essentielles pour maintenir la fertilit du sol  long terme sont: l'amnagement optimum de la matire organique, la selection optimum de squence de cultivation, et l'introduction d'engrais artificiels. /// Diese Verffentlichung zeigt, da Daten ber die biophysikalischen Ressourcen zur Verbesserung der landwirtschaftlichen Nutzung in Nepal ausgewertet werden knnen. Das Kailali Gebiet dient als Beispiel, wo eine vereinfachte FAO-Auswertungsmethode angewendet wurde, und alle kartographisch erfaten Gebiete ausgewertet wurden. Bei natrlicher Bewsserung bringen diese Gebiete im Fruchtwechselanbau zweimal jhrlich Ertrge, bei zustzlicher Bewsserung dagegen drei Ernten pro Jahr. Quantitative Vergleiche zwischen gegenwrtiger Landnutzung und verbesserter Nutzung, die auf optimaler Eignung beruhen, zeigen anhand derzeitig erreichter Ertrge, da die landwirtschaftlich genutzte Flche vergrert werden kann, und die Gesamtproduktion bei natrlicher Bewsserung um 96%, bei zustzlicher Bewsserung um 230% gesteigert werden kann. Bei sorgfltiger Erhaltung der organischen Materie, verbessertem Fruchtwechselanbau und mavoller Anwendung von Kunstdnger ist es mglich, die Bodenfruchtbarkeit langfristig zu erhalten, und die Gesamtproduktion in diesem Gebiet zu steigern.
10.2307/3673908|Slash-and-burn rice production systems in the hilly areas of Laos have changed little over the past decades except for a reduction in the fallow period which has caused a tremendous increase in labor requirements for weed control. From 1950 to 1990, the population density increased from 7.6 to <tex-math>$17.6\ \text{persons}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, fallow periods decreased from 38 to 5 years, and weeding requirements increased from 1.9 to 3.9 weedings/rice crop. Because of high requirements for weeding, the return to labor is only 5 kg rice/labor day for slash-and-burn systems compared with 13 kg/day in lowland rice production. Soil organic C levels are declining fast, with losses of 5 t/ha observed during a single rice crop. Improvements of the living standard of the farm population, food security, stabilization of upland agriculture, and increased rice production are the main objectives of development agencies working in hilly areas. However, the options available are limited by the market opportunities and there is little chance that any of the technologies offered will be adopted on a significant scale. Hill farmers have a comparative advantage for livestock and timber production but generally lack the necessary resources to make long-term investments in either operation. Market, credit opportunities, and land tenure are key factors affecting the direction of future hill agriculture in Laos. /// Les systmes de culture du riz sur brlis dans les collines du Laos ont peu chang au cours des dernires dcennies, si ce n'est une rduction de la priode de jachre qui a caus une augmentation considrable de la main d'uvre ncessaire au dsherbage. De 1950  1990, la densit de la population a augment de 7, 6  <tex-math>$17,6\ \text{habitants au}\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, les priodes de jachre ont diminu de 38  5 ans et la ncessit du dsherbage a augment de 1,9  3,9 dsherbages par rcolte de riz. A cause de la grande ncessit du dsherbage, le rendement de production n'est que de 5 kg de riz par jour de travail pour les systmes de culture sur brlis, compar  13 kg par jour de travail pour la production de riz aquatique. Les niveaux de C organique du sol tombent rapidement, avec des pertes de 5 t/ha enregistres au cours d'une seule rcolte de riz. L'amlioration du niveau de vie de la population vivant de l'agriculture, la scurit alimentaire, la stabilisation de l'agriculture en altitude et l'augmentation de la production de riz constituent les objectifs principaux des agences de dveloppement travaillant dans les zones de collines. Les options disponibles sont cependant limites par les dbouchs et il est peu probable que les technologies offertes soient adoptes  une chelle significative. Les fermiers des collines jouissent d'un avantage relatif en termes de btail et de production de bois d'uvre, mais ils ne disposent pas en gnrale des ressources ncessaires aux investissements  long terme pour ces deux activits. Le march, les possibilits de crdit et le rgime foncier constituent les facteurs cls affectant l'volution de l'agriculture dans les collines du Laos. /// Im hgeligen Teil von Laos hat sich der Reisanbau mittels Brandfeldtechnik ber die vergangenen Jahrzehnte kaum verndert; auer da die Zeit, in der die Felder brach liegen, verkrzt wurde, was zur Folge hatte, da der Arbeitsaufwand zur Unkrautkontrolle enorm zunahm. Die Bevlkerungsdichte wuchs zwischen 1950 und 1990 von 7,6 auf <tex-math>$17,6\ \text{Personen}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, die Brachzeiten der Felder gingen von 38 bis auf 5 Jahre zurck, wobei die Unkrautbeseitigung von 1,9 bis auf 3,9 mal pro Reisernte anstieg. Wegen des groen Arbeitsaufwandes bei der Unkrautbeseitigung ist der Ertrag beim Brandfeldbau nur 5 kg Reis/Arbeitstag, verglichen mit 13 kg Reis/Arbeitstag im Tiefland. Der organische Kohlenstoffgehalt des Bodens verbraucht sich schnell; bei einer einzigen Reisernte wurde ein Verlust von 5 t/ha festgestellt. Die Hauptziele der Entwicklungsorganisationen im hgeligen Teil des Landes sind: Verbesserung des Lebensstandards der Landbevlkerung, gesicherte Lebensmittelversorgung, Stabilisierung der Landwirtschaft und Ertragszunahmen beim Reisanbau. Da der Vermarktung Grenzen gesetzt sind, besteht kaum eine Chance, da irgend eine von den angebotenen Technologien in groem Rahmen zum Tragen kommt. Bergbauern haben zustzlich die Mglichkeit, Viehzucht und Holzproduktion zu betreiben, jedoch fehlen ihnen im allgemein die ntigen Mittel fr langfristige Investitionen. Die Richtung der zuknftigen Landwirtschaftsentwicklung im hgeligen Laos wird entscheidend von Faktoren wie Marktlage, Kreditmglichkeiten und Landbesitzverhltnissen bestimmt.
mounresedeve.30.3.212|The Colombian environmental policy voted in 1993, which aimed to strengthen the protection of natural resources, particularly biodiversity and water, is totally unfavorable to farming in the strategic pramo ecosystem. However, many rural development practitioners and researchers believe that integrated management of the pramo is possible and that farming activities can be part of the solution along this agricultureconservation frontier. This issue has become particularly acute on the Rabanal pramo (western cordillera), in Colombia, where the projected expansion of a core protection zone will soon include major areas currently used for agriculture and settlements. Although small-scale farmers have been living there for decades, the environmental authorities are intent on prohibiting farming activities in the entire protection area. A study of local history and aerial photos indicates that this zone has been a dynamic part of local farming systems since at least the 1950s and that the pramo has evolved from a subsistence farming area to a zone that now includes intensive potato production conducted by external entrepreneurs. The presence of these entrepreneurs is mainly due to small-scale farmers' need for a cost-effective solution to maintain the productivity of their pastures. By interviewing participants in the debate, as well as by mapping agricultural land that will soon be included in the protected area, objectives for action were developed that would result in more sustainable farming practices, thus enhancing the conservation of pramo biodiversity and water resources.
10.2307/3673210|Water is an important resource for the economic development of Nepal, for the generation of hydroelectricity and for irrigation. Problems of heavy sediment loads and decreasing rates of flow result from natural factors such as topography, geology, rainfall, glacial-lake outbursts, and seismic events, and from human factors including deforestation and the construction of roads and irrigation canals. River flow should be controlled by low weirs rather than by more expensive, high storage dams. /// L'eau constitue une ressource importante pour le dveloppement conomique du Npal, pour la production d'lectricit et pour l'irrigation. Les problmes d'accumulation excessive de sdiments et de rduction de l'coulement des eaux sont ds  des facteurs naturels tels que la topographie, la gologie, le rgime des pluies, la rupture de lacs glaciares et les sismes, ainsi que des facteurs humains tels que la dforestation et la construction de routes et de canaux d'irrigation. L'coulement des fleuves devrait tre rgularis par une succession de petits barrages plutt que par de gros barrages de retenue qui sont plus onreux. /// Wasser fllt bei der konomischen Entwicklung Nepals eine wichtige Rolle zu: Elektrizittserzeugung durch Wasserkraft und landwirtschaftliche Bewsserung. Probleme der starken Sedimentablagerung und der verminderten Flumengen folgen aus naturgegebenen Faktoren wie Topographie, Geologie, Regenfall, Gletscherseeausbrchen und seismischen Vorgngen einerseits, sowie durch menschliche Einwirkungen wie Entwaldung und Straen- und Bewsserungskanalbau andererseits. Flustrmungen sollten eher durch niedrige Wehre reguliert werden als durch aufwendigere Dmme mit groer Speicherkapazitt.
3674233|Myrica esculenta Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don is a popular, potentially income-generating wild edible in the Indian Himalaya. The species prefers Pinus roxburghii Sarg., Quercus leucotrichophora A. Cam., and mixed Quercus forests, contributing 15-26% of total tree density in the forests. It performs best in Pinus roxburghii forests, where its density correlates with Pinus tree biomass. The regeneration of Myrica is poor in all the habitats. However, recruitment of species increases consistently from abundant Myrica to no-Myrica stands. The fruit yield increases with tree size category and differs between habitats. The potential yield at different sites is 2.0-4.2 tonnes/ha, of which 2.8-7.2% is harvested for income generation. The income generated from Myrica fruit is significant, considering the regional annual per capita income. The possible impact of fruit harvesting and other disturbance factors on the regeneration of the species is discussed. There are significant options for enhancing the income-generating potential through value addition.
3674600|The Sierra de Portuguesa is an Andean mountain system with important biodiversity associated with montane vegetation types. Human use existed well before European colonization. Coffee plantations and slash-and-burn agriculture have been predominant in the last 200 years. Three distinct national parks-Yacamb, Terepaima, and Guache-were designated there at different times, according to different criteria. None is large enough to preserve entire montane ecosystems or a viable population of large mammals like the Andean bear. We propose maintenance and restoration of forest interconnections-or corridors-between the parks. Different approaches are considered to implement corridors, on the basis of consensus building among key social and political actors, with top-down and bottom-up approaches that we consider ecologically, socially, and politically sustainable.
3674488|The consequences of tourist growth on extensive livestock farming were studied in a valley in the Spanish Central Pyrenees (Upper Esera), characterized by important growth in tourist activity during the last 3 decades. The municipalities with the greatest tourist development experienced the biggest drop in livestock farming (abandonment of cultivated land, decrease in livestock population and farms) because of the competition of tourism for labor and fertile land, which are essential to the maintenance of extensive livestock farming. Low use of pasture resources leads to their progressive loss, owing to the advance of plant succession (substitution of pastures by shrubs), decreasing landscape diversity, and increased fire hazard and soil erosion. We conclude that the current model of tourist development in the Spanish Pyrenees represents serious problems in terms of sustainable development.
mounresedeve.36.1.66|Bhutan, located in the Himalayas in the South Asian monsoon region, has extremely high variation in elevation, climatic conditions, and land cover despite its small geographical area, as well as great biodiversity. This paper provides the first comprehensive description of climatic conditions in Bhutan. It assesses the spatial variation of temperature and precipitation across the country and evaluates the causes for this variation based on daily data from 70 meteorological stations that have been recording data for time spans ranging from 3 to 21 years. Temperature and precipitation show contrasting spatial variation, with temperature primarily affected by elevation and precipitation by latitude. Models were developed using mixed linear regression models to predict seasonal and annual mean temperature and precipitation based on geographical location. Using linear regression we found that temperatures changed by about 0.5uC for every 100 m of change in elevation, with lapse rates being highest in February, March, and November and lowest from June to August. The lapse rate was highest for minimum temperatures and lowest for maximum temperatures, with the greatest difference during winter. The spatial distribution of precipitation was mainly controlled by latitude, having a quadratic relationship, with the highest rates in the southern foothills of the Himalayan range and the lowest at midlatitudes. The land cover is affected by topography and local climate, with variations in temperature being a main deciding factor for vegetation types; most human settlements and associated land uses are concentrated at lower elevations.
10.2307/3673586|The hill farmers of Nepal are often portrayed as having been responsible for perpetrating the large-scale deforestation of their mountain home. In this study, a comparison was made of the tree cover on upland cultivated terraces (bari) in 1964 (using air photographs) and in 1988 (using on-ground survey) along a transect across two hill districts in central Nepal. Fifteen plots were identified and vegetation cover was estimated at each of four sites along the transect. The results indicate a two- to three-fold increase in tree cover on these terraces in the 24-year period. The hill farmers are actively involved in a private forestation programme which is largely independent of government activities, and has yet to be acknowledged by the government and by aid agencies involved in forestry development. We estimate that the farmers have increased the number of trees on their bari land in the two districts under study by up to 13 million during the 24-year period (equivalent to a forest area of about 6,500 ha). In addition, substantial increases in tree cover occurred on the non-cultivated patches included within the private farm lands. Precise estimates were not made of these increases but they could be as high as 17 million trees over the same period (equivalent to a forest area of 8,500 ha). The implications for planning the extension component of forestry development projects are discussed. /// Les fermiers des hautes terres du Npal sont souvent tenus responsables de la dforestation  grande chelle de leur rgion. Dans cette tude, une comparaison est faite entre la couverture d'arbres sur les terraces cultives des hautes terres (bari) en 1964, estime sur la base de photographies ariennes, et en 1968, sur la base d'observations effectues sur le terrain le long d'une bande traversant deux districts du Npal central. Quinze parcelles ont t identifies et la couverture vgtale a t evalue pour quatre sites situs sur la bande de terrain. Les rsultats indiquent que la couverture d'arbres de ces terraces a augment de deux  trois fois pendant cette priode de 24 ans. Les fermiers participent activement  un programme priv de reforestation, qui est en grande partie indpendant des activits du gouvernement et n'est reconnu ni par celui-ci ni par les organismes d'aide intresss au dveloppement des forts. Nos estimations indiquent que les fermiers dans les deux districts  l'tude ont accru la quantit d'arbres sur leurs terres bari d'environ 13 millions au cours de la priode de 24 ans, ce qui correspond  une fort d'environ 6.500 ha. De plus, la couverture d'arbres de parcelles non-cultives au sein d'exploitations agricoles prives a beaucoup augment. Des estimations prcises de ces accroissements n'ont pas t faites, mais ils pourraient atteindre 17 millions d'arbres pendant la mme priode, c'est--dire l'quivalent d'une fort de 8.500 ha. Les implications de ces observations pour la planification du composant accrue des projets de dveloppement des forts sont discutes. /// Die Bergbauern Nepals werden oft fr den ausgedehnten Waldverlust in ihrer gebirgigen Heimat verantwortlich gemacht. In dieser Studie wird der Baumbestand auf den kultivierten Terrassen des Hochlandes (bari) von Zentral-Nepal im Jahre 1964 (unter Verwendung von Luftaufnahmen) mit dem Bestand im Jahre 1988 (anhand einer Bodenbestandaufnahme) entlang einer Trennlinie ber zwei Bergregionen hinweg verglichen. Fnfzehn Landstcke wurden gekennzeichnet, und der Bewuchs wurde an vier Stellen entlang der Trennlinie abgeschtzt. Die Ergebnisse zeigen ber den Zeitraum von 24 Jahren eine Verdoppelung bis Verdreifachung des Baumbestandes auf diesen Terrassen. Die Bergbauern sind aktiv in einem privaten Aufforstungsprogramm ttig, das grtenteils von Regierungsmanahmen unabhngig ist, und das bisher weder von der Regierung noch von den Hilfsorganisationen, die sich mit der Entwicklung der Forstwirtschaft beschftigen, anerkannt wird. Wir schtzen, da die Bergbauern in den zwei untersuchten Gebieten die Zahl der Bume auf dem bari Land whrend der 24 Jahre um 13 Millionen erhht haben (das entspricht einer Waldflche von ca. 6500 ha). Dazu kam eine wesentliche Erhhung des Baumbestandes auf den unbestellten Landstcken des Privatbesitzes. Genaue Schtzungen dieses Zuwachses wurden nicht gemacht, aber sie knnten fr die gleiche Zeitspanne bei 17 Millionen Bumen liegen (das entspricht einer Waldflche von 8500 ha). Sich ergebende Folgerungen fr die Planung der Wachstumsgren in der forstwirtschaftlichen Entwicklung werden diskutiert.
90009005|High mountain areas are experiencing some of the earliest and greatest impacts of climate change. However, knowledge on how climate change impacts multiple ecosystem services that benefit different stakeholder groups remains scattered in the literature. This article presents a review of the literature on climate change impacts on ecosystem services benefiting local communities and tourists in high mountain areas. Results show a lack of studies focused on the global South, especially where there are tropical glaciers, which are likely to be the first to disappear. Climate change impacts can be classified as impacts on food and feed, water availability, natural hazards regulation, spirituality and cultural identity, aesthetics, and recreation. In turn, climate change impacts on infrastructure and accessibility also affect ecosystem services. Several of these impacts are a direct threat to the lives of mountain peoples, their livelihoods and their culture. Mountain tourism is experiencing abrupt changes too. The magnitude of impacts make it necessary to strengthen measures to adapt to climate change in high mountain areas.
4540655|Does the history of religion in mountains yield insights specific to this environment? The present article offers an introduction to the issues at stake in relation to this question, on the basis of an exploration in different European contexts, conducted over several years by an interdisciplinary team. Concrete answers to this question focus mainly on the case of the recruitment of Roman Catholic clergy in the Central Pyrenees, with additional examples from the rest of southern Europe. Some historians have argued that priests came particularly often from mountain regions between the Middle Ages and modern times. Observations of migration flows should not, however, lead us to adopt a simplistic form of geographical determinism. For a better understanding of the question, it is necessary to investigate local forms of church organization and the social and economic status of priests. It is also important to examine the relations between priests, their families, and the different layers of the surrounding society. Examples given here indicate that what seems particular to mountains is historical delay. Upland communities often resisted centralistic Church reforms and tried to maintain as much control over their ecclesiastical resources as possible. This form of resistance to change in certain European mountain regions during the early modern period might be the most adequate explanation for the particularity of mountain priests' activities and migratory behavior.
10.2307/3673787|The typical alpine landscape of the Tatra Mountains has the greatest range of climatic conditions in Central Europe and, as a result, distinct altitudinal climatic zones and corresponding vegetation belts. The climate is determined by solar radiation and the major air circulation belts, modified by orographic factors-elevation, exposition, and inclination. All the main climatic elements (air temperature, precipitation, and snow cover) and different bioclimatic conditions are described in this paper. Diagrams indicate the frequency of the major climatic components and the human response to various weather factors. Results of recent research suggest that climatic changes resulted from the increasing influence of air mass advection from the Atlantic Ocean during the last twenty years. In the alpine belt, a significant decrease in mean annual temperatures was observed between 1968 and 1982 which relates to shorter periods of sunshine. Relatively wet conditions occurred from 1960 to 1980. /// Le paysage alpin typique des Tatras prsente la gamme la plus tendue de conditions climatiques de l'Europe Centrale et donc les zones climatiques altitudinales, ainsi que les ceintures de vgtation correspondantes, sont bien distinctes. Le climat est dtermin par la radiation solaire et les ceintures principales de circulation d'air, mais il est modifi par les facteurs orographiques (altitude, exposition et pente). Tous les lments climatiques principaux (temprature de l'air, prcipitations et couverture neigeuse) et les diffrentes conditions bioclimatiques sont dcrits dans cet article. Les diagrammes indiquent la frquence des lments climatiques principaux et la rponse humaine  diffrents facteurs mtorologiques. Les rsultats de recherches rcentes suggrent que les changements climatiques proviennent de l'influence croissante de l'advection de masses d'air en provenance de l'Ocan Atlantique au cours des vingt dernires annes. Dans la ceinture alpine, une baisse sensible des tempratures annuelles moyennes a t enregistre entre 1968 et 1982, lie  de plus courtes priodes d'ensoleillement. Des conditions relativement humides ont t enregistres entre 1960 et 1980. /// Die typisch alpine Landschaft des Tatra Gebirges umfat weite Bereiche der klimatischen Bedingungen von Zentraleuropa mit ausgeprgten, hhenbedingten Klimazonen und den entsprechenden Vegetationsgrteln. Das Klima wird durch Sonneneinstrahlung und durch die Hauptluftstrmungen bestimmt, wobei orographische Faktoren wie Hhe, exponierte Lage und Hangneigung mit eine Rolle spielen. Alle wichtigen klimatischen Komponenten wie Lufttemperatur, Niederschlag und Schneedecke und die verschiedenen bioklimatischen Bedingungen werden in dieser Verffentlichung beschrieben. Diagramme zeigen die Hufigkeit der klimatischen Haupttendenzen und die menschliche Reaktion auf unterschiedliche Wetterbedingungen. Resultate neuerer Forschung lassen darauf schlieen, da Klimavernderungen das Ergebnis einer verstrkten Luftzufuhr vom Atlantik whrend der vergangenen 20 Jahre sind. Im alpinen Grtel wurde zwischen 1968 und 1982 als Folge von verkrzten Sonnenscheinperioden eine deutliche Abnahme der durchschnittlichen Jahrestemperatur beobachtet. Zwischen 1960 und 1980 war es relativ feucht.
mounresedeve.34.3.188|Enabling transformations of power relations in order to achieve greater equity is challenging; years of experience and scholarly analysis show that [gender mainstreaming has usually been depoliticized in development and has missed its aim, including in mountain contexts. Important innovations and strategies with potential for achieving gender shifts in power relations do exist, but they require sustained effort, rigorous monitoring, and continual reflection. Indeed, tenacious resistance to change and barriers that hamper gender work consistently reappear in development projects and organizations, as illustrated in the papers in this issue of MRD. A novel approach is required to effect truly gender equitable change: an approach that entails challenging business as usual. This introductory essay synthesizes insights from gender and feminist scholarship and from debates that took place at the recent Bhutan+10 conference entitled Gender and Sustainable Mountain Development in a Changing World. The essay presents the concept of gender transformative change, placing it within a discussion of the failures of gender mainstreaming and the potential of strategic innovations for transforming power relations into more gender equal ones in development and mountain contexts. New theories, organizational change, and a gender transformative change approach are some of the innovations with potential for advancing gender equality. Failures in advancing the gender agenda include the persistence of outdated gender mainstreaming approaches, confusion between 4 gender approaches (gender awareness, gender championing, gender analysis, and feminist activism), gaps in knowledge, policy, and practice, and tenacious forms of resistance (3Bs: backlash, backsliding, and burnout); it is crucial to learn from these failures. The paper concludes by reflecting on the way forward, arguing for more strategic alliance building, gender championing, negotiations as well as out of the box thinking and action.
10.2307/3673455|The Harerge Highlands have been heavily exploited and presently show only remnants of the previous dense forest. Afforestation programmes for provision of fuels and construction wood as an immediate solution to the energy crisis are therefore desperately needed. The Alemaya University of Agriculture, with partial funding from FAO/UNDP, has implemented a project with special emphasis on afforestation, soil conservation, and alternative energy sources. Tree species that can help in soil conservation practices on gullies, steep slopes, and on other poor quality sites were planted. Road side and border row planting are intended to serve as shelter belts for crops, cattle, and people. The follow-up study on survival of the planted seedlings was carried out by the forestry team and showed that about 58 percent of the planted trees survived. Species were Cupressus, Casuarina, Acacia, Grevillea, and Eucalyptus; best survival was found with Cupressus arizonica and Grevillea robusta. The programme, which was implemented with close involvement of the members of the producers' cooperative, resulted in valuable conclusions on management practices and on the new methods applied; an important experience was obtained from the general approach. /// Les hautes terres de l'Harerge ont t surexploites, et  prsent on n'y trouve que les restes de la dense fort originale. Des programmes d'afforestation sont devenus indispensables pour assurer un approvisionnement suffisant en bois de chauffage et bois de construction, et ainsi rsoudre la crise nergtique actuelle. A l'aide d'une subvention partielle de la FAO/UNDP, l'Universit agronomique d'Alemaya a mis en oeuvre un project concernant principalement l'afforestation, la conservation des sols et les autres sources possibles d'nergie. Diffrentes espces d'arbres susceptibles d'aider les efforts de conservation des sols ont t plantes dans des ravines, sur des pentes raides et dans des endroits o les sols sont de mauvaise qualit. Des planations d'arbres le long des routes et en bordure des champs serviront de ceintures de protection pour les cultures, le btail et la population. Des travaux complmentaires effectus par service des Eaux et Forts ont dtermin que 58 pour cent des jeunes brins ont survcu. Les espces plantes taient Cupressus, Casuarina, Acacia, Grevillea et Eucalyptus; les taux de survie les plus levs ont t obtenus avec Cupressus arizonica et Grevillea robusta. Le programme mis en oeuvre en collaboration troite avec la cooprative agricole a fourni des enseignements utiles sur les techniques de gestion et sur les nouvelles methodes appliques; une exprience importante a t gagne a partir de l'approche gnrale. /// Die Harerge-Berge, in denen das Projektgebiet liegt, wurden in der Vergangenheit stark bernutzt und weisen heute nur noch einige Ueberbleibsel des frher dichten Waldes auf. Es besteht deshalb ein grosses Bedrfnis fr Aufforstungsprogramme, die als Sofortlsung fr die derzeitige Energiekrise Brenn- und Bauholz zur Verfgung stellen sollen. Die Universitt fr Landwirtschaft in Alemaya hat nun ein Projekt mit spezieller Gewichtung auf Aufforstung, Bodenkonservierung, und alternativen Energiequellen durchgefhrt, das teilweise von der FAO/UNDP finanziert wurde. Baumarten, die sich zur Bodenkonservierung in Bachgrben, an Steilhngen oder an anderen gefhrdeten Stellen eignen, wurden gepflanzt. Pflanzungen entlang Strassen und Feldrndern sollen als Schutzgrtel fr Kulturen in den Feldern, fr Tiere und Menschen dienen. Die Forstgruppe hat im Anschluss an das Projekt eine Studie durchgefhrt, in der die Ueberlebensrate der Baumsetzlinge untersucht wurde. Die Studie zeigte, dass im Durchschnitt ca. 58% der gepflanzten Cupressus-, Casuarina-, Akazien-, Grevillea- und Eukalyptus-Bume berlebten. Die besten Ueberlebensraten waren bei Cupressus arizonica und Grevillea robusta zu verzeichnen. Das Programm, das unter intensiver Beteiligung der Mitglieder der Bauernproduktionskooperative durchgefhrt wurde, gab wertvolle Aufschlsse ber die neu eingefhrten Massnahmen und die Anwendungspraktiken. Es wurden auch wichtige Erfahrungen zum generellen Ansatz gemacht.
10.2307/3674021|The Southern Patagonia Icefield remains one of the least studied glacial areas in the world, although it is one of the largest mid-latitude ice bodies. The largest glacier, Glaciar Po XI, located on the western maritime side, has been advancing during the last 50 years. In 1993 the tidewater front of the glacier was overriding trees at least 300 years old. In a worldwide context of rapid deglaciation and retreat, which is particularly affecting Patagonia, there is no simple explanation for the exceptional advance of Glaciar Po XI. Careful examination of the fluctuations of the glacier front shows that there have been periods of enhanced movement, separated by retreat periods. Due to the magnitude and characteristics of the advance periods, they are postulated to correspond to glacial surges. Four explanations are presented to account for the surging behavior: increased sliding due to enhanced basal water pressure, as is typical in surging glaciers; increased sliding resulting from periods of increased geothermal activity associated with Volcn Lautaro; increased precipitation during periods before the surges; and reduction of the rate of calving as the depth of water decreased due to proglacial sedimentation. Dendrochronological, geomorphological, and glaciological data, collected during 1992, 1993, and 1995, have been interpreted in combination with satellite imagery, air photographs, and historical maps. It is concluded that the data available are insufficient to permit selection of any one of the proposed models. /// Le champ de glace du Sud de la Patagonie constitue l'une des rgions glaciaires les moins tudies du monde, bien qu'il soit l'un des plus gros amas de glace de latitude moyenne. Le plus gros glacier, Glaciar Po XI, situ sur le flanc maritime ouest, a progress au cours des 50 dernires annes. En 1993, la front du glacier engloutissait des arbres vieux de plus de 300 ans. Dans le contexte mondial de dglaciation et de retrait rapides, affectant particulirement la Patagonie, il est impossible d'expliquer simplement la progression exceptionnelle du Glaciar Po XI. Un examen dtaill des fluctuations du front du glacier a rvl des priodes de progression acclre, spares par des priodes de retrait. Du fait de l'ampleur et des caractristiques des priodes de progression, il est prsum qu'elles correspondent  des crues glaciaires. Cet article prsente quatre explications possibles des avances rapides: glissement accru caus par une augmentation de la pression d'eau basale, typique des crues glaciaires; glissement accru caus par des priodes de plus grande activit gothermique associes au Volcn Lautoro; prcipitation accrue au cours des priodes prcdant les crues glaciaires; rduction de la vitesse de vlage lie  la diminution de la profondeur de l'eau cause par la sdimentation proglaciaire. Des donnes dendrochronologiques, gomorphologiques et glaciologiques, collectes en 1992, 1993 et 1995, ont t interprtes de concert avec des images-satellites, des photographies ariennes et des cartes historiques. La conclusion en est que les donnes disponibles sont insuffisantes pour la slection de l'un des modles proposs. /// Das sdpatagonische Eisfeld ist zur Zeit eines der am wenigsten erforschten Gletschergebiete der Welt, obwohl es eines der grten Eiskrper in mittleren Breiten ist. Der grte Gletscher, Glaciar Po XI, in Richtung der westlichen Kste gelegen, ist in den letzen 50 Jahren angewachsen. 1993 berflutete die Schmelzwasserfront des Gletschers Bume, die mindestens 300 Jahre alt waren. Angesichts des weltweiten Gletscherrckgangs, von dem besonders Patagonien betroffen ist, gibt es keine einfache Erklrung fr das ungewhnliche Wachstum des Glaciar Po XI. Eingehende Untersuchungen der Fluktuationen der Gletscherfront zeigen von Rckzugsperioden separierte Perioden erhhten Wachstums. Aufgrund des Ausmaes und weiterer Kennzeichen der Wachstumsperioden postulieren wir da es sich bei ihnen um Perioden rapiden "glacial surges" handelt. Vier Erklrungen fr das Anschwellen werden vorgestellt: vermehrtes Abgleiten aufgrund des von fr anschwellende Gletscher typischen erhhten Basalwasserdrucks; vermehrtes Abgleiten aufgrund von Perioden erhhter geothermaler Aktivitt im Zusammnehang mit dem Vulkan Lautaro; Perioden erhhten Niederschlags vor dem Anschwellen; und reduzierte Kalbungsraten aufgrund von durch proglaziale Sedimentation verminderter Wassertiefe. 1992, 1993 und 1995 erhobene dendrochronologische, geomorphologische, und gletscherkundliche Daten wurden mit Hilfe von Satellitenphotos, Luftaufnahmen, und historischen Landkarten interpretiert. Wir folgern, da die vorhandenen Daten nicht zur Selektion eines der vorgeschlagenen Modelle ausreichen. /// El Campo de Hielo Patagnico Sur es una de las reas englaciadas menos estudiadas del planeta, no obstante ser de los mayores cuerpos de hielo en latitudes medias. Su principal glaciar, el glaciar Po XI, localizado en el margen martimo occidental, ha estado avanzando durante los ltimos 50 aos. En 1993 el frente Sur del glaciar, en la cabecera del fiordo Eyre, estaba destruyendo rboles de por lo menos 300 aos de edad. En un contexto mundial de rpida deglaciacin y retroceso, la cual est afectando particularmente a Patagonia, no existe una explicacin simple para el excepcional avance del glaciar Po XI. Un cuidadoso examen de las fluctuaciones de los frentes del glaciar, muestran que han habido perodos con movimientos de avance, separados por perodos de retroceso. Debido a la magnitud y caractersticas de los perodos de avance, se postula que ellos corresponderan a un glaciar del tipo galopante (surging glacier). Para discutir las causas de esta dinmica, se presentan cuatro explicaciones: incremento en el deslizamiento debido al aumento de la presin de agua basal, como es tpico en glaciares galopantes; incremento del deslizamiento como resultado de perodos de incremento en la actividad geotermal asociada al Volcn Lautaro; incremento en las precipitaciones durante perodos previos a los movimientos de avance galopantes; y reduccin en la tasa de desprendimientos de tmpanos como producto de la menor profundidad del agua en el fiordo debido a la sedimentacin proglacial. Datos dendrocronolgicos, geomorfolgicos y glaciolgicos, colectados durante 1992, 1993 y 1995, han sido interpretados en combinacin con imgenes satelitales, fotos areas y mapas histricos. Se concluye, que los datos disponibles son insuficientes para seleccionar cualquiera de los modelos explicativos propuestos.
mounresedeve.32.4.431|Skiers are passionate about finding the best snow conditions. Snow conditions in thousands of ski resorts around the world depend mainly on natural snowfall, particularly in the case of backcountry skiing. In various mountain ranges popular among skiers, snowfall is strongly linked to largescale climatic oscillations. This paper reviews existing information on the impacts of several of these phenomena, such as the El NioSouthern Oscillation, North Atlantic Oscillation, and North Pacific Index, on snowfall-related climate parameters in the world's major ski areas. We found that in each of the studied areas, one or more large-scale climatic oscillations affected snowfall-related climate parameters. Understanding the predictability of such oscillations is high on the climate research agenda. If this research leads to improved predictability in the coming years, this could be combined with the knowledge summarized in our paper on the relationships between climatic oscillations and snow-related parameters to provide useful information for winter sports and other snow-related fields.
3674439|The impacts of the 1997-1998 El Nio rains in the Mount Kenya region were heterogeneously distributed among agricultural villages in the area. The magnitude of these impacts on crop production depended on differences in the climatic and topographic conditions of the affected villages. Major food crops, especially beans and Irish potatoes, were ruined by the long-lasting rains in all villages, whereas banana and root crops, with the exception of Irish potatoes, received minimal damage. Because the less-susceptible crops were planted mainly in relatively humid villages on the upper slopes of the mountain, the differences in the impacts on the long-established upper and more recently settled lower villages became more apparent. Floods caused crop losses on the lower slopes but also deposited seeds of a useful tree species, resulting in a positive long-term impact of the El Nio rains. Farmers considered the El Nio rains to be much worse than a heavier rainfall event, the Mafuriko rains, experienced in 1961, suggesting that the magnitude of rainfall impact may not necessarily be determined by the amount of rainfall.
10.2307/3673950|Although accelerated rainfall runoff and soil erosion in inhabited mountain regions are often linked to cultivation practices on steep hillsides, fields that have been abandoned can pose an even greater risk of rapid runoff and soil erosion. This paper presents new evidence of land degradation resulting from land abandonment in the Ecuadorian Andes and examines the Andean case in light of recent research on land abandonment from the Pyrenees and Himalaya. The Ecuadorian data, based on 109 field rainfall simulation experiments, indicate that runoff and erosion rates on abandoned/fallow fields are significantly higher than those of cultivated lands. Analyses of total percent carbon show abandoned/fallow field soil samples to contain significantly less organic matter than those under other land uses. Continued degradation and high runoff coefficients in abandoned/fallow fields in both the Andes and the Pyrenees are linked to the ongoing, informal use of these lands for grazing. Active management strategies are required to reverse the resulting scenario of increasing land degradation. /// Bien que l'acclration du ruissellement pluvial et de l'rosion du sol dans les rgions montagneuses habites est souvent lie aux pratiques agricoles sur versants escarps, les champs abandonns peuvent prsenter un plus gros risque de ruissellement rapide et d'rosion du sol. Cet article prsente de nouvelles observations de dgradation subsquente  l'abandon des terres dans les Andes quatoriennes, puis examine le cas des Andes dans la perspective de recherches rcentes sur l'abandon des terres effectues dans les Pyrnes et l'Himalaya. Les donnes quatoriennes, bases sur 109 simulations pluviales, indiquent que les taux de ruissellement et d'rosion des terres  l'abandon ou en jachre sont sensiblement plus leves que ceux des terres cultives. Les analyses du pourcentage total de carbone indiquent que les chantillons de sol en provenance de terres  l'abandon ou en jachre contiennent sensiblement moins de matire organique que ceux en provenance de terres utilises diffremment. La dgradation continue et les coefficients de ruissellement levs des terres  l'abandon ou en jachre, dans les Andes et les Pyrnes, sont lies  l'utilisation courante et informelle de ces terres pour le pacage. Des stratgies de gestion active sont requises pour inverser le scnario de dgradation croissante des terres. /// In besiedelten Gebirgsgegenden fhren die Anbaumethoden an steilen Hanglagen zu schnellem Wasserablauf und Bodenerosion; wobei diese Effekte noch erheblich verstrkt werden, wenn die Felder brach liegen. Diese Arbeit zeigt anhand neuer Ergebnisse, wie sich in den Anden Ecuador's durch Landaufgabe die Bodengte verschlechterte und Vergleiche mit hnlichen Untersuchungen in den Pyrenen und im Himalaya werden gemacht. Der Wert der Untersuchungen in Ecuador liegt in der Simulation von 109 verschiedenen, lokalen Niederschlagsmengen. Es folgt, da die Ablaufs- und Erosionsraten von brachliegenden Feldern erheblich hher sind als die von bestellten Flchen. Analysen des Kohlenstoffgehalts zeigen, da im Vergleich zu den kultivierten Bden, brache Felder einen deutlich geringeren Anteil an organischen Stoffen haben. Grnde, da unbestellte Felder in den Anden und in den Pyrenen mehr und mehr zum Weiden genutzt werden, sind progessive Bodenverschlechterung und berhhte Ablaufsraten. Wirksame Managementstrategien sind notwendig, um zunehmender Bodenverschlechterung entgegenzuwirken. /// Aunque escurrimiento acelerado y erosin del suelo regiones montaosas habitadas frecuentemente son vinculados a prcticas agrcolas en laderas con pendientes fuertes, los campos abandonados a veces presenten aun ms riesgo de escurrimiento rpido y erosin. Se presenta nueva evidencia de la degradacin de la tierra a causa del abandono de la tierra en los Andes ecuatorianos y examina este caso andino con respecto a investigaciones sobre abandono de la tierra en los pirineos y los himalayas. Los datos del Ecuador, basados en 109 experimentos con simulacin de la lluvia en el campo, indican que escorenta y las tasas de erosin de campos abandonados son significativamente ms que las terrenos cultivados. Anlises del percentaje total de carbn demuestran que muestras del suelo de tierras abandonadas/ o en barbecha tienen significativamente menos materia orgnica que aquellas tomadas de campos bajo otros usos de la tierra. La degradacin continuada y coeficientes elevados de escurrimiento en campos abandonados/en barbecha en los andes y los pirineos estn vinculados al continuo uso informal de estos campos para el pastoreo. Se requiren estrategias activas de manejo para revertir este escenario que resulta del aumento de la degradacin de la tierra.
mounresedeve.30.1.53|Editor's note: The text of this article originally appeared as the final chapter of a brochure entitled
10.2307/3672944|An integrated, production-focused, model of the Central Andean peasant economy is suggested, based on the interaction of many factors: geoecology, vertical gradients of land tenure, agricultural regime, and labour use, and the household/supra-household spheres of production. Two sets of characteristic social relations are found. The first is a personal social network built up by the household which can be activated to obtain land, labour, and other productive inputs. The second is a set of social relationships within the totality of households in a naturally interacting settlement. The latter is associated with a supra-household sphere of production which arises as a response to constraints on household production requiring collective processes. Through the supra-household, land, water, pasture, and collecting rights are allocated to individual households, agricultural tasks and labour utilization are scheduled and coordinated, large-scale technological inputs into household production are created and maintained, and a long-term production strategy is determined. /// Un modle intgr de l'conomie paysanne des Andes Centrales est avanc; il est orient vers la production et se fonde sur l'interaction d'un grande nombre de facteurs: gocologie, gradients fonciers verticaux, rgime agricole et utilisation de la main d'oeuvre, et sphres de production: familiale et supra-familiale. Deux catgories de relations sociales caractristiques peuvent tre distingues. La premire est un rseau social individuel dvelopp autour de la famille, qui peut tre exploit pour obtenir des terres, de la main d'oeuvre, et autres supports de production. La seconde est un systme de relations sociales tablies entre les familles d'une communaut; l'interaction y procde naturellement. Cette seconde catgorie est associ  la sphre de production supra-familiale qui se dveloppe en rponse aux contraintes imposes  la production familiale et qui ncessietent un processus collectif. Dans le cadre de la sphre supra-familiale, les terres, l'eau, les pturages, et les droits de ramassage sont distribus individuellement aux familles, des tches agricoles et l'utilisation de la main d'oeuvre sont planifies et coordonnes, les apports technologiques  grande chelle pour la production familiale sont mis en place et entretenus, et un plan de production  long terme est mis au point. /// Fr die Landwirtschaft in den Zentral Anden wird ein integriertes, an der Produktion orientiertes Modell vorgeschlagen, bei dem viele Faktoren in Wechselwirkung treten: Geo-kologie, vertikale Landaufteilung, landwirtschaftlich-orientierte Verwaltung, Arbeitskraftnutzung, sowie die Produktionsbereiche der Familie und der kommunalen Gemeinschaft. In den sozialen Beziehungen ergeben sich zwei typische Gruppen. Die erste befat sich mit dem persnlichen Bereich innerhalb der Familie, deren Aufgabe es ist, Land, Arbeitskrfte und andere produktive Beitrge zu beschaffen. Die zweite Gruppe befat sich mit dem Zusammenschlu von Familien eines Siedlungsgebietes zu einer sozialen Arbeitsgemeinschaft und dient als kommunale Produktionsebene, die nicht den Beschrnkungen eines Familienbetriebes unterliegt. Die kommunale Gemeinschaft teilt Land-, Wasser-, Weide- und Ernterechte den einzelnen Familien zu, plant und koordiniert buerliche Aufgaben und Arbeitsteilung; macht grere technische Beitrge zur Produktion und entscheidet ber langfristige Ertragsplanung.
10.2307/3673797|Forest preservation and development have become complementary goals in natural resource management projects. While initially state sponsored and operated, more recently such projects have been carried out by non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The Palcazu Valley of central Amazonian Peru, ecologically fragile and the home of the Yanesha Indians, is the site of the resource management project discussed in this paper. Three major land capability categories were used: protection forest, commercial forest use, and agroforestry-based agriculture. The resource management project operated at the regional, community, and farm level. The protection component focused on the establishment of a park and forest reserves on the steep slopes which comprise over 50% of the valley area. The forest use section implemented sustained-yield, total-utilization management on low and moderate hills on a 30-40 year rotation, known as the strip shelterwood system. Production forests were managed by a Yanesha cooperative wood-processing center. On the agricultural land multi-strata tree crops were grown and tropical hair sheep were pastured on the hillslopes; the more productive, but scarce bottomlands were used for food crops so that Yanesha families were less affected by market fluctuations, poor harvests, and deforestation. A network of indigenous promoters worked with families in farmland planning. Lessons learned included the importance of complementarity in a multi-faceted strategy at various levels of land resource management, the value of appropriate resource inventories for project design and implementation, and the crucial role of an interdisciplinary team working with local inhabitants to translate project goals into meaningful, effective, and lasting actions in the field. /// La prservation des forts et le dveloppement sont devenus des buts complmentaires pour les projets de gestion des ressources naturelles. Bien qu'initialement financs et dirigs par l'Etat, de tels projets ont t rcemment mens par des organismes non-gouvernementaux. La valle du Palcazu, dans la zone amazonienne centrale du Prou, est cologiquement fragile et constitue le territoire des indiens Yanesha; elle est le site du projet de gestion des ressources examin dans cet article. Trois catgories principales de possibilits des terres ont t utilises: protection des forts, utilisation des forts, et agriculture base sur l'agroforesterie. Le projet de gestion des ressources a t men au niveau de la rgion, de la communaut et de la ferme. La composante de protection s'est concentre sur l'tablissement d'un parc et de reserves forestires sur les versants escarps qui constituent plus de 50 pour cent de la valle. La section d'utilisation des forts a mis en oeuvre une gestion  rapport soutenu et utilisation totale sur des collines de basse et moyenne altitude, avec rotation de 30  40 ans, connue sous le nom de systme de coupe d'abri en bandes. Les forts de production ont t gres par un centre coopratif de transformation du bois dirig par les Yanesha. Sur les terres agricoles, des plantations forestires  strates multiples ont t tablies et des moutons  toison tropicale ont t mis au pturage sur les versants des collines; les basses terres, plus productives, mais plus rares, ont t utilises pour les cultures vivrires, si bien que les familles Yanesha ont t moins affectes par les fluctuations du march, les rcoltes insuffisantes et la dforestation. Un rseau de promoteurs indignes a aid les familles pour ce qui est de la planification des terres agricoles. Parmi les leons apprises, on peut citer l'importance de la complmentarit dans le cadre d'une stratgie  faces multiples applique  diffrents niveaux de la gestion des ressources foncires, la valeur des inventaires de ressources appropris  la conception et  la mise en oeuvre des projets, et le rle dcisif d'une quipe interdisciplinaire travaillant avec les autochtones dans le but de traduire les buts des projets en actions fructueuses, efficaces et durables sur le terrain. /// Zwei komplimentre Projektziele beim Management der Naturressourcen sind Walderhaltung und Entwicklung. Anfnglich wurden solche Projekte vom Staat gefrdert und ausgefhrt; neuerdings werden sie von nicht-staatlichen Organisationen (NGOs) bernommen. Das Untersuchungsgebiet fr Ressourcenmanagement, das Gegenstand dieser Verffentlichung ist, ist das Palcazu Tal im Zentral-Amazonas Gebiet von Peru-kologisch anfllig und Heimat der Yanesha Indianer. Die Landtauglichkeit wurde in drei Hauptkategorien eingeteilt: Waldschutz, Waldnutzung und agro-forstwirtschaftliche Landwirtschaft. Das Projekt des Ressourcenmanagements wurde auf regionalen-, gemeinde- und familienbezogenen Ebenen durchgefhrt. Waldschutz konzentrierte sich auf die Schaffung eines Parks und auf Waldgebiete an steilen Hngen, die ber 50% des Talgebietes einnehmen. Waldnutzung untersuchte auf niedrigen und mittleren Berglagen den Ertrag und das Management der Totalnutzung im 30-40 jhrigen Rotationsverfahren, das auch als "strip shelterwood" System bekannt ist. Ein von Yaneshas geleitetes kooperatives Holzverarbeitungszentrum verwaltete die Produktionswlder. Auf landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen wurden "multi-strata" Bume angepflanzt, und tropische (Haar-) Schafe weideten auf den Berghngen. Auf den produktiveren aber begrenzten Tieflandflchen wurden Feldfrchte angebaut; dadurch waren Yanesha Familien weniger von Marktschwankungen, schlechten Ernten und Entwaldung betroffen. Bei der Ackerland Planung wurden die Familien von sich gegenseitig untersttzenden, einheimischen Frderern beraten. Ergebnisse dieser Studie sind: a) da im Management der Landressourcen sich unterschiedliche Strategien auf verschiedenen Ebenen ergnzen, b) da eine genaue Bestandaufnahme der Ressourcen fr den Projektentwurf und seine Realisierung unerllich ist, und c) da die interdisziplinre Gemeinschaftsarbeit mit der einheimischen Bevlkerung eine entscheidende Rolle spielt, wenn es darum geht, Zielsetzungen in sinnvoller, effektiver und anhaltender Weise zu realisieren.
10.2307/3673118|This paper serves as an introduction to a series of papers on applied research in the Andes that will ultimately comprise four separate volumes. Thus, it outlines the development of the Unesco Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme as exemplified by Project 6 and, in particular, its application to the Andes. Project 6 (the study of the impact of human activities on mountain ecosystems), like other MAB projects, has evolved through several distinct phases. First, building upon previous programmes, such as the International Biological Programme (IBP), a Panel of Experts was convened to define in general terms research and practical problems associated with mountain ecosystems throughout the world. During the second phase an International Working Group of scientists identified problems requiring international co-operation and assisted in the development of national research priorities. The third phase was a series of Regional Working Group meetings held in several Andean cities (La Paz, Lima, Bogota) where a number of objectives was met. These included: (1) the identification of regional and national research and training priorities; (2) the establishment of regional research co-operation and joint planning; (3) development of interest and support from other international organizations (WHO, WMO, UNEP, ICSU, FAO); (4) definition of Andean subregions and pilot projects in high-priority areas; (5) identification of specific research themes and ties with other MAB projects; (6) the setting up of regional co-ordinating committees for the six MAB projects accorded priority by Andean nations and a general Co-ordinating Committee composed of the chairmen of MAB National Committees of the Andean nations; and (7) organization of a State-of-Knowledge Report (of which this is the Introduction). It is hoped that the explanation of the organizational framework and practical approaches to the challenge of environmental, socio-economic, and human deterioration in the Andes will be relevant to many other mountain regions. /// Cette communication sert d'introduction  une suite de communications qui une fois complte formera quatre volumes diffrents sur la recherche applique dans les Andes. Elle prsente donc les grandes lignes de dveloppement du Programme de l'Unesco sur l'Homme et la Biosphre (MAB) dans l'esprit du Projet 6, et en particulier son application dans les Andes. Le Projet 6, tude de l'impact des activits humaines sur les cosystmes montagnards, fut labor en plusieurs tapes, tout comme les autres projets MAB. D'abord, en partant des programmes prcdents, tels que le Programme Biologique International (IBP), une Commission d'Experts s'est runie afin de dfinir en termes gnraux la recherche et les problmes pratiques associs aux cosystmes montagnards du monde entier. Pendant la seconde phase, un Groupe de Travail international compos de scientifiques a identifi les problmes qui demandent une coopration internationale et a aid  tablir les priorits de la recherche au niveau national. La troisime phase a consist en un suite de runions de Groupes de Travail Rgionaux qui ont eu lieu dans quelques villes des Andes (La Paz, Lima, Bogota), et o un certain nombre d'objectifs ont t atteints. Ces objectifs comprenaient: (1) l'identification des priorits de la recherche et de la formation professionnelle au niveau rgional et national; (2) l'tablissement d'une base de coopration et de planification commune de la recherche au niveau rgional; (3) le dveloppement d'un intrt et d'un soutien de la part d'autres organisations internationales (OMS, OMM, UNEP [Programme des Nations-Unies sur l'Environnement], ICSU [Conseil International des Unions Scientifiques], FAO); (4) la dfinition des sous-rgions des Andes, et des projets pilotes dans les zones  haute priorit; (5) l'identification de thmes de recherche spcifiques et des relations avec d'autres projets MAB; (6) l'implantation de comits rgionaux de coordination pour les six projets MAB auxquels la priorit a t donne par les nations andines, et d'un Comit Gnral de Coordination compos des prsidents des Comits MAB Nationaux des nations andines; et (7) l'organisation d'un Rapport sur l'Etat de la Connaissance dont la prsente communication constitue l'Introduction. Nous esprons que la prsentation de la structure organique et des approches pratiques pour relever le dfi de la dterioration des Andes du point de vue socio-conomique, humain et cologique sera applicable  beaucoup d'autres rgions montagneuses. /// Diese Verffentlichung ist als Einfhrung fr eine Serie von Abhandlungen ber angewandte Forschung in den Anden gedacht. Insgesamt werden sich vier gesonderte Hefte mit diesem Thema befassen. Die Entwicklung des Unesco Programms ber "Mensch und Biosphre" (MUB) wird skiziert, im besonderen dessen Bedeutung fr die Anden, so wie es am Beispiel vom Projekt 6 erlutert wurde. Das Projekt 6 (eine Studie ber menschliche Wechselwirkungen mit kosystemen in Gebirgsgegenden), ebenso wie andere MUB Projekte, hat sich in verschiedenen Phasen entwickelt. Wie in frheren Programmen, wie z.B. dem International Biological Programme (IBP), trat auch hier am Anfang ein Expertenausschu zusammen, der den Rahmen fr Forschungsaufgaben und ihre Durchfhrung setzte, die Gebirgskosysteme in der ganzen Welt betrafen. Whrend der 2. Phase stellte eine internationale Arbeitsgruppe von Wissenschaftlern die Probleme heraus, die internationale Zusammenarbeit erfordern wrden und half dann bei der Entwicklung nationaler Forschungsprioritten. Die 3. Phase bestand aus einer Reihe von Sitzungen regionaler Arbeitsgruppen in verschiedenen Stdten der Anden (La Paz, Bogota, Lima), die folgende Einzelheiten klrten: (1) die Festsetzung regionaler und nationaler Forschungs- und Ausbildungsprioritten; (2) die Etablierung regionaler Forschungszusammenarbeit und gemeinsamer Planung; (3) die Frderung des Interesses von anderen internationalen Organisationen (WHO, WMO, UNEP, ICSU, FAO) zum Zweck der Untersttzung; (4) die geographische Abgrenzung der Anden-Gebiete und Entscheidungen ber vorrangige Versuchsprojekte; (5) die Herausstellung spezieller Forschungsziele und deren Verflechtung mit anderen MUB Projekten; (6) die Grndung regionaler Koordinierungskommitees fr die 6 MUB Projekte, sowie eines bergeordneten Koordinierungsausschusses, der sich aus den Vorsitzenden der nationalen MUB Kommitees aller Anden-Nationen zusammensetzt; und (7) die Erstellung eines Berichtes ber den gegenwrtigen Wissensstand, eingeleitet von dieser Einfhrung. Das Aufzeichnen des organisatorischen Rahmens und der Praktiken, die angewendet werden, um der Zerstrung der Umwelt, und der sozial-wirtschaftlichen und menschlichen Beziehung in den Anden entgegenzuwirken, kann auch fr viele andere Gebirgsgegenden von Bedeutung sein. /// Este ensayo sirve como introduccin a una serie de ensayos sobre investigacin aplicada en los Andes que, por ltimo, formarn cuatro volmenes independientes. En esta forma, se traza el Programa de UNESCO sobre el Hombre y la Biosfera MAB como ha sido manifestado en el Proyecto 6 y en particular, su aplicacin a los Andes. El Proyecto 6 (un estudio del impacto de las actividades humanas en los sistemas ecolgicos de las montaas), como otros proyectos de MAB, ha evolucionado a travs de varias fases distintas. Primero, con base en programas previos, como el Programa Biolgico Internacional (IBP), se convoc a un Grupo de Expertos para que definiera, en trminos generales, la investigacin y los problemas prcticos asociados con los sistemas ecolgicos de las montanas a travs del mundo. Durante la segunda fase, un Grupo Internacional de Trabajo integrado por cientficos, identific los problemas que requereran cooperacin internacional y colabor en establecer las prioridades de las investigaciones nacionales. La tercera fase, comprendi una serie de reuniones del Grupo Regional de Trabajo que tuvieron lugar un varias ciudades andinas (La Paz, Lima, Bogot), en donde se alcanzaron un cierto nmero de objetivos. Estos incluan los siguientes: (1) la identificatin de prioridades de investigacin y adiestramiento nacionales; (2) el establecimiento de cooperacin en las investigaciones y de planificacin conjunta regional; (3) desarrollo del inters y apoyo de otras organizaciones internacionales (OMS, OMM, UNEP [Programa de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Medio Ambiente], ISCU [Consejo Internacional de Uniones Cientficas], FAO); (4) definicin de las subregiones andinas y proyectos piloto en reas de alta prioridad; (5) identificacin de temas especficos de investigacin y vinculacin con otros proyectos de MAB; (6) la creacin de comisiones de coordinacin regional para los seis Proyectos de MAB que hubieren recibido prioridad de parte de las naciones andinas, y una comisin general de coordinacin compuesta por los presidentes de las comisiones nacionales de MAB de las naciones andinas; y (7) el establecimiento de un Informe sobre los Conocimientos Actuales del cual es sta la Introduccin. Se espera que la explicacin de la estructura orgnica y del enfoque prctico al desafo planteado por el deterioro del medio ambiente, de las condiciones socio-econmicas y humanas en los Andes sea aplicable a muchas otras regiones montaosas.
25164029|Existing practices employed by farmers provide a potentially valuable source of information for the introduction of soil and water conservation measures. To capture such information requires a farmer -oriented approach, with alternative, low cost, rapid methods for the collection of biophysical data. Using data collected by Bolivian professionals during a workshop, this paper examines two indigenous practices applied to clear stony hill land for initial cultivation: stone boundary bunds and within-field piles of stones. Clearing stones from the land (the "habilitation" of land) enables crop production, plowing of the land, and use of furrow irrigation. Boundary bunds, although better at reducing erosion rates and retaining sediment in the field, are rejected by some farmers in preference for piles of stones, which entail a smaller loss in crop area and easier access to the field. The findings of the study are used to identify opportunities and constraints for the successful introduction of soil conservation practices and to suggest explanations for the lack of spontaneous uptake of stone-faced terraces that have been promoted to farmers in the locality.
3674632|The level of participation in any production or farming activity is considered to be linked to the diversity of economic and other farming conditions in a farming community at any given time. Many expert-designed agroforestry programs are adopted unevenly or not at all by the intended beneficiaries, especially in developing countries, because they are not built on existing experience with adoption of traditional agroforestry systems. The present study investigated the influence of economic and farming aspects on households' adoption of traditional agroforestry, to suggest strategies for further strengthening agroforestry adoption. The study was carried out in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh, an Indian state located in the Western Himalaya. The main forms of traditional agroforestry in the study area are the agrosilvicultural, agrosilvihorticultural, silvopastoral, agrohortisilvicultural, hortiagricultural, and hortisilvicultural systems. The survey data were collected with a pre-structured questionnaire in personal interviews with household heads. The extent of agroforestry adoption was found to have increased significantly with increasing crop diversification, agricultural production, food sufficiency, agricultural income, off-farm income, total household income, number of livestock units, restrictions on on-farm grazing, and sale of horticultural as well as forestry tree produce from the farm. The study emphasizes the need for a holistic approach to agroforestry development by integrating agroforestry programs into other economic and agricultural development programs.
10.2307/3673306|The study area consisted of ten adjacent village panchayats located mainly on the eastern slopes of the Sun Kosi Khola at elevations between about 680 m and 2,360 m. Fifty-six persons, deliberately biased towards the elderly, were interviewed to gain information on local forest history. Of the wealth of information obtained, the most important is that there is no evidence of significant changes in areas of agricultural land or forest for at least a century, despite large population increases. However, forests have degenerated in quality and most forest products are now in short supply. The period from 1951 to 1963 was a period of rapid decline, coinciding with the collapse of largely local control and with widespread change and breakdown in government administration. Detailed evidence is presented supporting the views expressed generally in earlier parts of this series relating to forest history. Extensive data on the quantitative and qualitative use of many forest and tree products were obtained. The provision of fodder and litter to support livestock is of prime importance. Quantities of fuel used varies greatly with altitude and there is large-scale substitution amongst various components of biomass, depending upon relative availability. For all products, use reflects a greatly impoverished forest resource. The development of community forestry since 1973 is traced. Such forestry is seen as essential if improvement in the situation is to occur. /// La zone tudie couvre dix panchayat adjacents situs principalement sur les versants est du Sun Kosi Khola,  une altitude comprise entre 680 et 2.360 m. Cinquante cinq personnes, choisies de prfrence en raison de leur age avanc, ont t interviewes dans le but d'obtenir des donnes sur l'histoire des forts locales. La conclusion la plus importante tire des donnes accumules est que les zones de culture et de fort ne semblent pas avoir chang au cours du sicle dernier en dpit d'une croissance dmographique importante. Nanmoins, la qualit des forts s'est dtriore et la production est insuffisante pour la plupart des produits forestiers. La priode de 1951  1963 est caractrise par un dclin rapide coincidant avec l'effondrement de l'autorit, surtout locale, ainsi que le changement et la dbcle de l'administration gouvernementale. Des preuves dtailles sont fournies pour tayer les opinions gnrales exprimes dans les premires parties de cette srie concernant l'historique des forts. Des donnes abondantes sur l'utilisation qualitative et quantitative de nombreux produits de la fort ont t obtenues. La production de fourrage et de litire pour les animaux d'levage est d'une importance capitale. La quantit de combustible utilise varie beaucoup avec l'altitude, et les diffrents composants de la biomasse sont substitus  grande chelle selon leur disponibilit relative. En ce qui concerne tous les produits, l'utilisation reflte un appauvrissement considrable des ressources forestires. Cette tude met en vidence le dveloppement d'une foresterie communautaire depuis 1973. Un tel effort est indispensable pour que la situation puisse s'amliorer. /// Zehn aneinandergrenzende, von ltestenrten geleitete Drfer, die grtenteils auf der Ostseite des Sun Kosi Khola in Hhen zwischen 680 m und 2360 m liegen, waren in diese Studie miteinbezogen. Um ber die lokale Forstwirtschaft Informationen zu erhalten, wurden 56 Personen interviewt. Die Personen waren absichtlich so ausgesucht, da ltere bevorzugt wurden. Aus dem umfassenden Informationsmaterial ergibt sich als wichtigstes Fazit, da whrend der vergangenen 100 Jahre keine bedeutenden Vernderungen bei den landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen und den Wldern eingetreten sind, und dies trotz groen Bevlkerungswachstums. Die Qualitt des Waldes hat sich jedoch verschlechtert, und die Mehrzahl der Waldprodukte ist knapp. Die Zeitspanne von 1951 bis 1963 brachte eine besonders schnelle Verschlechterung als Folge des Versagens der berwiegend lokalen Kontrolle, anderer gravierender Vernderungen und schlielich dem Zusammenbruch der Regierungsadministration. Detailliertes Beweismaterial wird vorgelegt, das die Ansichten zur Forstgeschichte, die in vorangegangenen Teilen dieser Serie geuert wurden, untersttzt. Umfangreiche Daten ber die quantitative und qualitative Nutzung der vielfltigen Wald- und Baumprodukte wurden gewonnen. Die Versorgung mit Futter und Streu fr die Viehwirtschaft hat die grte Bedeutung. Der Verbrauch von Feuerholz ist - abhngig von der Hhenlage- sehr unterschiedlich, und je nach relativer Verfgbarkeit werden in groem Umfang verschiedene Bestandteile der Biomasse als Ersatz benutzt. Fr alle Produkte gilt, da ihre Nutzung die Waldressourcen stark verarmt. Die Entwicklung der kommunalen Waldwirtschaft wird ab 1973 verfolgt und ihre Weiterfhrung ist wichtig, wenn die Situation verbessert werden soll.
10.2307/3673474|In this second paper the sociological dimensions of the Hindu pilgrimage to Muktinath are examined. In South Asia, the Hindu celebration of the Full Moon Festival (Janai Purnima) is an occasion when "twice born" (tagadhari) Brahmin men reaffirm their status of high caste by changing the sacred cord (janai). For this event, many Hindus go on pilgrimage to sacred places and pilgrimage to Muktinath, a high Himalayan shrine dedicated to Lord Vishnu, Lord of Salvation, is especially auspicious at this time. The event is described in its full sociological context, based on in-depth anthropological research and travels with Hindu devotees. /// Ce deuxime article examine les aspects sociologiques du plerinage des Hindous  Muktinath. En Asie mridionale, la fte de la pleine lune (Janai Purnima) donne l'occasion aux brahmanes mles "rgnrs" (tagadhari) de raffirmer leur rang de caste suprieure en changeant le cordon sacr (janai). Pour cet vnement, beaucoup d'Hindous vont en plerinage dans des lieux sacrs, et le plerinage  Muktinath, un lieu situ haut dans l'Himalaya et ddi au dieu Vichnou, dieu du salut, est particulirement favorable  cette poque. Cet vnement est dcrit dans son contexte sociologique intgral, sur la base de recherches anthropologiques approfondies et de plerinages en compagnie d'Hindous. /// In dieser 2. Studie werden soziologische Auswirkungen einer Hindu Pilgerfahrt nach Muktinath untersucht. In Sdasien ist das Zelebrieren des Vollmondfestes (Janai Purnima) fr "wiedergeborene" (tagadhari) Brahmin Mnner ein Anla, ihre Stellung in der hohen Kaste zu besttigen, in dem sie die heilige Kordel austauschen (janai). Zu diesem Zweck pilgern viele Hindus zu heiligen Sttten, und eine Pilgerfahrt nach Muktinath, ein hochgelegener Schrein im Himalaya, der dem Lord Vishnu, dem Lord der Errettung gewidmet ist, ist zu diesem Zeitpunkt besonders glckverheiend. Sorgfltige anthropologische Forschung und Reisen mit Hindu Glbigen erlauben, das Ereignis in einem vollstndigen soziologischen Zusammenhang zu sehen.
mounresedeve.32.3.275|This article focuses on cooperative adaptation strategies at the community, water user association, district, and national levels along the Khojabakirgansai, a small transboundary tributary of the Syr Darya in Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. Data were collected in the basin through in-depth expert interviews, site visits, and household surveys, and were triangulated with climate change data from the available literature. Basin inhabitants cooperate on extreme events that are exacerbated by climate change, including water scarcity, droughts, and flash floods. Water demand and efficiency are key issues driven by population growth, expansion of croplands, and deteriorating canal infrastructure. Lessons learned can be considered in other small transboundary tributaries in the Ferghana Valley and Central Asia, which demonstrate how, despite the international level of tension on water issues in the region, local communities can find solutions. Cooperation, however, does not always improve the basin environment or living standards, and is likely to be strained in the coming decades by climate and population trends, among other issues.
4096460|Driven by economic and ideological policies, rubber plantations have been established in southern China since the early 1950s. Rubber was seen as a perfect way to modernize the "primitive" shifting agricultural practices of indigenous minorities and to "legitimize" the landscape according to new Maoist State ideals. However, large-scale rubber production was dogged by problems, and most rubber production now emanates from smallholders, challenging the state notion that "bigger is better." In the transition to a free market, smallholder rubber farms, which grow a wider variety of crops, have greater flexibility and are better able to adjust to market changes. These small mixed farms also enhance ecological and cultural diversity.
25578190|Impacts on water quality and quantity are among the most contentious aspects of mining projects. Companies insist that the use of modern technologies will ensure environmentally friendly mining practices. However, evidence of the negative environmental impacts of past mining activity causes local and downstream populations to worry that new mining activities will adversely affect their water supply. We report on one mine site in Peru where water has become a particularly conflictive issue. We then provide a detailed proposal for a monitoring plan to recover trust among stakeholders. A well-designed and executed monitoring plan for water quantity and quality is critical to foster dialogue, consensus, trust, and transparency between mine and community.
3674631|New economic conditions in Kyrgyzstan today demand new approaches to industrial development. Huge, old plants and factories built in the Soviet era have collapsed, increasing the country's poverty level and the number of jobless people, especially in mountain regions. Lack of finances, poor management, privatization, and the breakup of the centralized industrial system have led to a decline in industrial production in Kyrgyzstan. Industry in the Kyrgyz economy decreased from 62% in 1990 to 16.1% in 2004, as a share of gross domestic product. This economic decline caused disparities between lowland and highland development, and resulted in the migration of rural populations to towns, especially from mountain regions isolated from the outside world. Under such conditions there is a great need to establish a liaison between lowlands and highlands. This role can be played by a network of new small-scale industries based on the obviously high potential of mountain regions. Small investments based on local natural and human resources, innovative approaches to national traditions, and new equipment, management, and marketing adapted to the demands of the modern market-these are essential elements of such industries now appearing in the Kyrgyz market, and the steps forward to creating the "Made in Kyrgyzstan" brand. But to what extent is this direction in industrial development successful and sustainable?
10.2307/3673342|Recent mountain development efforts in Switzerland have been designed to reduce depopulation and social disintegration of the alpine valleys. The development programme provides federal aid for improving living conditions and for encouraging survival and growth of economic activities through investment in infrastructure and other incentives. Loans are provided on condition that the mountain communities form regional development bodies. In addition, regional development concepts must be elaborated which integrate all economic activities suitable for mountain areas, infrastructure plans, and public finance; these concepts must also incorporate measures for environmental protection. Even after ten years of programme development and implementation of large parts of the infrastructure, it is still too early to make a full evaluation. In addition, since international economic cycles can substantially affect mountain development, these external impacts render programme assessment difficult. Certainly, regional co-operation among the mountain communities, prompted by the development programmes, has brought the population to an important turning point. The will to self-preservation and the consciousness of their own socio-cultural identity have been reinforced or restored. This is a consequence of active participation of the population in planning and implementation of the development programmes. It has involved ambitious co-ordination efforts between all levels of government as well as the newly established regional planning bodies. A special National Research Programme has provided evaluation and monitoring services. This Swiss effort in integrated mountain development may be of interest to other countries, despite the special circumstances prevailing in Switzerland. /// Les efforts en matire de dveloppement des rgions montagneuses suisses ont vis ces derniers temps  combattre l'exode rural. L'rosion sociale caractrisant de nombreuses parties des Alpes a suscit un programme de dveloppement qui, au travers d'investissements infrastructurels et de mesures de politique conomique et sociale, cherche  amliorer les conditions d'habitat et de croissance conomique. L'aide fdrale est soumise  la condition que les communes forment des associations de dveloppement rgionales et qu'elles laborent des concepts de dveloppement rgionaux traitant de toutes les activits conomiques de la rgion montagneuse, des projets d'infrastructure, des finances publiques et de la protection du paysage. Aprs dix ans d'efforts intensifs, il est pourtant encore trop tt pour pouvoir mettre un jugement, d'autant plus que la situation conomique internationale influence de manire non ngligeable les conditions des rgions montagneuses. On peut nanmoins affirmer que la collaboration entre communes a, en peu de temps, permis un important tournant psychologique et moral dans de nombreuses rgions montagneuses. La volont de compter sur ses propre moyens pour dfendre son existence et son dveloppement ainsi que la conscience de sa propre identit ont vu le jour et se sont progressivement dveloppes. A cela a manifestement beaucoup contribu la participation de la population rgionale, des reprsentants de l'conomie et des diffrents groupes interesss  l'laboration, la planification et la ralisation des programmes de dveloppement. La Confdration, les cantons, les associations rgionales spcialement formes  cet effet et les communes montagnardes ont ralis ces programmes en commun et garanti la coordination horizontale et verticale qu'exigeait le processus de ralisation. De plus, un programme national de recherche s'est charg de tches d'valuation importantes. Cet effort suisse d'apprhender le dveloppement des rgions montagneuses de manire integre devrait prsenter un intrt pour d'autre pays, mme si la prosprit conomique et la structure fdraliste de la Suisse constituent des conditions spcifiques pour une telle approche. /// Die schweizerische Berggebietsfrderung der jngsten Zeit steht im Zeichen der Bekmpfung von Landflucht. Die soziale Erosion in weiten Teilen der Alpen gab Anlass zu einem Entwicklungsprogramm, das mittels Infrastruktur-Investitionen und flankierenden wirtschaftsfrdernden und sozialpolitischen Massnahmen versucht, die Wohnattraktivitt und die betrieblichen Standortvoraussetzungen zu verbessern. Voraussetzung fr Bundeshilfe ist, dass sich die Gemeinden zu regionalen Entwicklungsverbnden zusammenschliessen und dass regionale Entwicklungskonzepte erarbeitet werden, welche alle im Berggebiet mglichen Wirtschaftsaktivitten, den Infrastrukturausbau und die Gestaltung des ffentlichen Finanzhaushaltes, sowie den Landschaftsschutz umfassen. Nach 10 Jahren intensiver Frderungsttigkeit ist es allerdings noch zu frh, um den Erfolg der Bemhungen abzuschtzen. Hinzu kommt, dass die internationale Wirtschaftslage nicht unmassgeblichen Einfluss nimmt auch auf die Verhltnisse in den Bergen. Immerhin kann gesagt werden, dass die regionale Zusammenarbeit der Gemeinden in kurzer Zeit eine wichtige moralische und psychologische Tendenzwende in grossen Teilen des Berggebietes bewirkt haben. Der Wille zur Selbsterhaltung, zur Selbsthilfe und zur Selbstentfaltung sowie das Identittsbewusstsein haben sich verstrkt oder sind neu entstanden. Dies nicht zuletzt als Folge einer intensiven Partizipation von Bergbevlkerung, Wirtschaft und weiteren Interessensgruppen an der Planung, Beratung und Realisierung der Entwicklungsprogramme. Die Bundesregierung, die Kantone, die speziell gebildeten regionalen Verbnde und die Berggemeinden haben dieses Programm gemeinsam aufgezogen und sich den herausfordernden Lernprozessen in vertikaler und horizontaler Koordination gestellt. Ein spezielles Nationales Forschungs-programm hat berdies wichtige Evaluationsaufgaben bernommen. Dieser schweizerische Effort um eine integrierte Berggebietsentwicklung drfte auch fr das Ausland von Interesse sein, wenngleich wir darauf hinweisen mssen, dass die wirtschaftliche Prosperitt und das traditionelle fderalistische Staatsgefge der Schweiz etwas spezielle Voraussetzungen fr ein solches Unternehmen darstellen.
mounresedeve.30.3.222|Botanical species and morphological and genetic diversity represent different yet linked units of conservation. These features, and their spatial distribution in the central Peruvian Andean highlands of Huancavelica, were used as a basis for characterizing and quantifying potato agrobiodiversity at different scales. Results show that individual farm households maintain high levels of cultivar, morphological, and genetic diversity. At the regional level, all cultivated species, with the exception of Solanum ajanhuiri, were found to be present. Tetraploid native potatoes were most abundant, followed by diploids, triploids, and pentaploids. Morphological characterization of 2481 samples belonging to 38 in situ collections resulted in the identification of 557 unique cultivars. Genetic fingerprinting of 989 samples belonging to 8 in situ collections resulted in the identification of 406 unique cultivars. The principal source of genetic variation is found within rather than between geographically distanced subpopulations. High levels of cultivar diversity are found, particularly at elevations between 3850 and 4150 m.
10.2307/3673096|Physical limitations severely restrict the economic development potential of the Venezuelan Andes. However, to neglect the region, its people, and fragile landscape, would be both inhumane and short-sighted. The sustained productivity of hydroelectricity, agriculture, and fisheries in downstream lowlands is intimately linked to the quality of land and water management in the Andes. Flash floods and sedimentation in the lowlands are indicators of watershed degradation and human misery in the mountains. A million-hectare slice of the Andes and Llanos was chosen as a case study in environmental management by Venezuela and the Program of Region Development of the Organization of American States. The Guanare-Masparro study examines an ambitious programme of multi-purpose dams, roads, and drainage designed to spur development in the western Llanos. The goals of development (effective resource use and improved human well-being) were confused by sectorial planners with the means (monumental engineering works). In the study an interdisciplinary, environmental science approach to regional development planning is demonstrated. Included is an assessment of the cultural and physical factors affecting erosion and sedimentation and the use of geomorphological data in design of water management alternatives and optimum land-use strategies. /// Des limitations physiques font un obstacle svre au potentiel de dveloppement conomique des Andes vnzuliens. Ce serait, toutefois, de la myopie intellectuelle ainsi qu'inhumain de ngliger la rgion, ses habitants, et son paysage vulnerable. Une productivit soutenue d'hydro-lectricit, d'agriculture, et de la pche dans les plaines en aval est troitement lie  la qualit de la gstion des sols et de l'eau dans la rgion des Andes. Les inondations-subites et la sdimentation dans les plaines sont des indices d'une dgradation du bassin versant et de la misre humaine dans les montagnes. Nous avons slectionn comme tude de cas une zone couvrant un million d'hectares des Andes et de Llanos pour examiner la gestion d'environnement par l'Etat de Venezuela et par le Programme de Dveloppement Rgional de l'Organisation des Etats Amricains. L'tude Guanare-Masparro pase en revue en programme ambitieux de construction des barrages  usages multiples, de routes, et de drainage destin  stimuler le dveloppement des Llanos occidentaux. Les objectifs de dveloppement (utilisation effective des ressources et amlioration des conditions humaines) ont t confondus par les planificateurs des secteurs avec les moyens (travaux d'amnagement gigantesques). L'tude donne une approche des sciences d'environnement  multi-disciplines  la planification du dveloppement rgional. D'autre part, elle fournit une valuation des facteurs culturels et physiques qui ont une injfluence sur l'rosion et la sdimentation et des applications des donnes gomorphologiques  la conception des options de gestion des ressources en eau et des stratgies visant  l'utilisation optimale des terres. /// Naturbedingte Beschrnkungen erschweren die konomische Entwicklung des Andengebietes in Venezuela erheblich. Dennoch wre es gegen das Interesse der Bevlkerung und kurzsichtig, das Gebiet, seine Bewohner und das leicht zerstrbare Land zu vernachlssigen. Der Fortbestand von Wasserkrafterzeugung, Landwirtschaft und Fischgrnde in den Niederungen flussabwrts hngen eng mit der Qualitt des Land- und Wassermanagements in den Anden zusammen. Beeinflussung des Wasserablaufs und Misswirtschaft in den Bergen fhren zu berflutung und Sedimentation in den Niederungen. ber das Umweltmanagement wurde eine Fallstudie fr ein 1 Mill. Hektar grosses Anden- und Llanosgebiet von Venezuela angefertigt, die auch das regionale Entwicklungsprogramm der Organisation Amerikanischer Staaten mit einschliesst. Die Guanare-Masparro. Studie untersucht ein ehrgeiziges Programm: Erschliessung des westlichen Llanos mit Allzweck-Dmmen, Strassenbau und Entwsserungsanlagen. Leider wurden Entwicklungsziele (optimale Nutzung der Naturvorkommen und verbesserte Lebensqualitt) von den Gebietsplanern oft mit den Ausfhrungsmglichkeiten (monumentale Grossbauten) verwechselt. Die Studie zeigt dennoch eine interdisziplinre, umweltorientierte, wissenschaftliche Einstellung gegenber regionaler Entwicklungsplanung. Beurteilt werden menschliche und naturbedingte Faktoren, die Erosion und Ablagerung beinflussen, ausserdem die Anwendung geomorphologischer Daten beim Entwurf von Alternative im Wassermanagement und beim Optimieren der Bodennutzung. /// Las limitaciones fsicas restringen severamente el potencial de desarrollo econmico de los Andes venezolanos. No obstante, olvidarse de la regin, de sus gentes y de su frgil paisaje, sera a la vez algo inhumano y falto de perspicacia. La productividad continuada de hidroelectricidad y de productos agrcolas y pesqueros en las tierras bajas, ro abajo est vinculada ntimamente a la calidad de la administracin de las tierras y las aguas de los Andes. Las inundaciones repentinas en las tierras bajas y las sedimentaciones son indicadores de la degradacin de las vertientes y de miseria humana en las montaas. Venezuela y el programa de desarrollo regional de la Organizacin de Estados Americanos escogieron una franja de un milln de hectreas en los Andes y en los Llanos para llevar a cabo un estudio caracterstico de administracin del medio ambiente. El estudio Guanare-Masparro examina un programa ambicioso de pantanos, carreteras y drenajes con propsitos mltiples para estimular el desarrollo de los Llanos occidentales. Los planificadores sectoriales confundieron los objetivos del desarrollo (uso efectivo de los recursos y mejora del bienestar humano) con los medios (obras de ingeniera monumentales). En el estudio se demuestra un enfoque interdisciplinario cientfico del medio ambiente aplicado a la planificacin del desarrollo regional. Se incluye un estimado de los factores fscos y culturales que afectan la erosin y la sedimentacin, y el uso de datos geomorfolgicos en el diseo de alternativas en la administracin del agua y de estrategias ptimas para el uso de la tierra.
mounresedeve.32.2.226|Mountain ecosystems and watersheds are essential for long-term sustainable global development and poverty alleviation and can make an important contribution to climate change adaptation and mitigation. Freshwater, rich biodiversity, and other natural resources provided by mountains are vital for the livelihood of billions of people. However, recent environmental, economic, and social developments such as climate change, increasing natural disasters, population growth, the expansion of commercial agriculture, and urbanization compromise the ability of mountain ecosystems and watersheds to provide essential environmental goods and services. Degradation and decreasing water flows seriously affect agricultural production and food security and threaten the supply of water to large urban centers in the lowlands, while water, energy, and food are likely to be the main scarcities in the coming decades. Watershed management and sustainable mountain development (SMD) are necessary and appropriate approaches to address these challenges and need a prominent place on the international agenda.
10.2307/3673912|China has a rich variety of mountain vegetation and soil types, displaying characteristic zoning at different altitudes. Vertical zonation of landscape characteristics is also influenced by longitude, latitude, aspect, and microclimate. Namjagbarwa Feng (7,782 m) is situated in the eastern Himalaya and has a relative relief of over 7,000 m. It has a range of vertical landscape zones from quasi-tropical to snow and ice conditions and the characteristics and structural pattern of these zones are described. Factors that account for regional variation in landscape characteristics within the Namjagbarwa massif are discussed. /// La vgtation et les sols de montagne de la Chine sont trs varis, prsentant une zonation caractristique  diffrentes altitudes. La zonation verticale des caractristiques du paysage est galement influence par la longitude, la latitude, l'exposition et le microclimat. Le Namjagbarwa Feng (7,782 m) est situ dans l'Himalaya de l'Est et a un relief relatif de plus de 7,000 m. Il prsente une gamme de zones verticales du paysage s'tendant du semi-tropical aux conditions de neige et de glace; les caractristiques et la configuration structurale de ces zones sont dcrites. Les facteurs dterminant la variation rgionale des caractristiques du paysage au sein du massif du Namjagbarwa sont examins. /// Fr die ausserordentliche Vielfalt der Gebirgsvegetation und der Bodenarten in China knnen charakteristische Merkmale in verschiedenen Hhenlagen bestimmt werden. Bei der vertikalen Zonierung der Landschaftsmerkmale sind ausserdem geographische Lnge, Breite, Lage und Mikroklima wichtig. Das Relief erstreckt sich ber mehr als 7.000m, wenn der Namjagbarwa-Feng (7.782m) im stlichen Himalaya als Bezugspunkt dient. Das vertikale Landschaftsbild reicht von quasi- tropischen bis zu Eis- und Schneezonen. Die Merkmale und der strukturelle Aufbau in den Zonen werden beschrieben. Auerdem werden die Faktoren, die die regionalen Abweichungen im Landschaftscharakter innerhalb des Namjagbarwa Massivs ausmachen, diskutiert.
mounresedeve.31.2.122|Though glacial lake outburst floods have become an urgent issue on the Tibetan Plateau, no standardized methods have been proposed so far to identify and prioritize potentially dangerous glacial lakes (PDGLs). Here, we developed a first-order approach to identify PDGLs in the Boshula Mountain Range, southeastern Tibetan Plateau. Five variablesmother glacier area, distance between lake and glacier terminus, slope between lake and glacier, mean slope of moraine dam, and mother glacier snout steepnesswere selected to identify PDGLs on the basis of four criteria we suggested. A fuzzy consistent matrix method was then applied to determine the weight of variables, and characteristic statistical values were used as thresholds to classify each variable. Out of 78 moraine-dammed lakes studied, we identified 8 glacial lakes as potentially very highly dangerous. We also validated our approach with 6 drained glacial lakes inside and outside our study area. Successfully identifying them as potentially very highly and/or highly dangerous lakes demonstrates the validity of the method.
mounresedeve.33.3.269|International mountain conservation paradigms have shifted in the past 30 years from establishment of centrally governed protected areas that exclude communities, to collaborative and community-based conservation stewardship with communities that depend on resources for their livelihoods. The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance (Ramsar Convention) embodies this collaborative paradigm by suggesting that people and local governments can be collective stewards for the wise use of wetlands on which they depend for water resources and livelihoods. Although collaborative approaches are increasingly recommended to govern large and complex mountain waterscapes across multiple jurisdictions, recent international case study comparisons highlight the sitespecific nature of institutional design and the effect that changing social relations and overlapping or conflicting rights and boundaries have on promised collaborative outcomes. This article illustrates the usefulness of a recently developed community-based natural resource management comparative framework for assessing the feasibility of collaboratively governing a proposed Ramsar wetland in the Southern Andes of Ecuador across multiple communities and jurisdictional boundaries. By using data from a rapid ethnographic assessment, US and Ecuadorian students and faculty found local and institutional support for wetland protection. The framework's preconditions were useful in identifying conflicts among and within communities, and among agency rules and resources; these conflicts could limit the feasibility of community-based and collaborative management unless coordination authority is clarified, especially at the proposed transboundary scale. This study showed that increasing attention to land tenure conflicts and institutional frameworks is needed for any collaborative governance design to be sustainable, which confirms political ecology findings.
mounresedeve.36.3.286|Large cardamom
10.2307/3673169|In northern Mongolia the mountains and plateaus reach 3,500 m; the area lies in the temperate, continental climatic zone with very low precipitation and extreme ranges of diurnal and annual temperature. Vegetation belts of steppe, meadow, forest (taiga), and tundra characterize the area. Nomadic pastoralism is the traditional land use. However, in lower-lying areas, collective farms have been established and wind erosion threatens the soil. The introduction of cultivation and the construction of roads bring potential danger to this hitherto stable ecosystem. /// Les montagnes et plateaux de la Mongolie septentrionale atteignent 3,500 m d'altitude, et se situent dans la zone climatique continentale tempre  trs faible prcipitation et diffrences extrmes de temprature diurne et annuelle. Des bandes de steppe, prairie, fort (taga), et tundra caractrisent la rgion o le pastoralisme nomadique constitue le mode traditionnel d'utilisation des terres. Nanmoins, des fermes collectives se sont tablies dans les rgions basses, et l'rosion olienne menace les sols. La culture et la construction de routes posent un risque srieux pour cet cosystme auparavant stable. /// Berge und Hochebenen im Norden der Mongolei erstrecken sich bis auf 3,500 m. Das Gebiet liegt in der gemigten Kontinental-Klimazone mit sehr geringem Niederschlag und extremen Tages- und Jahrestemperaturschwankungen. Die Vegetationsgrtel von Steppe, Wiese, Wald (Taiga) und Tundra sind fr dieses Gebiet charakteristisch. Wanderweidewirtschaft ist die bliche Landnutzung. In tiefer gelegenen Gebieten wurden Kollektiv-farmen gegrndet, und als Folge gefhrdet Winderosion den Boden. Landbestellung und Straenbau bringen andere mgliche Gefhrdungen fr dieses bisher stabile kosystem.
10.2307/3673105|The area described in this state-of-knowledge report is fairly heterogeneous, both from a geologic and a physiognomic point of view. The region lies south of a line that runs roughly from Antofagasta, Chile, on the Pacific Ocean to slightly north of Tucuman, Argentina, south to Cordoba, and then along the foothills of the mountains to Tierra del Fuego. The region of the Southern Andes is one of the most beautiful and spectacular anywhere. Man has lived in the Southern Andes for perhaps 10,000 years, mostly in the valleys, but always in close contact with the mountains. Today most of the population is concentrated in the central area of Chile (Santiago) and adjacent areas of Argentina (Mendoza and Cordoba). /// La rgion dcrite dans ce rapport sur l'tat de la connaissance est relativement htrogne, tant du point de vue gologique que phisionomique. Elle se trouve au sud de la ligne allant grossirement d'Antofagasta sur la cte de l'ocan pacifique au Chili, jusqu' un pont lgrement au nord de Tucuman en Argentine, puis vers le sud jusqu' Cordoba, et le long des contreforts des montagnes jusqu' la Terre de feu. Les Andes mridionales constituent une rgion des plus belles et des plus spectaculaires au monde. La prsence de l'homme dans les Andes mridionales remonte probablement  10.000 ans, principalement dans les valles, mais toujours  proximit des montagnes. De nos jours, la majorit de la population est concentre au centre du Chili (Santiago), et dans les rgions adjacentes de l'Argentine (Mendoza et Cordoba). /// Dieser Bericht beschreibt den gegenwrten Wissensstand eines Gebietes, das von der Geologie und Phisiognomie her recht verschiedenartig ist. Es liegt sdlich einer gedachten Linie, die von Antofagasta am Pazifischen Ozean, Chile, nrdlich von Tucuman, Argentinien, dann sdlich von Cordoba entlang der Vorberge bis nach Tierra del Fuego verluft. Das Gebiet der sdlichen Anden ist eins der schnsten und eindrucksvollsten berhaupt. Menschen leben in den sdlichen Anden seit ca. 10.000 Jahren, hauptschlich in den Tlern, aber stets in engem Kontakt mit den Bergen. Gegenwrtig konzentriert sich der Hauptteil der Bevlkerung auf Zentralchile (Santiago) und die angrenzenden Gebiete Argentiniens (Mendoza und Cordoba). /// El rea cubierta en este informe es bastante heterognea, heterognea, tanto geolgica- como fisinomicamente. El rea cubierta es aquella al sur y al oeste de una lnea que va desde Antofagasta en Chile hasta el norte de Tucumn en la Argentina, y de all hacia el sur a lo largo del frente oriental de las sierras Pampeanas hasta Cordoba, y de all a lo largo del pie de la Cordillera hasta Tierra del Fuego. La regin de los Andes del sur es una de las ms bellas y espectaculares en el mundo. La regin ha tenido ocupacin humana por un perodo de por lo menos 10,000 aos, principalmente en los valles, pero siempre en contacto estrecho con la montaa. Hoy en da la poblacin est concentrada en la zona central de Chile (Santiago) y regiones vecinas de la Argentina (Mendoza, Crdoba).
10.2307/3673407|Alarm and escape behaviour of chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) in the Karwendel Mountain Range (North Tyrol) was observed for three years. The studies included behavioural sequences at different stages of alarm, variation in alarm responses with sex and season, reaction to different intruder types as well as escape direction and terrain. Flushing and escape distances (FD, ED) were estimated. Chamois used mainly vision to detect intruders. Three stages of alarm behaviour were identified. Surprise encounters with humans and airborne objects induced the strongest alarm responses. Chamois were habituated to various recurring, and thus predictable, human activities in their ranges. Both FD and ED ranged from 10 to 500 m and averaged 71 and 79 m, respectively. Weakest responses to disturbances were shown during winter, strongest responses during spring and early summer. Downslope escapes were more frequent than those directed upward or horizontally. Steep, forested cliffs were a preferred escape terrain. Females were significantly more sensitive to disturbances than males. Intensive disturbances caused by peaks in hiking, skiing, livestock grazing, and hunting at times displaced chamois from nutritionally important habitat for prolonged periods and altered the animals' accustomed daily and seasonal pattern of home range use. Recommendations for land management, based on these studies, are given. /// Les ractions d'alarme et de fuite du chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) dans la chane de montagnes du Karwendel (Tyrol septentrional) ont t observes pendant trois ans. Ces tudes ont port sur le comportement  diffrents stades d'alarme, les variations de la raction d'alarme selon le sexe et la saison, la raction pour diffrents types d'intrus, ainsi que la direction et le terrain de fuite. Les distances ncessaires pour faire partir et faire fuir le chamois (FD et ED respectivement) ont t values. Le chamois utilise principalement la vision pour dtecter les intrus. Trois stades du comportement d'alarme ont t identifis. Les recontres inattendues avec des humains ou des objets volants ont provoqu les ractions d'alarme les plus fortes. Le chamois s'tait habitu  diffrents activits humaines rgulires, donc prvisibles, dans son domaine. Les distances FD et ED varient entre 10 et 500 m, avec des moyennes respectives de 71 et 79 m. Les ractions les plus faibles ont t enregistres pendant l'hiver, et les plus fortes au printemps et au dbut de l't. La fuite vers le bas des pentes est plus frquente que la fuite vers le haut ou horizontalement. Les falaises escarpes et couvertes de forts constituent le terrain favori pour la fuite. La femelle est nettement plus sensible aux perturbations que le mle. Les perturbations srieuses causes par les priodes intenses de tourisme  pied, de ski, de pturage du btail et de chasse ont parfois forc le chamois  quitter pendant longtemps un habitat important du point de vue de son alimentation. Cet tat de fait a altr les modes familiers d'utilisation journalire et saisonnire du domaine. Des recommendations pour l'exploitation des terres, bases sur ces tudes, sont prsentes. /// Im Karwendelgebirge (Nordtirol) wurde ueber einen Zeitraum von drei Jahren das Alarm- und Fluchtverhalten von Gemsen (Rupicapra rupicapra) studiert. Dabei wurden besonders die Verhaltenssequenzen bei verschiedenen Alarmstufen, die Vielfalt von Alarmreaktionen auf verschiedene Stoerobjekte bei beiden Geschlechtern und zu verschiedener Jahreszeit, sowie die Fluchtrichtung und das Fluchtgelaende untersucht. Die Entfernung zwischen Eindringling und Tier bei dessen Aufstoerung (FD) und die vom Tier im Lauf zurueckgelegte Entfernung (ED) wurden geschaetzt. Die beobachteten Gemsen machten einen Stoerfaktor vorwiegend durch Sichtkontakt aus. Es wurden drei Stufen von Alarmverhalten identifiziert. Unerwartete Begegnungen mit Menschen und fliegenden Objekten verursachten die staerksten Alarmreaktionen. An zahlreiche, sich fortwaehrend wiederholende und daher vorhersagbare menschliche Aktivitaeten in ihren Streifgebieten hatten sich die Gemsen gewhnt. FD und ED reichten von 10 bis zu 500 Metern, der Durchschnitt lag bei 71 m fuer FD und 79 m fuer ED. Die schwaechsten Reaktionen auf Stoerungen zeigten sich waehrend des Winters, die staerksten waehrend des Fruehjahres und am Anfang des Sommers. Die Flucht abwaerts wurde haeufiger beobachtet als jene bergauf oder horizontal. Bevorzugtes Fluchtgelaende waren steile, bewaldete Talseiten. Weibliche Gemsen reagierten bedeutend empfindlicher auf Stoerungen als maennliche Gemsen. Waehrend der Hochsaisonen fuer Bergwanderer, Schifahrer, Jagd und Almweide sind Stoerungen verschiedenster Art so haeufig, dass die Gemsen zeitweise laengerfristig aus ihren nahrungsmaessig attraktiven Einstaenden vertrieben werden und dadurch der gewohnte taegliche und saisonale Ablauf zur Nutzung des Streifgebietes gestoert wird. Aufgrund dieser Studie werden Vorschlge fr das Landmanagement gemacht.
3674408|In recent years, Geographic Information Systems (GIS) have increasingly been used in a wide array of application contexts for development cooperation in lowlands and mountain areas. When used for planning, implementation, and monitoring, GIS is a versatile and highly efficient tool, particularly in mountain areas characterized by great spatial diversity and inaccessibility. However, the establishment and application of GIS in mountain regions generally presents considerable technical challenges. Moreover, it is necessary to address specific institutional and organizational issues regarding implementation.
10.2307/3673057|The Canarian laurel forest is largely restricted to the semi-humid middle elevations of the mountainous western islands, especially to windward slopes. Several ecological subtypes and degradational stages of laurel forest and heath woodland or shrubland are distinguished. The laurel forest is an impoverished relict of mixed oak-laurel forest deriving from the early Neogene. This paper outlines a series of microenvironmental studies designed to answer the question: how can the laurel forest survive in a mediterranean-type climate with five to six arid summer months, especially when experiencing heavy human impact? Microenvironmental data were collected during short periods in all seasons from selected field stations. Soil studies were also undertaken. From these data the great microenvironmental contrasts between dense forest sites, degraded successional types, and open terrain clearly emerge. It follows that continued forest destruction will further adversely affect the hydrological regime, pattern of soil erosion, and ground-water reserves, as well as island aesthetics. This will have a continuing deleterious effect on the lowland coastal belt, scene of rapid growth in tourism, banana plantations, and other vital economic activities. A special system of highland-lowland interactions is described and the need for laurel forest belt conservation is expressed as a basis for economic and social stability. /// La fort de lauriers des les Canaries est en grande partie confine aux altitudes moyennes semi-humides des les montagneuses occidentales, en particuliers sur les pentes au vent. On peut distinguer plusieurs sous-types cologiques et tats de dgradation de la fort de lauriers et des bruyres. La fort de lauriers est une relique appauvrie d'une fort mixte de chnes et de lauriers originaire du dbut du nogne. Cette article dcrit une serie d'tudes du micro-environnement menes dans le but de rpondre  la question: dans quelle mesure la fort de lauriers peut-elle survivre dans un climat du type mditerranen avec cinq ou six mois d't aride, tout en supportant l'impact trs important de la prsence humaine? Les donnes sur le micro-environnement ont t recueillies sur de courtes priodes, en toutes saisons,  partir de stations de campagne slectionnes. Des tudes des sols ont galement t entreprises. Ces donnes font nettement apparatre les contrastes importants du point de vue du micro-environnement entre les zones de fort dense, les types de dgradation successives, et de terrain dcouvert. Il s'en suit que la dstruction prolonge de la fort aura une rpercussion dfavorable sur le rgime hydrologique, le mode d'rosion des sols, les rserves d'eau souterraine, et sur l'esthtique visuelle. A long terme, cette situation aura un effect nuisible sur les rgions basses de la bande ctire, sige du tourisme en voie de dveloppement rapide, sur les plantations de bananes, et sur d'autres activits conomiques primordiales. Un systme spcial d'interactions hautes terres-rgions basses est dcrit et la ncessit d'assurer la conservation de la fort de lauriers est exprime en termes de stabilit conomique et sociale. /// Der Kanarische Lorbeerwald ist grtenteils auf die semihumiden mittleren Hhenlagen der gebirgigen westlichen Inseln beschrnkt, insbesondere auf die windwrtigen Hnge. Verschiedene kologische Untertypen und Degradationsstadien des Lorbeerwaldes, des Heide-Buschwaldes und der Gebsch-Formationen werden unterschieden. Der Lorbeerwald ist ein verarmter Rest ehemaliger Eichen-Lorbeer-Mischwlder aus dem Jungtertir. Diese Verffentlichung behandelt eine Reihe von Mikor-Umweltstudien, die zur Beantwortung folgender Frage durchgefhrt wurden: Wie kann Lorbeerwald in einem Klima vom mediterranen Typ mit 5-6 trockenen Sommermonaten berdauern, insbesondere wenn er starkem Druck durch menschliche Nutzung ausgesetzt ist? Mikro-Umweltdaten wurden whrend kurzer, ber das ganze Jahr verteilter Beobachtungsperioden an ausgewhlten Mestationen gesammelt. Ebenso wurde die Bodenbeschaffenheit untersucht. Die Untersuchungen lassen groe Unterschiede in der Mikro-Umwelt zwischen den Standorten mit dichtem Wald, mit Degradationsstadien und dem Freiland erkennen. Daraus ist zu folgern, da durch fortschreitende Waldzerstrung das bestehende hydrologische Regime, die Prozesse der Bodenerosion, die Grund-wasserreserven und das Landschaftsbild der Inseln nachteilig beeinflut werden. Dies lt weitreichende ungnstige Folgen fr den rasch wachsenden Fremdenverkehr, die Bananenpflanzungen und andere lebenswichtige wirtschaftliche Unternehmungen in der Kstennahen Fustufe erwarten. Das System von Hochland-Tiefland-Wechselwirkungen wird an ausgewhlten Beispielen beschreiben, und die Notwendigkeit der Erhaltung des Waldgrtels als Grundlage der wirtschaftlichen und sozialen Stabilitt unterstrichen.
mounresedeve.33.4.416|Vietnam's rural areas are characterized by small and fragmented farms, cost inefficiency, and low agricultural income. An efficient land rental market is expected to alleviate some of these problems by creating incentives for allocative efficiency. Voluntary rental transactions are also expected to improve the welfare of both lessees and lessors. This study investigates the efficiency and equity outcomes of the rental market for farmland in a commune in Vietnam's north central coast region, a mountainous area with relatively low incomes and a high concentration of ethnic minorities. It also examines the efficiency of the rental market itself, recognizing that market participation is affected by cultural norms and mutual trust. Data for the study were gathered in 2 household surveys, each conducted in 2 villages. The first was a multistage sample survey of 200 households; the second was a census survey of rental market participants. It was found that the rental market is encouraging households to trade their land use rights in mutually beneficial ways that transfer land to more effective farmers. But there is considerable room for improvement through increasing the number of market participants by reducing transaction costs associated with inadequate information, opportunism, and lack of confidence in the legal system. Perceived levels of risk differed between Kinh and Thai respondents.
10.2307/3673140|It is argued that on small islands, native ecosystems are highly susceptible to disruption due to limited size of habitats and small species populations. This, combined with human competition for land resources, results in a general inapplicability of management strategies based on the "multiple use" paradigm. The case of a land-use conflict on a Hawaiian mountain (Mauna Kea) is used to illustrate the problem facing insular ecosystems. Failure of the responsible agency to develop rational management policies for the State-owned public lands of Mauna Kea led to a federal lawsuit brought by conservationists concerned to preserve the endangered palila bird and other species. This suit brought about federal intervention in an area of traditional State's rights. The conservationists' victory established an important precedent which caused the federal government to alter its own endangered species regulations so as to diminish the prospects for similar outcomes in the future. This paper also reviews the history of multiple use on Mauna Kea in order to outline the circumstances that led to the court case. /// La proposition est avance que les cosystmes naturels des petites les sont trs susceptibles aux perturbations des  la taille limite des habitats et  la population de petites espces. Si  cela on ajoute la comptition avec l'espce humaine pour l'utilisation des terres, il en resulte une inapplicabilit gnrale des stratgies d'exploitation bases sur le modle d'utilisation multiple. Le cas du conflit li  l'utilisation des terres sur le mont Mauna Kea dans l'le d'Hawa sert  illustrer le problme des cosystmes insulaires. Du fait que les services responsables ont t incapables d'laborer une politique rationnelle d'exploitation des terres du domaine public a forc les cologistes concerns par la protection des espces menaces d'extinction, comme les oiseaux palila,  porter l'affaire devant les tribunaux fdraux. Cette affaire a provoqu l'intervention fdrale dans un domaine traditionnellement sous la juridiction de l'tat de Hawa. La victoire des cologistes a tabli un prcdent important, et extran la modification des lois fdrales concernant les espces menaces d'extinction, afin d'viter qu'une telle situation ne se reproduise dans l'avenir. Cette tude analyse galement l'historique de l'utilisation multiple du mont Mauna Kea, et fait ressortir les circonstances qui ont men  cette affaire judiciaire. /// Es wird behauptet, dass die natrlichen kosysteme kleiner Inseln wegen des begrenzten Habitats und eingeschrnkten Artenspektrums gegen Strungen besonders empfindlich sind. Dieser Tatbestand zusammen mit dem menschlichen Wettbewerb um Landressourcen fhren dazu, dass die typischen Beispiele in der Managementplanung zur Mehrfachnutzung nicht anwendbar sind. Konflikte bei der Landnutzung auf einem hawaiischen Berg (Mauna Kea) werden benutzt, um die Problematik der Inselkosysteme aufzuzeigen. Das Versumnis der verantwortlichen Behrden, eine vernnftige Verwaltungspolitik fr landeseigene, ffentliche Landflchen zu entwickeln, fhrte zur Anklage auf Bundesebene. Umweltschtzer, die um die Erhaltung des gefhrdeten palila. Vogels und anderer Gattungen besorgt sind, strengten einen Prozess an, der die Bundesregierung auf den Plan brachte, der bisher den Lnderverwaltungen oblag. Der Erfolg der Umweltschtzer schaffte einen wichtigen Przedenzfall, der die Bundesregierung veranlasste, ihre Vorschriften zum Schutz bedrohter Arten zu ndern, um in Zukunft hnlichen Prozessausgngen vorzubeugen. Diese Verffentlichung gibt eine bersicht ber die Entwicklungsgeschichte der Mehrfachnutzung auf dem Mauna Kea, um die Tatbestnde, die zu diesem Prozess fhrten, zu errtern.
3674154|Risk assessment of new technologies such as the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in agricultural production is enormously complex. It cannot be limited to analysis only from the perspective of the natural sciences; socioeconomic factors need to be considered as well. Active promotion of GMO-free areas is discussed here as an alternative means of technological development. Disadvantaged and ecologically sensitive areas such as the European Alps are suitable for territorial application of this concept. The state of the current debate about the impacts of GMOs on regional development in disadvantaged and ecologically sensitive regions is presented. This is followed by the results of a survey on the social acceptance of GMO-free areas conducted in 1999 in Austria. These results suggest that the creation of GMO-free zones in the Alps is an idea worth pursuing.
10.2307/3674008|This paper investigates the role of scale in research on the link between the Himalaya-Ganges-Brahmaputra fluvial system and floods in Bangladesh. Fifty-two studies, ranging from one hectare to near continental scales, were reviewed for variables selected in analysis and research designs. Three overall patterns of scale dependence were identified. The first is dominated by the precision with which scales and study area are defined. Local studies tend to have temporal and spatial scales which are explicitly defined while continental scale studies are dominated by general and abstract or implicitly defined scales. The second pattern indicates that local scale studies tend to focus upon physical variables such as rainfall, runoff, and mass wasting, while research at the regional and continental scales focuses on natural resource topics such as land-use change and flood mitigation policy. The third pattern identifies the degree to which studies attempt to scale up to larger regions from local scale studies. Specifically, this final pattern identifies a scale independent model which upscales stream discharge/sediment load across all three scales. The topics examined and research results presented are clearly scale dependent. It is proposed that scale perspectives are partially responsible for shaping opposing theories in the debate over the causes of flooding in Bangladesh. In conclusion, three strategies are outlined that may assist future research to incorporate multi-scale analysis of flooding in Bangladesh. /// Cet article examine le rle de l'chelle dans la recherche sur le rapport entre le systme fluvial de l'Himalaya, du Ganges et du Brahmaputra, et les inondations au Bangladesh. Cinquante deux tudes, portant sur des superficies d'un hectare  pratiquement la taille du continent, ont t examines en termes des variables slectionnes pour l'analyse et la recherche. Trois modes principaux de dpendance de l'chelle ont t identifis. Le premier est domin par la prcision  laquelle les chelles et la zone d'tude sont dfinies. Les tudes locales tendent  utiliser des chelles de temps et d'espace dfinies explicitement, alors que les tudes  l'chelle du continent sont domines par des chelles gnrales et abstraites, ou dfinies implicitement. Le deuxime mode indique que les tudes locales tendent  se concentrer sur des variables physiques telles que la pluviosit, le ruissellement et le mouvement de masse, alors que la recherche aux niveaux rgional et continental se concentre sur des sujets du type "ressource naturelle" tels que les changements de l'exploitation des terres et la politique d'attnuation des inondations. Le troisime mode identifie le degr auquel les tudes essaient de s'tendre  de plus grandes rgions  partir des tudes locales. En particulier, ce dernier mode identifie un modle indpendant de l'chelle qui tend les dbits de cours d'eau et les charges solides aux trois chelles. Les sujets examins et les rsultats de recherche prsents sont nettement indpendants de l'chelle. Cet article suggre que les perspectives d'chelle sont partiellement responsables de l'laboration de thories opposes dans le cadre de la discussion des causes d'inondations au Bangladesh. En conclusion, l'article prsente trois stratgies susceptibles d'aider les futures recherches  incorporer une analyse  chelles multiples des inondations au Bangladesh. /// Diese Arbeit untersucht in welchen Grenordnungen die Wechselwirkung zwischen dem Himalaya-Ganges-Brahmaputra Flusystem und den Hochwasserereignissen in Bangladesh abluft. Mittels 52 Studien, die Mastbe von einem Hektar bis hin zu kontinentalen Grenordnungen einschlossen, wurden Variable ausgewhlt, die zur Analyse und Forschung gebraucht werden. Dabei konnte die Skalenabhngigkeit in drei Gruppen geordnet werden. Die erste wird von der Genauigkeit bestimmt, mit der Skalengren und Gebietsdetails angegeben sind. Studien vor Ort werden im allgemein mit klar-definierten zeitlichen und rumlichen Skalen durchgefhrt; kontinentale Studien dagegen geben nur typische oder abstrakte Grenordnungen an, und dies oft auch nur indirekt. Die zweite Gruppe zeigt, da lokale Studien sich auf physikalische Variable, wie Regenmenge, Abflu und Erosionsrate konzentrieren; wogegen Studien auf regionaler und kontinentaler Basis die Naturressourcen in den Mittelpunkt stellen, die auf die Landnutzung Einflu haben und die das berschwemmungsausma kontrollieren. Die dritte Gruppe ergibt sich aus dem Genauigkeitsgrad, mit dem Ergebnisse von lokalen Studien sich auf grere Gebietsskalen extrapolieren lassen. Diese letzte Gruppe definiert ein Modell, das mastabgetreu Grenordnung, Abflumenge und Sedimentfracht fr alle drei Gruppen angeben kann. Die untersuchten Themen und die beschriebenen Forschungsergebnisse sind eindeutig skalenabhngig. Da der Wert korrekter Skalierung oft unerkannt blieb, wird die Debatte ber berschwemmungsursachen in Bangladesh mit z.T. widersprchlichen Theorien gefhrt. Zum Abschlu werden drei Strategien vorgestellt, die bei zuknftiger Erforschung der Hochwasserursachen in Bangladesh eine multi-skalige Analyse befrworten.
mounresedeve.34.3.235|Mountain women's resistance to inequitable development practice manifests itself in several ways; one of the most visible ways is their campaigning with social movements. The efforts to save the Ganges (Ganga) River from hydroelectric dams in the Garhwal Himalaya of Uttarakhand, India, are a case in point. Within these movements, men often take leadership roles, while women from a range of socioeconomic backgrounds form the base of participation at meetings, assemblies, and rallies. Based on ethnographic research from 20072010, this article explores the particularities of women's engagements with dam opposition efforts, their motivations for activism, and the degree to which their concerns for environment and development receive attention. Although women make extensive contributions, movement leaders often do not adequately represent the specifics of their development concerns, and this impacts the ability of policy-makers to respond to women's demands. This article shows mountain women's locations on multiple social and geographic peripheries and argues for more gender sensitivity and critical reflection in social movement campaigns and decision-making processes as a prerequisite for expanding the possibilities of gender-inclusive sustainable development.
mounresedeve.35.1.39|Researchers and development practitioners in remote mountain areas rely on elevation data to study vegetation dynamics, natural hazards, land use, and other patterns. However, despite advances in technology, accurate digital elevation models (DEMs) with spatial resolution <30 m do not exist for most of the world's montane regions. We used a low-cost GPS-based protocol to construct a high-resolution (10 m) DEM for a rugged, remote mountain site in the northern Peruvian Andes. Elevation data were collected with handheld GPS units and combined with digitized and interpolated points within a Geographic Information System to generate a 10 m DEM. Additional DEMs were generated using 50%, 20%, and 15% of the surface points collected and from a 1:100,000 topographic map and ASTER GDEMv2 data. Estimated absolute vertical accuracy of the GPS surface-point DEMs was significantly lower than that of the ASTER GDEMv2 and topographic map DEMs. Relative vertical accuracy, a better measure of DEM quality, was considerably lower for all 6 DEMs than absolute vertical accuracy. Depending on project budget, time, and labor availability, this method can be used to produce DEMs with high spatial resolution and substantially improved relief maps for research, visualization, and communication purposes. Implementation of this method is practical in locations without access to electricity or postprocessing correction facilities, open-canopy land covers, and projects with small budgets that involve local participants.
mounresedeve.29.1.75|In the last decade, tourism has developed rapidly in the mountainous areas of northwest Yunnan. This growth has led to substantial economic and social changes, with resulting environmental consequences. This article uses a case study to illustrate how local farmers involved in tourism changed their agricultural practices as a result of the transformations that took place in the area. The aim was to examine tourism's expected benefits of poverty alleviation and conservation incentives. Tourism investments were found to have been adopted only by households with available cash and labor, whereas they remained inaccessible for the poor, small landowners who most needed a new source of income and used their land more exhaustively. Relatively rich, large landowners did not take the opportunity to reduce their agricultural activities. Instead, they used supplementary incomes earned from tourism to hire external labor to cultivate their land more intensely. Tourism development failed to generate real incentives for mountain farmers to adopt more conservation measures and prevent soil erosion and nonpoint source agricultural water pollution, which currently constitute serious environmental problems for mountain environments in Yunnan. This article presents recommendations based on the conclusions of the study.
10.2307/3673636|The National Institute for Agricultural Investigation (INIAP) has been involved in the preservation of at least 12 Andean food species native to Ecuador since 1980. Presently, more then 2,000 germplasm samples including grains, tubers, roots and other crops are in protected storage. Approximately 80% of this material has been evaluated and it is preserved in the Genetic Resources Department. Four priority species (quinoa, amaranth, melloco, and chocho) have been identified and are the subject of investigation and promotion in the Andean Crops Program. The program has developed three improved varieties in quinoa, two in amaranth, and two selected cultivars in melloco. In addition, technological recommendations have been developed for production and post-harvest activities for these crops. It is concluded that this recovery of native mountain species from their imminent genetic erosion and their subsequent delivery to farmers will give them new productive options in their agricultural production systems. /// L'institut national de recherches agricoles (INIAP) s'est proccup depuis 1980 de la prservation d'au moins 12 espces alimentaires originaires de l'Equateur. A prsent, 2.000 chantillons de plasma germinatif, y compris des crales, des tubercules, des racines et autres denres alimentaires, sont emmagasines en lieu sr. Environ 80 pour cent de ces espces ont t values et sont prserves dans le service des ressources gntiques. Quatre espces prioritaires (la quinoa, l'amarante, le melloco et le chocho) ont t identifies et font l'objet de travaux de recherche et de dveloppement dans le cadre du programme de dveloppement des produits agricoles andins. Ce programme a permis de mettre au point trois nouvelles varits de quinoa, deux d'amarante et deux cultivars slectionns de melloco. De plus, certaines recommandations ont t faites pour ces espces sur le plan technologique, en termes de production et d'activits aprs la rcolte. La conclusion de cet article est que le rtablissement des espces originaires des Andes menaces d'une rosion gntique imminente et leur livraison subsquente aux paysans mettra  la disposition de ceux-ci de nouvelles options de production pour leurs systmes de production agricole. /// Das National Institute for Agricultural Investigation (INIAP) beschftigt sich mit der Erhaltung von wenigstens 12 Nutzpflanzensorten, die seit 1980 in Ecuador heimisch geworden sind. Zur Zeit werden mehr als 2.000 Proben des Protoplasmas von Keimen, darunter das von Getreide, Knollen- und Wurzelgewchsen und anderen Feldfrchten geschtzt gelagert. Ungefhr 80% dieses Materials ist ausgewertet und im Genetic Resources Department aufbewahrt. Es wurden vier Hauptarten identifiziert (Quinoa. Amarant, Melloco und Chocho). Das Feldfruchtprogramm fr die Anden frderte die Untersuchungen. Innerhalb dieses Projekts wurden drei verbesserte Quinoasorten, zwei Amarantsorten und zwei spezielle Melloco Kulturen entwickelt. Auerdem wurden fr diese Nutzpflanzen praktische Empfehlungen fr ihre Anpflanzung und Verarbeitung nach der Ernte formuliert. Abschlieend wird bemerkt, da die Erhaltungsmanahmen fr einheimische Nutzpflanzen diese vor einer drohenden genetischen Degeneration schtzen, und da ihre Verbreitung den Bauern neue Optionen gibt, den Ertrag ihrer Landwirtschaft zu verbessern.
10.2307/3673460|How can development build on the assets in the mountain environment without inviting degradation? The problems of analysis and design of mountain development are not questions of technical production but of institutional issues of distribution and equal access to resources. Most studies have emphasized "strategies" - how to plant trees and attract capital - to the exclusion of "institutions" - how to meet forest needs of the poor and sustain development efforts - as variables affecting mountain development. New projects have not been able to change behavioural patterns and the schemes remain isolated eco-engineering activities. Environmental development requires a societal framework that includes legal, administrative, and economic components. The specific goals involve questions of values and conflicts of interests, and they need public participation for them to be sustainable. This paper provides a framework for policy-focused reform and a new perspective on the problems and possible solutions. /// Comment le dveloppement peut-il tirer profit des richesses de l'environnement montagnard sans entraner sa dgradation? Les problmes d'analyse et de conception du dveloppement des montagnes ne constituent pas des questions de production technique, mais plutt des considrations institutionnelles de distribution et d'accs quitable aux ressources. La plupart des tudes ont mis l'accent sur les "stratgies" (comment planter des arbres et attirer du capital)  l'exclusion des "institutions" (comment satisfaire aux besoins des pauvres vis--vis de la fort et comment maintenir les projets de dveloppement) comme variables affectant le dveloppement montagnard. De nouveaux projets n'ont pas russi  changer les formes de comportement et les tentatives ne reprsentent que des activits insoles d'co-ingnierie. Le dveloppement de l'environnement ncessite un cadre englobant les diffrents aspects de la socit: lgal, administratif et conomique. Les objectifs spcifiques mettent en jeu des questions de valeurs et des conflits d'intrts, et ils ncessitent la participation du public pour qu'ils puissent se sustenter. Cet article fournit un cadre pour une rforme base sur la politique conomique, une nouvelle perspective sur les problmes et des solutions possibles. /// Wie kann bei der Erschlieung des Gebirges auf seine Besonderheiten Rcksicht genommen werden, ohne Verschlechterungen heraufzubeschwren? Die Untersuchungs- und Planungsprobleme bei der Entwicklung von Berggebieten sind nicht Fragen bezglich technischer Produktion, sondern erfordern bereinknfte ber Verteilung und gleichberechtigten Zugang zu Ressourcen. Zur Erschlieung von Berggebieten verlegt sich die Mehrzahl der Studien auf "Strategien" - z.B., wie Wlder angelegt und Kapital beschafft werden kann - wie man gesetzliche Regelungen umgeht - wie der Holzbedarf der Armen gedeckt und Entwicklungsbemhungen aufrechterhalten werden. Neue Projekte waren nicht in der Lage, Verhaltensweisen zu verndern und Planungen blieben ko-technische Einzelunternehmungen. Umweltbewute Entwicklung erfordert eine gesellschaftliche Struktur, die rechtliche, administrative und konomische Komponenten miteinbeschliet. Spezifische Zielsetzungen umfassen Fragen der Wertsetzung und der Lsung von Interessenkonflikten, und erfordern die Beteiligung der Bevlkerung, damit das Interesse wachgehalten wird, eine Lsung zu finden. Diese Verffentlichung liefert einen Rahmen fr Reform mit Betonung auf die Verfahrensweise und eine neue Perspektive zu Problemen und ihrer mglichen Lsung.
3674579|Chitral is an isolated mountainous tract of <tex-math>$14,850\ km^{2}$</tex-math> in the northernmost part of Pakistan, bordering on Afghanistan to the north and west, and surrounded by the high ranges of the Hindu Kush and Karakoram. As only about 18% of Chitral is cultivable, its people are heavily dependent on livestock for their livelihood. Generally, livestock in the area are undernourished owing to the diminishing supply of feed on deteriorating rangelands. Local livestock feed resources in Chitral include grazing (78.1%), crop residues (20.76%), fodder crops (0.81%), and cereal bran (0.32%). Fluctuating nutrient supply caused by extreme weather conditions has considerably reduced livestock productivity. Feed is scarce during the long winters extending from November to April, during which animals subsist entirely on stall-feeding consisting of mature grass, hay, and crop residues. Concentrate supplements are expensive and not affordable by poor farmers. Molasses-urea blocks, although highly relevant to the feed situation in Chitral as a strategic supplement, cannot be prepared locally due to unavailability of molasses in the area. High transportation costs for molasses and feed blocks from plains areas are additional prohibitive factors. The present study explores the use of mulberry fruit, abundantly available in Chitral (Figure 1), to make solidified multinutrient feed blocks.
3674677|Mountains play a crucial role in the supply of freshwater to humankind, in highland and lowland areas alike. Increasing demand urgently requires careful management of mountain water resources in order to mitigate growing water crises and conflicts. Monitored river flow was analyzed for 3 selected catchments (Timau, Burguret, and Likii) on the slopes of Mount Kenya from 1960 to 2004. In the 10 years from 1995 to 2004, the extreme low flow (Q95) of the rivers was found to have been reduced to 10%, 23%, and 71%, respectively, of the values for the decade from 1961 to 1970. Water awareness creation campaigns in 1997 and 2004 revealed that the number of abstraction points had more than doubled, and that there was a two- to eightfold increase in the amount of river water abstracted. The present article documents increasing water abstraction and the difficulties in establishing limits for low flows such as the Q80 value (flow available on 80% of the days per year). The article also presents the role of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) in mitigating water conflicts related to over-abstraction. Evaluation of the activities of 13 WUAs showed that they solved 45 of 52 conflicts. WUAs are also involved in activities such as environmental education, awareness creation, improved irrigation practices, afforestation, and regulating water. The recent restructuring of the government ministry resulted in a formalized role for WUAs. Long-term data on availability, abstraction, and use of water are needed to mitigate water conflicts within and between WUAs, negotiate water allocation, and establish allocation thresholds.
3674612|The newly formed State of Uttaranchal in India has diverse agroclimatic conditions. The region is sparsely populated, communication is difficult, and many areas are inaccessible. Natural catastrophes such as droughts and landslides are common. The region lags behind in agroindustrial development, and the level of poverty is high. Earlier studies indicate that the health of the residents in this region is generally poor. Hilly terrain imposes a heavy burden on the health of the people and aggravates the problem of undernutrition. A project was carried out between April and July 2000 to assess the state of undernutrition among indigenous people in the Garhwal Himalayas of the State of Uttaranchal. The term "indigenous" in this context refers to the native born people of the Garhwal Himalayas, also known as Garhwali. A total of 854 respondents were studied in 3 agroclimatic situations-the high hills, mid hills, and low hills, also classified by Gupta (1983) as subtropical (250-1200 m), subtemperate (1200-1700 m), and temperate (1700-3500 m)-as well as in rural and urban settings. The study revealed that over 30% of the population suffers from undernutrition, higher than the average of 20% according to Wardlaw (2000). However, gender did not appear to affect the level of undernourishment. The agroclimatic situation had the maximum negative impact on the nutritional status of the indigenous population. Rural people too were found to be more undernourished than the urban population. It may thus be concluded that the groups identified in the study, namely the people residing in the high hills and the rural population, on whom developmental activities should be focused, are relatively undernourished.
25164173|Few mountain communities remain untouched by the influence of globalization. Until just 30 years ago, the village of Jardhar in Garhwal, India, in the middle Himalaya led an isolated existence, living from a composite agroecology that ensured a high degree of food security and ecological sustainability. Certain events-forest degradation, the Chipko resistance movement (tree hugging), the introduction of Green Revolution farming, and the building of the large Tehri dam nearby-ended this isolation and, in the process, disrupted Jardhar's social and ecological cohesiveness. The present article argues that the global conservation ethic and global development are, in certain circumstances, detrimental to local interests: they transfer costs from powerful urban centers and demand sacrifices from fragile mountain communities. The story of Jardhar illustrates how this global politics is played out in a remote mountain village, and what lessons it has for both policy makers and communities.
3674224|Farming and tourism are the primary livelihood options for mountain people in the Hindu Kush-Himalayan region. Tourism in Sikkim, a small Indian state in the eastern Himalaya, has become popular only since 1990; the main focus is on ecotourism. Only a small segment of the population is engaged in this sector, however. More than 80% of the population depends on agriculture. The developmental measures of the "green revolution" implemented in other Indian states were not successful in the Himalayan region because adequate fertilizers were never available on time, irrigation could not be developed, and soils are very fragile. Population growth and consequent fragmentation of farmland in Sikkim have caused a reduction in per capita holdings. This has forced farmers to cultivate cash crops such as potatoes (Solanum tuberosum), ginger (Zingiber officinale); and mandarin oranges (Citrus reticulata). The latter two have caused rapid nutrient depletion of the soil. Production of another cash crop, large cardamom (Amomum subulatum), a plant native to the Sikkim Himalaya, has been a boon to the mountain people of the area. Large cardamom is a perennial cash crop grown beneath the forest cover on marginal lands. Its cultivation is an example of how a local mountain niche can be exploited sustainably.
25163991|An analysis is made of the historical climatic data from Pike's Peak, Colorado. Characteristics of the seasonal regime are described and these are compared with modern data for other mountain stations in the area. Temperature and wind conditions are broadly similar at these stations, whereas the precipitation regime at Pike's Peak more closely resembles that at Denver located on the High Plains, just to the east of the Rockies and some 100 km to the north, than the other summit stations close to the Continental Divide. /// Les donnes climatiques historiques de Pike's Peak, Colorado sont analyses. Les caractristiques du rgime saisonnier sont dcrites puis compares avec des donnes rcentes d'autres stations de montagne de la rgion. Les conditions de temprature et de vent sont dans l'ensemble comparables  ces stations. Alors que la rgime des prcipitations ressemble plus troitement  celui de Denver dans les High Plains, pourtant  l'Est des Rocky Mountains et  plus de 100 km au Nord, qu'au rgime de stations d'altitude proches du "Continental Divide." /// Die historischen Klimadaten des Pike's Peak, Colorado, wurden analysiert. Merkmale des saisonalen Regimes werden beschrieben und mit neuesten Ergebnissen anderer Gebirgsstationen aus der Umgebung verglichen. Temperatur und Windbedingungen sind weitgehend hnlich, whrenddem die Niederschlagsbedingungen am Pike's Peak mehr mit denjenigen von Denver in der Hochebene stlich der Rockies und einige 100 km gegen Norden zu vergleichbar sind als mit anderen Gipfelstationen nahe der "Continental Divide."
mounresedeve.30.2.80|High mountains have sensitive social-ecological systems (SESs) characterized by fragility, complexity, and marginality. The local economies of these environments mainly rely on primary production, tourism, and leisure activities; thus humanecosystem interactions are intricately linked. Many authors stress that this strict relationship must be assisted with a participatory approach involving interested stakeholders in the conceptualization, specification, and synthesis of knowledge and experience into useable information for the express purpose of addressing a problem complex. This paper presents experience garnered with a participatory modeling framework combining hard and soft methodology in 2 case studies: the Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone (Nepal) and the Central Karakoram National Park (Pakistan). The modeling framework was developed based on local stakeholders' demands and needs; it consists of 5 modules, briefly presented here along with their conceptual background. In developing the framework, particular emphasis was given to considering the needs of decision-makers at the local level, rather than simply providing technical solutions to abstract problems. From the development of this modeling process, a need emerged to structure a management-oriented research module in order to generate management knowledge that is both stakeholderrelevant and evidence-based. The application of the framework in the 2 cases studies showed that the modeling can trigger valuable discussion among stakeholders as well as guidance for management-oriented research and feedback loops ensuring validation of knowledge. In addition, the resulting scenarios can help decision-makers in defining pathways for sustainable development in mountain areas, where people's livelihoods are closely dependent on ecosystems. The framework was developed in such a way that it can be replicated in other mountain areas with similar challenges.
10.2307/3673718|Musk deer in China, although provided with strong legal protection, are subject to varying levels of exploitation depending on the de facto conservation system operating in each locale. In southern Qinghai Province's Baizha Forest, musk deer have declined in most areas, due primarily to snaring by non-local people. However, musk deer, as well as blue sheep and white-lipped deer populations, in close proximity to Tibetan Buddhist monasteries and some villages are afforded protection from most poaching activities, although they still suffer incremental loss of habitat as human and livestock populations increase. An intermediate situation exists near a government-operated forestry guard station, where poaching by outsiders is deterred, but the guards themselves kill some wildlife. The existence of differing protection levels within an area where all wildlife exploitation is nominally proscribed suggests that local cultural practice and economic contingencies are more important than legal sanctions alone. /// En Chine, le porte-musc est bien protg selon la loi, mais il fait nanmoins l'objet de diffrentes formes d'exploitation qui dpendent du systme de conservation effectivement appliqu par chaque localit. Dans la fort de Baizha situe dans le Qinghai du sud, le porte-musc est presque partout en dclin, principalement  cause du pigeage effectu par la population non-locale. Nanmoins, le porte-musc, ainsi que le mouton bleu et le chevreuil  lvres blanches, au voisinage des monastres bouddhistes thibtains et de certains villages, sont protgs contre la plupart du braconnage, bien que leur habitat devienne de plus en plus restreint au fur et  mesure que la population humaine et le btail augmentent. Une situation intermdiaire existe au voisinage d'un poste de garde forestier gr par le gouvernement; le braconnage par des gens de l'extrieur est dfendu, mais les gardes eux-mmes tuent des animaux sauvages. L'existence de diffrents niveaux de protection dans une zone o l'exploitation de la faune est nominalement interdite suggre que les pratiques agricoles locales et les contingences conomiques sont plus importantes que seules les sanctions judiciaires. /// In China werden die Moschustiere in unterschiedlichem Ausma gejagt, obwohl sie durch de facto Erhaltungssysteme der einzelnen Gebiete, unter strengen Schutz gestellt sind. In den Wldern der Provinz Baizha im sdlichen Qinghai, ist der Bestand an Moschustieren, hauptschlich als Folge von nicht-ortsansssigen Fallenstellern in vielen Gebieten zurckgegangen. In der Nhe von tibetanischen Buddhisten Klstern und umliegenden Drfern sind Moschustiere sowie der Bestand an anderen Wildarten (blue sheep, white-lipped deer) vor Wilderern geschtzt. Hier liegt der Grund fr rcklufigen Bestand am Verlust der Habitate infolge zunehmender Bevlkerung und wachsendem Viehbestand. Eine besondere Situation besteht in der Nhe von Regierungseigenen Wald-berwachungsstationen, wo Auenstehende am Wildern gehindert werden, dafr aber die Wchter selbst Wild tten. Die Tatsache, da unterschiedlicher Schutz innerhalb eines Gebietes, in dem eigentlich jegliches Jagen formal verboten ist, existiert, zeigt, da lokale, kulturelle Gewohnheiten und wirtschaftliche Zwnge oft vorrangiger sind als rein rechtliche Sanktionen.
mounresedeve.36.1.31|Small glacier lakes are distributed in the Ladakh Range in northwestern India. This area has experienced several glacier lake outburst floods (GLOFs) since the 1970s, damaging settlements along streams. To reduce GLOF risk through a knowledge-based approach focused on nonstructural measures, we held a workshop in May 2012 for residents of Domkhar Village in the northwestern part of the Ladakh Range. More than 100 villagers participated in the workshop, which conveyed useful disaster information to participants while enabling the researchers to understand local knowledge and beliefs about floods. A survey conducted 3 months later confirmed an improvement in residents' knowledge of natural disasters. The researchers also learned useful lessons, such as the need to adjust the program design for diverse participants and the importance of clearly communicating disaster risks and supporting local residents' attempts to incorporate new scientific knowledge into existing local knowledge. Challenges to implementing flood countermeasures in this area included problems relating to land use and emergency communications and the need for coordination of efforts by the government and local residents.
3674314|The United Nations, which designated 1993 as the International Year for the Indigenous Peoples of the World, identified indigenous peoples as "minorities and tribal populations with special problems related in particular to discrimination and deprivation of basic human rights, and with special needs concerning education, health, economic development, and the environment" (United Nations General Assembly resolution 46/128 of 17 December 1991). The UN noted that foremost among the distinctive characteristics of indigenous peoples is the special relationship which indigenous peoples have with the land and nature, and their long-established practices of sustainable and harmonious development. Although the United Nations failed to mention the potential role of ecotourism in addressing indigenous minority poverty and marginalization, it is an area of significant potential because of its sociocultural "fit" with indigenous society's oneness with the environment. Indigenous ecotourism and the mountainous tropical wet rainforest region of northern Queensland, Australia (Figure 1) may be viewed as "perfect partners" given the interdependency of the biophysical environment and its original Aboriginal inhabitants, which goes back approximately 40,000 years in time. This paper gives a brief introduction to the issues related to Aboriginal rights and tourism in Australia and examines the way in which ecotourism has provided a revitalization of that interdependency and extended the human-biosphere relationship in new directions in northern Queensland.
10.2307/3673864|Herding in Himalayan alpine pastures is as "old as the hills." As such practices could not have been sustained unless the pastures, in both the Himalaya and the plains of northern India, had been sustained, the claims of the Gaddi shepherds to both horizontal and vertical access to pastoral resources in the mountain commons are founded upon long-standing customary usage. These practices were sustained by institutions of transhumance, a response to ecological demands whose design rested on constant and mutual adjustment between herding and cultivation, in both mountains and plains, to insure against specific seasonal risks and enhance preparedness against general uncertainty at different elevations. Such collective behavior was possible because of the complementary demands of the herders in the mountains and the cultivators in the valleys and plains. The gains from such practices for both groups induced each to uphold its own responsibilities. In the process, the ecological balance in the environment was sustained. Since the nineteenth century, alterations in the political economy of the northern plains have changed the character of risk and shifted the nature of uncertainty. Dams, plantation forests, and canals have changed the plains and upset the ecological balance of their relations with the Himalaya. Increase in numbers of both humans and animals has also altered the ecological balance on the commons. The customary institutions which had regulated herding and agricultural practices in the mountains have been eroded. This paper maps the nature of customary usage on the pastoral commons; examines the relation between these institutions and human and natural ecology; assesses the change in the nature of risk and uncertainty consequent to statutory and developmental interventions by the State; and advocates policy directions. /// La garde des troupeaux dans les pturages alpestres de l'Himalaya est une activit aussi "vieille que les montagnes". Puisque ces pratiques ne pouvaient tre maintenues  moins que les pturages de l'Himalaya et des plaines du nord de l'Inde ne soient prservs, la revendication par les bergers Gaddis de l'accs  la fois horizontal et vertical aux ressources pastorales des communaux de montagne sont fondes sur un usage coutumier de longue date. Ces pratiques ont t maintenues par des institutions de transhumance, une rponse  des revendications d'ordre cologique dont le cadre reposait sur un ajustement constant et mutuel entre la garde des troupeaux et la culture des terres,  la fois dans les montagnes et dans les plaines, afin de prvenir les risques saisonniers spcifiques et de mieux se prparer  l'incertitude gnrale  diffrentes lvations. Cette attitude collective a t possible grce aux revendications complmentaires des gardiens de troupeaux des montagnes et des cultivateurs des valles et des plaines. Les gains tirs des ces pratiques ont amen chacun des deux groupes  assumer leurs responsabilits respectives. Ainsi, l'quilibre cologique de l'environnement a t maintenu. Depuis le dix-neuvime sicle, les changements de l'conomie politique dans les plaines du nord ont modifi le caractre du risque et la nature de l'incertitude. Les barrages, les forts de plantations et les canaux out chang les plaines et rompu l'quilibre cologique de leurs relations avec l'Himalaya. L'augmentation du nombre d'humains et d'animaux a galement modifi l'quilibre cologique des communaux. Les institutions coutumires qui rglementaient la garde des troupeaux et les pratiques agricoles dans les montagnes ont t affaiblies. Cet expos prsente la nature de l'usage coutumier sur les communaux pastoraux, examine la relation entre ces institutions et l'cologie humaine et naturelle, value le changement de la nature du risque et de l'incertitude rsultant des interventions de l'tat sur le plan statutaire et du dveloppement et prconise des orientations politiques. /// Das Hten von Vieh auf den Hochgebirgsweiden des Himalaya ist so alt wie die Berge selbst. Da man solche Praktiken auf Dauer jedoch nicht htte beibehalten knnen, wren nicht die Weiden sowohl im Himalaya als such in den Ebenen Nordindiens erhalten worden, begrnden die Gaddi-Hirten ihre Ansprche auf horizontale und vertikale Nutzung der Bergweiden mit dem Gewohnheitsrecht. Diese Nutzungsformen wurden von Transhumanz-Institutionen aufrecht erhalten; eine Lsung der kologischen Anforderungen, die sowohl in den Bergen als auch in den Ebenen auf eine konstante und beiderseitige Anpassung zwischen Weiden und Anbau ausgerichtet war. Hierdurch war man gegen vestimmte jahreszeitlich bedingte Risiken geschtzt und gegen die allgemeinen Unsicherheitsfaktoren der unterschiedlichen Hhenlagen besser gewappnet. Ein solches kollektives Verhalten wurde durch die sich gegenseitig ergnzenden Anforderungen der Viehhirten in den Bergen und der Bauern in den Tlern und Ebenen mglich. Der Nutzen, den beide Gruppen aus solchen Methoden zogen, veranlate sie, ihren jeweiligen Teil der Verantworking zu erfllen. Dies fhrte dazu, da das kologische Gleichgewicht der Natur langfristig bewahrt wurde. Seit dem neunzehnten Jahrhundert haben sich durch Vernderungen in der politischen Wirtschaft die Art der Risiken gendert und die Grnde der Unsicherheitsfaktoren verlagert. Dmme, Baumplantagen und Kanle haben die Ebenen verndert und ihr kologisches Gleichgewicht mit dem Himalaya gestrt. Der zahlenmige Anstieg der Bevlkerung und der Tierwelt hat das kologische Gleichgewicht des Weidelandes verndert. Die im Gewohnheitsrecht verankerten Institutionen, die frher die Weide- und Landwirtschaftsnutzung in den Bergen regelten, wurden unterhhlt. Der Text beschreibt die Charakteristiken der gewohnheit-srechtlichen Nutzung des Weidelandes, betrachtet die Relation zwischen den betreffenden Institutionen und menschlicher und natrlicher...kologie, bewertet die Vernderungen der Risiken und Unsicherheitsfaktoren im Verlauf der gesetzlichen und entwicklungstechnischen Interventionen durch den Staat und befrwortet politische Richtungen.
3674490|Khat (Catha edulis) is a rapidly expanding perennial crop in the Ethiopian highlands, and it is Ethiopia's second largest export item. The leaves of the crop are used for their stimulating effect. The present study was undertaken in Habro district in western Hararghie. Khat production in this district is rapidly replacing cereal production and to some extent coffee production. About 70% of farmers' income in the study area is currently obtained from khat. One important reason for the expansion of khat production is that the khat-maize intercropping system is 2.7 times more profitable per hectare than maize monocropping. Khat is also less risky to grow than cereals and coffee because it is less vulnerable to drought. Increased production leads to changes in livestock composition because oxen are far less needed for plowing in the khat-based system; moreover, availability of crop residues for fodder is reduced when khat expands. Khat growing farmers, therefore, give more emphasis to milk-producing animals such as cows and goats. It was found that khat producers also are consumers of khat and that khat consumption has become widespread in the nearby secondary school. Khat consumption negatively affects people's working capacity. Hence, unskilled khat consumers in urban areas are paid 7 birr (US$0.84) per day, whereas nonkhat users are paid 10 birr (US$1.22). Measures to control further khat expansion will need to address both supply and demand.
10.2307/3673868|The continuous loss of forest cover in developing countries, such as the Philippines, could be attributed to the generally weak capacity of the state to regulate forest use. To save the forests, it is important to empower civil society agents with a longterm stake in forest survival. In 1974, the Ikalahan/Kalanguya, an indigenous community in the Caraballo Sur Mountains of the Northern Philippines, successfully negotiated an agreement with the state giving them the authority to manage their ancestral forest lands. This paper argues that the resulting community-enforced rules create a positive impact on forest conservation. It likewise presents the peculiar modes of applying sanctions on transgressions against collective action rules in ways that protect the forest, as well as reforming rule breakers into becoming ecologically responsible members of the community. /// La perte continuelle de zones forestires dans les pays en voie de dveloppement tels que les Philippines pourrait tre attribue  l'incapacit gnrale de l'tat  rglementer l'utilisation de la fort. Pour sauver les forts, il est important de faire participer les agents de la socit civile  un programme  long terme de survie de la fort. En 1974, les Ikalahan/Kalanguya, une communaut autochtone des montagnes du Caraballo Sur dans le nord des Philippines, ont ngoci avec succs un accord avec l'tat leur donnant le droit de grer les terres forestires de leurs anctres. Cet expos soutient que les rgles conscutives appliques par la communaut ont un impact positif sur la prservation de la fort. Il prsente en outre les mthodes particulires utilises pour appliquer les sanctions  l'encontre des transgresseurs des rgles d'action collective de manire  assurer la protection de la fort et les faons de rformer ces transgresseurs afin qu'ils deviennent des membres cologiquement responsables de la communaut. /// Der kontinuierliche Rckgang des Waldbestandes in Entwicklungslndern wie z.B. auf den Philippinen knnte durch den generell schwachen Beitrag des Staates zur Regulierung der Waldnutzung begrndet sein. Zur Rettung der Wlder ist es erforderlich, Vertreter der brgerlichen Gesellschaft, die ein langfristiges Interesse am berleben des Waldes haben, mit den entsprechenden Rechten auszustatten. 1974 handelten die Ikalahan/Kalangya, eine Gemeinschaft von Ureinwohnern in den Caraballo Sur Mountains im Norden der Philippinen ein Abkommen mit dem Staat aus, das ihnen das Recht verlieh, ihre angestammten Wlder eigenverantwortlich zu bewirtschaften und zu verwalten. Der vorliegende Text fhrt aus, da die daraus entstandenen Regeln, die von der Gemeinschaft durchgesetzt werden, positive Auswirkungen auf die Bewahrung der Wlder haben. Im Text werden weiterhin die auergewhnlichen Methoden vorgestellt, im Rahmen derer bei Versten gegen die kollektiven Verhaltensmaregeln Sanktionen verhngt werden, die durch ihre Besonderheit zum Schutz des Waldes beitragen und die dafr sorgen, da Regelbrchige zu kologisch verantwortlichen Mitgliedern der Gemeinde umerzogen werden.
mounresedeve.29.4.328|This study examined the main factors affecting forest cover changes in Kabaung Reserved Forest, where selective logging has been carried out. Change detection was performed based on analysis of Landsat images taken in January 1989, November 2000, and January 2003. We used a combination of supervised classification and normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) image-differencing methods to detect the selective logging area; a chi-square test confirmed the effectiveness of this method. Analysis of the spatial distribution pattern of forest cover changes pointed to selective logging, dam construction, shifting cultivation, and teak plantation operations as the factors influencing forest cover changes in the logging compartments. Illegal logging was a possible process of forest cover change in easily accessible nonlogging compartments. Regarding deforestation, intensive felling before dam construction was the main factor among the above-mentioned four. This study suggests the need for further development of regular assessment and monitoring of forest cover changes in the Kabaung Reserved Forest to examine and protect this natural teak-bearing area against forest reduction.
10.2307/3673320|Landscape, maintained by agriculture and forestry, is the basic resource on which tourism in the Swiss Alps depends. The forests in the MAB test areas, mainly owned by the local people, played a significant role in the primary economy which persisted until the middle of this century. The forests are important not only for landscape and recreation but also for protection and wood production. The multiple functions of the forests have been recognized for centuries, as shown by local and wider-scale policies and legislation. Tourism began in the early nineteenth century, and expanded through the Belle Epoque until 1914. During this period, most mountain communities relied on primary activities. From 1918 to 1945, the demand for tourism stagnated or declined, while wood consumption increased. The rapid increase in tourism from 1950 has contributed to a decrease in the forestry work-force and reduced wood harvests. Mountain forestry is at a comparative disadvantage because of high costs; management levels have decreased. Today, the forests contain a high proportion of stands of even-aged, relatively thin trees, with inadequate regeneration. Tourism is parasitic on forestry. Direct impacts are often locally severe, but indirect impacts are more widespread and significant in the long-term. Since the survival of tourism depends on well-managed forests, symbiosis between tourism and forestry is necessary. Levels of forest maintenance and timber extraction must increase in order to improve forest structure. These require greater resources and market development. Relationships between tourism and forestry are needed in: co-ordination (work-force, planning, management); local financial support; encouragement of policy and legislation which guarantee the long-term provision of all forest functions. /// Les sites alpestres, prservs par l'agriculture et la sylviculture, constituent la ressource principale pour le tourisme dans les Alpes suisses. Les forts situes dans les zones d'essai MAB, pour la plupart en la possession de la population locale, ont jou un rle primordial dans l'conomie primaire qui s'est maintenue jusqu'au milieu du vingtime sicle. Les forts sont importantes non seulement du point de vue de l'esthtique et des loisirs, mais aussi pour la protection et la production de bois. Les rles multiples des forts ont t reconnus depuis des sicles, comme l'indiquent la politique et la lgislation aux niveaux local et national. Le tourisme a commenc au dbut du dix-neuvime sicle, et s'est dvelopp au cours de la "Belle Epoque" jusqu'en 1914. Pendant cette priode, les communauts montagnardes ont compt sur les activits primaires pour leur survie. De 1914  1945, l'intrt dans le tourisme a stagn et mme dclin, alors que la consommation de bois a augment. L'essor rapide du tourisme aprs 1950 a contribu  la rduction de la main-d'oeuvre forestire et a rduit la rcolte de bois. La sylviculture de montagne est relativement dsavantage  cause des frais levs mis en jeu, et les niveaux d'exploitation se sont rduits. A prsent, les forts contiennent une grande proportion de peuplements o les arbres sont du mme age et relativement minces, et o la rgnration est insuffisante. Le tourisme parasite la sylviculture. L'impact direct est souvent dur au niveau local, mais l'impact indirect est plus tendu et plus important  long terme. Du fait que la survie du tourisme dpend d'une bonne gestion des forts, une symbiose entre le tourisme et la sylviculture est ncessaire. Les niveaux de conservation des forts et de rcolte du bois d'oeuvre doivent augmenter pour amliorer la structure des forts, ce qui demande de plus grandes ressources et un dveloppement des marchs. Des rapports troits entre le tourisme et la sylviculture sont ncessaires dans les domaines suivants: coordination (main-d'oeuvre, planification, gestion); soutien financier local; dveloppement d'une politique et d'une lgislation qui soutiennent  long terme toutes les fonctions forestires. /// Das Kapital des Tourismus' in den schweizer Alpen ist die Landschaft, die von der Land- und Forstwirtschaft geprgt wird. Die Waldgebiete der MAB-Testgebiete gehren berwiegend den Einheimischen. Diese Gebiete spielten in der Agrarwirtschaft bis zur Mitte dieses Jahrhunderts eine bedeutende Rolle. Sie sind nicht nur fr das Landschaftsbild und die Erholung wichtig, sondern auch fr Schutz- und Holzproduktions- Funktionen. Lokalpolitik und regionale Gesetzgebung bercksichtigen seit Jahrhunderten die Multifunktionen. Bergtourismus begann im frhen 19. Jahrhundert und wuchs durch die Belle Epoque bis 1914. In dieser Zeit waren die meisten Berggemeinden von der Agrarwirtschaft abhngig. Von 1918 bis 1942 stagnierte der Tourismus oder war sogar rcklufig, whrend der Holzverbrauch anstieg. Die schnelle Zunahme des Fremdenverkehrs seit 1950 verringerte die forstwirtschaftlichen Arbeitskrfte und reduzierte die Holzgewinnung. Forstwirtschaft in Bergregionen ist wegen hoher Kosten benachteiligt, daher ist die Bewirtschaftung zurckgegangen. Heute bestehen Waldgebiete zum groen Teil aus gleichaltrigen, relativ dnnen Bumen mit unzureichender Regenerationskraft. Tourismus ist ein Parasit der Forstwirtschaft. Direkte Belastungen wiegen lokal schwer, indirekte sind jedoch hufiger und auf lange Sicht nachteilig. Da der Tourismus von guter Forstwirtschaft abhngt, ist eine Symbiose zwischen beiden notwendig. Walderhaltung und Holzgewinnung mssen steigen, um die Waldstruktur zu verbessern. Dies erfordert mehr Ressourcen und Marktentwicklung. Auf folgenden Gebieten ist eine Verflechtung von Tourismus und Forstwirtschaft notwendig: Koordination (Arbeitskrfte, Planung, Durchfhrung), lokale finanzielle Untersttzung, sowie politische Frderung und Gesetzgebung, die alle langfristigen Waldfunktionen sichern.
10.2307/3673830|The present condition of forests in the Garhwal Himalaya results from traditional use by local inhabitants and from government legislation. This paper discusses the impact of human activities on the forest and land resources of the region over the past 200 years. During British occupation (1815-1947) the region was divided into two parts-British Garhwal, controlled by the British government in India, and Tehri State, governed by a native king. The systems of management were similar in each area, although the Forest Department was better organized in British Garhwal. The major causes of deforestation were traditional practices such as the clearing of forest for agriculture and settlement. This cleared land was exempt from government revenue collection for many years and this was one reason why small scattered villages were established in distant forests by local people. Land settlement first took place in British Garhwal and occurred much later in Tehri State. Land resources, including forest, were the major source of revenue and State intervention in forest use resulted in unrest among Himalayan peasants. This dependence on forests for revenue increased significantly after Independence, with consequent environmental degradation and new social tensions. /// L'tat actuel des forts du Garhwal dans l'Himalaya rsulte de l'exploitation traditionnelle par la population locale et de la lgislation gouvernementale. Cette article examine l'impact des activits humaines sur les ressources forestires et foncires de la rgion au cours des 200 dernires annes. Pendant l'occupation britannique (1815-1947), la rgion tait divise en deux parties,  savoir le Garhwal, gouvern par le gouvernement britannique de l'Inde, et l'tat de Tehri, gouvern par un roi local. Les systmes de gestion taient similaires dans les deux parties, bien que le service des forts tait mieux organis dans le Garhwal britannique. Les causes principales de la dforestation taient les pratiques traditionnelles telles que le dfrichage des forts pour l'agriculture et l'habitation. Les terres dfriches n'ont pas t soumises au rgime de l'impt foncier pendant de nombreuses annes, l'une des raisons pour lesquelles de petits villages dissmins ont t tablis dans les forts loignes par la population locale. La colonisation foncire s'est d'abord produite dans le Garhwal britannique, mais beaucoup plus tard dans l'tat de Tehri. Les ressources foncires, y compris les forts, constituaient la source de revenu principale et l'intervention de l'tat dans l'exploitation des forts a provoqu une agitation parmi les paysans de l'Himalaya. Cette dpendance des forts pour le revenu a sensiblement augment aprs l'indpendance et a men  une dgradation de l'environnement et  de nouvelles tensions sociales. /// Der heutige Zustand der Wlder im Garhwal Himalaya ist das Ergebnis von traditioneller Nutzung durch die einheimische Bevlkerung sowie von Regierungsrichtlinien. Im vorliegenden Beitrag wird der Einflu menschlicher Aktivitten auf Wald- und Landressourcen in diesem Gebiet whred der letzten 200 Jahre diskutiert. Whrend der britischen Besatzung war die Region in zwei Teile aufgeteilt-Britisch-Garhwal, das von der britischen Regierung in Indien kontrolliert wurde, und dem Staat Tehri, der von einem eingeborenen Knig regiert wurde. Die Verwaltungssysteme beider Gebiete glichen sich, wenn auch die Forstverwaltung in Britisch-Garwhal besser organisiert war. Hauptursachen der Entwaldung waren traditionelle Praktiken, wie zum Beispiel Kahlschlag der Wlder zu landwirtschaftlichen und zu Siedlungszwecken. Das abgeholzte Land war ber viele Jahre hinweg von staatlicher Besteuerung befreit. Dies ist einer der Grnde fr die Grndung kleiner, verstreuter Drfer in entlegenen Wldern durch die einheimische Bevlkerung. Die ersten Ansiedlungen entstanden auf dem Gebiet von Britisch-Garhwal, wesentlich spter kamen Siedlungen in Tehri hinzu. Natrliche Ressourcen, die Wlder eingeschlossen, waren eine Haupteinnahmequelle fr die Bevlkerung, so da staatliche Eingriffe in die Waldnutzung zu Unruhen bei der Landbevlkerung im Himalaya fhrten. Die Abhngigkeit von den Wldern nahm nach der Unabhngigkeit noch zu, wodurch Umweltschden und weitere sozialen Spannungen entstanden.
10.2307/3673265|This essay examines the economic, cultural, and social changes brought about by mass tourism in the village of Obergurgl in the Tyrolean Alsp of Austria. Since World War II there has been a dramatic change from a traditional farming community to a winter and summer resort. Obergurgl was an obvious choice for a large interdisciplinary study under the auspices of the Unesco Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme. This undertaking, part of the MAB Project 6 - Study of the Impact of Human Activities on Mountain and Tundra Ecosystems - brought into close working contact a large team of scientists, the local community, and many of the visitors. Its progress was strengthened by extensive involvement by the local inhabitants. Examination of the natural and human components of the environment led to discussion of the available options for Obergurglers to shape their own future and the fate of their beautiful surroundings. The results of the scientific effort per se, which led to the development of the Obergurgl Model based on computer simulations, have been published elsewhere. The present essay discusses the more intangible aspects and implications, and leads into a series of ethical and emotional issues. The long-term stability of this alpine microcosm which is not dependent upon "outside" pressures requires community action to offset individual decisions made for personal short-term gains. The importance of MAB Obergurgl will be demonstrated by the present and future progress in maintaining community well-being, and by the inspiration it provides for other alpine communities. /// Cette tude examine les changements conomiques, culturels et sociaux engendrs par l'afflux du tourisme dans le village d'Obergurgl (Alpes tyroliennes, Autriche). Depuis la seconde guerre mondiale, ce village est pass rapidement d'une communaut agraire traditionnelle  une station estivale et hivernale. Obergurgl constituait donc un site idal pour mener une tude interdisciplinaire importante sous les auspices du programme MAB (L'homme et la biosphre) de l'Unesco. Cette entreprise, dans le cadre du projet MAB-6 - Etude de l'impact des activits humaines sur les cosystmes de montagne et de tundra - a permis  l'quipe de chercheurs, les habitants et bon nombre de visiteurs  collaborer troitement. Son progrs a t stimul par la participation active de la communaut. L'examen des lments naturels et humains de l'environnement a provoqu la discussion des options disponibles aux habitants d'Obergurgl pour influencer leur propre futur et celui de leur cadre incomparable. Les rsultats des travaux scientifiques eux-mmes, qui ont permis d'laborer le Modle d'Obergurgl bas sur des simulations par ordinateur, ont t publis autre part. Cette tude discute les aspects et implications plus intangibles, et soulve un certain nombre de questions morales et motionnelles. La stabilit  long terme de ce microcosme alpin, qui n'est pas affect par des pressions "externes", ncessite une action au niveau de la communaut pour contrecarrer les dcisions prises pour raisons de gain personnel  court terme. L'importance du project MAB Obergurgl sera dmontre par les progrs accomplis dans le prsent et le futur en matire de prservation du salut public, et par l'inspiration qu'il fournit  d'autres communauts alpines. /// Dieser Aufsatz untersucht die wirtschaftlichen, kulturellen und sozialen Vernderungen, die vom Massentourismus in der Dorfgemeinde Obergurgl in den Tiroler Alpen, sterreich, verursacht wurden. Seit dem 2. Weltkrieg erfolgte ein gravierender Wandel von der traditionell landwirtschaftlichen Gemeinde zu einem Winter- und Sommererholungsort. Obergurgl war fr eine umfassende, interdisziplinre Fallstudie unter Unesco Schirmherrschaft im Programm Mensch und Biosphre (MAB) hervorragend geeignet. Die MAB Projekt 6 Studie ber Auswirkungen menschlicher Aktivitten auf Gebirgs- und Tundraekosysteme bewirkte, da ein groes Wissenschaftlerteam, die lokale Gemeinde und viele Besucher zusammen eine engagierte Arbeitsgemeinschaft formten. Besonders rege Beteiligung der Dorfbewohner trug sehr zum Gelingen der Studie bei. Eine berprfung naturbedingter und menschlicher Umweltkomponenten rckte die gegebenen Mglichkeiten der Dorfbewohner, ihre Zukunft und das Schicksal ihrer wunderschnen Umgebung zu gestalten, in den Diskussionsmittelpunkt. Ergebnisse der rein wissenschaftlichen Untersuchung, die zur Entwicklung des auf Computersimulation beruhenden Obergurgl Modells fhrten, sind an anderer Stelle verffentlicht worden. Der vorliegende Aufsatz geht auf immaterielle Aspekte und Folgeerscheinungen ein und wirft dabei zahlreiche ethische und moralische Probleme auf. Die langfristige Stabilitt dieses alpinen, von "ueren" Zwngen unabhngigen Mikrokosmos' erfordert Gemeindeeinsatz, vor allem um individuellen Entscheidungen, die von persnlichen Vorteilen motiviert sind, vorzubeugen. Der Wert des MAB Obergurgl Projekts liegt in der Veranschaulichung von gegenwrtigem und zuknftigem Einsatz zur Erhaltung eines gesunden Gemeinwesens und der Anregung, die dieses Projekt anderen alpinen Gemeinden zu geben hat.
10.2307/3672936|Three human ecological simulation models are described and the results obtained from them are discussed. Each has been developed on the basis of the extensive human and environmental data available from research work in the Nunoa district of southern Peru. But as this district has environmental and populational characteristics common to a much wider area of the Andean altiplano, both the modelling processes and the initial predictions derived from them may be applicable on a regional scale. The first model (McRae Model) was developed to obtain a better understanding of the nature of human adjustments to the local environment. Three land-use systems are utilized: traditional agro-pastoralism; a hacienda system; and a system in which alpaca herding is emphasized. These systems are tested over a ten-year period under a no-stress and a stress (drought) situation with different buffers in the form of accumulated herd sizes. The results suggest that the alpaca system is superior in its buffering capabilities during drought. Additional routines include running the model so that drought (the common environmental stressor) and economic stressors are combined. It is emphasized that the results are preliminary and serve primarily as a focus for further research and discussion. Similarly, discussion of the other two models (Blankenship and Oak Ridge models), which are significantly different from the McRae Model and from each other, shows that a large set of possible occurrences and observations have been generated. The paper concludes with an evaluation of the importance of this type of computer simulation modelling in terms of research and of its potential application to land-use planning and resource management. /// Trois modles de simulation de l'cologie humaine sont prsents et leurs rsultats sont examins. Ces modles ont t mis au point  partir des nombreuses donnes de recherche disponibles sur l'environnement et la population du district de Nunoa au Prou mridional. Nanmoins, comme ces caractristiques se retrouvent sur une plus grande tendue de l'altiplano, l'laboration des modles et les prdictions initiales qui en dcoulent pourraient s'appliquer  l'chelle rgionale. Le premier modle (modle de McRae) a t mis au point pour mieux comprendre l'adaptation des humains  l'environnement local. Trois systmes d'exploitation des terres sont considrs: le systme agro-pastoral traditionnel, le systme d'haciendas, et un systme dans lequel l'levage de l'alpaca est primordial. Ces systmes sont mis  l'preuve sur une priode de dix ans dans des conditions faciles et difficiles (scheresse), et avec des troupeaux de diffrentes tailles jouant le rle de tampons. Les rsultats suggrent que le systme avec levage d'alpaca est plus rsilient en cas de scheresse. Le modle a t programm de manire  pouvoir combiner la scheresse (la contrainte la plus frquente dans l'environnement)  des contraintes conomiques. Il est important de reconnatre que ces rsultats sont prliminaires et qu'ils servent principalement  orienter la recherche et les discussions futures. De mme, la discussion des deux autres modles (Blankenship et Oak Ridge), bien diffrents l'un de l'autre et du modle de McRae, montre qu'une grande quantit d'observations et d'vnements possibles ont t engendrs. Cette tude se termine par une apprciation de l'importance de ce type de simulation sur ordinateur, quant  la recherche et  ses applications possibles  la planification et  la gestion des ressources. /// Es werden drei Simulationsmodelle ber Mensch und Natur beschrieben, und die daraus abgeleiteten Ergebnisse diskutiert. Jedes Modell ist auf Grund umfassender menschlicher und umweltbezogener Information entwickelt worden, die sich aus Forschungsarbeiten im Nunoa Gebiet im sdlichen Peru ergeben hat. Da dieses Gebiet Merkmale der Bevlkerung und der Umwelt aufweist, die fr das gesamte Anden-Hochplateau zutreffen, knen die Modelle und die daraus abgeleiteten Vorraussagen im groen und ganzen berregional angewendent werden. Das erste Modell (McRae Modell) wurde mit dem Ziel entwickelt, das Problem der menschlichen Anpassung an die lokale Umwelt besser zu verstehen. Dazu wurden drei Bodennutzungssysteme verwendet: die bliche Land-und Weidewirtschaft, das System des Grogrundbesitzes und ein System, in dem Alpaca Viehzucht dominiert. Diese Systeme werden ber 10 Jahre hinweg unter einer No-Stress- und einer Stress- (Drre) Situation erprobt mit verschiedenen Anpassungsmglichkeiten je nach Herdengren. Die Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, da das System der Alpaca Viehzucht mit der Fhigkeit, die Stressituation einer Drre abzufangen, das beste ist. Zusatzmodelle kombinieren die Drre (einer der blichen Stress auslsenden Umweltfaktoren) mit konomischen Krisenumstnden. Es wird betont, da die Ergebnisse vorlufig sind und als Ausgangspunkt fr weitere Forschung und Diskussion dienen. In hnlicher Weise zeigt eine Errterung der beiden anderen Modelle (Blankenship und Oak Ridge Modelle), die sich vom McRae Modell und untereinander grundlegend unterscheiden, da man eine Vielzahl mglicher Ereignisse und Beobachtungen nachvollziehen kann. Die Verffentlichung schliet mit einer Bewertung dieser Computer-Simulationsmodelle fr die Forschung, fr die mgliche Anwendung bei der Bodennutzung und fr das Management der Naturschtze. /// En este trabajo se describen tres modelos simulados de la ecologa humana y se discuten los resultados obtenidos. Cada uno ha sido desarrollado teniendo como base la extensa informacin sobre los seres humanos y sobre el medio-ambiente disponible en los trabajos de investigacin llevados a cabo en el distrito de Nuoa en el sur del Per. Como este distrito tiene caractersticas de medio-ambiente y poblacin comunes con una gran rea del altiplano andino, el proceso de modelado y las predicciones iniciales pueden ser aplicadas a escala regional. El primer modelo (modelo McRae) fue desarrollado para comprender mejor el proceso de ajuste del ser humano al medio-ambiente local. Se utilizan tres sistemas del aprovechamiento de la tierra; el sistema agro-pastoral tradicional; el sistema de la hacienda y un sistema en el que se da preferencia a la cra de rebaos de alpacas. Estos sistemas son observados durante un perodo de diez aos, en condiciones normales y anormales (sequa) con diferentes atenuantes en la forma de variaciones en el tamao de los rebaos. Los resultados sugieren que el sistema de las alpacas es superior por su capacidad de atenuar el efecto de las sequas. Otras maneras de probar los modelos incluyen la de observar el efecto obtenido cuando se combinan la sequa (el problema ms comn a este medio-ambiente) con los problemas econmicos. Se llama la atencin sobre el hecho de que los resultados son preliminares y sirven bsicamente como punto de partida para futuras investigaciones y discusiones. En forma similar, la discusin de los otros dos modelos (Blankenship y Oak Ridge) que son notablemente diferentes del modelo McRae y entre s, muestra que ha sido generada una amplia serie de incidencias y observaciones posibles. La monografa termina con una evaluacin de la importancia de este tipo de modelos simulados por computador para fines de investigacin y su aplicacin eventual en la planificacin del aprovechamiento de tierras y el manejo de los recursos naturales.
10.2307/3673212|Reservoir sedimentation is a serious problem in India; the actual sedimentation inflow has been about 200 percent more than the design inflow in 21 reservoirs for which data are reported. Contrary to earlier beliefs, the encroachment on the live storage capacity by sedimentation has affected the functioning of reservoirs and some important aspects of design. This paper attempts to deal with these problems of catchment degradation and sedimentation. /// L'accumulation de sdiments dans les rservoirs constitue un problme srieux pour l'Inde. L'apport rel de sdiments est 200 pour-cent suprieur  l'apport prvu dans 21 rservoirs pour lesquels des donnes ont t enregistres. Contrairement aux opinions prcdentes, la rduction de la retenue par l'accumulation de sdiments a affect le fonctionnement des rservoirs et certains aspects importants de leur conception. Cette tude aborde les problmes de dgradation des zones de captation des eaux et d'accumulation de sdiments. /// Die Sedimentation in den Reservoirs ist in Indien ein ernstes Problem: in 21 Reservoirs, fr die Daten vorhanden sind, liegt der tatschliche Sedimentzuflu mehr als 200% ber der eingeplanten Zuflumenge. Entgegen frherer Annahmen, hat die Beeintrchtigung der Speicherkapazitt durch Sedimentation die Funktionsfhigkeit der Reservoirs und einiger wichtiger Konstruktionselemente in Mitleidenschaft gezogen. Diese Verffentlichung versucht, sich mit Problemen der Reservoirdegradation und der Sedimentation auseinanderzusetzen.
mounresedeve.32.2.137|A medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs) project was implemented in Nepal and parts of India from 2005 to 2009 by the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development to enhance the livelihood options and reduce the poverty of poor rural households. The present study assesses the impact of the project on poverty and livelihood security using quantitative and qualitative data collected in a household survey, focus group discussions, and interviews with key informants. The project improved the skills and knowledge of producers and collectors MAPs in production, management, processing, and marketing, as well as their negotiating power with traders. This helped increase household income and alleviate poverty. However, the project's impact varied across project sites. While an impact was quite visible in Nepal and Chhattisgarh, India, it was less visible in Himachal Pradesh, India. Factors responsible for the different levels of impact are analyzed, and lessons are drawn for future programs and projects. The findings suggest that locally available and commercially valuable natural resources, including MAPs, have the potential to improve the livelihoods of rural mountain people.
10.2307/3673305|On 4 August 1985 Dig Tsho, a moraine-dammed glacial lake in the Khumbu area of eastern Nepal, burst above Thame. For the region close to the origin of the outbreak the consequences were catastrophic. The destruction of a newly built hydroelectric power plant, 14 bridges, about 30 houses, and many hectares of valuable arable land, as well as a heavily damaged trail network, resulted from <tex-math>$5\ \text{million}\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math> of water plummetting down the Bhote Kosi and Dudh Kosi valleys. The breaching of the moraine was triggered by wave action following an ice avalanche of <tex-math>$150,000\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math> into the lake. The surge had a peak discharge of <tex-math>$1,600\ {\rm m}^{3}/{\rm sec}$</tex-math>; <tex-math>$3\ \text{million}\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math> of debris were moved within a distance of less than 40 km. However, only 10-15 percent of the material left the region as suspended load. The potential hazard of glacial lakes persists and increases. A hazard assessment including an identification of source areas and subsequent monitoring of glacial lakes is proposed. It should be incorporated into any development concept for the Himalayan region. /// Le 4 aot 1985, le lac Dig Tsho, un lac morainique situ au-dessus de Thame dans le Khumbu au Npal oriental, s'est dvers subitement par suite de la rupture du barrage naturel. Les consquences ont t catastrophiques pour la rgion avoisinante. Un volume d'eau d'environ 5 millions de mtres cubes s'est devers rapidement dans les valles du Bhote Kosi et du Dudh Kosi, dtruisant sur son passage une nouvelle centrale hydrolectrique, 14 ponts, environ 30 maisons, une grande quantit de terres arables, et endommageant srieusement le rseau de sentiers battus. La rupture de la moraine a t cause par une lame de fond de  un boulement de glace de 150.000 mtres cubes dans le lac. Le dversement maximum a t de 1.600 mtres cubes par seconde et 3 millions de mtres cubes de dbris ont t emports sur une distance de moins de 40 kilomtres. Nanmoins, au plus 10  15 pour cent des matriaux sont sortis de la rgion sous forme de charge en suspension. Les risques associs aux lacs glaciaires persistent et augmentent. Une tude est propose pour valuer ces risques; elle comprendra l'identification des zones vulnrables et la surveillance ultrieure des lacs. Cette tude devra tre incorpore dans tout projet de dveloppement de la rgion himalayenne. /// Am 4. August 1985 entleerte sich Dig Tsho, ein mornengedmmter See oberhalb Thame, in Ost-Nepal. Fr die Region in unmittelbarer Nhe der Ausbruchsstelle waren die Konsequenzen katastrophal. Die rasante sozio-konomische Entwicklung des Sherpa-Landes erlitt einen empfindlichen Einbruch. Ein neu erstelltes Wasserkraftwerk, 14 Brcken, etwa 30 Huser und viele Hektaren kostbares Kulturland gingen verloren. Zustzlich blieb ein stark in Mitleidenschaft gezogenes Wegnetz brig. <tex-math>$5\ \text{Millionen}\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math> Wasser wlzten sich innerhalb weniger Stunden das Bhote Kosi und Dudh Kosi Tal hinunter. Der Mornenbruch war durch eine Schwallwelle, welche von einer Eis-Lawine (<tex-math>$150,000\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math>) in den See herrhrte, ausgelst worden. Die Wasserfront erreichte einen Spitzenabfluss von <tex-math>$1,600\ {\rm m}^{3}/{\rm sec}$</tex-math>. <tex-math>$3\ \text{Millionen}\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math> Geschiebe wurden innerhalb einer Distanz von weniger als 40 Kilometer umgelagert. Jedoch nur 10 bis 15% davon verliessen das Gebiet als Schwebfraktion. Die potentielle Gefahr von Gletschersee-Ausbrchen bleibt allgegenwrtig und ist im Zunehmen begriffen. Eine Gefahren-Erhebung, die genaue Festlegung der Ursprungs-Gebiete, sowie eine Ueberwachung der Gletscherseen wird hier vorgeschlagen. Ein solches Vorgehen wird als integraler Bestandteil jeglicher Entwicklungskonzepte in himalayischen Gebieten betrachtet.
10.2307/3673442|Vertisols (deep black clay soils, often known as "black cotton soils") cover 8 million ha of the Ethiopian highlands. They account for about 70 percent of all highland soils with slopes between 0 and 8 percent. The high clay content of the Vertisols is responsible for their heavy waterlogging in highland areas with abundant rainfall and relatively low evaporation rates. This imposes severe restrictions on the traditional agricultural use of these soils and only 25 percent are currently cropped, mainly using residual moisture. Much of this land is left fallow and subject to erosion during the heavy rains. Evidence suggests there would be substantial increases in crop yields on Vertisols if excess surface soil water were drained off and if appropriate cropping practices were used. A research and outreach project on the improved management and utilization of highland Vertisols is examining the use of animal-powered devices for surface soil drainage, planting and tillage, the development of new cropping systems on drained Vertisols, and improved management of plant nutrients with the use of low cost phosphates and legumes as sources of nitrogen. /// Les vertisols (sols noirs profonds, souvent appels "sols noirs  coton") couvrent 8 millions d'hectares dans les hautes terres de lEthiopie. Ils constituent environ 70 pour cent de tous les sols des hautes terres ayant une pente comprise entre 0 et 8 pour cent. La haute teneur en argile des vertisols fait en sorte qu'ils deviennent dtremps l o les pluies sont abondantes et les vitesses d'vaporation sont relativement basses. Ces conditions imposent des contraintes srieuses sur l'utilisation de ces sols pour l'agriculture; seulement 25 pour cent sont maintenant cultivs, surtout en tirant profit de l'humidit rsiduelle. Une grande partie de ces terres est laisse en jachre, et elle est sujette  l'rosion lors des pluies abondantes. Les observations indiquent que la productivit agricole des vertisols pourrait tre sensiblement amliore en drainant l'excdent d'eau de surface et en employant des techniques agricoles appropries. Un projet de recherche et d'ducation visant  amliorer l'exploitation des vertisols dans les hautes terres considre l'utilisation d'instruments mus par la force animale pour le drainage de l'eau de surface, le labourage et le semis, le dveloppement de nouveaux systmes de mise en culture sur les vertisols drains, et la gestion amliore des substances nutritives par l'utilisation de phosphates bon march et de lgumineuses comme sources d'azote. /// Vertisole (tiefgrndige schwarze Tonbden, "schwarze Baumwoll-Bden") kommen auf 8 Mio. Hektaren des thiopischen Hochlandes vor. Sie bedecken 70% aller Hochlandgebiete mit Hangneigungen zwischen 0% und 8%. Der hohe Tongehalt der Vertisole ist verantwortlich fr ihre hohe Vernssung im Hochland, wo gengend Niederschlag und eine relativ niedrige Evaporation vorherrschen. Diese Vernssung beschrnkt die traditionelle Landnutzung der Vertisolbden ausserordentlich. Nur 25% der Vertisole sind gegenwrtig bebaut, wobei die Getreide vor allem mit der Restfeuchtigkeit kultiviert werden. Ein grosser Teil dieser Bden wird brach gelassen und erodiert whrend der Hauptregenzeit. Es gibt viele Beweise, dass die Produktivitt der Vertisole substantiell gesteigert werden kann, wenn exzessives Oberflchenwasser abgezogen wird und angepasste Anbaumethoden verwendet werden. ILCA hat in Zusammenarbeit mit dem Int. Forschungszentrum fr die semi-ariden Tropen (ICRISAT) und der thiopischen Regierung (verschiedene Institutionen) ein Forschungs- und Anwendungsprojekt fr verbesserte Nutzung der Hochland-Vertisole initiiert. Die Schwerpunkte dieser gemeinsamen Bemhungen sind Tierzug-Systeme fr Entwsserungsgrben, Pflanzung und Anbau, die Entwicklung neuer Anbausysteme auf den entwsserten Vertisolen und die verbesserte Nutzung von Pflanzennhrstoffen durch den Einsatz billiger Phosphate und von Hlsenfrchten als Stickstoffproduzenten.
10.2307/3673634|The traditional land-use system in the agricultural belt of the Venezuelan High Andes (3,000-4,000 m) includes extended fallows (from 7 to more than 20 years) alternating with short cultivation periods (1-4 years). This management produces a mosaic landscape where potato or cereal fields coexist with recuperating fallows of various ages and with land remaining uncultivated because of limitations of slope or stoniness. This land-use strategy maintains a high natural diversity in a way that allows an acceptable productivity without the use of mineral fertilizers. The ecological base underlying the functioning of the agricultural system is analyzed, mainly in relation to the recuperation of nutrients during the fallow periods. The ecological sustainability is discussed in light of the negligible erosion rates and the maintenance of high levels of soil organic matter. The massive introduction of chemical fertilizers in recent years induced important changes that are exemplified by the case study of the land-use strategy of a farmer. /// Dans l'tage agricole des hautes Andes du Vnzula (de 3.000  4.000 m) le systme de culture traditionnel comprend des longues jachres (de 7  plus de 20 ans) suivis de courts intervalles de culture (del  4 ans). Sous ce systme agricole le paysage apparat comme un mosaque, ou coexistent des parcelles de pomme de terre ou de crales avec des jachres de diffrents ges et des terrains non cultives  cause de limitations de pente ou d'une haute proportion de cailloux. Cette strategie permet de maintenir une haute diversite naturelle dans la rgion. A la base du systme se trouve la conservation de la fertilit des sols, ce que permet d'obtenir une production agricole sans l'utilisation d'engrais minraux. Les fondements cologiques du fonctionnement du systme sont analyss, principalement en relation avec la rcuperation des reservoirs d'lments nutritifs pendant la jachre. La sustentabilit cologique est discute sur la base des faibles taux d'rosion et de la conservation de la matire organique du sol. La rcente introduction massive d'engrais mineraux entrane une srie de changements qui seront exemplifis par l'analyse de la stratgie d'utilisation des parcelles d'un paysan local. /// Das traditionelle Landnutzungssystem im Agrargrtel der Hochanden von Venezuela (3.000 m-4.000 m . M.) schliet lngere Brachzeiten (7 bis ber 20 Jahre) ein, die sich mit kurzen Kultivierungsperioden (1 bis 4 Jahre) abwechseln. Diese Art des Landmanagements erzeugt ein mosaikartiges Landschaftsbild, in dem Kartoffel- und Getreidefelder neben Brachland verschiedenen Alters und neben Landflchen koexistieren, die wegen ihrer ungnstigen Hangbeschaffenheit oder ihres steinigen Bodens unbebaut bleiben. Diese Landnutzungsmethode fhrt zu natrlicher Vielfalt, die ausreichende Produktivitt ohne Kunstdnger erlaubt. Wir untersuchten die kologische Grundlage dieses Agrarsystems hauptschlich in bezug auf Nhrstoffregeneration der brachliegenden Flchen. Der kologische Bestand ist gegeben, wenn geringe Erosionsraten und ein hoher Anteil an organischem Bodenmaterial vorliegen. Die massive Einfhrung von Kunstdnger in den vergangenen Jahren hatte wichtige Vernderungen zur Folge. Eine Fallstudie veranschaulicht am Beispiel eines Bauern die vernderten Bedingungen bei der Landnutzung. /// En el piso agricola de los pramos venezolanos (3,000-4,000 msnm) el manejo campesino tradicional incluye descansos muy largos de las parcelas (10 a mas de 20 anos) alternando con perodos cortos de cultivo (1 a 4 aos). Bajo este sistema el paisaje se estructura en forma de un mosaico, donde coexisten parcelas cultivadas con papa o cereales con otras que tienen diferentes tiempos de descanso y con reas no cultivadas por limitaciones de pendiente o pedregosidad. Esta estrategia de manejo tiende a mantener una alta diversidad ecolgica en la zona. En su base est la conservacion de la fertilidad de los suelos, lo que posibilita la obtencin de una produccin agrcola sin fertilizantes minerales. Se analizan las bases ecolgicas del funcionamiento del sistema, principalmente en relacin al restablecimiento de los reservorios de nutrientes durante el descanso. La sustentabilidad ecolgica se discute en base a las bajas tasas de erosin y al mantenimiento de la materia orgnica del suelo. La reciente introduccin masiva de fertilizantes minerales genera una serie de cambios, los cuales se ejemplifican a travs del analisis de la estrategia de uso de las parcelas de un campesino.
mounresedeve.30.4.353|Sustainable management of rare medicinal plants is becoming a major conservation issue in the Himalaya, and the need to consider population status and life history strategies for sustainable management of these plants has been expressed. We sampled
10.2307/3673108|Agriculture and pastoral activities in the Southern Andes are a very important component of the economic activity of the area and a source of employment for a large sector of the population. Agriculture has effected a great deal of landscape modification and often has had a negative impact on the environment. Especially affected have been the "Norte Chico" and the frontier area of Chile, the mountain valleys, and the region of the Southern Lakes in Argentina. Destruction of watersheds, silting of rivers, burning of forests, and soil erosion especially on mountain slopes are some of the more noticeable effects. /// L'agriculture et les activits pastorales dans les Andes mridionales constituent un lment trs important de l'activit conomique de cette rgion, et une source de travail pour une grande partie de la population. L'agriculture a amen des modifications importantes du paysage et a souvent eu des rpercussions nfastes sur l'environnement. Les rgions les plus affectes ont t le "Norte Chico" et la rgion frontalire du Chili, les valles montagnardes, et la rgion des lacs au sud de l'Argentine. Parmi les effets les plus notables, on peut citer la destruction des bassins hydrographiques, l'ensablement des rivires, le brlage des forts, et l'rosion du sol, surtout au flanc des montagnes. /// In den sdlichen Anden nehmen Land- und Weidewirtschaft einen wichtigen Platz in der Landeskonomi ein und beschftigen einen Groteil der Bevlkerung. Die Landwirtschaft verursachte erhebliche Vernderungen des Landschaftsbildes, oftmals mit nachteiligen Folgen auf die Umwelt. Besonders betroffen sind die "Norte Chico" und die Grenzgebiete Chiles, die Gebirgstler und das Seengebiet im sdlichen Argentinien. Die aufflligsten Beeintrchtigungen sind die Zerstrung der Einzugsgebiete, Verschlammung der Flsse, Abbrennen der Wlder und-besonders auf den Berghngen-Bodenerosion. /// Actividades agrcolo-ganaderas constituyen un componente muy importante de la economa de la regin de los Andes del Sur y una fuente de empleo para un numeroso sector de la poblacin. La agricultura ha sido responsable de grandes modificaciones en el paisaje, no todas ellas positivas. Especialmente afectado ha sido el Norte Chico y la zona de frontera de Chile, los valles interiores de la regin de las Sierras Pampeanas, y la regin de los lagos del Sur en la Argentina. Deterioracin de cuencas, incendios, erosin del suelo, y relleno de ros con detritos, son algunos de los efectos ms marcados.
3674582|This paper examines the impact of two multisectoral highland development projects on ethnic minorities in northern Thailand. While social sector interventions were relatively successfully delivered and locally appreciated, strategies for agricultural development failed to take account of local cultural and production systems, and were fraught with a range of design and implementation difficulties. These uneven outcomes are traced to the assumptions underlying project design, contradictions in policy (especially relating to land tenure), and the institutional cultures of implementing agencies.
3674460|Debris flows represent a widespread threat to villages and small towns in the Swiss Alps. For many centuries people "managed" such risks by trying to avoid hazardous areas. However, major debris flow and flood events in the last 25 years have revealed that the degree of freedom to engage in this type of risk management has substantially decreased. This became especially evident during the 1999 disasters in a number of places in Switzerland. The winter of that year was unusually wet. In February heavy snowfall triggered destructive avalanches. In May high temperatures caused heavy snowmelt, with excessive rainfall contributing more water to the already saturated soils. Landslides, debris flows and floods were triggered in many locations, including Srenberg. Hazard prevention and disaster management have a long tradition in Switzerland, although an integrated approach to risk management is rather new. Only in recent years have methods and tools been developed to assess hazards, define protection goals, and implement disaster reduction measures. The case of Srenberg serves as an example of how today's approaches to disaster reduction are implemented at the local level.
3674608|This article examines the judgments of staff from protected area agencies responsible for managing tourism and its environmental impacts in the largest area of snow country in Australia. In surveys, staff identified as having major responsibility for tourism management in the Australian Alps protected areas consider that tourism has important negative environmental impacts; the impacts of ski resorts on adjacent natural areas are often more important than impacts of more general tourism activities further away from ski resorts; the most important environmental impacts were on water quality; native fauna was adversely affected through tourism activities that resulted in increased numbers of feral animals and habitat reduction and fragmentation; there was a wide range of adverse impacts from tourism on vegetation; air quality was affected, particularly around the ski resorts, but it was a less important issue than impacts on water, fauna, and flora. The judgments of protected area managers as to the importance of environmental issues arising from tourism use of the Australian Alps protected areas correspond well with the documented impacts in research papers and management reports.
mounresedeve.34.4.386|Topographically isolated communities of the southern Appalachian Mountains provide an ideal area in which to examine the impact of environmental and social connections on the economy of land sales. Our objective was to identify whether the price of land in a small Appalachian county of southwestern Virginia, USA, from 1786 to 1830, was influenced by area, month or year of sale, water availability, presence of tree species that were proxies of site quality, grantor/grantee residency, or familial relationship between grantor and grantee. The multiple regression model identified four significant factors that influenced the price of land during early European settlement of the southern Appalachian Mountains. Larger areas of land sold for lower prices. Landowners sold land to relatives at a lower price than to nonrelatives. The presence of surface water or red maple (
mounresedeve.30.3.302|The University of Central Asia (UCA) was founded in 2000 by the governments of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan, and by His Highness the Aga Khan, with the aim of offering an internationally recognized standard of higher education in Central Asia and of producing knowledgeable, skilled, and creative graduates who will contribute leadership, ideas, and innovations to the transitioning economies and communities of the region. Campuses are located in the mountain communities of Khorog (Tajikistan), Naryn (Kyrgyz Republic), and Tekeli (Kazakhstan). UCA's mission is to promote the socioeconomic development of Central Asia's mountain societies, while at the same time helping the diverse peoples of the region to preserve and draw upon their rich cultural traditions and heritages as assets for the future.
10.2307/3673713|The availability of a series of remotely sensed images (1971, 1977, 1984, 1986) facilitated the detection of geomorphological change that is occurring in the Bagmati Valley south of Kathmandu. The imagery used included stereoscopic spaceborne scanner imagery and photographs, and vertical and oblique stereoscopic air photographs taken with different optical systems. The study demonstrated the superiority of stereoscopic remote sensing data for mapping erosion processes. It was concluded that the area under investigation has incurred no overall increase in erosion losses between 1971 and 1986. Local shifts in eroded terrain, however, were detected. /// La disponibilit des donnes de tldtection sur la valle du Bagmati au sud de Kathmandou, collectes aux cours des annes 1971, 1977, 1984 et 1986, a facilit la dtection de changements gomorphologiques. Parmi les techniques d'imagerie utilises, on peut citer les images scanner stroscopiques et les strophotos par satellite, ainsi que les photographies stroscopiques ariennes verticales et obliques obtenues avec diffrents instruments optiques. L'tude dmontre la supriorit de la tldtection stroscopique pour dresser des cartes illustrant les processus d'rosion et conclut que les pertes des  l'rosion dans la zone examine n'ont dans l'ensemble pas augment entre 1971 et 1986. Nanmoins, des dplacements localiss du terrain rod ont nanmoins t dtects. /// Die Verfgbarkeit von Fernerkundungsdaten des Bagmati-Tales sdlich von Kathmandu aus den Jahren 1971, 1977, 1984 und 1986 bot die Mglichkeit zu einer Art "geomorphologischer Change Detection". Die verwendeten Fernerkundungsdaten umfaten stereoskopische Weltraum-Scanneraufnahmen und -Stereophotographien sowie mit verschiedenen Objektiven aufgenommene vertikale und schrge Stereoluftbilder. Durch die Studie konnten die Vorteile und die berlegenheit einer stereoskopischen Fernerkundung fr Erosionsuntersuchungen demonstriert werden. Letztere erbrachten das Ergebnis, da im Untersuchungsgebiet keine Zunahme, sondern nur eine leichte lokale Verschiebung der Erosionsflchen zu verzeichnen ist.
10.2307/3673735|The Himalayan mountain system is the source of one of the world's largest supplies of fresh water. Major rivers include the Indus, Ganges, Brahmaputra, Irrawaddy, Salween, Mekong, and Yangtse. In some years one or more of these rivers and their tributaries cause devastating floods, yet their waters are also the lifeblood of one of the greatest concentrations of population on earth. This paper reviews the ecological aspects of water management and discusses a wide range of socioeconomic and political issues. The enormous hydroelectric potential is partially offset by the hazardous factors of slope instability, high sediment discharge, extremes in flow, and vulnerability of structures to seismic activity. Ecological and hydrological data are unavailable and recent developments are biassed in favor of macro-projects for the benefits of industry and the economy of the plains. The complex of issues is exaggerated by political rivalries within the region, both international and intra-national. The Kosi Barrage and associated embankments are detailed as a case study; the Tehri Dam is discussed as a focal point of conflict and unrest. The conclusion emphasizes the need for major institutional changes and for attention to micro-projects and the well-being of mountain communities, as well as for sharing and publicizing ecological and hydrological data. Without substantial rethinking, the possibility for sustainable utilization of this great natural resource is remote, and the prospects for dissipation of vast resources, and even irreparable damage, are considerable. /// Le systme de montagnes himalayen constitue l'un des plus grands bassins hydrographiques du monde, englobant l'Indus, le Gange, le Brahmaputra, l'Irrawadi, le Salween, le Mkong et le Yang Ts Kiang. Certaines annes, l'un ou plusieurs de ces fleuves et affluents provoquent des inondations dvastatrices, mais ces eaux constituent galement l'lment vital de l'une des plus grosses concentrations de population du monde. Cet article passe en revue les aspects cologiques de la gestion des ressources en eau et examine un grand nombre de questions socioconomiques et politiques. L norme potentiel hydrolectrique est partiellement contrecarr par un certain nombre de facteurs tels que l'instabilit des versants, un transport solide lev, des dbits extrmes et la vulnrabilit des ouvrages  l'activit sismique. Les donnes cologiques et hydrologiques ncessaires ne sont pas disponibles, et les travaux rcents tendent  favoriser les macro-projets dont bnficient l'industrie et l'conomie des plaines. Le complexe de problmes est exacerb par les rivalits politiques qui exitent dans la rgion, aussi bien au niveau international que national. Le barrage de Kosi et les digues associes sont prsents en dtail en tant qu'tude de cas, et le cas du barrage de Tehri est examin en tant que foyer de conflit et d'agitation. La conclusion de l'article met l'accent sur la ncessit d'effectuer des changements importants au niveau des institutions, de se proccuper de micro-projets et du mieux-tre des communauts de montagne, et de partager et de publier les donnes cologiques existantes. A moins d'une reconsidration importante des problmes, il est douteux qu'une utilisation rationnelle de cette norme ressource naturelle soit possible, et les risques d'un gaspillage, voire d'un endommagement irrparable, de vastes ressources sont considrables. /// Das himalayische Gebirgssystem ist eines der grten Quellgebiete der Erde. Zu seinen grten Flssen gehren der Indus, Ganges, Brahmaputra, Irrawaddy, Salween, Mekong und Jangtse. Einerseits verursachen in manchen Jahren einer oder mehrere dieser Flsse einschlielich der Nebenflsse verheerende berschwemmungen, andererseits ist ihr Wasser die Lebensgrundlage fr ein Gebiet mit der hchsten Bevlkerungsdichte der Welt. Diese Verffentlichung berprft die kologischen Aspekte im Wassermanagement und diskutiert vielschichtige sozio-konomische und politische Fragen. Instabilitt der Hnge, hohe Sedimentfhrung, Strmungsextreme und Anflligkeit aller Bauten gegen seismische Aktivitt entwerten teilweise das enorme hydroelektrische Potential. kologische und hydrologische Daten stehen nicht zur Verfgung, und bei neueren Erschlieungen werden Groprojekte zu Gunsten der Industrie und der Entwicklung im Tiefland bevorzugt. Die Probleme werden durch politische Rivalitten innerhalb der Region auf internationaler sowie zwischenstaatlicher Ebene verstrkt. Der Kosi Staudamm und die dazugehrigen Eindmmungen werden als Fallstudie detailliert untersucht; der Tehri Damm wird als Mittelpunkt von Auseinandersetzungen und Unruhen diskutiert. Abschlieend wird der Wert von einschneidenden institutionellen Manahmen hervorgehoben und es wird betont, da Kleinprojekten mehr Aufmerksamkeit geschenkt werden mu. Eine solide Lebensbasis fr die Berggemeinden sowie der Austausch und die Verffentlichung von kologischen und hydrologischen Daten sind wichtige Faktoren. Ohne einschneidende Veranderungen sind die Aussichten, diese groe Naturressource weiterhin zu nutzen, gering, und es knnten groe Ressourcen verschwendet und irreparabler Schaden angerichtet werden.
25164049|Models, which predict the duration between sowing and reproductive maturity, are used to examine the suitability of cover legumes for use in farming systems of the mid-hills region of Nepal. The National Agricultural Research Council hill research institutes at Hattiban, Lumle, and Pakhribas were selected for study. In addition, the temperature regimes of a typical span of elevations (600-2,400 m) were constructed to examine the range of environmental variability associated with cropping in this region. Models predicting rates of crop development were used to determine the feasibility of six legume cover species to reach maturity prior to the sowing period for the principal summer cereal crops. Model outputs indicate substantial variability in maturity dates resulting from genotype, site, elevation, and sowing date effects. Vicia faba, Vicia villosa ssp. dasycarpa, and Lupinus mutabilis grown as autumn-sown crops across most of the mid-hills would be feasible where early sowing is possible. More caution would be needed if Vicia sativa or Trifolium resupinatum were chosen because they are only likely to mature early enough to permit unhindered summer cereal sowing at lower elevations.
25578193|While rural electrification brings economic, health, educational, and environmental benefits, it also creates persistent wastes that can have negative implications for human and environmental health. The rural development and environmental management intellectual communities have not worked together sufficiently to manage the non-biodegradable waste products of rural development. In the Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan-a nation noted for its vast forests and positive environmental record-the most challenging wastes to manage are those that follow rural electrification: spent light bulbs and fluorescent lights, and small appliances. Based on 6 months of field research in Bhutan, this paper proposes a depot and circuit rider system for the management of non-biodegradable wastes in rural areas.
mounresedeve.36.2.141|The Gojal region in northern Pakistan has a comparatively high level of development, virtually unparalleled in Pakistan's other mountain areas and rural periphery and representing a significant advance over the extreme poverty, recurrent famine, pervasive illiteracy, and feudal oppression that existed until the 1940s. This article analyzes the factors and conditions that made this possible. Various external modernization interventions by state and nonstate agencies, particularly by the Aga Khan Development Network, have been crucial in this respect. The significance of the framing of such interventions for their acceptance and successful implementation is analyzed for the Ismaili community of Gojal. Findings from this case study underline the central importance of local actors' agency and their proactive and creative response to the changing conditions and new opportunities created during modernizing interventions. Local households' mobility and migration strategies, in the context of sectoral and spatial livelihood diversification, have played a pivotal role in translating external modernization interventions into mountain development. Informed by recent debates on translocality, this article argues for a reassessment of the role of migration and translocality in development, a role that has often been underestimated or reduced to the effects of remittances. From this perspective, the transferability of Gojal's successful development to other mountain areas is discussed.
3674553|Central America harbors some of the most important remnants of tropical vegetation at a global level. Its rainforests, among the most representative tropical ecosystems, cover only 5% of the Earth's surface but are home to half of the world's biological diversity. Costa Rica, the second smallest country on the Central American isthmus, has been able to establish a national network of protected areas safeguarding tropical biodiversity on more than 25% of its territory. These areas serve educational purposes and attract scientists and tourists, with important implications for the development of the surrounding rural communities. The creation in 1972 of the Monteverde Cloud Forest Preserve brought important socioeconomic and environmental changes to adjacent communities. These changes were both positive (eg introduction of new rural production methods) and problematic (sudden urban development without prior land use planning).
3674514|In this investigation, an advanced Harmonic Analysis of Time Series (HANTS) technique has been introduced in order to remove cloud contamination from the satellite-based Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) over the Tibetan Plateau. Due to high elevation, Asian monsoon, and the prevailing local convective weather, the probability of cloud occurrence in the daytime is very high over the Tibetan Plateau. It is therefore very difficult to directly obtain cloud-free vegetation index images using satellite optical remote sensing data over the entire Tibetan Plateau. Applying the HANTS algorithm made it possible to successfully replace the cloud contamination in NDVI images by the HANTS synthesized results, not only in temporal variation but also in regional distribution. The reconstructed NDVI images are cloud-free and more reliable; the HANTS-generated parameters are also potentially useful in understanding vegetation evolution and phenological characteristics over the mountainous regions of the Tibetan Plateau.
10.2307/3673736|The Nana Kosi watershed is an area of homogeneous bedrock, undulating terrain, and a cool temperate climate where the removal of forest cover and agricultural activities have greatly accelerated the rates of erosion. This reconnaissance study estimates the current erosion rate as 0.09 mm/yr on deforested land and 0.18 mm/yr on agricultural land. By contrast, natural erosion rates vary between 0.02 mm/yr under oak and pine mixed forest and 0.04 mm/yr under pine forest. In the month of heaviest rainfall, suspended and dissolved sediment yields are 7.25-26.0 times higher in the most disturbed agricultural land than in the forest. The geological rate of surface lowering due to channel erosion may be of the order of 0.10 mm/yr. /// Le bassin hydrographique de Nana Kosi constitue une zone de substrat rocheux homogne et de terrain ondul, avec un climat tempr frais, o la disparition de la couverture forestire et les activits agricoles ont beaucoup augment les vitesses d'rosion. Cette tude de reconnaissance estime que la vitesse d'rosion actuelle est de l'ordre de 0,09 mm par an pour les terres dboises et de 0,18 mm par an pour les terres cultives. A titre de comparaison, les vitesses d'rosion naturelles se situent entre 0,02 mm par an pour les forts mlanges de chnes et de pins, et 0,04 mm par an pour les forts de pins. Au cours du mois  plus forte pluviosit, les productions de sdiments en suspension et de sdiments dissous pour les terres cultives sont de 7,25  26 fois plus leves que pour les forts. La vitesse d'abaissement de la surface d  l'rosion par ravinement peut atteindre 0,10 mm par an. /// Das Nana Kosi Einzugsgebiet besteht aus homogenem Grundgestein, wellenfrmigem Terrain und hat ein khles, gemigtes Klima. Abholzung und landwirtschaftliche Nutzung erhhten die Erosionsraten in diesem Gebiet betrachtlich. Diese Untersuchung veranschlagt die derzeitige Erosionsrate auf abgeholzten Flchen mit 0,09 mm/Jahr und auf landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen mit 0,18 mm/Jahr. Im Gegensatz dazu liegen die natrlichen Erosionsraten fr Gebiete, die mit Eichen und Kiefern bewachsen sind, bei 0,02 mm/Jahr und erhhen sich fr Kiefernwald auf 0,04 mm/Jahr. Wahrend der Monate mit den hchsten Niederschlgen sind mitgeschwemmte und gelste Sedimentertrge von den betroffenen landwirtschaftlichen Flchen 7,25 bis 26,0 mal hher als von Waldgebieten. Die geologische Abtragungsrate durch Rinnenerosion liegt in der Grenordnung von 0,10 mm/Jahr.
mounresedeve.33.2.170|Vegetation and species diversity patterns in conservation areas near big cities are poorly known. These are important recreational areas used also for educational purposes. Therefore, investigations of local diversity patterns are urgently needed. The Baihua Mountain Reserve is close to the city of Beijing and is the northern end of the Taihang mountain range in north China. Sixty-one 10  20 m quadrats of plant communities were established along gradients for elevation (7502043 masl) and disturbance (mainly due to tourism and agriculture). Data on species composition and environmental variables were measured and recorded in each quadrat. Two-way indicator species analysis and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were used to analyze the relationships between vegetation and environmental variables, while species diversity indices were used to analyze the pattern of species diversity. Twelve plant communities were found, mostly secondary forests with some plantations. These communities are representative of the vegetation in the mountains west of Beijing. Each community had a different composition, structure, and environment. The variation of plant communities was significantly related to elevation and disturbance and related to litter thickness, slope, and aspect. The cumulative percentage variance of speciesenvironment relationships for the first 4 CCA axes was 89.6%. Elevation and disturbance intensity were revealed as the factors that most influenced community distribution and species diversity. Species richness, heterogeneity, and evenness all showed a humped pattern along elevational and disturbance gradientsthe highest species diversity appeared in the middle elevation and under medium disturbance intensity. Recommendations regarding management measures are made.
10.2307/3674110|The Gongga Shan range, named after its highest peak Gongga Shan (30 N, 102 E, 7,556 m), is located in the transition zone between the Tibetan Plateau and the South Chinese plains. With a vertical difference of more than 6,300 m within a horizontal distance of only 11km, the eastward drop towards the Sichuan Basin is one of the largest in the world. At the same altitude the western slope is clearly warmer and drier than the eastern slope that is exposed to the summer monsoon. The upper limits of the various geoecological belts are up to 300 m higher on the western than on the eastern slope. This asymmetry cannot be explained by topoclimatological effects but by the mass-elevation effect of the Tibetan Plateau. It is regarded as a typical characteristic of the ranges bordering the Plateau. In contrast to other Chinese mountain ranges, the Gongga Shan range still has an extensive area of primary coniferous and deciduous forests up to an elevation of 4,000 m. The current policy of unrestricted logging, however, threatens to destroy these forests within 10-15 years.
10.2307/3673614|This paper summarizes the studies, both multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary, that have been carried out in the central cordillera of the island of New Guinea, both in the western sector, Irian Jaya which is part of Indonesia, and in the eastern sector which is the nation of Papua New Guinea. The highland valleys between 1,200 and 2,850 m have been inhabited by relatively large populations since prehistoric times. Early studies, beginning in the 1950s, were mainly ecological and related the people to their environment but more recent work has emphasized change and continuity through time, reconstructing landscapes and climates from prehistoric times, through a brief period of colonialization, to present independence. The landscape, with cultivation dependent on the sweet potato and pig breeding, is a result of environmental, economic, and social factors. Of concern for human occupation of the highlands are severe droughts, killing frosts, and heavy rains, and the possible consequences of global warming. The implications of research in terms of practical management relate to the effectiveness of indigenous land-use systems and their sensitivity to climatic and other variables. /// Cet article passe en revue les travaux de recherche, multidisciplinaires et interdisciplinaires, qui ont t mens dans la cordillre centrale de la Nouvelle Guine, aussi bien dans le secteur ouest (Irian Jaya, territoire de l'Indonsie) que dans la secteur est (nation de Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine). Les valles entre 1 200 et 2 850 m ont t occupes par des populations relativement importantes depuis la prhistoire. Les tudes initiales que ont commenc au dbut des annes 50 ont surtout port sur l'cologie et la relation entre les peuples et l'environnement, mais les tudes rcentes ont mis l'accent sur le changement et la continuit dans le temps, recrant les paysages et les climats de la prhistoire jusqu'au prsent, en passant par la brve priode de colonisation. Le paysage, avec la culture de la patate douce et l'levage de porcs, rsulte de facteurs environnementaux, conomiques et sociaux. Les perturbations affectant l'occupation humaine des rgions montagneuses sont les scheresses dangereuses, les fortes geles et les fortes pluies, et les consquences probables du rchauffement global. Les implications de la recherche en termes de gestion pratique des ressources naturelles concernent l'efficacit des systmes indignes d'exploitation des terres et leur sensibilit aux variables climatiques et autres. /// Diese Arbeit fat die interdisziplinren und multidisziplinren Untersuchungen, die im Zentralgebirgszug der Insel Neuguinea gemacht wurden, zusammen. Sie wurden im westlichen Teil, Irian Jaya, der zu Indonesien gehrt und im stlichen Teil, der die Nation Papua Neuguinea bildet, durchgefhrt. Die Tler des Hochlandes zwischen 1200 m und 2850 m haben schon seit prhistorischer Zeit eine relativ hohe Bevlkerungsdichte. Frhere Untersuchungen, die in den 50er Jahren begannen, waren hauptschlich kologisch ausgerichtet und sahen die Menschen in ihrer Beziehung zur Umwelt; neuere Untersuchungen betonen nderungen und Kontinuitt ber lange Zeitrume, rekonstruieren Landschaften und Klimata aus prhistorischen Zeiten, aus der kurzen Kolonisationsperiode bis hin zur derzeitigen Unabhngigkeit. Das Landschaftsbild, geprgt durch den Anbau der Skartoffel und durch Schweinezucht, ist das Ergebnis von Umwelt-, konomischen und sozialen Faktoren. Langanhaltende Trockenperioden, vernichtende Frste, starke Niederschlge und die mglichen Folgen globaler Erwrmung sind fr die Hochlandbewohner Grnde zur Besorgnis. Die Folgerungen aus diesen Untersuchungen hinsichtlich praktischen Managements beziehen sich auf die Wirksamkeit der einheimischen Landnutzungssysteme einschlielich ihrer Empfindlichkeit gegenber klimatischer und anderen Faktoren.
10.2307/3673043|This paper considers popular misconceptions concerning Imperata cylindrica grassland areas and Imperata succession in Northern Thailand. It provides a description of a suggested ley farming system (alternation of pastures and crops). Only 2.5 percent of 2,500 km<sup>2</sup> of Northern Thailand is covered by I. cylindrica, nearly all between 1,000-2,000 m and in the western part of the north. There is little evidence that watershed characteristics of I. cylindrica grassland are inferior to those of forested areas; it is readily grazed and is a poor competitor under grazing; it is also relatively easy to establish improved pasture; and grazing quickly results in sown legume dominance to the almost total exclusion of I. cylindrica. I. cylindrica is found mainly in maize/opium areas and is absent from the Karen integral swiddening areas. Establishment of I. cylindrica can be attributed to the removal of shade in the seed and seedling phase; this is a consequence of the intensive weeding practised in the maize/opium swidden systems. Preliminary experiments indicate the benefit of a previously fertilized sown legume pasture to a subsequent upland crop. I. cylindrica grassland should be oversown with Desmodium intortum cv. greenleaf pastures and grazed for 2-3 years, and then dibbled and cultivated with upland crops for two years. Management details are presented. Major constraints to the adoption of ley farming in the Northern Thailand highlands include entrenched traditional tribal attitudes, lack of expertise and interest by official personnel and organizations, and the current high price for opium coupled with the ease of growing and selling it. /// Les herbages d'Imperata cylindrica dans les rgions montagneuses de la Thalande septentrionale sont considrs dans cette tude en rapport avec 1) certaines misconceptions populaires, 2) la succession  l'I. cylindrica, et 3) une suggestion pour un systme d'assolement (alternance de pturage et d'agriculture). L'I. cylindrica ne recouvre que 2,5 pour-cent de la superficie de la Thalande septentrionale, presque uniquement entre 1000 et 2000 mtres d'altitude. Les caractristiques de la ligne de partage des eaux des herbages d'I. cylindrica ne sont pas infrieures  celles des forts. Des pturages ameliors sont faciles  tablir dans ces herbages; l'I. cylindrica est broute immdiatement, rsultant en une dominance des espces semes. L'I. cylindrica se trouve principalement dans les zones de divagation des cultures (mas/opium), et il semblerait qu'elle envahit les terres du fait de la suppression de l'ombrage lorsqu'elle est au stade de graine et de plantule. Un pturage d'espces semes, fertilis au phosphore et au soufre, amliore beaucoup la croissance des plantes cultives subsquemment. Il est recommand de semer les herbages d'I. cylindrica avec l'espce Desmodium intortum  feuilles vertes, et de les utiliser pour le pturage pendant 2 ou 3 ans, puis pour la culture pendant 2 ans. Les dtails de gestion sont fournis dans cette tude. Les obstacles majeurs  la pratique de l'assolement sont les attitudes locales implantes, le manque d'expertise et d'intrt de la part des organismes officiels, et la facilit actuelle de cultiver l'opium pour le vendre  un prix lev. /// Abgehandelt werden das Miverstndnis um Imperata cylindrica in der Bevlkerung, die Position in der kologischen Wachsfolge, und angedeutet das "Ley Farming" System (crop-pasture rotation). Nur 2.5 Prozent der Flche Nordthailands ist mit I. cylindrica bewachsen. Alle Gebiete befinden sich auf einer Hhe zwischen 1000 und 2000 m ber dem Meeresspiegel. Der Wasserscheidencharakter von I. cylindrica steht dem von Waldgebieten nicht nach. I. cylindrica wird von den Tieren gerne aufgenommen, auerdem ist es relativ einfach, die Qualitt der Weiden im I. cyl. Gebiet zu verbessern, auf denen dann, nach Abweidung, die eingesten Hlsenfrchte dominieren. I. cylindrica wchst hauptschlich in Mais/Opium Anbaugebieten. Es wird angedeutet, da I. cyl. hier gerade wegen der Verkleinerung der Schattenzonen, whrend seiner Keimzeit vordringt. Eine angelegte "legume" Weide, die mit Phosphor und Schwefel gedngt wurde, erhht signifikant das Wachstum der abfolgenden Feldfrchte. Es wird vorgeschlagen, I. cyl. Grasland mit Desmodium intortum zu bersen, fr 2-3 Jahre zu beweiden, und dann "upland crops" fr die Dauer von weiteren 2 Jahren einzusetzen. Managementeinzelheiten sind aufgezeigt. Die Hauptstrmungen gegen die Annahme dieses Systems entspringen festgefahrenen Denkschemata, Mangel an Fachwissen und Interesse bei den Verantwortlichen und der hohe Preis, bzw. das problemlose Handhaben von Opiumbau und -verkauf.
4540682|Mountains and mountain societies provide a wide range of goods and services to humanity, but they are particularly sensitive to the effects of global environmental change. Thus, the definition of appropriate management regimes that maintain the multiple functions of mountain regions in a time of greatly changing climatic, economic, and societal drivers constitutes a significant challenge. Management decisions must be based on a sound understanding of the future dynamics of these systems. The present article reviews the elements required for an integrated effort to project the impacts of global change on mountain regions, and recommends tools that can be used at 3 scientific levels (essential, improved, and optimum). The proposed strategy is evaluated with respect to UNESCO's network of Mountain Biosphere Reserves (MBRs), with the intention of implementing it in other mountain regions as well. First, methods for generating scenarios of key drivers of global change are reviewed, including land use/land cover and climate change. This is followed by a brief review of the models available for projecting the impacts of these scenarios on (1) cryospheric systems, (2) ecosystem structure and diversity, and (3) ecosystem functions such as carbon and water relations. Finally, the cross-cutting role of remote sensing techniques is evaluated with respect to both monitoring and modeling efforts. We conclude that a broad range of techniques is available for both scenario generation and impact assessments, many of which can be implemented without much capacity building across many or even most MBRs. However, to foster implementation of the proposed strategy, further efforts are required to establish partnerships between scientists and resource managers in mountain areas.
mounresedeve.33.1.75|Mountain river basins provide the majority of western North America with snowmelt runoff water resources throughout the late springearly summer snowmelt season. However, this snowmelt water resource is extremely vulnerable to any changes in air temperature and precipitation. Studies of larger mountain river basins have projected potentially warmer and drier climates in the future, but the resolution of these studies is often incompatible with smaller basins and subsequent water resources planning. The purpose of this study was to test the potential of increasing the resolution of future climate projections by combining a series of surface and upper-level atmospheric datasets using a statistical downscaling technique and to then project how the future climate could change for a typical small snowmelt fed mountain basin in western North America, the Animas River Basin, Colorado, over the course of the 21st century. Results indicated that, in general, a warmer and drier climate may occur, with this technique more effectively capturing changes in air temperature over precipitation. With this kind of data at hand, increasing levels of sustainable water resource planning for a range of future climate scenarios may be achieved for mountain river basins of a similar scale.
mounresedeve.34.4.315|Degraded terraced landscapes are one of the most characteristic landscapes of abandonment in the European mountains. Especially in the last few decades, increasingly terraces have been losing their functionality, undermining the stability of slopes. Public initiatives and scientific surveys focusing on such landscapes have recently increased, but the problems of maintaining and managing abandoned areas are still acute. A project promoting adoption of abandoned terraces, which began in 2010 in the Brenta Valley in the Veneto region, Italy, is a small but interesting attempt to revitalize a traditional landscape through new forms of social management. The success of this initiative provides an opportunity to reflect on new forms of family farming in periurban European mountain contexts that retain some characteristics of Alpine culturegenerating new forms of community and solidarity, farming practices oriented toward multifunctionality, and relations marked by multiscalarity. These practices involving new family farmers differ from both traditional productive farming and modern marketbased economy. However, in order to improve and expand, such new family farming will require innovative forms of governance and partnership between city and mountain residents, going beyond the tourism- and conservation-based models of the 20th century.
mounresedeve.33.1.40|This paper presents the results of research on local air pollution (nitrogen and sulfur concentrations) and on the changes in the health status of trees observed in spruce stands in the period 19802011 in the Krkonoe Mountains National Park. Data on precipitation and sulfur and nitrogen deposition were collected in regular 2-week intervals from 1994 to 2010. Precipitation was measured at 5 monitoring stations; the health status of forest stands was evaluated on 6 research plots located in stands dominated by Norway spruce (Picea abies [L.] Karst) in zones where there has been a significant threat from air pollution since 1980. The health status of spruce stands was assessed on the basis of the degree of defoliation, classified into 6 levels. In all localities since 1994, the total deposition of sulfates decreased significantly, from 5080 kg ha
mounresedeve.30.2.94|New tools and methodologies are required in systemic planning and management of mountain protected areas. Among others we propose here a decision support toolbox (DST) conceived as an integrated collection of both soft and hard system methodologies, consisting of participatory and computer-based modules to provide a set of integrated, self-contained tools and approaches to support decision-making processes in the management of mountain protected areas. The Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone (SNPBZ) in Nepal was taken as a pilot case. A number of participatory exercises such as participatory 3-dimensional modeling, scenario planning, and qualitative modeling were carried out to understand social-ecological processes and generate a systemic view over space and time. The qualitative models were then converted into computer-based system dynamics models. The design and development of DST software were carried out with an incremental and modular approach. This process involved stakeholder analysis and decision-making processes through a series of consultations. The software was developed with the main modules including scenario analysis, spatial analysis, and knowledge base. The scenario analysis module runs system dynamics models built in Simile software and provides functions to link them with spatial data for model inputs and outputs. The spatial analysis module provides the basic geographic information system functions to explore, edit, analyze, and visualize spatial information. The knowledge base module was developed as a metadata management system for different categories of information such as spatial data, bibliography, research data, and models. The development of DST software, especially system dynamics modeling and its linkage with spatial components, provided an important methodological approach for spatial and temporal integration. Furthermore, training and interactions with park managers and concerned stakeholders showed that DST is a useful platform for integrating data and information and better understanding ecosystem behavior as a basis for management decisions.
10.2307/3673631|The distribution of geoecological units in the Norte Chico is the result of a complex evolution, which is reconstructed here for Upper Quaternary time, based on geomorphologic and pedologic studies. A humid phase around 30,000 B.P. is documented within the Andes only, followed by arid conditions throughout the Norte Chico during the Last Glacial Temperature Minimum (LGTM; 19,000 B.P.). The main phase of soil development from the coast up to 3,400 m occurred during the Late Glacial period. Following that, the climate became more arid and warmer, manifested by a less dense vegetation cover and increasing influence of heavy rains, leading to severe soil erosion and activation of alluvial fans. Outside the Andes these arid conditions prevailed during the Early- to Mid-Holocene, while above 2,500 m a warm Holocene climatic optimum accompanied by greater humidity is documented from the soils at that time; this indicates a strong contrast between the Andes and their western foreland. The present semi-arid conditions developed some 3,000 years ago, leading to semi-stable geoecological conditions which have become increasingly influenced by human activity. /// La distribution des units gocologiques dans le Norte Chico rsulte d'une volution complexe qui est retrace dans cet article pour le quaternaire suprieur, sur la base d'tudes gomorphologiques et pdologiques. Une phase humide environ 30.000 ans avant l'poqie actuelle est documente pour les Andes uniquement, suivie de conditions arides pour la totalit du Norte Chico au cours du dernier minimum de temprature glaciaire il y a 19.000 ans. La phase principale de formation des sols, du niveau de la mer jusqu' 3.400 m, s'est droule  la fin de la priode glaciaire. Le climat est ensuite devenu plus aride et chaud, caractris pour une couverture vgtale moins dense et une influence accrue des grosses pluies, ce qui a entran une rosion intense du sol et la formation de cnes alluviaux. En dehors des Andes, ces conditions arides ont domin du dbut jusqu'au milieu de l'Holocne, alors qu'au-dessus de 2.500 m un optimum climatique chaud, accompagn d'une plus grande humidit, est document dans les sols de cette poque, indiquant un contraste marqu entre les Andes et les terres adjacentes  l'Ouest. Les conditions semi-arides actuelles se sont dveloppes il y a environ 3.000 ans et ont men  des conditions gocologiques semi-stables qui sont de plus en plus influences par les activits humaines. /// Die heutige Verteilung geokologischer Einheiten im "Norte Chico" ist das Ergebnis einer komplexen Landschaftsentwicklung, die hier, basierend auf der Grundlage geomorphologischer und pedologischer Untersuchungen, fr das Jungquartr vorgestellt wird. Um 30.000 B.P. ist eine humide Phase in den Anden dokumentiert. Danach sind aride Verhltnisse fr den ganzen "Norte Chico" kennzeichnend, die mit dem "letztkaltzeitlichen Temperaturminimum" (LGTM, 19.000 B.P.) zusammenfallen. Im relativ feuchten Sptglazial erfolgte die Hauptphase der Bodenbildung, die von der Kste bis auf etwa 3.400m .M. zu verfolgen ist. Danach wird es kologisch trockener und wrmer, die Vegetationsbedeckung nimmt ab und die Starkregen nehmen an Hufigkeit und/oder Intensitt zu. Dies fhrt zu starker Bodenerosion und Aktivierung der Schwemmfcher. Auerhalb der Anden halten diese ariden Bedingungen whrend des Frh- und Mittelholozns an, whrend oberhalb 2.500m .M. gleichzeitig ein warm-feuchtes Klimaoptimum durch Bden reprsentiert ist. In dieser Phase besteht ein starker Kontrast zwischen der Entwicklung in den Anden und ihrem Vorland. Das aktuelle semiaride Klima stellte sich vor etwa 3.000 Jahren ein und fhrte zu semistabilen geokologischen Verhltnissen, in die der Mensch mehr und mehr eingreift.
3674651|The importance of montane regions for biological diversity is well known. We also know that mountains contain a great deal of cultural diversity, despite the relatively small number of people living in mountains compared to other regions. What has been less explored is the interrelationship between mountains, biological diversity, and cultural diversity. The study of biocultural diversity involves a search for patterns across landscapes. As an inherently spatial phenomenon, biocultural diversity can readily be explored through the use of Geographical Information Systems (GIS). Our research has resulted in the development of a global database and map noting the linkage between high linguistic diversity and high plant diversity in montane regions throughout the world. In the present paper we focus mainly on the island of New Guinea to illustrate how important mountains are for biocultural diversity. The implications of this research for identifying areas in need of conservation and development strategies aimed at both biological and cultural diversity are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3673307|Mountain ecosystems are characterized by abrupt changes in elevation, rugged terrain, and pronounced seasonal variations in climate and food availability. These conditions have resulted in the evolution of moderate-sized, gregarious ungulates that escape their predators by fleeing into cliffs, have relatively small, fixed home ranges, and typically perform a seasonal altitudinal migration. The purpose of this paper is to review the behavioural adaptations of mountain-dwelling ungulates and, more specifically, to show how behavioural research can aid in the development of effective methods of management and conservation. Idiosyncracies of adaptation necessitate special management considerations and prompt reconsideration of traditional management schemes. /// Les cosystmes montagnards sont caractriss par d'abrupts changements d'altitude, un terrain accident, et des variations saisonnires marques du climat et de la disponibilit des ressources alimentaires. Ces conditions ont engendr l'volution d'onguls socitaires de taille moyenne qui fuient dans les falaises pour chapper aux prdateurs, qui ont des domaines fixes, et migrent  diffrentes altitudes selon la saison. Le but de cette tude est de passer en revue les adaptations du comportement des onguls montagnards et, en particulier, de dmontrer comment les sciences du comportement peuvent aider  mettre au point des mthodes efficaces de contrle et de protection. Les particularits de l'adaptation ncessitent des considrations spciales sur le contrle et une rvaluation prompte des mthodes de contrle traditionnelles. /// Gebirgskosysteme sind durch abrupte Hhenunterschiede, zerklftetes Gelnde und ausgesprochen saisonbedingte Klimaunterschiede, sowie durch ihr Futteraufkommen charakterisiert. Diese Umstnde fhrten zur Entwicklung von mittelgroen, in Herden lebenden Huftieren, die sich ihren Verfolgern durch Flucht auf Felsvorsprnge entziehen. Sie nehmen einen verhltnismig engbegrenzten Lebensraum ein, den sie jahreszeitlich bedingt durch Migration in andere Hhenlagen verndern. Absicht dieser Verffentlichung ist es, die Verhaltensanpassung von gebirgsheimischen Huftieren zusammenzufassen und daneben zu berprfen, ob Verhaltensforschung helfen kann, effektivere Management- und Erhaltungsmethoden zu entwickeln. Spezielle Verhaltenseigenarten verlangen daraufhinzielendes Management und darber hinaus auch Korrekturen von gebruchlichen Managementmethoden.
4540654|In the debate about sacred mountains, authors often voice the opinion that sacredness is endangered by, or even lost under the influence of, modern economic and social development. But how legitimate is it to generalize this assumption or assessment? The present article shows that, in the case of Europe, history has proceeded in the opposite direction: here, one can observe clear indications of a sacralization process during the modem era, while in earlier periods mountains had much less religious significance. This paper first demonstrates that there are signs of an increase in the sense of the sacredness of mountains in Europe, in both religious and non-religious domains since the 16th century; it then places this development in the context of the particular Christian tradition and its redefinition during the modern age of economic and intellectual modernization. The evidence is taken mainly from the Alpine area.
3674603|Fulufjllet, with an area of 385 km<sup>2</sup>, was recently designated Sweden's 28th national park. This article describes how the park establishment process turned negative local opinion positive. The basis for success was a shift of focus from restrictions inside the boundaries of the national park to opportunities outside. This "inside-out" process implies a new approach to area protection and local community participation in Sweden. This is in line with the contemporary Swedish nature conservation strategy based on the principle of sustainability, which takes account of both ecological and socioeconomic development in a district.
mounresedeve.35.2.115|Lesotho's landlocked mountainous setting with thin regolith cover and poor economic situation make it vulnerable to hazardous events associated with climate such as drought, floods, strong winds, heavy snowfall, and severe frost. To date, no quantitatively based vulnerability assessment has been undertaken in this heavily populated, developing region in southern Africa. The primary aim of this study was to assess social vulnerability of communities to natural hazards by applying a place-based social vulnerability index developed for the United States, to the Lesotho context. The study used 2006 Lesotho census data, district government records, and household interviews to identify 27 indicators of social vulnerability in southern Lesotho, and then used principal components analysis to generate a social vulnerability index for the study region. Index scores were summed and then mapped to quantify spatial variability in social vulnerability. The study results show a clustering of highly vulnerable communities in the rural highlands as a result of underdevelopment, poverty, and inaccessibility.
mounresedeve.35.1.4|Malta orange (Citrus sinensis) is an important cash crop in the mountain state of Uttarakhand, India. Smallholder farmers growing it face multiple challenges due to unorganized and inaccessible markets; they are forced to sell to intermediaries at very low prices. In response, the government of Uttarakhand introduced a minimum support price for Malta oranges; however, this failed to address farmers' problems due to poor implementation. This paper presents the results of an action research project with farmers in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand to develop farmers' resilience by upgrading their position in the Malta orange value chain, targeting production, processing, and marketing through communitybased enterprise development. Information was collected before and after the intervention by various means, including stakeholder meetings, focus group discussions, and interviews with farmers and value chain facilitators. Activities supported by the research have contributed to increased productivity and farmer incomes. Farmers became better organized, and their bargaining power improved considerably. The enterprise-based upgrading process brought about an inclusive and pro-poor Malta orange value chain system with improved terms of engagement for smallholder farmers. The research results show that policy change, improved provision of technical and financial services, establishment of common facility centers, and strengthening of farmers' institutions are imperative to enable smallholder farmers to engage in value chains and thus increase their resilience.
3674483|Grassland degradation in China is widely perceived to be accelerating, and the blame is often placed by government officials and researchers on a supposed "tragedy of the commons." Grassland policy seeks to address this through the establishment of household tenure and the derivation and external enforcement of household stocking rates. Drawing upon the authors' field research at a number of sites in western China, this article argues that the actual tenure situation is not as open access as is commonly implied and that existing forms of community-based management (including collective and small group tenure) are advantageous, given the socioeconomic and ecological context. Among other things, community-based management can facilitate low-cost external exclusion, economies of size in herd supervision, equal access to pastoral resources, the mitigation of environmental risk, and the prompt resolution of grassland-related disputes. Recent innovative attempts to both improve and formalize collective and group tenure arrangements indicate that there is a wide range of different possible grassland tenure-management models available, in addition to the household tenure-household management model emphasized in grassland policy. China's revised Grassland Law (2003) arguably provides legal space for these alternative models. However, for the future of community-based grassland management to be secure, implementing agencies need to be more aware of these alternative models and have the willingness and capacity to adopt a flexible and participatory approach to grassland policy implementation.
3674271|Snow leopards that prey on poor farmers' livestock pose a twofold problem: they endanger farmers' precarious mountain livelihoods as well as the survival of the snow leopard as a unique species since farmers engage in retaliatory killings. Project Snow Leopard (PSL), a recent pilot initiative in Baltistan, involves a partnership between local farmers and private enterprise in the form of an insurance scheme combined with ecotourism activities. Farmers jointly finance the insurance scheme through the payment of premiums per head of livestock they own, while the remaining funds are provided by profits from trekking expeditions focusing on the snow leopard. The insurance scheme is jointly managed by a village management committee and PSL staff. The scheme is structured in such a way that villagers monitor each other and have incentives to avoid cheating the system.
10.2307/3673199|There is much international interest in the ecological condition of the heavily populated mountain region of the Nepal Himalaya. Claims are frequently made that deforestation in this heavily populated region has negative effects on downstream flooding and sedimentation. The implication is that deforestation results in compaction of the soil with a consequent decrease in infiltration capacity and an increase in surface runoff (and hence flooding potential). This study examines soil hydraulic properties of a typical area in the Middle Hills where a forestation programme has been in operation for about 12 years. Measurements of infiltration and permeability were made at a range of depths up to one metre in areas representative of the various forest land-use categories. The results indicate that in a site which has been deforested for probably a century, and very heavily grazed, the surface 10 cm was noticeably compacted. However, under the prevailing rainfall regime only 17 percent of the monsoon season rain-days included rainfall events for which the 5-minute intensity exceeded the surface infiltration rate. Five- and 12-year-old plantation forests established on such sites exhibited higher surface infiltration rates than the grazed area and this probably reflects an amelioration in the surface soil condition following plantation establishment and protection from grazing. The general conclusion is that infiltration of most of the monsoon season rainfall would not be impeded by the soils measured in this study and very little overland flow could be expected except in the heaviest of the monsoon season rain events. The findings are relevant for the humid sections of the Himalaya and do not necessarily apply to areas characterized by semi-arid conditions. The data refute the contention that deforestation necessarily results in an increase in large-scale flooding, and conversely that forestation would decrease the frequency or magnitude of such flooding. /// Il existe  prsent un gros intrt international au sujet de la situation cologique des rgions montagnardes trs peuples de l'Himalaya npalais. Il est souvent mentionn que le dboisement de ces rgions contribue aux inondations et  la sdimentation en amont. L'implication est que le dboisement entrane un compactage du sol qui rduit sa capacit d'infiltration et augmente l'coulement de surface, donc les risques d'inondations. Cette tude examine les proprits hydrauliques du sol dans une rgion typique des montagnes centrales, o un programme de boisement a t mis en oeuvre il y a une douzaine d'annes. Des mesures de l'infiltration et de la permabilit ont t faites  diffrentes profondeurs jusqu' un mtre, dans plusieurs zones reprsentant les diffrentes catgories d'utilisation des forts. Les rsultats indiquent que pour un site ayant t dbois pendant probablement un sicle et trs fortement brout, la surface du sol tait compacte sur une profondeur de 10 cm. Nanmoins, si l'on considre le rgime des pluies prvalent dans la rgion, au plus 17 pour cent des jours de mousson comprennent des priodes pour lesquelles l'intensit de la pluie pendant 5 minutes dpasse la vitesse d'infiltration  la surface du sol. Les forts plantes il y a 5 et 12 ans sur de tels sites ont des vitesses d'infiltration plus leves que la zone broute, refltant probablement une amlioration de la surface du sol de  la plantation d'arbres et la protection contre le pacage. La conclusion gnrale est que l'infiltration des eaux de pluie pendant la mousson ne devrait pas tre affecte par les sols mesurs dans le cadre de cette tude, et que l'coulement de surface devrait tre minime si l'on ignore les courtes priodes de pluies diluviennes. Ces rsultats s'appliquent aux secteurs humides de l'Himalaya, mais pas ncessairement aux zones caractrises par des conditions semi-arides. Ils contredisent l'opinion populaire que le dboisement contribue  une augmentation des inondations catastrophiques, et inversement que le boisement rduirait la frquence et l'importance de telles inondations. /// Es besteht groes, internationales Interesse an dem kologischen Zustand des dicht besiedelten nepalesischen Himalaya Berggebietes. Oft wird behauptet, da die Entwaldung dieser dicht besiedelten Region nachteilige Folgen auf berschwemmung und Sedimentation fluabwrts hat. Entwaldung fhrt zu Bodenverdichtungen mit folgender verringerter Einsickerungsfhigkeit und erhhter Abschwemmung (was die berschwemmungsgefahr erhht). Diese Arbeit untersucht die hydraulische Bodenbeschaffenheit eines typischen Gebietes in den Middle Hills, Nepal, in dem whrend der vergangenen 12 Jahre ein Aufforstungsprogramm betrieben wurde. Messungen von Einsickerungs- und Durchlssigkeitsraten wurden in Gebieten, die in verschiedene Waldnutzungskategorien eingeteilt waren, bis zu einer Tiefe von 1 m durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da in einem Gebiet, das ber die vergangenen 100 Jahre entwaldet und berweidet war, die oberen 10 cm mebar verdichtet sind. Unter dem vorherrschenden Regenzyklus enthielten nur 17% aller Regentage in der Monsunzeit solche Regenflle, bei denen die 5 Minuten Intensitt die Oberflcheninfiltrationsrate berschritt. Fnf und zwlf Jahre alte Schonungen, die im Testgebiet gepflanzt waren, zeigten hhere Einsickerungsraten als das Weideland, was mglicherweise auf eine verbesserte Durchlssigkeit der Bodenoberflche zurckzufhren ist, nachdem die Aufforstung vorgenommen war. Die Schlufolgerung ist, da Einsickerung des strksten Monsunregenfalls bei den in dieser Arbeit untersuchten Bden nicht erschwert wre und, abgesehen von starken Regenfllen in der Hauptmonsunzeit, wren nur geringe berschwemmungen zu erwarten. Diese Feststellungen sind fr die feuchten Gegenden des Himalaya relevant und knnen nicht unbedingt auf semi-aride Gebiete bertragen werden. Die Daten widerlegen die Behauptung, da Entwaldung zwangslufig zu hufigeren, greren berschwemmungen fhrt und umgekehrt wird widerlegt, da Aufforstung die Hufigkeit und das Ausma solcher berschwemmungen mindert.
mounresedeve.35.1.87|Big data. For some, it is a vaguely apocalyptic term; for others, it represents a new era of understanding our environment and ourselves. Today, big data are being harnessed in ever more innovative ways that simply were not possible when we only had small sets of data to work with. Although mountain system research does not yet produce the vast quantities of data that are now common to other fields, there are nevertheless many data that, if pooled, could provide new insights into how mountain socioecological systems function. As the Mountain Research Initiative's Concerted Efforts progress, it becomes clear that it is time for the mountain research community to harness the lessons and power of at least medium data to develop a stronger, evidence-based understanding of both the generalities and the specificities of mountain systems.
10.2307/3673728|The Rigi Mountain is situated about 15 km east of Lucerne, Switzerland. This general area, located on the northern border of the Swiss Alps, receives high annual precipitation totals. Therefore the Gotthard railroad, which carries very heavy traffic, is endangered by rockfalls and mountain torrents. In addition, the forest on the Rigi North Face above the railway line, although zoned as "protection forest," is showing extensive damage believed due to air pollution. Thus, its effectiveness as protection against hazards must be examined. This paper describes very detailed field observations with a high degree of objectivity, that led to maps of the dangerous processes. These included the entire section of the railway track and all possible danger locations. A geographical information system, covering each forest plot and the potential damage, provides a basis for rapid information up-dating. From this, priorities and procedures for developing protective measures can be derived. /// Le mont Rigi se trouve  environ 15 kilomtres  l'est de Lucerne, Suisse. Cette rgion, situe sur la bordure suprieure des Alpes suisses, reoit des prcipitations annuelles leves. Pour cette raison, la voie ferre du Saint-Gothard, sur laquelle passe un lourd trafic, est menace par des boulements et des crues de torrents de montagne. De plus, la fort situe sur la face nord du Rigi au-dessus de la voie ferre, bien que classifie "fort de protection", est srieusement endommage, probablement  cause de la pollution atmosphrique. Pour cette raison, son efficacit en tant que protection contre les dangers naturels doit tre examine. Cet article dcrit avec beaucoup d'objectivit des observations trs dtailles effectues sur le terrain, qui ont men  l'laboration de cartes de dangers naturels. Ces cartes couvrent toute la longueur de la voie ferre et tous les emplacements possibles de dangers. Un systme d'information gographique, couvrant chaque parcelle de fort et les dangers potentiels, fournit une fondation pour la mise  jour rapide de l'information. Des priorits et des procdures pour la mise au point de mesures protectives peuvent en tre dduites. /// Der Rigi Bergstock liegt etwa 15 km stlich von Luzern, Schweiz, an der nrdlichen Grenze der schweizer Alpen. Dieses Gebiet hat eine hohe jhrliche Niederschlagsrate. Aus diesem Grund ist die verkehrsreiche Gotthard Eisenbahnstrecke durch Steinschlag und Sturzbche gefhrdet. Hinzu kommt, da oberhalb der Bahnlinie der Wald an den Nordhngen des Rigi - obwohl er unter "Waldschutz" steht - schwere Schden aufweist, die der Luftverschmutzung zugeschrieben werden. Dies erfordert eine berprfung seiner Schutzwirksamkeit gegen Gefahren. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt sehr objektiv detaillierte Beobachtungen vor Ort, die eine Kartierung der gefhrdenden Vorgnge zulassen. Darin eingeschlossen ist der gesamte Bahnabschnitt und alle etwaigen Gefahrenstellen. Ein geographisches Informationsschema, das jeden Waldabschnitt mit seinen potentiellen Gefahrenstellen erfat, liefert die Grundlage, die Gefahrenlage schnell auf den neusten Stand zu bringen. Daraus knnen Prioritten und Schutzvorkehrungen abgeleitet werden.
3674148|Shepherds on horseback tend sheep on green mountain pastures: an idyllic image of Kyrgyzstan, a mountainous country in the heart of Asia, that hides the harsh reality of life after the collapse of the Soviet Union. The radical change from a planned economy to a free market economy caused an almost complete breakdown of Kyrgyzstan's industry and interrupted trade flows. Today, many families in rural areas depend on subsistence agriculture, living below the poverty line. Kyrgyzstan has formed a new agricultural advisory service to render assistance to rural families in this difficult transition period. In the absence of adequate formal research, this extension service relies on participatory methods to develop messages adapted to the new situation. It makes use of a participatory smallholder research methodology known as participatory technology development.
25164104|The pattern and magnitude of deforestation that occurred from 1972 to 2000 in the south central Rift Valley of Ethiopia were analyzed using remote sensing change detection techniques. The results show that natural forest cover declined from 16% in 1972 to 2.8% in 2000. The total natural forest cleared between 1972 and 2000 amounted to 40,324 ha, corresponding to an annual loss of 1440 ha. The total loss was 82% of the 1972 forest cover and the annual loss was equivalent to 0.9% of the national figure. The forest decline in the area involved proximate causal factors as well as causal factors that are more spatially diffuse and are part of the long-term evolution of a region much larger than the study area. In order of importance, the major causes of change were small-scale agriculture, commercial logging, and commercial farms. Two major modes of change were observed: 1) internal, ie openings created by small farm plots, grazing lands, and villages; and 2) external, ie expansion of agriculture from the exterior into the forests. The main consequences of deforestation were habitat destruction and decline of water availability.
10.2307/3673211|The Ganges and Brahmaputra plains are identified as one of the most densely populated regions of the world and one suffering from rapid population growth and increasing poverty. Enormous water and hydroelectric resources in the neighbouring Himalaya, especially Nepal, and deep ground-water sources provide an important potential for successful development. This paper outlines the scope of these resources, describes the planning steps that have already been taken, and explains the possible role of the World Bank in assisting the governments of the region. /// Les plaines du Gange et du Brahmaputra reprsentent l'une des rgions les plus peuples du monde, avec une croissance dmographique rapide et une pauvret croissante. Les normes ressources en eau et en hydrolectricit de l'Himalaya, en particulier le Npal, et des nappes profondes d'eau souterraine crent un potentiel important pour le dveloppement. Cette tude dfinit l'tendue de ces ressources, dcrit les activits de planification dj compltes, et prcise le rle possible de la Banque mondiale pour aider les gouvernements de la rgion. /// Die Ebenen des Ganges und Brahmaputra sind unter den dichtbesiedelsten Gebieten der Welt, wo schnelles Bevlkerungswachstum und wachsende Armut viel Not verursachen. Ausgiebige Wasser- und hydroelektrische Ressourcen im benachbarten Himalaya, besonders in Nepal, und Tiefbrunnen stellen ein wichtiges Potential fr erfolgreiche Entwicklung dar. Dieser Beitrag umreit den Umfang der Ressourcen, beschreibt Planungen, die bereits unternommen wurden und erklrt die Rolle, die die Weltbank bei Hilfeleistungen an die Regierungen dieses Gebietes spielen knnte.
10.2307/3673557|The commonly accepted orthodoxy of widespread and disastrous deforestation in the hills of Nepal is challenged. Most investigators have concentrated their efforts on documenting the declining condition of the hill forests and have overlooked the fluid nature of tree cover on private farm land. Oral history records from two districts in Central Nepal are used to illustrate the way in which the hill peasant farmers have been steadily increasing the tree cover on their farm land during at least the last 20 years. While there is probably still a substantial net loss of tree cover overall, the crisis dimensions are undoubtedly much less than are often portrayed. /// Cet article remet en question l'opinion gnralement accepte que la dforestation des rgions montagneuses du Npal est gnrale et dsastreuse. La plupart des chercheurs ont surtout essay de documenter le dclin des forts, mais ils ont nglig d'examiner la couverture d'arbres dans les exploitations agricoles prives. L'histoire orale recueillie dans deux districts du Npal Central est utilise pour illustrer la manire dont les exploitants des rgions montagneuses ont continuellement augment la couverture d'arbres sur leurs terres au cours des 20 dernires annes. Bien que dans l'ensemble, les pertes de couverture d'arbres soient probablement encore trs importantes, la situation est moins critique que la plupart des descriptions ne le laissent entendre. /// Die allgemein akzeptierte These von weitverbreiteter und katastrophaler Abholzung in den Bergen Nepals wird angezweifelt. Viele Nachforscher haben sich darauf konzentriert, den sich verschlechternden Zustand der Bergwlder zu dokumentieren und haben dabei die sich verndernden Zustnde bei der Aufforstung auf privatem Farmland bersehen. Mndliche Geschichtsberlieferungen aus zwei Gebieten Zentralnepals zeigen, da Bauern des Berggebietes whrend der vergangenen 20 Jahre den Baumbestand auf ihren Farmen stetig erhht haben. Es ist mglich, da der Baumbestand insgesamt weiterhin Verluste hinnehmen mu, dennoch ist das Ausma der Krise zweifelsohne geringer, als es oft dargestellt wird.
3674365|Owing to its physical environment, the upper Min River Basin, situated at an ecological transition belt in China, has long been a place where many ethnic groups have settled; it is also a corridor through which different ethnic groups have migrated from northwestern to southwestern China or vice versa. Apart from its recognized biodiversity, it is also a place of cultural diversity, as an ethno-cultural corridor in China. A number of ethnic groups such as the Qiang, Tibetan, Han, and Hui nationalities and their different sub-groups have lived here for many centuries. The distribution of these ethnic groups follows altitudinal patterns, with the Han and the Hui people living in river valleys, the Qiang at a higher altitude, and the Tibetans at the highest altitudes. This points to their respective historical roles and adaptation to different environments. Given the inaccessibility and geographical isolation of their environment, all ethnic groups have maintained much of their traditional cultures, while some sub-ethnic groups came into being due to recurrent wars and cultural assimilation between groups. At present, with mountain natural resources exploited and mountain areas being greatly developed, many ethnic cultures are threatened with extinction. Much work at both local level and policy level needs to be done to preserve these diversified cultures and the potential for sustainability that they harbor.
10.2307/3673548|Mount Kilimanjaro (5,896 m) in northeastern Tanzania is a huge volcanic cone the slopes of which are well endowed with fertile volcanic soils and abundant rainfall. They have supported an unusually dense population which increased from 128,000 in 1921 to 694,000 in 1978, and most of the people are concentrated in the wet highlands above 900 m. This created a land shortage and the average farm size decreased to one-tenth of that in 1921. The farmers were forced to diversify crops and intensify land use, and the carrying capacity of the land was more than doubled. Resource management techniques included terracing, irrigation, application of manure and fertilizer, and maintenance of shade trees to reduce soil erosion. Labour input per unit doubled between the 1930s and 1970; grazing lands and river valleys in the highlands were planted with coffee and bananas; and people settled in the dry lowlands to grow maize and cotton and to raise livestock. Further intensification by the introduction of dairying and cardamom growing may raise the carrying capacity, and the government has introduced new policies (irrigation, small-scale rural industries, outmigration) to try to maintain some stability and to correct the growing imbalance between resources and population in Kilimanjaro. /// Le Mont Kilimanjaro (5.896 m) dans le nord-est de la Tanzanie est un immense cne volcanique dont les versants sont recouverts de riches sols volcaniques recevant des pluies abondantes. En consquence, la population a rapidement augment, de 128.000 habitants en 1921  694.000 en 1978, les plus hautes concentrations se trouvant dans les hautes terres humides au-dessus de 900 m. Un manque de terres disponibles s'est manifest, si bien que la taille moyenne des fermes est maintenant un dixime de ce qu'elle tait en 1921. Les agriculteurs ont t obligs de diversifier leurs cultures et d'intensifier l'exploitation du sol; la charge globale a plus que doubl. Des techniques de gestion des ressources ont t appliques pour rduire l'rosion du sol, y compris la construction de terrasses, l'irrigation, l'application de fumier et d'engrais, ansi que la plantation d'essences d'ombre. La main d'oeuvre disponible par unit de surface a doubl entre 1930 et 1970, les pturages et les valles des hautes terres ont t plantes avec des cafiers et des bananiers, et la population s'est tabile dans les basses terres sches pour cultiver du mas et du coton et lever du btail. Une plus grande intensification par l'introduction de l'levage laitier et de la culture du cardamome pourrait encore augmenter la charge globale, et le gouvernement a pris de nouvelles mesures (irrigation, industries rurales  petite chelle, migration en dehors de la rgion) pour essayer de maintenir une certaine stabilit et de rectifier le dsquilibre croissant entre les ressources et la population du Kilimanjaro. /// Der Kilimanscharo (5.896 m) in Nordost Tansania ist ein riesiger vulkanischer Kegelberg, dessen fruchtbare Hnge ausreichend Niederschlge erhalten. Dieses Ackerland versorgte eine ungewhnlich groe Bevlkerung, die von 128.000 im Jahre 1921 auf 694.000 im Jahre 1978 anwuchs. Die Besiedelung konzentrierte sich auf die feuchten Hochlnder oberhalb 900 m, was zu Landverknappung fhrte. Die durchschnittliche Gre eines landwirtschaftlichen Betriebes verringerte sich auf 1/10 der Gre von 1921. Die Bauern waren gezwungen, Mischkulturen anzubauen, und die Landnutzung zu intensivieren, wodurch sich die Ertragsfhigkeit verdoppelte. Ressource-Managementmethoden wie Terrassierung, Bewsserung, Anwendung von Natur-und Kunstdnger und Erhaltung von Schattenbumen zur Reduzierung der Bodenerosion wurden angewendet. Zwischen 1930 und 1970 verdoppelte sich der Arbeitsaufwand pro Flche; Weideflchen und Talgrnde in den Hochlndern wurden mit Kaffee und Bananen bepflanzt; Menschen siedelten in den trockenen Tieflanden, um Mais und Baumwolle anzubauen und Viehzucht zu betreiben. Eine weitere Intensivierung durch Einfuhr von Milchkhen und Kardamomanbau knnte die Ertragsfhigkeit erhhen; daneben hat Regierungspolitik (z.B. Bewsserung, kleinbuerliche Industrien, Abwanderung) dazu beigetragen, eine gewisse Stabilitt aufrechtzuerhalten und das wachsende Ungleichgewicht zwischen Ressourcen und der Bevlkerungsdichte am Kilimanscharo auszugleichen.
10.2307/3672945|From the first extensive study of the vegetation of Tibet it is concluded that neither the traditional altitudinal nor lowland latitudinal zonations can be applied. A special case of "high plateau zonation" is proposed. The Tibetan vegetational plateau zones are as follows from southeast to northwest: montane forest; high-cold meadow; high-cold steppe; semi-desert; and high-cold desert. This formation has resulted from the geologically recent massive uplift of the plateau and its impact on the atmospheric circulation. The Southwest Monsoon exerts a major influence on the tropical and subtropical forest zones. The main level of the plateau, however, is controlled by the Tibetan High and the Westerlies. The July mean isotherms of 9C (in the west) and 11C (in the east) are the determinant "high-cold" vegetation lines. The boundary between steppe and meadow closely coincides with the 400 mm annual isohyet in the north and the 500 mm isohyet in the south. The transition between steppe and desert approximates the 100 mm isohyet. Because of its special vegetational characteristics the Tibetan Plateau must be recognized as an independent region; the montane forest zone, in contrast, is part of the Eastern and Southeastern Asiatic subtropical and tropical forest regions. Tibet is situated at the "crossroads" of the vegetation regions of the Old World and is the key to an understanding of the geographic zonality and regionalism of Asiatic vegetation. This new knowledge is also important as a basis for rational exploitation of renewable natural resources. /// A la suite de la premire tude pousse de la vgtation du Thibet, on peut conclure que ni le zonage altitudinaire traditionnel, ni le zonage latitudinaire des rgions basses ne s'appliquent ici. Un cas spcial de "zonage de hauts plateaux" est avanc. Les zones de vgtation du plateau Thibetain sont les suivantes, du sud-est au nord-ouest: fort alpine, herbages hauts-froids; steppes hautes-froides; semi-dsert; et dsert haut-froid. Cette formation est le rsultat d'un soulvement massif du plateau  une poque rcente et de son impact sur la circulation atmosphrique. La Mousson du Sud-Ouest exerce une influence majeure sur les zones forestires tropicales et subtropicales. Nanmoins, le climat au niveau principal du plateau est dtermin par l'anticyclone Thibetain et les vents d'Ouest. Les isothermes moyennes de juillet a 9C ( l'Ouest) et 11C ( l'Est) dterminent en grande partie les lignes de vgtation "haute-froide." La dmarcation entre les steppes et les herbages coincide presque avec l'isohyte annuelle de 400 mm au Nord et l'isohyte de 500 mm au Sud. La transition entre les steppes et le dsert est approximativement  l'isohyte de 100 mm. A cause des caractristiques particulires de sa vgtation, le Plateau Thibetain se doit d'tre reconnu comme une rgion indpendente; par contre, la zone de fort alpine fait partie des rgions forestires tropicales et subtropicales de l'Asie de l'Est et du Sud-Est. Le Thibet est situ au "carrefour" des rgions de vgtation du Vieux Monde; il est la clef d'une bonne comprhension du zonage gographique et de rgionalisme de la vgtation asiatique. Ces nouvelles connaissances sont galement importantes en tant que fondation pour une exploitation rationnelle des ressources naturelles renouvelables. /// Aus der ersten umfassenden Studie ber die Vegetation in Tibet ergibt sich, da weder die herkmmliche Einteilung nach Hhenlagenzonen noch nach Tiefland-Breiten angewendet werden kann. Eine besondere "Hochland-Zonierung" wird vorgeschlagen. Die Vegetationsgrtel des tibetischen Hochlandes sind vom Sdosten zum Nordwesten hin folgende: Gebirgswald, hoch-kalte Wiesen und hoch-kalte Steppe, Halbwste und Wste. Diese Gliederung ist durch die geologisch jngste Erhebung des Plateaus und deren Folgen auf die Luftstrmung entstanden. Der Sdwest Monsun bt einen betrchtlichen Einflu auf die tropischen und subtropischen Waldzonen aus. Das tibetische Hoch und Westwinde (Westerlies) beherrschen das Hauptgebiet des Plateaus. Die mittleren Juli-Temperaturlinien von 9C im Westen und 11C in Osten bestimmen die hoch-kalten Vegetationsgrenzen. Die Grenze zwischen Steppe und Wiesenland liegt im Norden an der 400 mm Linie der Jahresniederschlagsmenge und im Sden an der 500 mm Linie. Der bergang von Steppe in Wste liegt ungefhr bei einem Jahresniederschlag von 100 mm. Wegen seiner besonderen Vegetationseigenschaften mu die tibetische Hochebene als selbststndige Region angesehen werden, die Gebirgswaldzone hingegen ist Teil der stlich-sdstlichen, subtropischen und tropischen Waldzonen. Tibet liegt am Scheidepunkt der Vegetationszonen der "alten Welt" und ist der Schlssel zum Verstndnis der geographischen Zoneneinteilung und regionalen Aufteilung der asiatischen Vegetation. Solches Wissen dient auerdem als Grundlage fr eine vernnftige Ausnutzung der erneuerbaren Naturschtze.
10.2307/3673094|This study analyses the recent patterns of human migration in the Northern Andes (Ecuador, Colombia, and Venezuela). A review of existing studies on migration in these countries is followed by delineation of the principal migratory patterns, the socio-economic characteristics of the migrants, and the temporal and spatial variations of migratory flows. In specific relation to the Venezuelan Andes, an evaluation of pertinent studies is made both to describe and to analyse the socio-historical method, first at the local level and then within a regional context. Finally, based on the most recent regional patterns of migratory behaviour, important areas of study which demand the attention of future researchers are indicated. /// Cette tude analyse les volutions rcentes des migrations humaines aux Andes du Nord (Ecuador, Colombie, et Venezuela). Une revue des tudes existantes ayant trait aux migrations dans ces pays est suivie d'une dlination des volutions migratoires principales, les caractristiques socio-conomiques des migrants, et les variations spatio-temporelles des taux migratoires. Une valuation des tudes propre aux Andes de Venezuela est effectue  l'effet de dcrire et d'analyser la mthode socio-historique sur le plan local et sur le plan rgional. Enfin, bass sur l'volution rgionale la plus rcente du comportement migratoire, des aspects importants mritant l'attention des tudes ultrieures ont t dsigns. /// Diese Studie analysiert die gegenwrtigen Migrationsvorgnge in den nrdlichen Anden. Vorhandene Untersuchungen ber Migration in diesen Lndern werden kurz erlutert, gefolgt von einer Beschreibung der wichtigsten Zu- und Abwanderungsbewegungen, der sozial-konomischen Merkmale der nicht sesshaften Bevlkerung, und der zeitlichen sowie rtlichen Vernderungen in der Bevlkerungsstruktur. Einschlgige Untersuchungen bezglich des Andengebietes von Venezuela werden ausgewertet, um den sozialgeschichtlichen Hintergrund auf lokaler und auf regionaler Ebene zu beschreiben und zu erklren. Basierend auf gegenwrtigen, regional bedingten Bevlkerungsverschiebungen werden abschliessend die wichtigen Probleme herausgestellt, die in Folgeuntersuchungen besondere Beachtung erfordern. /// Este estudio analiza los recientes patrones de migracin humana en los Andes del norte (Ecuador, Colombia y Venezuela). A una revisin de los estudios existentes de migracin en esos paises le sigue una descripcin de los modelos migratorios principales, de las caractersticas socio-econmicas de los migrantes y de las variacions espaciales y temporales de los flujos migratorios. En relacin a los Andes venezolanos en particular, se ha llevado a cabo una evaluacin de los estudios pertinentes con vistas a describir y a analizar el mtodo socio-histrico, primero a nivel local y despus dentro de un contexto regional. Finalmente, se indican aquellas reas importantes a estudiar que requieren la atencin de futuros investigadores en base a los patrones regionales de comportamiento migratorio ms recientes.
3674385|Since its founding, the United Nations has included among its goals poverty eradication, food security, "health for all," universal literacy and education, protection of the environment, and the end of social discrimination. Special international mobilizations for one particular goal (or a particular set of goals) have taken place several times during the past 50 years. The UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) movement is the latest and perhaps the most politically committed of these initiatives. UN summit declarations and subsequent international activism are beneficial at all levels: as a result of their momentum, policies are enhanced, funds raised, and programs implemented. However, there are sometimes unintended effects at the field level, where great pressure is put on project managers and staff to change approaches, invest money, scale up activities, and get "visible" results in a short time. The present case study illustrates such side effects in the context of the FAO Special Program for Food Security (SPFS) in Guatemala. The study argues that poverty and hunger reduction require long-term fieldwork and steady impact monitoring, and that the MDG-related "scaling-up" of development projects and programs should be adjusted to the local pace.
10.2307/3673050|The paper reports the role of two species of Sesbania in agriculture. S. aculeata was interplanted with rice in the Red River delta in North Vietnam where the subsistence farmer does not have the means to use fertilizer. The combination increases the yield of rice and produces a substantial amount of small fuelwood for domestic uses. S. grandiflora was interplanted with fruit trees in the traditional home gardens. This combination provides nutrients to fruit trees. In addition, it provides wood, fodder, and edible flowers. Both species have a good potential for pulp making. A research programme is outlined to quantify nutrient gains and identify industrial uses for the promising Sesbania spp. /// S. aculeata est plant avec le riz au N. Viet Nam o le paysan n'utilise pas les engrais. L'association augmente le rendement du riz et donne une bonne quantit de petit bois de feu pour usage domestique. S. grandiflora est complant avec les arbres fruitiers. La combinaison apporte des matires fertilizantes aux arbres fruitiers. De plus, Sesbania grandiflora donne du bois, du fourrage et des fleurs comestibles. Toutes les deux espces ont des qualits de pte  papier. Il est suggr de faire des recherches pour quantifier les gains en matire nutritive et pour trouver des usages en industries de ces deux espces. /// Die Verffentlichung beschreibt die Rolle zweier Sesbania Arten fr die Landwirtschaft. S. aculeata wird im Delta des roten Flusses in Nordvietnam zusammen mit Reis angebaut. In diesem Gebiet knnen die Bauern nur den Eigenbedarf decken, da sie die Kosten fr Dngemittel nicht aufbringen knnen. Solche Anbaukombination erhht den Reisertrag und liefert gleichzeitig eine Menge Feuerholz fr den Eigenbedarf. S. grandiflora wird zusammen mit Obstbumen im blichen Kleingarten angepflanzt. Diese Kombination liefert den Obstbumen Nhrstoffe, daneben Holz, Futtermittel und essbare Blten. Beide Arten sind zur Pulpeherstellung gut geeignet. Ein Untersuchungsprogramm wird skizziert, um den Nahrungsmittelzuwachs quantitativ zu erfassen und eine mgliche industrielle Nutzung der vielversprechenden Sesbania Arten zu bestimmen.
10.2307/3673022|Research undertaken in one of the four Unesco/MAB-6 test areas in the Swiss Alps provides data for discussion of the concept of stability and instability of mountain ecosystems which are subject to development, mostly in the form of tourism. A dynamic approach has been chosen to ascertain those factors and their controlling mechanisms which are able to slow down, or even prevent, the self-propagating extension of tourism. It is shown that a new dynamic equilibrium on all three levels considered, namely the economic, the social, and the ecological, can be achieved if the existing self-regulatory capacity of the system is deliberately used and so becomes a part of a future development strategy. Observations made in other areas and findings from associated research projects all suggest that some of these factors may be regarded as indicators that can be used in the assessment of potential instability in relation to the development, dependent on tourism, of a wider range of sites. /// Les recherches effectues dans la rgion-test d'Aletsch dans le cadre du programme MAB-6 suisse fournissent le matriel d'illustration et les bases empiriques permettant de considrer, dans la perspective d'un retour  des conditions stables, l'ouverture et le dveloppement d'une rgion alpine sous l'impact du tourisme. Dans les communes de la rgion-test, le passage de la socit agraire  la socit des services s'est produit en un peu moins de trois dcennies et engendra des dsquilibres vidents dans les domaines conomique, social, et cologique. Il faut donc se demander si un nouvel quilibre dynamique peut tre atteint sous ces conditions. Les tudes mettent en vidence quelques facteurs dterminants ainsi que les mcanismes qui les gouvernent. S'ils sont sciemment utiliss comme potentiel de rgulation dans la stratgie de dveloppement, ces facteurs pourraient contribuer  limiter l'expansion touristique et  stabiliser le dveloppement. La comparaison avec les rsultats d'tudes semblables montre que certains de ces facteurs peuvent tre utilises comme indicateurs gnraux. Ces derniers peuvent contribuer  l'valuation des risques et des chances d'un dveloppement dpendant du tourisme dans les communes de montagne. /// Die im Rahmen des schweizerischen MAB-Programmes durchgefhrten Untersuchungen im Testgebiet 'Aletsch' liefern das Anschauungsmaterial und die empirischen Grundlagen um den durch den Tourismus induzierten Weg der Oeffnung und Entwicklung einer inneralpinen Region unter dem Gesichtspunkt der "Wiedererlangung stabiler Verhltnisse" zu diskutieren. Die Sukzession von der Agrar- zur Dienstleistungsgesellschaft vollzog sich in den Gemeinden des Untersuchungsgebietes in knapp drei Jahrzehnten und fhrte zu nachweisbaren Ungleichgewichten im konomischen, gesellschaftlichen und kologischen Bereich. Die Frage stellt sich, ob unter den gegebenen Rahmenbedingungen ein neues dynamisches Gleichgewicht gefunden werden kann. Es werden verschiedene Faktoren und die sie kontrollierenden Mechanismen nachgewiesen, die zu einer Begrenzung der touristischen Expansion und zur Stabilisierung der Entwicklung beitragen knnen, wenn sie bewusst als Regelungspotential in die Entwicklungs-strategie einbezogen werden. Unter Bercksichtigung der Ergebnisse vergleichbarer Untersuchungen lassen sich einige dieser Faktoren zu Indikatoren verallgemeinern, die zur Abschtzung der Risiken und der Chancen einer Tourismus abhngigen Entwicklung von Berggemeinden beitragen knnen.
10.2307/3673697|In many studies of forest degradation and deforestation in the Himalaya the forest history is not adequately taken into consideration. This study on the Kaghan Valley (Western Himalaya) examines the historical dimension of forest-cover changes. Detailed vegetation mapping has indicated that the areas of potential forest have decreased by about 50 percent. The historical processes of change from forests to agriculture and rangelands can be divided into several time periods with varying degrees of change. It is determined that the dynamics of landscape transformation are heavily dependent on the general socioeconomic conditions. Until the beginning of the nineteenth century the Kaghan Valley was very thinly populated. Significant changes in the distribution of forests and agricultural lands occurred during the first two decades of British rule from 1847 to 1867. The protective influence of the Forest Department, founded in 1864, considerably slowed down the rates of deforestation. The present-day cultural landscape was essentially in place by the beginning of the twentieth century and since then the quantitative loss of forest cover is negligible. The recent decades are characterized by negative structural alteration within the forest stands and along the forest margins. The applicability of these results to other valleys in the region is discussed and criteria are established for comparison with forest-cover changes in other regions of the Himalaya. /// Dans les tudes concernant la dgradation et la destruction de la fort himalayenne on n' a pas toujours suffisamment tenu compte de l' histoire de la fort. Cette tude de cas de la valle du Kaghan (Himalaya occidental) examine la dimension historique des changements de la couverture forestire. Une carte dtaille de la vgtation montre une diminution de 50% de la superficie boise. Les processus de transformation historique des terrains boiss en terres arables ou en pturages se divise en plusieurs phases d'une intensit varie. Cette intensit dpend en grande mesure des conditions socio-conomiques. Jusqu' au dbut du 19 me sicle la valle du Kaghan tait peu peuple. Ce ft dans les premieres 20 annes de la domination britannique, de 1847  1867, que s' est produit un changement fondamental dans la distribution des terrains boiss et des terres arables. L' influence protectrice du Service des Forts, fond en 1864, a, jusqu'  la fin du 19 me siecle considrablement ralenti ces processus de transformation. A ce moment, les traits principaux du paysage cultiv taient dja largement conformes a ceux d' aujourd' hui. Le 20 me sicle est caractris moins par des pertes de terrains boiss que par des changements structuraux et ngatifs a l' gard de l' intrieur des terrains boiss et des lisires des bois. La fin de l' article examine la possibilit d' appliquer ces rsultats  d'autres valles. Pour viter des gnralisations et des extrapolations, des critres sont tablis pour rendre possible la comparaison d' tudes de cas portant sur les changements de couverture forestire dans l' Himalaya. /// In den Studien zur Walddegradation und Waldvernichtung im Himalaya wird die Waldgeschichte nicht immer ausreichend bercksichtigt. Am Beispiel des Kaghan-Tales im Westhimalaya wird im vorliegenden Aufsatz die historische Dimension der Waldvernderungen untersucht. Eine detaillierte Vegetationskartierung hat eine Abnahme der potentiellen Waldflchen um ca. 50% ergeben. Der historische Umwandlungsprozess von Wald in Acker- und Weideland lsst sich in mehrere Phasen unterschiedlich hoher Dynamik des Landschaftswandels differenzieren. Diese Dynamik hngt sehr stark von den sozio-konomischen Rahmenbedingungen ab. Nachdem der Hochgebirgsraum Kaghan bis in das 19. Jhd. hinein nur sehr dnn besiedelt war, erfolgte eine grundlegende Vernderung der Wald-Kulturland-Verteilung in den ersten zwei Jahrzehnten britischer Herrschaft von 1847 bis 1867. Der protektive Einfluss des 1864 gegrndeten Forest Department hat diese Vernderungsprozesse bis zur Jahrhundertwende erheblich verlangsamt. Zu diesem Zeitpunkt entspricht das Bild der Kulturlandschaft im Kaghan in seinen Grundzgen bereits dem gegenwrtigen. Das 20. Jhd. ist weniger durch quantitativen Waldflchenverlust als vielmehr durch negative strukturelle Vernderungen innerhalb der Waldbestnde und an den Waldrndern gekennzeichnet. Abschliessend wird die Ubertragbarkeit dieser Ergebnisse auf andere Tler der Region diskutiert. Um Verallgemeinerungen und Generalisierungen vorzubeugen, werden Kriterien fr eine Vergleichbarkeit von Fallstudien zu Waldvernderungen im Himalaya aufgestellt.
25164075| Alpine vegetation and timberline development were investigated on 4 high mountains in North China: Mt. Taibai (34N, 108E; 3767 m), Mt. Guandi (38N, 111.5E; 2831 m), Mt. Wutai (39N, 113.6E; 3058 m), and Mt. Xiaowutai (40N, 115E; 2882 m). The relationships between distribution of tree species and climatic factors on the uppermost parts of these mountains were established. As a result of the continental climate, their timberlines are composed of larch species, such as Larix chinensis on Mt. Taibai and Larix principisrupprechtii on the other mountains. Two climatic indices, a warmth index (WI) and a humidity index (HI), were calculated for a differentiation of tree species near the timberline. A WI of 15C mo has been commonly regarded as the limit for the timberline in East Asia. In addition, we suggest that the Larix timberline is formed when the HI is lower than 210. The understorey species of the forest patches inside the timberline and the L chinensis forest are similar on Mt. Taibai. These species are also distributed mostly in subalpine scrubs and meadows rather than in the Abies fargesii forest. This implies greater resistance to cold and drought in L chinensis than in A fargesii. Timberline movements were roughly reconstructed through analysis of sediments from the alpine zone of Mt. Taibai. A drier climate during 1830-1450 C years BP resulted in a lower Abies timberline and was favorable for distribution of Larix, reflected by pollen diagrams and palaeolimnological evidence, such as grain size and total organic carbon. Percentages of Abies/Picea pollen recurred from 1450 to 680 C years BP, implying an upward movement of Abies/Picea. Abies/Picea then moved downward, and the timberline was possibly replaced by Larix. In recent centuries, Picea/Abies has tended to move upward again. 
3674466|Resource conflicts are an inevitable part of Nepalese society. Their causes include hierarchical and patron-client social relations, the incompatibility of formal laws, conflicts of interest, perception and belief, competition over scarce resources, ambiguity over roles and responsibilities, the unwillingness of the state to respond to social, economic, political and technological changes, corruption, and bad governance. The present study analyzes resource conflicts and practices used to resolve them in Nepal. It was conducted in 6 districts of Nepal, representing the mountain, hill and terai regions, using focus groups and informal discussions, semi-structured and key informant interviews, observation, life histories, and a questionnaire survey. It concludes that existing, legally engineered formal conflict resolution systems are administratively complicated, expensive, elitist, heavily influenced by money and power, non-transparent, and inaccessible to the poor, and are therefore hardly adequate to address growing conflicts in Nepal. Likewise, informal systems are also distorted and inherently biased towards those with power. Hence modernization of existing formal conflict resolution systems is urgently needed in Nepal.
10.2307/3673928|The effects of improved accessibility in high mountain areas have stimulated a discussion on models that depict montane resource utilization, transformation of agricultural practices, and settlement patterns. While significant changes in mountain communities are evident and are perceived to transform socioeconomic conditions, it is argued that the persistence of specific practices related to the mountain environment must be acknowledged and discussed. Thus, persistence in change is analyzed as a parameter for the relationship between ecology, culture, and economy. The cases presented range from the European Alps to the Himalayan arc. Emphasis is placed on the utilization of agro-ecological belts in mountain societies such as the Himalayan communities of the Kashmir Valley and Jaunsar-Bawar in the Dehra Dun District. Their adaptive strategies and the transformation processes are compared with developments in the European Alps. /// Les effets d'une meilleuse accessibilit dans les rgions de haute montagne ont stimul une discussion des modles dcrivant l'utilisation des ressources montagnardes, la transformation des pratiques agricoles et les modes de peuplement. Bien que des changement importants ont t observs dans les communauts montagnardes et semblent transformer les conditions socio-conomiques, cet article insiste que la persistance de pratiques particulires lies  l'environnement montagnard doivent tre reconnues et examines. La persistance et le changement sont donc analyss en tant que paramtre de la relation entre l'cologie, la culture et l'conomie. Les cas prsents s'tendent des Alpes europennes  l'arc himalayen. L'accent est mis sur l'utilisation des ceintures agro-cologiques dans les socits montagnardes, telles que les communauts himalayennes de la valle du Kashmir et le Jaunsar-Bawar dans la rgion du Dehra Dun. Leurs stratgies adaptatives et les processus de transformation sont compars aux dveloppements dans les Alpes europennes. /// Die Auswirkungen einer verbesserten Verkehrserschlieung in Hochgebirgsrumen haben eine Diskussion ber Modelle zur Beschreibung montaner Ressourcennutzung, Anpassung landwirtschaftlicher Praktiken und Siedlungsmuster angeregt. In diesem Beitrag werden die bedeutenden Vernderungen in Hochgebirgsgesellschaften wahrgenommen und in ihrer Wirkung auf soziokonomische Strukturen bewertet. Dennoch wird gleichzeitig auch die Beibehaltung bestimmter, fr die Kennzeichnung von Hochgebirgslandwirtschaft typischer Praktiken konstatiert. Diese Persistenz im Umfeld gravierender Vernderungen im Beziehungssystem aus kologie, Kultur und konomie steht im Vordergrund der Untersuchung, die Fallbeispiele aus den europischen Alpen und aus dem Himalaya-Grtel prsentiert und vergleicht. Besonderes Augenmerk wird der Nutzung montaner Staffeln im Kaschmir-Becken und in Jaunsar-Bawar geschenkt. Dortige Landnutzungsstrategien und Transformationsprozesse werden mit Entwicklungen im Alpenraum verglichen.
mounresedeve.34.3.243|This article explores the motivations of a diverse group of women in the Himalayan region of Darjeeling district in India to engage (or not) in politics, and discusses how women, like men, are vulnerable to power and politics. In Darjeeling, class, ethnicity, and other divides are accentuated by unresolved, decades-long identity-based political conflicts that also obscure practical everyday needs and challenges. This defines which women engage in the political domain and, in the dominantly patriarchal political space, how these women relate to the region's enduring water challenges. In such a setting, it would be ideal to wish for solidarity among women that would overcome class and ethnic divisions and individual political aspirations, making space for gendering political causes and practical challenges. Such solidarity would be especially pertinent in the Eastern Himalaya, given the region's projected climate vulnerability and fragile democracy. However, reality is far removed from development discourse and policy which suggests an assumed camaraderie among mountain women: an imagined empathy and solidarity in relation both to environmental causes and concerns and the practice of equitable power and politics. In looking at how a diverse group of women in varying positions of power and powerlessness in Darjeeling District are unable, reluctant, or simply uninterested in addressing critical water injustices experienced by some, this paper calls for retrospection on both genderenvironment myths and genderpolitics fictions.
3674653|To assess the impact of habitat disturbance on birds in the Yuksom-Dzongri trekking corridor in western Sikkim, India, the relationships between bird community attributes-including migratory groups and feeding guilds-and vegetation variables were examined. Birds were observed in 19 100-m-long transects, 3 times per season per transect, for 2 seasons from 1997 to 1998 and 1998 to 1999, in an area where forests are subject to various degrees of pressure from human disturbances. Closed canopy forests with relatively undisturbed habitat showed significant variation in habitat attributes, suggesting complexity of habitat structure. Bird species richness and diversity were significantly related to moderately disturbed habitats represented by Principal Component Analysis (PCA), where vegetation heterogeneity (vertical stratification and species composition) was greater. Analysis by migratory groups did not show an interpretable relationship with the habitats, except for the seasonal movements of migratory groups when correlated with altitudinal gradient along the corridor. However, feeding guilds showed significant relationships when correlated with different habitat types. Guilds such as insectivores showed a significant positive relationship with relatively undisturbed habitat, whereas nectarivores and granivores were associated with disturbed habitat. Such relationships have the potential to help assess bird communities and their habitat preferences. Long-term monitoring at landscape level is necessary to understand the dynamics of habitat use patterns by bird communities in relation to spatial and temporal changes.
10.2307/3673929|The internationalization of global issues has become quite familiar in the sphere of ecological problems with impact on the earth's conditions of survival. Development related aspects are now incorporated into a discussion of sustainability in which issues such as global governance, structural adjustment programs for aid-receiving economies, and control measures for migration play a prominent role. In a holistic approach towards sustainable development the interrelationship of environment and economy needs to be stressed and simultaneously the time scale of socio-political transformation needs to be considered. These developments affect high mountain areas of Third World countries in a similar manner to other peripheral regions. This paper focuses on four aspects connected with development issues in high mountain regions which are exemplified for Northern Pakistan: the function of international boundaries; the governance of conflicts on local administration; the impact of road access on regional development; and the effects of external interests such as tourism and conservation of nature on local socioeconomic conditions. These aspects have been selected to show the complexity of international relations, the high degree of integration into the world market system experienced by marginal regions, and the minority position of mountain people in this network. Along these lines the hypothesis is substantiated that an analysis of interest conflicts, exchange patterns, and regional disparities is required in order to understand the present development processes in remote mountain regions of the Developing World. /// L'internationalisation des questions globales est devenue pratiquement normale en ce qui concerne les problmes cologiques ayant un impact sur les conditions de survie sur la terre. Les aspects lis au dveloppement sont maintenant incorpors dans les discussions de soutenabilit dans lesquelles des questions telles que direction globale, programmes d'ajustement structurel pour les conomies recevant de l'aide, et mesures de contrle de la migration, jouent un rle primordial. Dans le cadre d'une approche holistique visant  un dveloppement soutenable, il est indispensable de mettre l'accent sur la relation entre l'environnement et l'conomie, et simultanment de considrer l'chelle de temps de la transformation socio-politique. Ces dveloppements affectent les rgions de haute montagne des pays du Tiers Monde, d'une manire semblable  celle d'autres rgions priphriques. Cet article se concentre sur quatre aspects du dveloppement des rgions de haute montagne, exmplifis par le Pakistan septentrional: la fontion des frontires intrnationales, la rsolution des conflits par l'administration locale; l'impact de l'accs routier sur le dveloppement rgional; et les effets des intrts externes, tels que le tourisme et la prservation de la nature, sur les conditions socio-conomiques locales. Ces aspects ont t slectionns afin de montrer la complexit des relations internationales, le haut niveau d'intgration des rgions marginales dans le march mondial, et la position minoritaire des peuples montagnards dans ce rseau. Cette perspective soutient l'hypothse qu'une analyse des conflits d'intrts, des modes d'change et des disparits rgionales est ncessaire pour comprendre les processus actuels de dveloppement dans les rgions montagneuses isoles du monde en dveloppement. /// Eine globale Betrachtung von Umweltproblemen im Weltmastab hat sich in den letzten Jahren gerade unter dem Aspekt der kologisch gesteuerten berlebensbedingungen der Menschheit in ihrer Gesamtheit durchgesetzt. Entwicklungsrelevante Problemfelder werden in jngster Zeit verstrkt in die Nachhaltigkeitsdebatte einbezogen, in der Stichworte wie Weltinnenpolitik, Strukturanpassungprogramme fr Bezieher von Entwicklungshilfe und Manahmen zur Kontrolle internationaler Migrationsstrme eine herausragende Rolle einnehmen. Bezglich eines ganzheitlichen Ansatzes zur nachhaltigen Entwicklung erscheint es unablssig, die Interdependenz von kologischen und konomischen Faktoren angemessen zu bercksichtigen und gleichzeitig die historische Dimension sozio-politischer Transformationen in die Betrachtung einzubeziehen. Selbstverstndlich beeinflussen diese Entwicklungen Hochgebirgsregionen in Lndern der Dritten Welt ebenso wie andere Peripherien. In diesem Aufsatz werden vier Aspekte, die fr Entwicklungsprobleme in Hochgebirgen relevant erscheinen, an Fallbeispielen aus Nordpakistan exemplifiziert: die Funktion internationaler Grenzen, die Essenz von Konflikten fr lokale Verwaltungsablufe, die Bedeutung von Verkehrserschlieung fr Regionalentwicklung, die Auswirkungen auengesteuerter Interessen in Tourismusprojekten und Naturschutzvorhaben auf lokale sozio-konomische Verhltnisse. Diese Beispiele ausgewhlt, um die Komplexitt internationaler Beziehungen aufzuzeigen, den auch fr marginale Hochgebirgsregionen nicht zu vernachlssigenden Integrationsgrad in das Weltmarktsystem herauszustellen und die Minderheitenposition der Bergbevlkerung in diesem Beziehungsgeflecht zu verdeutlichen. Anhand dieses Rasters wird die Hypothese untermauert, da die Analyse von Interessenkonflikten, Austauschbeziehungen und regionalen Disparitten eine notwendige Voraussetzung fr ein Verstndnis der gegenwrtig ablaufenden Entwicklungsprozesse in Hochgebirgsregionen der Dritten Welt darstellt.
mounresedeve.36.1.102|Kenyan river basin governance underwent a pioneering reform in the Water Act of 2002, which established new community water-management institutions. This article focuses on community water projects in the Likii Water Resource Users Association in the Upper Ewaso Ng'iro River basin on Mount Kenya, and the extent to which their features are consistent with Ostrom's design principles of natural resource management. Although the projects have developed solid institutional structures, pressures such as hydroclimatic change, population growth, and water inequality challenge their ability to manage their water resources. Institutional homogeneity across the different water projects and congruence with the design principles is not necessarily a positive factor. Strong differences in household water flows within and among the projects point to the disconnection between apparently successful institutions and their objectives, such as fair and equitable water allocation.
3674588|A bioclimatic model was used to simulate distributions of the dominant tree species on the Tibetan Plateau. The model is based on physiological constraints to alpine plant growth. The bioclimatic variables used in this model are: minimum temperature in the coldest month, maximum temperature in the warmest month, accumulated growing-season warmth, and minimum value of soil moisture availability in the growing season. A comparison was made between simulated current distributions of tree species and their actual natural distributions on the Tibetan Plateau. It was shown that there is good agreement between simulated current and actual natural distributions. The simulated current distribution areas of tree species such as Abies spectabilis, Picea likiangensis var. linzhiensis, Pinus densata, Larix griffithiana were a little larger than their actual distributions. For Quercus aquifolioides and the relict species Betula platyphylla, simulated areas were a little smaller than their actual distributions. Future distributions of dominant tree species were predicted under a climate scenario with a CO<sub>2</sub> concentration of 500 ppmv in the year 2100. The distribution areas of Abies spectabilis, Picea likiangensis var. linzhiensis, Pinus densata, Larix griffithiana and Quercus aquifolioides would shift and extend towards the north and west under the future climate scenario. For Betula utilis, the distribution areas would shift towards the north but they would shrink.
10.2307/3673667|This article evaluates eleven techniques for estimating Manning's roughness coefficient in a small mountain stream (hydraulic radius less than 0.25 m). Observed roughness values at 15 sites were very high compared to lower gradient streams, ranging from 0.056 to 0.183. Jarrett's (1984) technique produced the best estimates of Manning's n, although it overestimated roughness by an average of 32% in the steep, turbulent flow. The other ten estimation methods significantly under predicted Manning's n, often by an order of magnitude. The underestimates occur because the methods do not adequately address the effects on flow resistance of large sediment sizes, low ratios of flow depth to hydraulic radius, steep slopes, and severe turbulence. In addition, observers using subjective visual estimation techniques underestimated roughness because of their training in lowland settings. The poor performance of the estimation techniques suggests that discharge should be measured directly whenever possible in steep mountain streams, particularly when determining discharges at low flows where a significant portion of the bed sediments are near to or are breaking the water surface. If one must use roughness estimates to calculate discharge in a small mountain stream, then the Jarrett (1984) method provides the most reasonable estimates of resistance to flow, although care should be taken to avoid reaches with plunge pool sequences and hydraulic jumps. /// Cet article value onze techniques d'valuation du coefficient de rugosit pour un petit torrent de montagne (rayon hydraulique infrieur  0,25 m). Les valeurs de la rugosit enregistres  15 endroits diffrents taient trs hautes en comparaison avec les torrents de pente plus faible et s'tendaient de 0,056  0,183. La technique de Jarrett (1984) a fourni les meilleures estimations du coefficient n de Manning, bien qu'elle ait en moyenne surestim la rugosit de 32% pour les coulements turbulents  pente forte. Les dix autres mthodes ont sensiblement sous-estim le coefficient n de Manning, souvent par un ordre de grandeur. Les sous-estimations sont dues au fait que les mthodes ne tiennent pas suffisamment compte de l'effet des sdiments de grosse taille, des bas rapports entre la profondeur du courant et du rayon hydraulique, des fortes pentes et de la forte turbulence sur la rsistance  l'coulement. En outre, les observateurs utilisant des techniques subjectives d'estimation visuelle ont sous-estim la rugosit du fait que leur formation s'est effectue  basse altitude. Les mauvais rsultats fournis par les techniques d'estimation indiquent que, pour les torrents de montagne, le dbit doit tre si possible mesur directement, en particulier s'il est faible et donc qu'une grande partie des sdiments du lit se trouve au voisinage ou  la surface de l'eau. Si l'on doit utiliser les estimations de rugosit pour calculer le dbit d'un petit torrent de montagne, la mthode de Jarrett (1984) fournit les meilleures estimations de la rsistance  l'coulement,  condition d'viter les tronons avec trous d'eau successifs et sauts hydrauliques. /// Diese Verffentlichung beurteilt elf Methoden, nach denen der Manning's Koeffizient der Bachbett-Struktur in Gebirgsbchen (hydraulischer Radius < 0,25 m) abgeschtzt wurde. Die an 15 Stellen beobachteten Unebenheitswerte waren im Vergleich zu Bchen mit geringerem Geflle sehr hoch und lagen zwischen 0,056 und 0,183. Jarrett's (1984) Methode erbrachte bei der Schtzung von Manning's n die besten Werte, obwohl sie die Unebenheit bei steiler, turbulenter Strmung um 32% berbewertete. Die brigen zehn Methoden unterschtzten Manning's n bei weitem, oftmals um eine Grenordnung. Diese Unterbewertungen passieren, weil die Methoden die Auswirkungen groer Ablagerungen auf den Strmungswiderstand, das Verhltnis von Strmungstiefe zu hydraulischem Radius, steile Hnge sowie heftige Wirbel nur unzureichend bercksichtigen. Diejenigen Beobachter, die subjektive, visuelle Abschtzungen anwendeten, unterbewerteten die Bachbettstruktur, weil sie im Flachland ausgebildet waren. Eine Konsequenz der schlechten Schtzergebnisse ist, da-wenn immer mglich-der Abflu in steilen Gebirgsbchen direkt gemessen werden sollte; besonders dann, wenn Abflsse bei niedrigen Wasserstnden bestimmt werden, oder wenn ein Groteil der Ablagerungen nahe der Wasseroberflche liegen oder sie sogar brechen. Wenn man Strukturschtzwerte benutzen mu, um den Ablauf in Gebirgsbchen zu berechnen, dann liefert Jarrett's (1984) Methode die brauchbarsten Werte fr den Strmungswiderstand; obwohl darauf zu achten ist, da Fluabschnitte mit Sturzbchen und hydraulischen Sprngen ausgeklammert werden.
10.2307/3674095|The dynamics of white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss) in a sparsely populated Alaskan valley were examined for management of subsistence firewood and house-log harvest. Site index, disturbance history, current productivity, and population age structure of white spruce were determined at 26 sites on five landform units. Human residents were interviewed to characterize local harvest patterns. Site index averaged 59 and was not significantly different among landforms. Current productivity, which ranged from 0.20 to <tex-math>$2.22\ {\rm m}^{3}/{\rm ha}/{\rm yr}$</tex-math>, was reduced by a 5-year old spruce beetle outbreak that killed up to 42 percent of the standing volume in some stands. Forests consisted of even-age stands initiated by deglaciation (20% of study area), wildfire (13%), and anthropogenic fire (26%), and mixed-age stands characterized by small gap-forming disturbances (41%). The latter stands exhibited old-growth characteristics. A demographic model based on age-structure in the old-growth stands showed that current recruitment was too low to maintain current tree density under conditions of natural mortality, and that removal of live trees by selective harvest or beetle outbreaks will diminish tree density. Current annual firewood demand of 61.5 cords/year is adequately supplied by beetle-killed spruce, but demand for live trees will rise as beetle-killed trees decay and become unusable. Small community wood-lots are suggested as a sustainable alternative to selective harvest.
10.2307/3673235|Geomorphological investigations in various periglacial mountains of Greenland have shown that there is no general altitudinal zonation. However, locally geoecological conditions and geomorphological phenomena change with relative height in such a way that they may be modelled on a generalized catena profile which incorporates elevation. In this, measurements of the active layer above permafrost and the geomorphological transfers of energy are most useful in defining periglacial and geomorphodynamic conditions and contrasts. /// Des tudes gomorphologiques dans les diffrentes montagnes priglaciaires du Groenland montrent qu'il n'y a pas des tages prcis pour toute la rgion. Les conditions gocologiques de differentes positions topographiques ne changent qu'avec l'altitude relative et avec le mso-relief. Les phnomnes gomorphologiques sont composs comme une mosaique dpendante de l'altitude relative, permettant de les comparer avec un modle catena. Les conditions priglaciaires et gomorphodynamiques sont caractrises par des mesures de strate dgele sur perglisol et de transport morphoclimatique d'nergie. /// Geomorphologische Untersuchungen in verschiedenen periglazialen Gebirgen Grnlands zeigten, da es dort keine ausgeprgte zonale berregionale Hhenstufung gibt. Die mit der relativen Hhenlage bezglich des Mesoreliefs wechselnden geokologischen Standortbedingungen und geomorphologischen Phnomene zeigen aber eine relative Hhengliederung, die sich als Modell in einem Catena-Profil ordnen lassen. Mit Messungen zur Auftauschicht ber Permafrost und zum morphoklimatischen Energietransport werden die periglazialen, geomorphodynamischen Bedingungen charakterisiert.
25578198|Like other mountainous regions in the world, the High Atlas suffers from a number of disadvantages, primarily related to its marginality, topographical fragmentation, and harsh environmental conditions. It is characterized by limited, fragile, and highly degraded natural resources, low incomes, and a high poverty level. People living in mountainous areas are among the poorest in the Near East and North Africa (IFAD 2002). The present study analyzed the importance of a cooperative-as one example of a rural institution-in facilitating smallholders' access to markets, its impact on the livelihood strategies of households, and the implications for poverty reduction. Communities in two valleys with similar bio-physical conditions in the Moroccan High Atlas, Taddarine and Anougal, were compared. Whereas Taddarine has a paved road but no marketing institution, Anougal features a dairy cooperative but does not have a paved road. Rapid rural appraisal methods and household surveys were used to gather data on livelihood assets and activities. The value chains of the main product in either valley-apples in Taddarine and milk in Anougal-were analyzed using market mapping methodology. In Anougal, with no paved road and no electricity, the milk collection center of the dairy cooperative has made dairy production the most important source of income for the farmers. In contrast, dairy production and marketing has not developed in Taddarine, which has a paved road and electricity but no dairy cooperative. The most important source of income for these farmers is fruit production, with transport being facilitated by the paved road. The study shows that although road infrastructure in remote mountain communities is a necessary condition for market access, it is not sufficient. The development of local institutions-in this case a dairy cooperative-that facilitate market access by reducing marketing costs and opening up "economies of scale," is essential.
10.2307/3673657|This paper attempts to investigate the tensions that presently exist between economic growth and the semi-arid, marginal environment of Chile's Norte Chico valleys. During the 1970s and 1980s, Chilean economic policies have favored export-oriented growth. In some formerly depressed rural regions that came to enjoy a comparative advantage in international trade, a dramatic growth in export-oriented production has occurred; one example is the table grape. However, this mountainous region can be classed as marginal, with low average rainfall, high annual rainfall variability, high rates of evaporation, a long-term decline in rainfall and the constraints on water supply that these signify, particularly in consecutive years of winter drought. This paper explores the nature of these environmental constraints before examining the nature of the dramatic growth in export-oriented agriculture and the main economic agents that explain this growth. An attempt is then made to assess the impacts of export-oriented growth on the marginal environment of the Norte Chico, focusing in particular on the relationship between land and water. Finally, a theoretical model is created in order to conceptualise the relationship between economic growth and environmental constraints in terms of sustainable development. /// Cet article explore les tensions qui existent  prsent entre l'expansion conomique et l'environnement semi-aride marginal des valles du Norte Chico au Chili. Au cours des annes 70 et 80, la politique conomique du Chili consistait  favoriser une expansion axe sur l'exportation. Certaines rgions rurales, conomiquement faibles dans le pass, ont pu jouir d'un avantage relatif sur le march international et ont fait l'objet d'une expansion remarquable de la production axe vers l'exportation, un exemple tant le raisin de table des valles du Chico Norte. Cependant, cette rgion montagneuse est classifie comme marginale, avec une pluviosit moyenne basse, une haute variabilit annuelle de la pluviosit, des vitesses d'vaporation leves, un dclin  long terme de la pluviosit et les contraintes sur l'approvisionnement en eau qui en dcoulent, en particulier dans le cas de plusieurs annes conscutives de scheresse hivernale. Cet article considre la nature de ces contraintes environnementales et examine les caractristiques de cette expansion remarquable de l'agriculture axe vers l'exportation et les facteurs conomiques qui peuvent l'expliquer. L'article essaie ensuite d'valuer les rpercussions de cette expansion sur l'environnement marginal du Norte Chico, en particulier sur la relation entre la terre et l'eau. Finalement, un modle thorique est prsent dans le but de conceptualiser la relation entre l'expansion conomique et les contraintes environnementales, dans une perspective de dveloppement soutenu. /// Diese Verffentlichung versucht, die Spannungen zu analysieren, die gegenwrtig zwischen dem konomischem Wachstum und der semi-trockenen, gefhrdeten Umwelt in Chile's Norte Chico Tlern besteht. Whrend der 70er und 80er Jahre begnstigte die chilenische Wirtschaftspolitik exportorientiertes Wachstum. Formals wirtschaftliche Notstandsgebiete in lndlicher Umgebung erfreuten sich eines relativen Aufschwungs im internationalen Handel, verbunden mit starkem Wachstum der exportorientierten Produktion. Die Tafeltrauben der Norte Chico Tler liefern dafr ein gutes Beispiel. Dennoch mu dieses gebirgige Gebiet als gefhrdet eingestuft werden, da es durch folgende Merkmale benachteiligt ist: Im Durchschnitt niedrige Regenmenge, starke Schwankungen desjhrlichen Niederschlags, hohe Verdunstungsraten, langzeitig rcklufige Regenflle und Beschrnkungen im Wasservorrat, besonders wenn winterliche Drreperioden in aufeinanderfolgenden Jahren auftraten. Die vorliegende Verffentlichung untersucht diese umweltbedingten Einschrnkungen bevor sie das starke Wachstum in der exportierenden Landwirtschaft und die wichtigsten konomischen Faktoren, die dieses Wachstum erklren, prft. Dann wird versucht, die Einwirkungen des exportorientierten Wachstums auf die bedrohte Umwelt des Norte Chico Gebiets abzuschtzen, besonders bezglich der Wechselbeziehung zwischen Boden und Wasser. Abschlieend wird ein theoretisches Modell vorgestellt, um die Beziehung zwischen wirtschaftlichem Wachstum und Umweltbeschrnkungen hinsichtlich anhaltender Entwicklung zu erfassen.
10.2307/3673777|This report is a follow-up to the paper with a similar title, Part I: Sediment Load, published in Volume 14, No. 1 of this journal. The two-year reconnaissance study in the Nana Kosi watershed in the Indian Kumaun Himalaya determined that in the most disturbed agricultural land 60% of the annual runoff occurred in July, the month of heaviest rainfall. However, under natural conditions in the oak and pine forest only about 23% of the total annual flow occurs in July. In April, the driest, hottest month, measurements indicate high amounts of runoff (<tex-math>$308\ {\rm m}^{3}\ {\rm km}^{-2}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>) in the least disturbed oak and pine forest, while runoff amounts were low (<tex-math>$108\ {\rm m}^{3}\ {\rm km}^{-2}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>) in the most disturbed agricultural land. The seasonal budget has also changed due to human impact: in the agricultural area, 81% of the total annual runoff occurs in the rainy season, compared to 53% in the forest. Measurements suggest that the annual runoff has been reduced by about 50% due to anthropogenic change. /// Ce rapport fait suite  l'article du mme titre, Section I: Charge solide, publi dans le Volume 14, No. 1 de cette publication. L'tude de reconnaissance de deux ans effectue dans le bassin versant du Nana Kosi, situ dans l'est de l'Himalaya indien, a dtermin que dans les terres agricoles les plus perturbes, 60% de l'coulement annuel s'est produit en juillet, le mois le plus pluvieux. Nanmoins, pour les forts mixtes de chne et de pin, seulement 23% de l'coulement total annuel s'est produit en juillet, dans les conditions normales. En avril, le mois le plus sec et le plus chaud, les mesures indiquent un coulement lev (<tex-math>$308\ {\rm m}^{3}\ {\rm km}^{-2}\ {\rm an}^{-1}$</tex-math>) dans les forts de chne et de pin les moins perturbes, et un coulement relativement bas (<tex-math>$108\ {\rm m}^{3}\ {\rm km}^{-2}\ {\rm an}^{-1}$</tex-math>) dans les terres agricoles les plus perturbes. Le bilan saisonnier a galement chang par suite de l'impact humain: dans la zone agricole, 81% de l'coulement total annuel s'est produit au cours de la saison des pluies, compar  53% dans les forts. Les mesures suggrent que l'coulement annuel a t rduit d'environ 50% par suite de changements anthropogniques. /// Dieser Bericht ist ein Nachtrag zur Verffentlichung unter gleichem Titel, Teil I: Sedimentertrge, erschienen in diesem Journal (Heft 1, Jahrgang 14). ber einen Zeitraum von zwei Jahren wurde im Nana Kosi Einzugsgebiet des stlichen indischen Himalaya eine Erkundungsstudie durchgefhrt, die ergab, da auf den am strksten belasteten Agrarflchen 60% des jhrlichen Abflusses im Monat Juli, dem Monat mit den hchsten Niederschlgen, eintritt. Waldflchen mit Eichen- und Kiefernbewuchs dagegen tragen im Juli nur 23% zu dem gesamten jhrlichen Abflu bei. Im April, dem trockensten und heiesten Monat, zeigen die Messungen auf den am wenigsten belasteten Eichen- und Kiefern-Waldflchen hohe Abfluwerte (<tex-math>$308\ {\rm m}^{3}\ {\rm km}^{-2}\ {\rm jr}^{-1}$</tex-math>), whrend die Werte von den am strksten belasteten Agrarflchen niedrig waren (<tex-math>$108\ {\rm m}^{3}\ {\rm km}^{-2}\ {\rm jr}^{-1}$</tex-math>). Der saisonale Haushalt der Wasserfhrung wurde auch durch menschliche Beeintrchtigung verndert: Die Agrarflchen tragen 81% des gesamten jhrlichen Abflusses whrend der Regenzeit bei, die Waldgebiete dagegen ber den gleichen Zeitraum nur 53%. Die Messungen zeigen, da als Folge anthropogener Einflsse der jhrliche Abflu um ca. 50% zurckgegangen ist.
10.2307/3672964|The Central Highlands of Sri Lanka above 500 metres remained uninhabited until the British captured Kandy, the last stronghold of the Singhalese kingdom. The virgin forests of the mountainous interior were then explored and developed, first for coffee plantations and later for tea production. Tea proved to be the ideal crop and labour was required. Indentured workers from Southern India arrived in great numbers. Two thirds of the export earnings were from tea and this came to be regarded as successful colonial and economic development. However, with the immigrants came disease - malaria and hookworm. The natural water courses, which rise in the mountains, were used for water supplies and sewerage disposal, and were soon contaminated. Economic development led to geomedical problems and the interrelationship needs further study. /// Le Massif Central Montagneux du Ceylan, bois pais, restait inhabit au-dessus de 500 m,  l'altitude de Kandy, parce que la population indigne craignait des dmons dans ces forts. Cela changeait quand les Anglais conqurirent Kandy en 1815, la dernire base du royaume cingalais. Ainsi la fort vierge du pays de la montagne tait explore en quelques annes jusqu'aux places les plus leves. Le dveloppement conomique suivait - premirement avec la culture du caf, puis avec du th - aprs un interval indcis avec la culture du quinquine. Th se trouvait tre la plante idale pour ce pays de la montagne tropical et en peu de temps la fort de la montagne tait remplace par le "paysage du th." Les ouvriers ncessaires, pas disponibles au Ceylan, taient recruts en l'Inde du Sud; des dix milliers arrivaient - pour s'tablir dans les plantations du Massif Central Montagneux, inhabit jusque-l. Le succs conomique de la culture du th se montrait de sorte que l'exportation du th rapportt jusqu' deux tiers du produit de l'exportation et ainsi supportt l'conomie de l'le. Mais les ouvriers de l'Inde du Sud amenaient aussi des parasites et des maladies. Toutes les rivires importantes du Ceylan prennent leur source du Massif Central Montagneux et servent en mme temps au ravitaillement en eau et  l'enlvement des eaux d'gout, et, en consquence de l'tablissement des plantations, taient pollus bientt. Ainsi, un dveloppement conomique fructueux produit des consquences gomdicales imprvues. Aujourd'hui, il est bient ncessaire dans l'intrt de tout le pays de prter attention  cette connexion. /// Das dicht bewaldete zentral gelegene Hochland der Insel Ceylon blieb oberhalb 500 m, der Hhenlage von Kandy unbesiedelt und unberhrt, weil die einheimische Bevlkerung in diesen Wldern Geister und Dmonen frchtete. Das nderte sich, als 1815 die Briten Kandy einnahmen, den letzten Sttzpunkt des singhalesischen Knigreiches. Damit stand der Unternehmungslust der britischen Offiziere die Bergwaldwildnis offen, die in wenigen Jahren bis in die hchsten Lagen hinauf erkundet wurde. Der Erkundung folgte wirtschaftliche Erschlieung - zunchst mit dem Anbau von Kaffee, spter - nach einem wenig ergiebigen Zwischenspiel mit Cinchona - der Anbau von Tee. Tee erwies sich als die ideale Nutzpflanze fr dieses tropische Gebirgsland und in kurzer Zeit wurde, bis auf geringe Reste, der ursprnglich tropische Bergwald durch die "Teelandschaft" ersetzt. Die notwendigen Arbeitskrfte, da auf Ceylon nicht verfgbar, wurden in Sd-Indien angeworben; sie kamen in Zehntausenden - als Dauersiedler in den Plantagensiedlungen des bis dahin unbesiedelten Hochlandes. Der wirtschaftliche Erfolg des Teeanbaus zeigte sich berzeugend darin, da der Tee-Export im Laufe der Zeit bis zu zwei Drittel des Exporterlses der Insel einbrachte, damit die Wirtschaft der Insel trug. Doch die Arbeiter aus Sd-Indien brachten auch Parasiten und Krankheiten mit. So wurde das bis dahin unberhrte Hochland zur man-made Seuchenland-schaft und da alle wichtigen Flusysteme des Landes im zentralen Hochland entspringen, und die Wasserlufe nach wie vor die natrlichen Wasserleitungen zumindest des lndlichen Ceylon sind und zugleich fr die Abwsserbeseitigung sorgen, erfolgte aus den hchsten Lagen des Landes heraus die vollkommene Verseuchung der Insel. Eine ansich als hchst erfolgreich anzusehende wirtschaftliche Entwicklung zeitigte somit unerwartete geomedizinische Folgen. Heute erscheint es im Interesse des ganzen Landes dringend notwendig, diesen Zusammenhngen die notwendige Aufmerksamkeit zu widmen.
10.2307/3673194|Nepal's hydroelectricity potential is estimated at 83 TWh/year; at present only two percent of the nation's energy requirements are met by hydroelectricity. This paper presents a brief overview of the conceptual framework for a much larger study of the socio-economic and environmental impacts of the Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project. While small in comparison to the large projects under active consideration it provides an opportunity for an analysis of the impacts of technological intervention on the local society and the immediate environment. A full understanding of "development" will not be possible without identification and examination of the processes of change at the local level. /// Le potentiel hydrolectrique du Npal est estim  83 TWh/an;  prsent, seulement deux pour-cent des besoins en nergie du pays sont assurs par l'hydrolectricit. Cette tude prsente succintement un systme de concepts pour une tude beaucoup plus vaste de l'impact du projet hydrolectrique de Kulekhani sur l'conomie sociale et l'environnement. Bien que ce projet soit petit compar  d'autres en cours d'tude, il permet nanmoins d'analyser l'impact de la technologie sur la socit locale et l'environnement immdiat. Une comprhension totale du "dveloppement" ne sera possible que si l'on identifie et examine en dtail les processus de changement au niveau local. /// Nepals Wasserkraftpotential wird auf 83 TWh/Jahr geschtzt; gegenwrtig werden nur 2% des nationalen Energiebedarfs durch Hydro-elektrizitt gedeckt. Dieser Beitrag unterbreitet eine kurze bersicht der Rahmensetzung fr eine viel umfassendere Studie der sozio-konomischen und Umweltbelastungen durch das Kulekhani hydroelektrische Projekt. Im Verhltnis zu den Groprojekten, die ernsthaft erwogen werden, ist dieses Projekt begrenzt, bietet aber dafr eine gute Gelegenheit zur Analyse der Auswirkungen technologischer Eingriffe in die lokale Gemeinschaft und ihre unmittelbare Umgebung. Volles Verstndnis des Begriffes "Entwicklung" ist nur mglich, wenn auf lokaler Ebene solche Vernderungsprozesse erkannt und untersucht werden.
3674130|A new classification of 15 relief patterns at the global scale combines a relief roughness indicator and the maximum altitude at a resolution of 30  30. Classical geographic terms have been retained but assigned to fixed relief roughness (RR = maximum minus minimum elevation per cell divided by half the cell length in meters/kilometer, or ) and altitude boundaries. Plains (<tex-math>$33.2\ Mkm^{2}$</tex-math> of currently nonglaciated land surface) correspond to subhorizontal terrain (RR < 5). Lowlands (19.2 Mkm; 0-200 m) have a very low degree of roughness (5 <RR <20). Platforms and hills <tex-math>$(30.5\ Mkm^{2})$</tex-math> correspond to the 200-500-m mean elevation class and have a greater degree of roughness (RR > 20). Plateaus <tex-math>$(16.8\ Mkm^{2})$</tex-math>, with mean elevations between 500 and 6000 m, have a medium degree of roughness (RR from 5 to 40). Mountains <tex-math>$(33.3\ Mkm^{2})$</tex-math> are differentiated from hills by their higher mean elevation (>500 m) and from plateaus by their greater roughness (>20 then >40) in each elevation class. Accordingly, Tibet and the Altiplano are very high plateaus, not mountains. These quantitative definitions of relief patterns were divided into 15 classes, then clustered into 9 main types and mapped at the global scale at a resolution for which water runoff depth and population were previously determined. We also differentiated between exorheic areas (<tex-math>$115.6\ Mkm^{2}$</tex-math> globally) and endorheic areas (<tex-math>$17.36\ Mkm^{2}$</tex-math> globally) of potential runoff. Mountains thus account for 25% of the Earth's total land area, 32% of surface runoff, and 26% of the global population. The presence or vicinity of a rough and elevated landscape is less limiting to human settlement than water runoff.
mounresedeve.31.2.169|Changbai Mountain, the highest mountain in the east of the Eurasian Continent, is covered with a wide range of distinct altitudinal vegetation types featuring the Earth's richest biodiversity in the cool temperate zone. However, some development trends on Changbai Mountain urgently require the launching of innovative policies and actions for sustainable forest conservation on Changbai Mountain. This paper provides an overview of forest conservation issues in the area: it summarizes the ecological significance of forest vegetation on Changbai Mountain, reviews historic forest utilization and protection in the region, and discusses forest conservation measures that exist on Changbai Mountain. The paper also describes specific civilization-based economic developments, including deforestation, logging, non-wood product collection, and tourism, which threaten forest sustainability inside and around protected areas on Changbai Mountain. We propose that forest ecosystem management should be implemented outside the designated protected areas and human pressure should be reduced inside nature reserves on Changbai Mountain. Landscape and ecosystem approaches should be used to promote forest conservation at the mountain level. In addition, China and North Korea (DPRK) need to engage in multiscale, multidisciplinary, and multistakeholder transboundary conservation efforts.
3674131|In many Western European mountains, ancient irrigation practices have been the basis for sustainable subsistence-based mountain agriculture, especially up to the beginning of the 20th century. These mountain zones have proved popular sites for the development of hydroelectric power (HEP). Few attempts have been made to measure the impact of HEP on traditional indigenous irrigation systems dependent on the same resource base. This article examines the physical and socioeconomic impact of HEP development on the bisse irrigation system in the Valais, Switzerland, and discusses new water resource issues, conflicts, adaptations, and innovative responses. The study shows that a two- to three-tier consultation process has led to communes and autonomous collective irrigation institutions (consortages) signing and ratifying long-term conventions that ceded water to HEP companies at the scale of watersheds. Water supplies for irrigation are protected by these conventions at the same time as changed hydrological regimes improve water security in economically viable bisses. Conventions also improved the economic security of some consortages, while at the level of individual households, HEP development allowed diversification of income generation strategies.
25164199|Coherent regulation of landscape as a resource is a major challenge. How can the development interests of some actors (eg cable car operators and property developers) be reconciled with those of others (agriculture, forestry) and with conservation of biodiversity and scenic value? To help understand how the newly introduced Regional Nature Parks (RNPs) can improve the coherence of the regulation regime in Switzerland, we highlight current direct mechanisms for regulation of landscape as a resource (bans, inventories, subsidies) as well as indirect mechanisms (taking place through the regulation of the physical basis of landscapes, eg forest, land, and water planning policies). We show that RNPs are fundamentally innovative because they make it possible to manage and coordinate indirect strategies for appropriate regulation of resources at a landscape scale. In other words, RNPs enable organization of governance of landscape as a resource in a perimeter that is not necessarily restricted to administrative boundaries.
25164181|In this study, analysis of land use and suitability maps for 2 contrasting mountainous ecosystems was used to identify areas where a change from existing to potential land use was required. A socioeconomic survey was carried out to select locations for implementing 2 land management packages with the full participation of farmers. The first package included cultivation of wheat landraces in a high-rainfall site (Ajloun), while the second included community-based rangeland rehabilitation and management, including fodder shrub plantations in water harvesting structures in the low-rainfall rangeland areas (Jiza). Results showed that the average grain and straw yield of wheat landraces was significantly higher than that of the improved cultivars, which could lead to high and diverse farm income. In the low-rainfall site, fodder shrubs increased the overall land productivity and aided in improving the cover of native vegetation. After 2 years of protection, dry matter production (620 kg/ha) in the community-protected location was significantly higher than that at an experimental station (465 kg/ha). Findings from both packages indicated the possibility of improving the suitability of both mountainous areas for rainfed cultivation while conserving agrobiodiversity. Development of the arid areas as open ranges could be enhanced by the introduction of suitable cultivation practices (contour furrows in this study), with a view to improving productivity and rehabilitating the native vegetation.
mounresedeve.34.4.375|This article examines recent growth and diversification strategies of mountain farms in the northwest of Spain and the challenges that lie ahead. The data were obtained from a survey of production and household characteristics, assessing the effect on strategies of the location and the characteristics of the farm and farmer. The small size of farms has influenced farmers' strategies for growth and diversification. Extensification has been pursued by a minority of farms because of their inability to reach viability with limited size. Diversification is low in agriculture and in other activities linked to the farm, as it is driven by the constraints imposed by resources and age. Consequently, pluriactivity is the more common form of farm diversification despite the limitations of the local economy. Agriculture is in danger of deteriorating further in the medium term, as one third of farms are marginal and in transition to disappearance, and another half of farms are in a fragile situation due to their low income levels. The disappearance of 4 out of 5 farms and a third of agricultural land in the period 19822009 has drastically reduced traditional livestock activity.
3674126|Beginning in the second half of the 19th century, large areas of West Java's mountainous rainforests were transformed into tea gardens. The volcanic soils, high rainfall, and cool climate of this region proved the perfect environment for such plantations (Figure 1). During this period, many tea factories were powered by small hydropower plants (SHPs). The location of the factories on tea estates was often determined by the availability of a suitable site for the SHPs. This renewable form of energy was the perfect match for the moderate power requirements of tea factories. However, after the peak in tea production at the beginning of the 20th century, a gradual decline in production took place in West Java. Unfortunately, this period also saw the degradation of the many SHPs that formerly powered the factories. Today most of the plants in the old factories have been destroyed, dismantled, or replaced by Diesel gensets. Rising fuel costs and increased consumer awareness are now providing the right environment for a revival of indigenous hydraulic resources.
3674173|The widespread adoption of soil conservation technologies by farmers (notably contour hedgerows) observed in Guba, Cebu City, Philippines, is not often observed elsewhere in the country. Adoption of these technologies was because of the interaction of such phenomena as site-specific factors, appropriate extension systems, and technologies. However, lack of hedgerow maintenance, decreasing hedgerow quality, and disappearance of hedgerows raised concerns about sustainability. The dynamic nature of upland farming systems suggests the need for a location-specific farming system development framework, which provides farmers with ongoing extension for continual promotion of appropriate conservation practices.
10.2307/3673656|Pataz is one of several small Andean communities bordering on newly established Rio Abiseo National Park in north-central Peru. The objective of this study was to obtain empirical information about the plants, vegetation types, and land-use systems found in the different ecological zones of Pataz and also in its area of influence within the boundaries of the Park. Four ecological zones were delimited: a dry forest zone in the Maraon River valley; a moist montane zone where most residences and field crops were located; a tropical alpine zone, used mostly to raise cattle; and a montane rainforest zone, little used directly but strongly influenced by anthropogenic burning originating in the tropical alpine zone. The tropical alpine zone is partly, and the montane rainforest zone is wholly located within the Park; human impact there must now be minimized in order to meet Park objectives of preserving natural vegetation. This is feasible given that nobody in Pataz depends completely on one particular ecological zone for food or livelihood. Knowledge of the ecological zonation of human and natural systems will facilitate more appropriate park protection strategies. /// Pataz est l'une des communauts andines  la bordure du Parc national du Rio Abiseo, dans la partie centre-nord du Prou. L'objectif de cette tude tait de rassembler des donnes empiriques sur les plantes, les types de vgtation et les systmes d'exploitation des terres dans les diffrentes zones cologiques de Pataz et galement dans sa zone d'influence aux confins du parc national. Quatre zones cologiques ont t identifies: une zone de fort sche dans la valle du Maraon, une zone de montagne humide o se trouve la plupart de la population humaine et des terres agricoles, une zone tropicale alpine, utilise principalement pour l'levage du btail et une zone montagnarde de fort tropicale humide, peu utilise directement, mais fortement affecte par le brlage anthropognique dans la zone tropicale alpine. La zone tropicale alpine est situe partiellement dans le parc national, alors que la zone montagnarde de fort tropicale humide y est totalement englobe; l'impact humain doit y tre minimis si l'on veut atteindre les objectifs de prservation de la vgtation naturelle. Cela semble possible si l'on considre que la population de Pataz ne dpend pas totalement d'une zone cologique particulire pour son alimentation et sa subsistance. La connaissance de la zonation cologique des systmes humains et naturels permettra d'laborer des stratgies plus rationnelles de protection du parc national. /// Pataz ist eine von mehreren kleinen Andengemeinden, die an den neu gegrndeten Rio Abiseo National Park im nrdlichen Peru grenzt. Das Ziel dieser Studie war es, empirische Information ber Pflanzen, Vegetationsarten und Landnutzungssysteme der verschiedenen kologischen Zonen von Pataz und seinem Einflugebiet innerhalb der Parkgrenzen zu sammeln. Es wurden vier kologische Zonen abgegrenzt: Eine trockene Waldzone im Flutal des Maranon; eine feuchte Gebirgszone, in der die Anwohner siedeln und Feldfrchte anbauen; eine tropische alpine Zone, in der hauptschlich Viehzucht betrieben wird; und eine gebirgige Regenwaldzone mit wenig direktem Nutzen, die aber stark von anthropogenem Abbrennen innerhalb der tropischen alpinen Zone beeintrchtigt wird. Die tropische, alpine Zone liegt teilweise, die gebirgige Regenwaldzone vollstndig im Parkgebiet. Um die Zielsetzungen des Nationalparks zur Erhaltung der natrlichen Vegetation zu erfllen, mssen menschliche Eingriffe auf ein Minimum beschrnkt werden. Dies ist mglich, da niemand in Pataz beim Erwerb des Lebensunterhalts oder bei der Nahrungsbeschaffung von einer bestimmten kologischen Zone abhngt. Das Wissen um kologische Zonierung von menschgeschaffenen und natrlichen Systemen wird geeignete Manahmen zur Wahrung des Parkcharakters ermglichen. /// Pataz es uno de los cinco distritos andinos circundantes al recientemente establecido Parque Nacional Ro Abiseo en el nor-centro del Per. El objetivo de este estudio fue obtener informacin emprica sobre las plantas, tipos de vegetacin y sistemas de uso de tierras ubicados en las diferentes zonas ecolgicas dentro de Pataz, adems del rea que ste influencia dentro de los lmites del Parque. Se delimitaron cuatro zonas ecolgicas: una zona de bosque seco en el valle del Ro Maran; una zona hmeda montana en la que se localizan la mayora de las casas y campos de cultivo; una zona alpina tropical empleada mayormente para la cra de ganado; y una zona pluvial montana cuyo uso directo es mnimo, pero que est marcadamente influenciada por incendios antropognicos originados en la zona alpina tropical. La zona alpina tropical se ubica parcialmente dentro del Parque, mientras que la pluvial montana se halla completamente dentro del Parque; el impacto humano en ambas zonas debera minimizarse para cumplir los objetivos del Parque de preservar la vegetacin natural. Se muestra que este control es factible desde que nadie del distrito depende completamente de una zona ecolgica en particular para sus alimentos y otros recursos vitales. El conocimiento de la zonificacin ecolgica de los sistemas humanos y naturales permitir estrategias ms apropiadas para la proteccin de los parques nacionales.
mounresedeve.29.3.265|Land cover change studies examine the status of land to explain physiographic and socioeconomic processes, causes and effects, and environmental implications. The present paper relates land cover change in a food-insecure catchment to development of gullies, particularly their position in the landscape as well as the history of gully formation. Maps were produced for 1965, 1972, 1986, and 2000 from aerial photographs and satellite images. The conversion of tree and shrub cover to cultivation was observed pre-1986; the critical period for gully development in the catchment was 19741985. Land cover change thus contributed to gully erosion. An integrated recovery policy is required to restore the catchment to useful productivity.
3674636|The responses of the ecosystems along the 0C mean annual isotherm to global climate change are intense and involve significant changes in land cover at the watershed scale. This paper evaluates changes in land cover in the center of Qinghai-Tibet, the headwater region of the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers, on the basis of two sets of remote sensing data (1986 and 2000) and field investigations. Over a period of 15 years, 23% and 34% of alpine cold swamp were recently turned into alpine cold meadow or alpine cold steppe, and decreased in area by 25.9% and 42.7% in the headwater areas of the Yellow and Yangtze Rivers, respectively. Moreover, more than 20% of high-coverage alpine cold meadow and alpine cold steppe were converted to lower-coverage alpine cold meadow (vegetation coverage > 80%) and alpine cold steppe (vegetation coverage > 50%). Desertified land increased by 18.4% (bare rocks and sparse land) and 31.1% (sandy land) in the headwater area of the Yellow River and by 17.8%-18.5% in the headwater area of the Yangtze River. Land cover change in this region involves a complex transition between land cover types, which have a great influence on soil nutrients and the soil organic carbon (SOC) pool. Land cover changes in the study area over the 15-year study period led to the loss of 336.6 Gg of SOC, of which 61.6% were lost by alpine cold swamp transformation, and a total nitrogen (N) loss of 26.9 Gg, of which 81.9% occurred in the headwater area of the Yangtze River. The changes in the carbon and nitrogen cycles have serious implications for greenhouse gas emissions due to land cover change caused by climate warming in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau.
3674234|Making information and decision-making processes accessible to disadvantaged and nonliterate people is a challenge for community forestry in Nepal. In studies jointly conducted by the Nepal-UK Community Forestry Project (NUKCFP) and His Majesty's Government (HMG) of Nepal Department of Forest, aerial photographs and participatory photomapping (tracing maps over aerial photographs) were evaluated with a view to supporting participatory processes of community forestry in Parbat District of the Middle Hill Region. Results indicate that, regardless of educational status, most people accurately interpreted forest condition and profiles of community use from photographs. Photographs were appreciated because they presented authentic information, allowed consistency of interpretation between groups, and made it possible to calibrate perceptions of resources. District Forest Officers and Community Forestry Officers valued aerial photographs as robust instruments that naturally directed discussions toward community and resource issues. Results of a pilot study of the use of aerial images for surveys indicated that orthorectified aerial images may substantially reduce time spent by District Forest Office (DFO) staff in chain-and-compass surveys of community forests. Surveys based on aerial images encourage the participation of users, and boundaries drawn over survey photomaps are represented in the context of important reference information contained in the photographic image. The development of a service for low-cost printing of high-resolution and geographically correct photomaps is described.
3674409|Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are often seen as incompatible with participatory processes. However, since the late 1990s, attempts have been made in numerous projects around the world to define "best practices" for improved natural resource management projects that integrate participation and accurate spatial information, using GIS (for example, see www.iapad.org/participatory_gis.htm). This article describes a project in the Peruvian Andes where spatial information played a key role. Can GIS help narrow the gap between professionals and farmers or local officials? Or is it really a top-down tool that requires too much expert knowledge; and are investments too great for remote rural areas? Examples of successful use of GIS are provided in this article, while practical complications and methodological constraints are highlighted.
3674457|Recent disaster statistics reflect an alarming trend of increasing losses from natural disasters. Typically, the insurance industry, scientific experts, and thus the media, refer to such "external" factors as population increase, the potential for damage in hazard-prone areas, and land use and climate change as the primary causes of this trend. Although these factors increase vulnerability to natural disasters, we argue that "internal" factors such as disaster-related science and policy are also responsible for the inability to stem or reverse the upward trend in disaster damage. The paradox of concurrent increases in economic loss and disaster-related research raises questions about the approaches and tools used in hazard assessment and disaster management. This in turn raises the possibility that progress is being blocked by fundamental conceptual barriers, in addition to profound changes in environmental and social processes, neither of which are adequately being addressed. We conclude with some thought-provoking suggestions for addressing problems in disaster management.
25164156|The Tianmu Mountain National Nature Reserve (TMNNR) preserves the only primeval forest of China cedar (Cryptomeria fortunei) in the world. In order to assist in planning the protection of China cedar habitat and propose a scientific zoning project for TMNNR, we established a nature reserve geographic information system (NRGIS) of TMNNR using a geographic information system (GIS) and remote sensing (RS). In support of NRGIS, we produced a 3-dimensional simulation of TMNNR and obtained a predictive model through a combination of logistic regression modeling and multivariate analysis. The results demonstrate that slope direction, soil type, and annual precipitation are the main factors affecting China cedar habitat. The existence probability of China cedar increases with (converted) slope direction and annual precipitation. Yellow soil (FAO classification) is more suitable for the growth of China cedar in comparison to red soil (FAO classification). Finally, we predicted suitable habitats for China cedar using a model and function zoning for TMNNR. We suggest that it is necessary to analyze key factors affecting China cedar habitat in order to ensure appropriate conservation measures. NRGIS has been found indispensable for studying, protecting, and managing China cedar forest and TMNNR. NRGIS provides not only modeling information but also the means for monitoring this rare species, identifying suitable locations for reintroduction, and carrying out visible and dynamic management of the whole reserve.
3674443|Agricultural market reforms initiated by successive Venezuelan governments in the 1990s have trigered a complex set of coping strategies in the Venezuelan Andes. A case study in the Pueblo Llano valley showed that some of the most important livelihood strategies used by farming households to cope with economic uncertainty during the period of research (1994-1999) were land expansion, plot dispersion, and an increase in sharecropping arrangements. However, in constructing these strategies, farming households had to draw on social and cultural resources (ie kinship) as a mechanism to access more land, inputs, and labor.
10.2307/3674255|In a Karakorum-Himalaya valley, women go to high pastures with the livestock. They possess detailed knowledge, wisdom, and skills relating to their environment. They know how to manage the resources of animals and plants which they process for subsistence, sale, and barter. They also make trips down to the village: tending their crops and caring for their household. It appears that small children, young women, and grandparents inhabit one world, while the younger men and boys live in another. This is because the men of this valley are turning to the outside world for more lucrative opportunities, abandoning their share of subsistence work. They migrate to the plains for work, or find positions as porters with visiting mountaineering expeditions. This has produced a sad state of affairs for people who still believe in family values rather than individual rights, and for whom arranged marriage is an economic alliance between clans. It creates a situation in which the husband depends on his wife for sustenance, while regarding her as 'backward' and 'inferior.' This is the problem of women: their subservient position and forced inclusion into the capitalist system of labor-first by their own men due to the patriarchal division of labor, which turns partners and co-workers into master and servant; then by the male elite of the village, who maintain and confirm this division; then by bureaucrats and corporate power-holders of the global market economy into which the women are inserted, without their knowledge, consent, or control.
10.2307/3673789|The main characteristics of the fauna of the Polish Tatra Mountains and typical animal habitats are described, with emphasis given to the alpine and boreal-alpine species and the vertical differentiation of animal communities exemplified by birds and the bottom fauna of streams. The presence of numerous endemic and relic forms points to the distinct character of the Tatra fauna; these mountains are a very important refuge for many species that are rare and vanishing in this area and the whole of Europe. /// Cet article dcrit les caractristiques principales de la faune des Tatras et les biotopes typiques, en mettant l'accent sur les espces alpines et borales-alpines, ainsi que la diffrentiation verticale des populations animales exemplifie par les oiseaux et la faune du fond des torrents. La prsence d'un grand nombre de formes endmiques et reliques met en vidence le caractre particulier de la faune des Tatras et le rle de ces montagnes en tant que refuge important pour beaucoup d'espces rares et en voie d'extinction dans cette rgion et dans l'ensemble de l'Europe. /// In diesem Artikel werden die wichtigsten Merkmale der Fauna in der polnischen Tatra und die Tierarten der typischen Tatra-Biotope beschrieben. Hervorgehoben wird der Hochgebirgscharakter der Tierwelt, besonders durch das Auftreten der Hochgebirgs- und boreal-alpinen Gruppen und die vertikale Differenzierung der Tierarten. Diese Verschiedenheit wird am Beispiel der Vogelarten und der Benthos-Fauna der Gebirgsbche erlutert. Die Einzigartigkeit der Tierwelt im Tatra Gebirge wird durch das Vorkommen von zahlreichen Endemit- und Reliktarten unterstrichen. Die Gebirgskette ist ein wichtiges Schutzgebiet in Europa fr viele seltene und gefhrdete Arten spezifisch fr diese Gegend.
10.2307/3673825|Land-cover change was studied in two adjacent sub-basins of the Kair Khola watershed in the Chitwan District of Nepal using air photographs and Geographic Information Systems (GIS). It was determined that between 1978 and 1992 dramatic forest conversion occurred in both sub-basins. However, the form of conversion differed significantly. In one sub-basin dense forest was most often converted to maize-based agriculture, while in the other dense forest most often became degraded forest. A village-level investigation of forest governance was undertaken to determine whether community and institutional arrangements explain the differences in land-cover change or whether they are the result of human response to physical and topographic influences alone. It was found that in both sub-basins there are similar institutional structures that are inadequate to control the overexploitation of forest resources and this common attribute, coupled with topographic differences, is responsible for the different forms of land-cover change in the area. Some policy recommendations based on these findings are presented. /// Le changement de couverture vgtale a t tudi dans deux sous-bassins adjacents du bassin hydrographique du Kair Khola dans le district de Chitwan au Npal,  l'aide de photographies ariennes et de systmes d'informations gographiques. Il a t dtermin qu'entre 1978 et 1992 une conversion spectaculaire de la fort s'est produite dans les deux sous-bassins, mais sous une forme sensiblement diffrente. Dans l'un des sous-bassins, la fort dense s'est le plus souvent convertie en agriculture base sur le mas, alors que dans l'autre elle s'est le plus souvent convertie en fort dgrade. Une tude de la gestion de la fort au niveau des villages a t entreprise afin de dterminer si les dispositions communautaires et institutionnelles pouvaient expliquer les diffrences entre les changements respectifs de couverture vgtale, ou si ces diffrences rsultaient uniquement de la rponse humaine aux influences physiques et topographiques. L'tude a montr qu'il existait dans les deux sous-bassins des structures institutionnelles similaires, inadquates pour la lutte contre la surexploitation des ressources forestires; cette caractristique commune, de concert avec les diffrences topographiques, est  la base des diffrentes formes de changement de couverture vgtale dans la rgion. Des recommandations en matire de politique, bases sur les rsultats de l'tude, sont prsentes. /// In zwei benachbarten Tlern des Kair Khola Wassereinzugsgebiets im Chitwan Distrikt in Nepal wurden mit Hilfe von Luftbildern und dem Geographischen Informationssystem (Geographic Information System, GIS) Vegetationsvernderungen untersucht. Die Untersuchung ergab, da zwischen 1978 und 1992 dramatische Wandel in der Bewaldung beider Tler stattfanden. Allerdings gab es signifikante Unterschiede in der Art der Vernderungen. In einem der beiden Tler wurde der ursprnglich dichte Wald zumeist in Maisanbauflchen umgewandelt, whrend sich die Waldflchen des anderen Tals qualitativ verschlechterten. Eine Untersuchung der Forstverwaltungen auf Dorfebene wurde durchgefhrt um zu ergrnden, ob Vereinbarungen innerhalb der Gemeinden oder institutionelle Anordnungen die Unterschiede in den Vegetationsvernderungen erklren knnen, oder ob diese Unterschiede lediglich auf den Reaktionen der Bevlkerung auf unterschiedliche physikalische und topographische Bedingungen beruhen. Die Untersuchung zeigte, da in beiden Tlern hnliche institutionelle Strukturen bestehen, die in beiden Fllen nicht in der Lage sind, der bermigen Nutzung der Waldressourcen Einhalt zu gebieten. Gepaart mit den topographischen Unterschieden ist dieser Umstand fr die verschiedenartigen Vegetationsvernderungen in dieser Gegend verantwortlich. Basierend auf diesen Untersuchungsergebnissen prsentieren wir einige praktische Empfehlungen.
90001387|Protected area management bodies are increasingly required to address economic development alongside the original goal of conservation. This is especially true for United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) biosphere reserves, which are expected to function as models for sustainable development. Economic development has been achieved in many places through nature-based tourism. Sale of products labeled as coming from protected areas is considered promising in this respect too, especially in Europe, but their economic impact has not been assessed so far. This study estimated the gross added value generated by labeled products from the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve Entlebucha rural, mountainous region in Switzerland. After a management-guided phase of building up credibility, identity, and innovations, labeled products generated a remarkable gross added value of US$ 5.8 million in 2014, 13 years after the product label was introduced. This corresponds to 4% of the jobs in agriculture and forestry and 1% of all jobs in the region. Given potential synergies with biodiversity, tourism, individual well-being, and other assets, labeled products can be true advantages for protected areas and their managers.
10.2307/3673403|Even today, within the multinational state of Nepal, the Newar of the Kathmandu Valley form a microcosmic society with their own culture and a caste system which is regarded by other Nepali as being extremely orthodox. More than 30 castes exist within the relatively small group of Newar. The classification of castes correlates with a ritual and economic allocation of the various functions to be carried out within the population, and is manifested spatially in the tendency of the various castes toward segregation. Moreover, there are definite differences between caste structure and, therefore, functional divisions in the settlements. As there are often only a small number of castes in one settlement, the Newar village can very rarely be regarded as an autonomous unit. Ritual and economic relationships have to be built up beyond the confines of the settlement. The Newar caste system, the individual castes, and the types of interaction between them are outlined here. As an aid to understanding the functional structure of rural Newar settlements a cartographic presentation of the Newar caste system is given. /// Mme de nos jours, dans l'tat multinational du Npal, les Newars de la valle de Kathmandou forment une socit microcosmique avec sa propre culture et un systme de castes considr par les autres npalais comme tant extrmement orthodoxe. Plus de 30 castes existent au sein de ce groupe de Newars qui est relativement petit. La classification des castes correspond  une attribution rituelle et conomique parmi la population des diverses fonctions  remplir, et se manifeste dans l'espace par une tendance des diverses castes vers la sgrgation. En outre, il existe des diffrences marques de structure de castes, et donc de divisions fonctionnelles parmi les villages. Comme il n'y a souvent qu'un petit nombre de castes dans un village, les villages Newars peuvent rarement tre considrs comme des units autonomes. Des relations rituelles et conomiques doivent se dvelopper au del des limites du village. Le systme de castes des Newars, les castes elles-mmes et les types d'interaction entre elles sont passs en revue dans cet article. Une reprsentation cartographique du systme de castes des Newars est galement fournie pour aider  comprendre la structure fonctionnelle des villages Newars. /// Die Newar des Kathmandu-Tals stellen auch heute noch eine mikrokosmische Gesellschaft innerhalb des Vielvlkerstaates Nepal dar, mit einer eigenstndigen Kultur und einem - von den brigen Nepalesen als ausgesprochen orthodox bewerteten - Kastensystem. Mehr als 30 Kasten lassen sich innerhalb der relativ kleinen Gruppe der Newar ausgliedern. Die Kastengliederung entspricht einer rituellen und konomischen Funktionsaufteilung innerhalb der Bevlkerung. Sie manifestiert sich rumlich in der Tendenz der verschiedenen Kasten, sich voneinander abzugrenzen. Dabei zeigen sich deutliche Unterschiede in der Kastenstruktur der verschiedenen Siedlungen und damit in der funktionalen Gliederung. Aufgrund der hufig kleinen Zahl von Kasten in einer Siedlung, kann das Newar-Dorf deshalb nur selten als autonome Einheit angesprochen werden, rituelle und konomische Beziehungen mssen ber Siedlungsgrenzen geknpft werden. Das Newar-Kastensystem, die verschiedenen Kasten und ihre Interaktionsformen werden in diesem Beitrag skizziert. Schlssel zum Verstndnis des Funktionsgefges der lndlichen Newar-Siedlungen ist die kartographische Darstellung der Kastenstruktur im gesamten Kathmandu-Tal und beispielhaft innerhalb einzelner Drfer.
10.2307/3673402|This article reports the results of a study of recreation-related surface water pollution in a mountain recreation area. Water samples were obtained over summer seasons in and near heavily used public recreation sites of the Indian Peaks Wilderness area in Colorado, U.S.A. The samples were tested for various chemical and biological constituents and compared with samples from a watershed closed to recreation. The results indicated an inter-dependence of inorganic nutrient levels with stream flow. Highest values for suspended solids, total phosphorus, total organic carbon, and nitrate-nitrogen concentrations occurred during the early spring and summer runoff. Nitrate-nitrogen concentrations also decreased downstream in recreationally-affected watersheds and highest values occurred in the recreationally-controlled watershed. Alkalinity and pH were found to increase both downstream from recreation and as recreation increased through the summer season. Lead levels found in one watershed where vehicular traffic occurred in the past indicate retention of lead through time in these high-altitude ecosystems. Potential natural sources of lead and an apparent removal phenomena by reservoirs warrants further study in the recreationally-controlled watershed. Bacteria counts were highest during low stream flow, during intense precipitation events that "flush" the watershed, and during and after major holiday weekends when recreation was at a maximum. Although results indicate no human body waste contamination of the surface waters, a variety of recreationally-derived pollution was observed in the water. Water purification prior to drinking appears essential. /// Cet article prsente les rsultats d'une tude de la pollution des eaux de rivire dans un site de montagne rserv aux loisirs. Des chantillons d'eau ont t prlevs pendant plusieurs ts  l'interieur et  proximit de parcs fortement utilises par le public dans le domaine naturel "Indian Peaks" de l'tat du Colorado, aux Etats Unis. Les chantillons ont t analyss pour determiner les constituants biologiques et chimiques, et ont t compars avec des chantillons obtenus dans un bassin-versant ferm au public. Les rsultats montrent une corrlation entre les taux de constituants inorganiques et le dbit d'coulement. Les plus hautes valeurs pour les solides en suspension, le phosphore total, le carbone organique total, et les concentrations en nitrate-azote ont t enregistres les dbits en dbut de printemps et en t. Les concentrations en nitrate-azote diminuent  l'aval des bassins-versants affects par les sites rservs aux loisirs et les plus hautes valeurs se situent dans le bassin-versant ferm au public. L'alkalinit et le pH augmentent  l'aval de la zone rserv aux loisirs et lorsque l'utilisation augmente pendent l't. Les taux de plomb dans un bassin-versant autrefois soumis au traffic de vhicules indiquent une rtention du plomb avec le temps dans ces cosystmes de haute altitude. Les sources naturelles de plomb et un phnomne apparent d'enlvement par les rservoirs justifient d'autres tudes dans le bassin-versant interdit au public. Les quantits de bactries sont les plus fortes pendant les priodes de faible dbit,  la suite de fortes prcipitations qui nettoient le bassin-versant, et pendant et aprs les "weekends" de ftes pendant lesquels l'utilisation est maximale. Bien que les tudes ne montrent aucune contamination des eaux de surface par les excrments humains, une certaine pollution associe  l'utilisation pour les loisirs a t observe dans l'eau. La purification de l'eau rserve  la biosson semble indispensable. /// Dieser Beitrag behandelt Untersuchungsergebnisse von Verunreinigungen in Gebirgsbchen, die durch Freizeitaktivitten verursacht wurden. ber mehrere Sommer hinweg wurden regelmig Wasserproben in den stark frequentierten Besuchergebieten der "Indian Peaks Wilderness", Colorado, USA, entnommen. Die Proben wurden auf ihre chemische und biologische Zusammensetzung untersucht und mit Proben aus einem Einzugsgebiet, das der ffentlichkeit nicht zugnglich ist, verglichen. Die Ergebnisse an fast allen Probestellen zeigen eine Wechselwirkung zwischen anorganischen Nhrstoffen und Wasserflu. Das Schmelzwasser im Frhling und Sommer ergab die grten Werte in der Konzentration von gelsten Festoffen, Phosphorgehalt, organischem Kohlenstoffgehalt und Nitrat-Stickstoff. Die Konzentration von Nitrat-Stickstoff in fluabwrts gelegenen Gebieten mit Freizeitbelastung war geringer, wobei das Einzugsgebiet mit hohem Besucherstrom die grten Werte lieferte. Alkalinitt und pH-Werte nahmen fluabwrts im Laufe des Sommers durch zunehmende Besucherzahlen zu. Der Bleigehalt in einem Einzugsgebiet, das in der Vergangenheit verkehrserschlossen war, deutet darauf hin, da Blei in diesen Gebirgskosystemen nicht abgebaut wird. Potentielle, natrliche Bleivorkommen und die Mglichkeit ihrer Beseitigung durch Sammelbecken rechtfertigen weitere Untersuchungen der freizeitbelasteten Einzugsgebiete. Bei niedrigem Wasserstand, whrend starker Regenflle, die das Einzugsgebiet berfluten und whrend, bzw. nach langen Wochenenden mit hohem Besucherstrom waren Bakterienzahlen am hchsten. Obwohl die Ergebnisse keine Verunreinigung des Oberflchenwassers durch menschliche Abflle zeigen, wurde dennoch eine Reihe von Verschmutzungen beobachtet, die von Besuchern verursacht waren. Wasserreinigung und -aufbereitung fr Trinkzwecke scheint notwendig zu sein.
10.2307/3674036|The diversity and extent of forest in the Itombwe Mountains, eastern Congo Democratic Republic (formerly Zaire), are among the most significance in continental Africa. Despite some human impact, this area still harbors a wide range of vegetation types, including forests and grasslands, drylands and wetlands, and mid-altitude to upper-montane habitats. Forests extend from mid-altitude through sub-montane and montane to alpine zones. These first results provide a general description of the Itombwe Mountains as a basis for more detailed investigations. Certain priorities in conservation-development actions are suggested, based mainly on tree species knowledge; this information could influence further decision-making processes and management guidelines for the conservation and sustainable use of Itombwe's natural resources.
3674551|During the 1990s, in many cities in Europe district management became an instrument of direct neighborhood intervention, in an effort to foster sustainable cities. District management involves multisectoral, purposeful coordination of public and private resources, as well as local grassroots organizations and citizens, to improve the conditions of life, housing, and environmental quality in segregated and conflictive neighborhoods. The aim is to reintegrate neighborhoods into the urban fabric and achieve social and environmental sustainability. Can such a participatory strategy based on local orchestration of conflicting interests be successful in so-called geological and social high-risk districts in a Latin American metropolis like Medelln? Between 1993 and 2003, 46,418 people were killed in Medelln, most of them inhabitants of segregated neighborhoods. Some answers might be sought in considering the lessons learned from the Integral Program of Subnormal District Improvement in Medelln (PRIMED), cofunded by a German development organization (Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau, KfW), and implemented by the municipality of Medelln between 1993 and 2002.
10.2307/3673613|Reliable, relevant data on which to develop management strategies are not usually available in developing countries, especially in mountainous areas. This paper discusses the experiences of the Nepal-Australia Forestry Project from 1978 until 1988. The research, aimed at improving the productivity of the forests, was developed in response to the expressed needs of the local people, although there were no qualitative nor quantitative data on forest use. Changes were introduced at the panchayat level by local initiatives. A series of questions were discussed concerning available land, species to be planted, forest protection, and other topics that arose during the course of the project. Examples of this action research are described together with changes in community and private forest species and management practices that result from the direct participation of local mountain communities. It is noted, however, that user groups tend to be dominated by men and by those of higher caste and higher economic status, whereas it is the women and the poor who depend on the forests for fuelwood and fodder products; changes may be needed to ensure sustainable utilization of forests and a reasonable equity in the distribution of benefits. /// Des donnes fiables pouvant tre utilises pour laborer des stratgies de gestion des ressources naturelles ne sont en gnral pas disponibles pour les pays en voie de dveloppement, en particulier pour les rgions montagneuses. Cet article examine les travaux effectus dans le cadre du projet de foresterie npalo-australien de 1978  1988. Ces travaux visant  amliorer la productivit des forts ont t mens pour rpondre aux besoins exprims par la population locale, bien que des donnes qualitatives et quantitatives sur l'exploitation des forts n'taient pas disponibles. Des changements ont t introduits au niveau du panchayat par des initiatives locales. Certaines questions ont t examines en ce qui concerne les terres disponibles, les espces  planter, la protection des forts et d'autres sujets jugs utiles au cours du projet. L'article dcrit des exemples de tels travaux de recherche, ainsi que les changements apports aux espces dans les forts publiques et prives, ainsi qu'aux pratiques de gestion, par suite de la participation directe des communauts montagnardes locales. Il faut nanmoins noter que les groupes d'exploitants tendent  tre domins par les hommes, appartenant  des castes suprieures ou ayant un plus haut standing conomique, alors que ce sont les femmes et les pauvres qui dpendent le plus des forts pour le bois de chauffage et les produits d'affouragement. Des changements semblent ncessaires pour assurer une exploitation viable des forts et une distribution quitable des revenus. /// Zuverlssige, einschlgige Daten, auf deren Basis Managementstrategien entwickelt werden knnen, sind normalerweise fr die Entwicklungslnder und besonders fr deren Berggebiete, nicht vorhanden. Diese Arbeit diskutiert die Erfahrungen des Nepal-Australian Forestry Projekts von 1978 bis 1988. Die Forschung, die eine Produktivittsverbesserung der Waldflchen anstrebte, war im Hinblick auf Bedrfnisse der ortsansssigen Bevlkerung entwickelt worden, obwohl anfnglich qualitative und quantitative Daten der Waldnutzung fehlten. Lokalinitiativen fhrten zu nderungen auf der Gemeindeebene (panchayat). Viele Fragen hinsichtlich Landverfgbarkeit, anzupflanzender Arten, Waldschutz und andere Themen, die sich whrend der Laufzeit des Projektes ergaben, werden diskutiert. Beispiele dieser projektorientierten Forschung werden beschrieben, zusammen mit den nderungen im Gemeinde-und Privatwald sowie den Managementpraktiken, die sich aus der direkten Beteiligung der lokalen Berggemeinden ergaben. Es wird jedoch bemerkt, da die Verbrauchergruppen berwiegend von Mnnern und Mitgliedern hherer Kasten und besserem konomischen Stand dominiert sind, obwohl Frauen und die arme Bevlkerung vom Ertrag des Waldes fr Brennmaterial und Viehfutter abhngig sind. nderungen sind notwendig, um langfristige Nutzung der Wlder und eine annehmbare Nutzungsgerechtigkeit zu sichern.
10.2307/3673551|The Krobos are a people of Dangme stock who live in the eastern region of southeastern Ghana. They are farming people who occupy areas in the Accra Plains, the Akwapim Mountains, and the Afram Basin. The land of the Krobos is mainly lowland, but historically they occupied two major mountains-Krobo Mountain and Akwapim Mountain. This study examines the changing land use in these mountains and the history of settlement. Krobo Mountain was initially occupied because it provided a favourable place for settlement, for defence against invading enemies, for a burial ground, and it served as a symbol of unity. Later on, the mountain came to be regarded as an ancestral home, visited for an annual blessing. Akwapim Mountain is occupied only when population pressure makes it necessary to increase food production. Some areas have been converted from forest reserves to agriculture and there are also burial grounds for people who died an untimely death. On the whole, the Krobos use their mountain land in response to their changing needs. /// Les Krobos sont un peuple de souche Dangme qui vivent dans la rgion Est au Sud-Est du Ghana. Ce sont des agriculteurs qui se sont tablis dans les plaines d'Accra, les collines Akwapim et le bassin de l'Afram. Les Krobos se trouvent principalement dans les basses terres, mais historiquement ils ont occup deux montagnes importantes, le Mont Krobo et les collines Akwapim. Cet article examine les changements dans l'utilisation du sol de ces montagnes et l'historique du peuplement. A l'origine, le Mont Krobo a t occup car il fournissait un site favorable pour le peuplement et la dfense contre les invasions, et servait de lieu de spulture et de symbole d'unit. Plus tard, il a t considr comme la demeure des anctres que les Krobos viennent visiter pour la bndiction annuelle. Les collines Akwapim n'ont t occupes que lorsque la pression dmographique ncessitait une augmentation de la production alimentaire. Certaines zones sont passes des reserves forestires  l'agriculture, et des lieus de spulture pour ceux ayant rencontr une mort subite s'y trouvent galement. Dans l'ensemble, les Krobos utilisent le terrain montagnard en rponse aux changements dans leurs besoins. /// Die Krobos sind ein Dangme Volk und leben im stlichen Teil im Sdosten von Ghana. Als Bauern bewirtschaften sie die Accra Ebenen, das Akwapim Berggebiet und das Afram Becken. Das bestellte Gebiet der Krobos ist grtenteils Tiefland, aber in der Vergangenheit besiedelten sie auch zwei grere Berggebiete-den Krobo und den Akwapim. Die vorliegende Studie untersucht Vernderungen in der Landnutzung in diesen Bergen und die Geschichte ihrer Besiedelung. Der Berg Krobo diente ursprnglich als Rckzugsgebiet, das sich gegen eindringende Feinde verteidigen lie, auerdem war er Bestattungsort, und er hatte Symbolwert fr die Einigkeit des Volkes. Spter wurde er zum Hort der Vorfahren, zu dem man alljhrlich pilgerte, um Segen zu erbitten. Der Akwapim Berg wurde nur besiedelt, wenn Bevlkerungsdruck eine erhhte Nahrungsmittelproduktion erforderte. Ausgewhlte Waldreservate wurden in landwirtschaftlich genutzte Flchen umgewandelt, daneben gibt es Grabsttten fr vorzeitig Verstorbene. Im groen und ganzen haben die Krobos es verstanden, die Nutzung von Bergland ihren vernderten Bedrfnissen anzupassen.
10.2307/3673915|The leaf growth dynamics of three species of trees belonging to the Nothofagus genus, which together dominate temperate and subantarctic forests in Chile, were studied. It was shown that each species possesses its own characteristic leaf area growth curve, which is determined by the particular moment the buds open, total leaf area, and biomass reached at the end of the growing season, as well as total leaf area growth rate. The deciduous species, N. alpina and N. obliqua, initiated growth at the beginning of spring (daily mean temperature of 10C), while the evergreen species, N. dombeyi, commenced its growth two months later (daily mean temperature of 13C). The three species grew fastest during the first four weeks of the growing season. As a result, total leaf area reached its peak, in all three species, within four weeks of growth. Nevertheless, there were marked differences with respect to their final productivity values, measured as total leaf area attained as well as final total leaf biomass. N. alpina had the greatest final total leaf area (<tex-math>$30.6\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{shoot}$</tex-math>) and biomass (0.2 g/shoot), while N. dombeyi the smallest (<tex-math>$5.7\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{shoot}$</tex-math> and 0.06 g/shoot). Leaf development data in Chilean Nothofagus species are useful both for understanding the ecology of these species and potentially for their management. /// La dynamique de la croissance des feuilles de trois espces d'arbres appartenant au genre Nothofagus, qui ensemble dominent les forts tempres et subantarctiques du Chili, a t tudie. Il a t dmontr que chaque espce possde sa courbe de croissance caractristique de la surface des feuilles, dtermine par le moment auquel les bourgeons s'ouvrent, la surface totale des feuilles et la biomasse atteinte  la fin de la priode de croissance, ainsi que le taux de croissance de la surface totale des feuilles. Les espces feuillues, N. alpina et N. obliqua, ont commenc  crotre au dbut du printemps (temprature journalire moyenne de 10C), alors que l'espce sempervirente, N. dombeyi, a commenc  crotre deux mois plus tard (temprature journalire moyenne de 13C). Les trois espces ont grandi le plus rapidement au cours des quatre premires semaines de la priode de croissance. Pour cette raison, la surface totale des feuilles a, pour les trois espces, atteint son maximum dans les quatre premires semaines de croissance. Des diffrences marques sont nanmoins apparues en ce qui concerne les valeurs finales de productivit, mesures en tant que surface totale des feuilles atteinte, ainsi que la biomasse totale finale des feuilles. N. alpina a prsent la plus grande surface totale finale des feuilles (<tex-math>$30,6\ {\rm cm}^{2}\ \text{par pousse}$</tex-math>) et la biomasse la plus leve (0,2 g par pousse), alors que N. dombeyi a prsent les valeurs les plus basses (<tex-math>$5.7\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{par pousse}$</tex-math> et 0,06 g par pousse). Les donnes de dveloppement des feuilles pour les espces Nothofagus du Chili sont utiles  la comprhension de l'cologie de ces espces et potentiellement pour leur gestion. /// Dynamik des Blattwuchs der Nothofagus Arten, die in den Vorbergen der Anden hufig vorkommen. Der Blattwuchs von drei Baumsorten wurde untersucht. Die Sorten gehren zur Nothofagus Familie, die in den Wldern der gemigten und subantarktischen Zonen Chiles sehr hufig vorkommen. Jede Sorte zeigte eine unterschiedliche Wachstumskurve der Blattflche, bestimmt vom Zeitpunkt der ffnung der Blattknospen, von der Gesamtflche der Bltter, von der am Ende des Wachstumszeitraums erreichten Biomasse und von der Wachstumsrate der Gesamtblattflche. Die Laubbaumarten N. alpina und N. obliqua beginnen mit dem Wachstum am Frhlinganfang (Tagesdurchschnittstemperatur 10C), das Wachstum der immergrnen Art N. dombeyi beginnt zwei Monate spter (Tagesdurchschnittstemperatur 13C). In den ersten vier Wochen des Wachstumszeitraums ist bei allen drei Sorten die Zunahme am schnellsten. Daraus folgt, da alle drei Sorten schon vier Wochen nach Wachstumsbeginn das Maximum der Gesamtblattflche erreichen; dennoch zeigen die Ertrge markante Unterschiede in den Endwerten von der Gesamtblattflche und der Gesamtblattbiomasse. N. alpina hatte die grten Werte fr die Gesamtblattflche (<tex-math>$30,6\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>/Schling) und fr die Biomasse (0,2 gr/Schling), N. dombeyi, dagegen hatte die kleinsten Werte (<tex-math>$5,7{\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>/Schling und 0,06 gr/Schling). Daten ber die Dynamik des Blattwuchses der chilenischen Nothofagus Arten tragen zum Verstndnis ihrer Okologie bei und untersttzen Entscheidungen bei ihrem Management.
3674477|As elsewhere in the world, agencies of local and central government in New Zealand have renewed pressure on high-country pastoral farmers to ensure that their land use is sustainable. However, government policy innovations for conservation have often cut across the path along which farmers were innovating toward sustainable development (Figure 1). Sustained consultation in some parts of the world has revealed that highland people were not short of practical wisdom or ideals of conservation and sustainability. Such deep sharing of understanding and values affected an earlier New Zealand high-country crisis over soil erosion, but it is not yet evident in a current crisis over new policy for conservation of indigenous biodiversity and recreational access. As a result, progress toward sustainable development is retarded, with polarized public debate between stereotypes of public conservation and private economic development. New Zealand needs to find new ways out of this impasse.
10.2307/3673165|The necessity and value of considering mountains as ecosystems - defined as systems composed of physical-chemical-biologic processes active within mountain landscapes - are argued. Gigon's (1983) typology of stability in terms of constancy, cyclicity, resistance, and resilience is adopted, with emphasis on a condition common in mountains: that of recurrence of relatively immature systems. The geologic structure of New Zealand mountains is described and regional differences in sculptural processes and the episodic character in space and time of glacial and postglacial geomorphic processes are noted. The essential link between biotic succession and pedogenesis is demonstrated from studies of soil phosphorus transformations in chronosequences of soil and vegetation in New Zealand mountains. A wide-ranging review of New Zealand mountain ecology and biogeography reveals the abundant evidence for evolutionary adaptation of both flora and fauna to landscape disturbance. In this context the defined types of stability are illustrated for the landscape systems of four major regions in the New Zealand mountains. The impact of Polynesian man and of the later European colonization on mountain landscape systems is also examined. Polynesian culture involving fire and bird hunting was not sustained, but forest destruction in drier sectors of the mountains had lasting impacts. European pastoral colonization was persistent and produced many forms of instability. In recent decades, cultural stabilizing factors have been introduced into the pastoral use of mountains. The significance of such measures is stressed in the maintenance of system immaturity and of dynamic stability appropriate to such immaturity. Finally, it is reasoned that dynamic socio-political dimensions are needed in ecologic prescriptions for pastoral mountain cultures. /// La ncessit et l'intrt de considrer les montagnes en tant qu'cosystmes, c'est--dire des systmes composs de processus physiques, chimiques et biologiques en activit dans les rgions montagneuses, sont examins dans cette tude. La typologie de la stabilit tablie par Gigon (1983) en termes de constance, cyclisme, rsistance, et rsilience, a t adopte en insistant sur l'abondance de systmes relativement immatures, une condition frquente dans les montagnes. La structure gologique des montages de la Nouvelle Zlande est dcrite, et les diffrences rgionales dans les processus sculpturaux ainsi que le caractre pisodique dans l'espace et le temps des processus gomorphiques glaciaux et postglaciaux sont nots. La liaison essentielle entre la succession biotique et la pedognse est demontre par les tudes portant sur les transformations du phosphore dans de sol en squences chronologiques de sol et de vgtation dans les montagnes de la Nouvelle Zlande. Une tude extensive de l'cologie et de la biogographie des montagnes de la Nouvelle Zlande a fourni des preuves abondantes d'une adaptation volutive de la flore et de la faune aux perturbations du terrain. Dans ce contexte, les types dfinis de stabilit sont illustrs pour les systmes cologiques de quatres rgions importantes des montagnes de la Nouvelle Zlande. L'impact de l'homme polynsien et de la colonisation europenne sur les systmes cologiques montagnards est galement examin. La culture polynsienne utilisant le feu et pratiquant la chasse aux oiseaux n'a pas dur, mais la destruction des forts dans les secteurs plus secs des montagnes a eu des rpercussions  longue cheance. La colonisation pastorale europenne s'est par contre bien tablie et a entran de nombreuses forms d'instabilit. Au cours des dcades rcentes, des facteurs culturels de stabilisation ont t introduits dans le cadre de l'utilisation pastorale des montagnes. L'importance de telles mesures est souligne dans le maintien de l'immaturit des systmes et de la stabilit dynamique approprie  une telle immaturit. Finalement, l'argument est avanc que des variables socio-politiques de caractre dynamique doivent tre intgres dans les prescriptions cologiques affectant les cultures pastorales montagnardes. /// Notwendigkeit und Sinn von kosystemen fr Gebirgsgegenden werden errtert. Systeme werden definiert, die die Vorgnge in Berggebieten aus ihren physikalischen, chemischen und biologischen Ablufen erklren. Gigon's Typologie der Stabilitt im Sinne von Konstanz, Zyklizitt, Resistenz und Elastizitt wird bernommen. Ein Umstand, der allen Bergen gemeinsam ist, wird besonders betont: Das wiederholte Auftreten von unfertigen Systemen. Die geologische Struktur der Bergwelt Neuseelands wird beschrieben. Regionale Unterschiede im Formungsprozess, sowie der episodische rumliche und zeitliche Charakter von glazialen und postglazialen geomorphischen Vorgngen werden aufgezeigt. Das wichtige Bindeglied zwischen biotischer Sukzession und Pedogenese wird durch Studien der zeitabhngigen Phosphorumsetzung des Bodens und anhand der Bodenbeschaffenheit sowie der Vegetation nachgewiesen. Bei Landschaftsstrungen ergibt eine umfangreiche berprfung der Bergkologie und Biogeographie viele Anzeichen fr eine Entwicklungsanpassung der Flora und Fauna. In diesem Zusammenhang werden die definierten Stabilittsbegriffe auf Landschaftssysteme der vier grssten Bergregionen Neuseelands angewendet. Polynesier und spter auch die europische Kolonisation beeinflussten die kosysteme der Berggebiete. Die polynesische Kultur, die Feuer und Vogeljagd brachte, ist berholt, in ihrer Folge jedoch war die Waldvernichtung in trockenen Berggebieten sehr nachteilig. Die Einfhrung der Weidewirtschaft durch die Europer fasste Fuss und brachte viele neue Instabilitten mit sich. In den vergangenen Jahrzehnten wurden Stabilisierungsmassnahmen bei der Weidelandnutzung der Berge getroffen. Der Wert solcher Massnahmen zeigt sich in dem Auftreten von Systemanpassungen und in der aus diesen Anpassungen folgenden dynamischen Stabilitt. Abschlissend werden die Grnde fr die Notwendigkeit einer sozio-politischen Dimension bei der kologischen Planung fr pastorale Bergkulturen angefhrt.
4096456|Changes in land cover patterns can be analyzed to improve understanding of macroscopic environmental change and impacts on landscape-level processes. However, analysis at only the landscape scale neglects the linkages between land use change and local livelihoods. In this paper we describe both land cover change from 1989-2001 and the resulting household impacts in a small upland watershed in western Yunnan, using remote sensing, spatial analysis, and interviews. Afforestation has substantially reduced farmland area over the past 15 years, affecting both ecological and economic patterns. Landscape fragmentation has decreased, as small scattered patches have been consolidated into larger patches. Household access to arable land has been reduced, total grain production has decreased, and households have become more dependent on cash income. The transition of farmland to non-agricultural, forested land marks a policy-driven shift in land use.
10.2307/3673282|Since 1960 the Association for Comparative Alpine Research has produced a topographic map series of eastern Nepal, mostly at a scale of 1:50,000. This was to serve as a basis for further studies and includes the glaciated high mountain regions between the rivers Arun and Trisuli as well as the low mountain range immediately to the south. The series also includes the Kathmandu Valley on a scale of 1:10,000. This paper summarizes the content and the development of the map series and describes the compilation of the final map, the Helambu-Langtang sheet. This is a general topographic map produced in accordance with the results of the Survey of India. /// Depuis 1960, l'Association pour la recherche alpine comparative a dit une srie de cartes topographiques de l'est du Npal, en grande partie  l'chelle <tex-math>$1/50.000^{{\rm e}}$</tex-math>. Cette srie tait destine  servir de base pour des tudes ultrieures; elle couvre les rgions de glaciers dans les hautes montagnes situes entre les rivires Arun et Trisuli, ainsi que la basse chane de montagnes juste au sud. Elle couvre galement la valle de Kathmandu  l'chelle 1/10.000. Cet article passe en revue le contenu et la cration de la srie de cartes, et dcrit l'laboration de la dernire, la carte "Helambu-Langtang." Celle-ci est une carte topographique gnrale publie conformment aux rsultats du Service Topographique de l'Inde. /// Das Forschungsunternehmen Nepal/Himalaja und seine Nachfolgeorganisation, die Arbeitsgemeinschaft fr Vergleichende Hochgebirgsforschung, haben in der Zeit seit 1960 ein topographisches Kartenwerk berwiegend im Mastab 1:50 000 von Ost-Nepal aufgebaut. Es sollte die Grundlage fr weitere Forschungen dieser Organisation bilden und umfat vor allem das vergletscherte Hochgebirge zwischen dem Arunflu und dem Trisuliflu sowie das anschlieende Mittelgebirge. Auch das Kathmandutal ist im Mastab 1:10 000 durch dieses Kartenwerk erfat. Es wird kurz auf den Inhalt und die Entstehung dieser Kartenwerke eingegangen und sodann die Bearbeitung des letzten Blattes dieser Serie, nmlich "Helambu-Langtang" 1:100 000 geschildert. Dieses Blatt ist eine topographische bersichtskarte, die berwiegend nach Unterlagen der indischen Landesaufnahme (one-inch-map) hergestellt ist.
10.2307/3673514|Droughts are a major cause of vegetation destruction, particularly through widespread natural fires in the tropical rainforest. The frequency and scale of major drought is discussed and its influence on the extant vegetation outlined. Evidence of fire damage in both the prehistoric and historical records is reviewed. The occurrence of frequent fires in the tropical rainforest requires a re-examination of existing concepts of rainforest stability. /// La scheresse constitue l'une des causes principales de destruction de la vgtation, en particulier  la suite d'incendies naturels qui svissent sur une grande partie de la fort tropicale humide. La frquence et l'amplitude des scheresses majeures sont examines, ainsi que leur influence sur la vgtation existante. Les indices de destruction par le feu, tires des donnes prhistoriques et historiques, sont passs en revue. L'occurrence d'incendies frquents ncessite un nouvel examen des concepts actuels de stabilit de la fort tropicale humide. /// Drreperioden sind die Hauptursache fr die Vegetationszerstrung, besonders durch weitverbreitete, natrliche Feuer im tropischen Regenwald. Hufigkeit und Ausma von greren Trockenperioden werden diskutiert, und die folgende Beeinflussung der vorhandenen Vegetation wird aufgezeigt. Die Spuren von Feuerschden werden in prhistorischen und historischen Aufzeichnungen verfolgt. Die zahlreichen Feuer im tropischen Regenwald erfordern eine berprfung der vorherrschenden Meinungen bezglich der Stabilitt des Regenwaldes.
90013240|The long-term survival of Andean forest landscapes (AFL) and of their capacity to contribute to sustainable development in a context of global change requires integrated adaptation and mitigation responses informed by a thorough understanding of the dynamic and complex interactions between their ecological and social components. This article proposes a research agenda that can help guide AFL research efforts for the next 15 years. The agenda was developed between July 2015 and June 2016 through a series of workshops in Ecuador, Peru, and Switzerland and involved 48 researchers and development experts working on AFL from different disciplinary perspectives. Based on our review of current research and identification of pressing challenges for the conservation and sustainable governance of AFL, we propose a conceptual framework that draws on sustainability sciences and socialecological systems research, and we identify a set of high-priority research goals and objectives organized into 3 broad categories: systems knowledge, target knowledge, and transformation knowledge. This paper is intended to be a reference for a broad array of actors engaged in policy, research, and implementation in the Andean region. We hope it will trigger collaborative research initiatives for the continued conservation and sustainable governance of AFL.
10.2307/3673828|The Tibetan Plateau, with an average elevation of 4,000-5,000 m a.s.l., is cold and arid, and geomorphologic processes are dominated by periglacial, glacial, and aeolian agents. Here, the highest known, currently-developing karst features were found during the Sino-British Expedition of 1987. Measurements of CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure were taken in air, soil, sediments, and caves. Also measured were the solubility of Tibetan limestones, the dissolved CaCO<sub>3</sub> in water, and the electrical conductivity of karst waters. Field solution experiments show that CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure is one of the lowest in the world. Dissolved limestone content in fresh karst water is lower than in other karst areas. The solubility of the major Tibetan limestones varies little, but field experiments indicate that karst solution rates are affected by geomorphologic and climatic conditions. The formation and distribution of the present-day karst features correspond with the results of field and laboratory solution experiments. They are mainly small surface features in relatively wet and warm locations, especially where soil is in direct contact with limestone. Measurements of solution rates and CO<sub>2</sub> content indicate that biologically stimulated solution plays an important role in karst development on this cold and arid plateau. /// Le plateau tibtain, dont l'altitude se situe entre 4 000 et 5 000 mtres au-dessus du niveau de la mer, est froid et aride; les processus gomorphologiques y sont domins par les agents priglaciaires, glaciaires et oliens. C'est l o des reliefs karstiques en cours de dveloppement, les plus levs du monde, ont t dcouverts par l'expdition sino-britannique de 1987. La pression partielle du CO<sub>2</sub> a t mesure dans l'air, le sol, les sdiments et les grottes. La solubilit des roches calcaires tibtaines, la dissolution du CaCO<sub>3</sub> dans l'eau et la conductivit des eaux karstiques ont t galement mesures. Les expriences de dissolution sur le terrain indiquent que la pression partielle du CO<sub>2</sub> est la plus basse du monde. La concentration en roches calcaires dissoutes des eaux karstiques fraches est plus basse que dans les autres zones karstiques. La solubilit des roches calcaires tibtaines principales varie peu, mais les expriences sur le terrain indiquent que les taux de dissolution karstique sont affects par les conditions gomorphologiques et climatiques. La formation et la rpartition des reliefs karstiques actuels correspond aux rsultats des expriences de dissolution en laboratoire et sur le terrain. Ce sont principalement de petits reliefs de surface dans des zones relativement humides et chaudes, en particulier l o le sol est en contact direct avec la roche calcaire. Les mesures de taux de dissolution et de concentration en CO<sub>2</sub> indiquent que la dissolution stimule par des agents biologiques joue un rle important dans le dveloppement du karst sur ce plateau froid et aride. /// Das im Mittel 4000 bis 5000 m . N. N. gelegene tibetische Hochland ist kalt und trocken und hat eine von periglazialen, glazialen, und olischen Prozessen geprgte Geomorphologie. Whrend der Chinesisch-Britischen Expedition im Jahre 1987 wurden hier die hchsten gegenwrtig entstehenden Karstformationen gefunden. Der <tex-math>${\rm CO}_{2}\text{-Partialdruck}$</tex-math> wurde in der Luft, im Boden, in Sedimenten und in Hhlen gemessen. Die Lslichkeit der tibetischen Kalkgesteine wurde erfat, sowie die gelsten <tex-math>${\rm CaCO}_{3}\text{-Konzentrationen}$</tex-math> und die elektrische Leitfhigkeit der Karstgewsser gemessen. Lslichkeitsuntersuchungen vor Ort ergaben extrem niedrige CO<sub>2</sub>-Partialdrcke. In frischem Karstwasser ist der Gehalt an gelstem Calciumcarbonat niedriger als in anderen Karstgebieten. Die Auflsekapazitt der verschiedenen tibetischen Kalkgesteine unterscheidet sich nur wenig, jedoch zeigen Freilandexperimente, da Verkarstungsraten von geomorphologischen und klimatischen Bedingungen beeinflut werden. Die Bildung und Verteilung der gegenwrtigen Karststrukturen stimmen mit den Ergebnissen von Freiland- und Laborstudien berein. Es handelt sich bei ihnen hauptschlich um kleine Oberflchenstrukturen in relativ warmen und feuchten Gebieten, insbesondere in solchen, in denen der Boden direkten Kontakt mit dem Kalkgestein hat. Messungen von Auflseraten und <tex-math>${\rm CO}_{2}\text{-Konzentrationen}$</tex-math> weisen auf die wichtige Rolle biologisch stimulierter Lsungsprozesse bei der Karstentstehung in diesem kalten und trockenen Hochland hin.
mounresedeve.34.2.85|Communities that have thrived for centuries in Nepal's rugged mountain environments are facing rapid population declines caused by the outmigration of youths, both males and females in nearly equal numbers, who are sent by parents to distant boarding schools and monasteries for secular and religious education. This paper documents the magnitude of outmigration, migration destinations, migration's impact on the agesex composition of sending communities, the effect of migration on fertility, and projected trends of population decline and aging. The authors conclude by discussing potential long-term threats to the viability of ethnically Tibetan communities in the Himalayan highlands, including outmigration's effect on agricultural production, the familybased care system for the elderly, socioeconomic inequalities, and human capital.
10.2307/3673338|In the course of the Mountain Hazards Mapping Project in Nepal natural hazards were assessed and mapped in the Khumbu Test Area <tex-math>$(360\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> of the high Himalaya. Various geomorphic hazard processes (avalanches, rockfall, landslide hazards, water activity) were mapped on the scale of 1:50,000 with a simplified legend. For the hazard assessment a checklist was developed with defined criteria for every kind of process. The mountainous area seems to be relatively stable. The rock (mainly gneisses) is resistant to weathering. However, three limited zones of higher actual morphodynamic activity could be distinguished. The greatest single hazard is the break-out of ice-dammed and moraine-dammed lakes, events that have a long recurrence interval and are difficult to predict although their source areas can be identified. /// Dans le cadre au Projet de Relev des Dangers Naturels au Npal, les dangers naturels ont t valus et reprs sur une carte de la zone test du Khumbu <tex-math>$(360\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> dans le Haut Himalaya. Diffrents processus gomorphiques dangereux (avalanches, boulements, glissements de terrain, action de l'eau) ont t reprs sur une carte  l'chelle 1/50.000, avec une simple lgende. Une list de contrle, avec dfinition des critres, a t mise au point pour valuer le danger particulier  chacun des processus. La rgion montagneuse semble tre relativement stable. La roche, gneiss principalement, rsiste bien  l'altration. Nanmoins, on peut distinguer trois zones cantonnes ayant une plus grande activit morphodynamique. Le danger le plus srieux est prsent par la rupture de barrages, glace ou moraine, sur les lacs. Ce type d'vnement se produit peu frquemment et il est difficile  prdire bien que les endroits d'origine peuvent tre identifis. /// Im Rahmen des Kartierungsprojektes von Gebirgsgefahren in Nepal wurden im Testgebiet Khumbu <tex-math>$(360\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math>, das im hohen Himalaya liegt, Naturgefahren erfat und kartiert. Verschiedene geomorphologische Gefahrenquellen (Lawinen, Steinschlag, Erdrutsche, Wasserlufe) wurden auf einer Karte im Mastab 1:50.000 zusammen mit vereinfachten Erluterungen kartiert. Fr die Gefahrenbeurteilung wurde fr jede Gefahrenart eine Prfliste mit eindeutigen Kriterien erstellt. Das Berggebiet scheint relativ stabil zu sein. Das Gestein (berwiegend Gneise) ist verwitterungs-resistent. Jedoch konnten drei begrenzte Zonen mit grerer morphodynamischer Aktivitt unterschieden werden. Grte Gefahrenquelle ist das berlaufen von Seen, die von Eis- oder Mornendmmen gebildet werden. Solche Vorflle sind relativ selten und daher schwer vorhersagbar, auch wenn die Ursprungsgebiete identifiziert werden knnen.
mounresedeve.29.1.67|Community forest user groups (CFUGs) in Nepal generate income over US$ 10 million annually through community forestry. The income generated is invested in different development activities, including propoor programs (PPP). This paper seeks to understand to what extent CFUG funds are being invested in PPP, what factors determine whether investment in PPP is made, and whether the amount of CFUG income matters for making an investment in PPP. The paper relies on primary data from 100 CFUGs distributed in 3 different midhill districts of Nepal. A set of questionnaires was developed and administered to a small group of 100 CFUGs. The study findings show that PPP is the second major expenditure of the CFUG funds examined. It suggests that investment in PPP tends to depend on the amount of CFUG income. In addition to CFUG income, the chairperson's age, the secretary's exposure, and the number of dalit households are likely to influence whether investment of CFUG funds in PPP is made: an older chairperson increases the likelihood that investment of CFUG funds will be made in PPP, whereas exposure of the secretary to training and a higher number of dalit households are likely to lead to less or no investment in PPP. The paper concludes that higher income leads to a proportionally higher investment in PPP and suggests that it is necessary to increase CFUG income to increase investment in PPP. There is also a need to consider that increasing CFUG income may lead to overharvesting of forest resources.
10.2307/3674004|The extension of power and altered land-use arrangements by institutions of the classical Mediterranean city, including deforestation, replacement of hunting by agriculture, and other environmental changes, moved toward assimilation of groups with traditional lifeways even as they were resisted by them. A hunter-farmer community on the mountainous periphery of a small port city is described in intimate detail by the Greek orator and philosopher, Dio Chrysostom (Dion Chrisostomos) of Prusa, in his Seventh Discourse. The social system of the mountain-dwelling people is forced to confront the institutions of the city-state, and the conflict of the two is clearly delineated. The operation of city assemblies and courts, and the contrast of their assumptions about appropriate ways of life and modes of production with those of the highland group, give opportunity for analysis and comment. Dio's work helps to elucidate what can be termed an incomplete process of assimilation by the cosmopolitan culture, and is a uniquely valuable work because classical literature generally has little to say about mountain folk in the ancient world. /// L'extension du pouvoir et l'altration des modes d'exploitation des terres par les institutions de la Cit de l'ancienne Mditerrane, y compris la dforestation, le remplacement de la chasse par l'agriculture et d'autres changements environnementaux, a entran l'assimilation de groupes ayant un mode de vie traditionnel, bien que ceux-ci l'ait rsist. Une communaut de chasseurs-fermiers vivant dans les montagnes au voisinage d'une petite ville portuaire est dcrite en grand dtail par l'orateur et philosophe grec, Dio Chrysostom (Dion Chrisostomos) de Prusa, dans son Septime discours. Le systme social de ce peuple montagnard a d confronter les institutions de la Cit et le conflit qui en a rsult est bien expliqu. Le fonctionnement des assembles et des tribunaux de la Cit, ainsi que le contraste entre les prsomptions concernant les faons de vivre appropries et les modes de production de la Cit et celles du groupe montagnard, donnent lieu  une analyse et  des commentaires. Le travail de Dio Chrysostom aide  lucider ce qu'on pourrait appeler un processus d'assimilation incomplte par la culture cosmopolitaine, et constitue un ouvrage remarquable pour la simple raison que la littrature classique a ignor les peuples montagnards de l'ancienne priode. /// In antiken Stdten des Mittelmeerraumes fhrten Machtausdehnung und nderungen der Landnutzung (d.h., Entwaldung, durch Landwirtschaft ersetzte Jagdgewohnheiten und andere Umweltvernderungen) zur Assimilation von Bevlkerungsgruppen, die ihren alt-berlieferten Lebensstil trotz ihres Widerstandes aufgeben muten. Der griechische Orator und Philosoph Dio Chrysostom (Dion Chrysostomos) aus Prusa beschreibt in seiner 7. Rede in allen Einzelheiten das Leben einer Jger-Bauern Gemeinde in der bergigen Umgebung einer Hafenstadt. Die soziale Ordnung der Bergbewohner wird mit den Einrichtungen des Stadt-Staates konfrontiert, und der sich ergebende Konflikt wird genau beschrieben. Der Machteinflu der Stadtversammlungen und Gerichte, die in starkem Kontrast zu den Lebensbruchen und Handlungsweisen der Bergbewohner fungieren, bieten Gelegenheit zu kritischer Analyse und Stellungnahme. Dio's Arbeit beschreibt die Unvollkommenheit des Assimilationsprozesses zwischen althergebrachter und stdtischer Kultur. Dies ist ein wertvoller Beitrag, da die klassische Literature nur wenig ber die Bergbevlkerung der Antike aussagt.
mounresedeve.32.2.242|Rural development is a vast sector that encompasses infrastructure creation, sustainable livelihoods, and decentralized governance. Mountain landscapes, with their inherent constraints of remoteness, sensitive ecosystem, and marginality, pose unique challenges to rural development. We undertook an assessment of the evolution of development themes and rural development progress made in the mountain state of Sikkim over the past decade. We found that a rapidly growing national economy has facilitated a 4-fold rise in investment in key rural development subsectors in Sikkim over the past 5 years. This significant enhancement in financial investment, coupled with good governance and innovative policies, has ensured that human development indicators, along with social infrastructure creation, have shown impressive progress. Setting up village cluster-level support offices to strengthen governance, transforming regular programs to mission mode with great political determination by adopting a saturation approach, financing improved earthquake-resistant housing for poor households, and promoting climate change adaption measures to enhance rural water security are some of the innovative approaches that have the potential to be transferred to other mountain areas. We propose a further expansion of capacities and economic opportunities in rural areas by prioritizing the self-employment sector, by expanding the nonfarm rural economy, youth training and placement, and continuing commitment to strengthening democratic institutions and procedures to ensure more rapid and inclusive growth of the rural economy.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s12|Based on our work in mountain communities in Mexico (and in other parts of Latin America), we suggest the need for a dialogue of knowledge systems or dialogo de saberes, a concept used in Latin America that is akin to the concept of transdisciplinarity used by some European scholars. If these societies are to liberate themselves from the globalized straitjackets imposed by international economic integration with its imperatives of free trade and markets, then communities have to expand beyond the improvement of individual capabilities and the exercise of individual freedoms. Although individual improvement and self-betterment continue to be significant objectives for direct intervention, we focus on the primacy of collective determinations of the worth of their activities and the focus on collective entitlements by assuring the viability of community processes for individual participation. An alternative strategy for participating communities is proposed.
3674229|The Bridger Wilderness of Bridger-Teton National Forest takes up most of the west slope of the Wind River Mountains in western Wyoming. Within the wilderness boundary lies the tallest of Wyoming's mountains, Gannett Peak; the Green River, a major tributary of the Colorado, begins here. But Bridger Wilderness is more than big mountains and important headwaters; it is a battleground for old adversaries who have struggled to direct the use of America's wildlands, and who compete to influence the federal agency charged with administering this piece of public land (Figure 1). The livestock industry, environmentalists, and the US Forest Service are the players in this battle. And though this particular battleground is shaped by uniquely American institutions and history, the contest itself is one that can be found around the globe.
10.2307/3673095|In the initial stages of crop technology development, borrowing from other countries, regions, or even from better farmers can be accompanied with local evaluation and adaptation. Research systems need to develop the ability to identify problems specific to their regions and to institutionalize the scientific capacity for their solution. The Cqueza Project and the CIAT Bean Program were evaluated for their contributions to technology development for small farmers. As a result of the close co-operation with the biological scientists on the experiment station, the CIAT Bean Program made more rapid progress in adapting and improving crop technology for region specific, yield constraints. However, the shift of emphasis of the Cqueza Project to economic policy concerns was shown to be well founded, because long- and short-term bean price fluctuations had greater effects on profits than did the introduction of the new technology. Nevertheless, it was feasible to identify new crop technology for small farmers in the Northern Andes and both projects made important advances toward this objective. /// Pendant les prmires phases de dveloppement d'une technologie de cultures, une valuation et adaptation locale peuvent tre associes  des emprunts aux autres pays, rgions, ou mme aux exploitants plus prospres. Il devient ncessaire que les systmes d'tudes dveloppent la possibilit de cerner les problmes propre  leurs rgions et d'tablir des organismes scientifiques en mesure de les rsoudre. Le Projet de Caqueza (Caqueza Project) et le Programme de Grains CIAT (CIAT Bean Program) ont t valus pour dterminer leur contributions au dveloppement technologique des petits exploitants. Par suite d'une coopration troite avec les spcialistes-scientifiques en biologie sur le chantier exprimental, le Programme de Grains CIAT a fait des progrs plus rapides dans l'adaptation et l'amnagement d'une technologie des cultures aux contraintes de rendement propres  une rgion. Mais, la nouvelle orientation du Project Caqueza visant  la politique conomique s'est avre bien fonde, puisque les fluctuations de prix des grains  long et  court terme avaient de plus grands effects sur les bnfices que l'introduction d'une nouvelle technologie. Il a t, nanmoins, possible de dterminer une nouvelle technologie des cultures  l'intention des petits exploitants dans les Andes du Nord et les deux projets avaient fait des progrs non-ngligables dans la ralisation de cet objectif. /// In den Anfangsstadien der Einfhrung neuer Getreideanbaumethoden kann die Erfahrung anderer Lnder, Gebiete, oder selbst die von erfolgreicheren Bauern dienen und dem besten lokalen Nutzen angepasst werden. Forschungseinrichtungen mssen in der Lage sein, die besonderen Probleme einer Region und Wege zur Lsung aufzuzeigen. Beitrge des Cqueza Projektes und des CIAT Bohnenprogramms zur Technischen Fortentwicklung der Kleinbauern wurden ausgewertet. Das CIAT Bohnenprogramm, das gebietsspezifische Anbaumethoden und Ertragsgrenzen bercksichtigte, entwickelte sich schneller als Ergebnis der engen Zusammenarbeit mit Biologen auf der Versuchsstation. Andererseits jedoch ergab sich, dass beim Cqueza Projekt die Verlagerung des Schwerpunkts auf wirtschaftspolitische Beweggrnde gerechtfertigt war, da lang- und kurzfristige Preisschwankungen auf dem Bohnenmarkt grssere Konsequenzen fr den Profit hatten als die Einfhrung neuer Methoden. Dennoch war es mglich, den Kleinbauern in den nrdlichen Anden neue Anbaumethoden aufzuzeigen, und beide Projekte machten bei der Verwirklichung dieses Ziels gute Fortschritte. /// En las etapas iniciales de desarrollo de una tecnologa de cultivo, el tomar dinero prestado de otros paises, regiones o incluso de agricultores mejores puede acompaarse por evaluaciones y adaptaciones locales. Los sistemas de investigacin necesitan desarrollar la habilidad para identificar problemas especficos de sus regiones y para institucionalizar la capacidad cientfica para su solucin. Se evaluaron el proyecto Cqueza y el programa de habichuelas CIAT con vistas a examinar sus contribuciones al desarrollo de tecnologa para agricultores modestos. Como resultado de la estrecha cooperacin con los cientficos biolgicos de la estacin experimental, el programa de habichuelas CIAT progres ms rpidamente en sus esfuerzos para adaptar y mejorar la tecnologa de cultivo a las limitaciones de produccin especficas de la regin. Sin embargo, el cambio en el nfasis hacia temas de poltica econmica que el proyecto Cqueza llev a cabo, se demostr que estaba bien fundado ya que las fluctuaciones del precio de las habichuelas a corto y a largo plazo tuvieron ms repercusiones en los beneficios obtenidos que la introduccin de la nueva tecnologa. De todas formas fue posible identificar una nueva tecnologa de cultivo para agricultores modestos de los Andes del norte y ambos proyectos lograron avances importantes hacia ese objetivo.
25164197|Sustainable regional development is a long-term goal for Alpine landscapes and habitats in Switzerland. Areas of high ecological quality and sufficient socio-cultural potential, but insufficient economic power, are looking for long-term perspectives. The economic options of structurally weak peripheral regions could be improved significantly through "brandscaping," ie a certification strategy for Label Regions focusing on sustainability, thereby "producing" new types of landscapes. An adequate implementation strategy should be based on a reliable indicator system, which should finally lead to certification procedures for regional management. But the implementation of Label Regions (with certification) is only feasible under an innovative development scenario in which the socioeconomic and political environment facilitates such strategies. Labeling intends to offer regional producers an advantage in the nature-based tourism market as well as for other quality products and services, and must be effectively promoted by regional as well as sectoral policies, thus shaping traditional landscapes into "brandscapes."
mounresedeve.30.4.332|Mountain summits present a unique challenge to manage sustainably: they are ecologically important and, in many circumstances, under high demand for recreation and tourism activities. This article presents recent advances in the assessment of resource conditions and visitor disturbance in mountain summit environments, by drawing on examples from a multiyear, interdisciplinary study of summits in the northeastern United States. Primary impact issues as a consequence of visitor use, such as informal trail formation, vegetation disturbance, and soil loss, were addressed via the adaption of protocols from recreation ecology studies to summit environments. In addition, new methodologies were developed that provide measurement sensitivity to change previously unavailable through standard recreation monitoring protocols. Although currently limited in application to the northeastern US summit environments, the methods presented show promise for widespread application wherever summits are in demand for visitor activities.
10.2307/3673428|This paper discusses the possible contribution that studies from undisturbed mountain areas can make to Global Change (IGBP) investigations, based on examples from the Canadian Rockies. Particular attention is focused on the potential for the recovery of high-resolution proxy-climate records from several sensitive environments (e.g., at treeline). Data concerning the recent instrumental climate record and glacier and treeline fluctuations are presented to document environmental changes at various time-scales during the Holocene. Based on this record, some general comments about anticipated future environmental changes and natural hazards are made. In the context of the Canadian Rockies, specific recommendations for future studies include increased attention to the last millennium, using long tree-ring records and glacier history, plus high-resolution studies of conditions and changes during the Hypsithermal. Monitoring of the dynamics of present physical and biotic systems (e.g., glacier mass balance, modern pollen rain, and treeline dynamics) is essential to both the understanding of the likely response of these systems to future changes and to the interpretation of the paleoenvironmental record. /// Cet article examine la contribution que les tudes de rgions montagneuses laisses  l'tat naturel peuvent apporter aux recherches sur le Changement global (IGBP), en utilisant des exemples realitifs aux Rocheuses canadiennes. L'article porte un intrt particulier sur la possibilit de retrouver des traces climatiques indirectes  haute rsolution, en tudiant plusieurs environnements sensibles (par exemple, la limite des arbres). Les donnes relatives aux traces climatiques obtenues rcemment  l'aide d'instruments, et les fluctuations des glaciers et de la limite des arbres, sont prsentes pour documenter les changements environnementaux  diffrentes chelles de temps pendant l'Holocne. A partir de ces informations, l'article prsente des commentaires gnraux concernant les changements environnementaux prvus et les dangers naturels. Dans le contexte des Rocheuses canadiennes, des recommandations particulires sont faites au sujet des recherches futures, y compris des tudes plus approfondies du dernier millnaire, bases sur l'examen des cernes annuels des arbres et sur l'historique des glaciers, en plus d'tudes  haute rsolution des conditions et des changements au cours de l'Hypsothermique. La surveillance de la dynamique des systmes physiques et biotiques actuels (par exemple, balance de masse des glaciers, pluie pollinique dans les temps modernes, et dynamique de la limite des arbres) est indispensable, aussi bien pour comprendre la rponse probable de ces systmes  des changements futurs que pour interprter les traces palo-environnementales. /// Dieser Artikel diskutiert an Beispielen aus den kanadischen Rockies, da Studien von unberhrten Gebirgsregionen einen Beitrag bei Untersuchungen der globalen Vernderungen (IGBP) leisten knnen. Reprsentative, hochauflsende Klimaaufzeichnungen von unterschiedlichen Umgebungen, die dafr besonders empfindlich sind (z.B. entlang der Baumgrenze) werden in betracht gezogen. Ergebnisse jngster Klimaaufzeichnungen sowie Fluktuationsdaten der Gletscher und Baumgrenzen werden prsentiert, um Umweltvernderungen ber verschiedene Zeitrume des Holozns, zu dokumentieren. Auf der Grundlage dieser Daten werden einige allgemeine Bermerkungen ber zuknftig zu erwartende Umweltvernderungen und Naturgefahren gemacht. Bezglich der kanadischen Rockies werden spezifische Empfehlungen fr Folgeuntersuchungen gegeben, die dem vergangenen Jahrtausend besondere Beachtung schenken. Dabei werden langfristige Aufzeichnungen von Baumringdaten, historische Gletscherdaten sowie Ergebnisse von detaillierten Untersuchungen der Bedingungen und Vernderungen whrend des Hypsithermals benutzt. Die Beobachtung von Dynamikschwankungen in gegenwrtigen physikalischen und biotischen Systemen (z.B. das Gleichgewicht der Gletschermasse, die Dynamik des Pollenregens und der Baumgrenze) ist fr das Verstndnis mglicher Reaktionen dieser Systeme auf zuknftige nderungen und zur Auswertung der alten Umweltaufzeichnungen wesentlich.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r29|,        ,  ,   ,   ,         .             ,    , : ,      , , , ,      (     PSL)  -, -      .  PSL,         1998 ,     ,       ,               .                   .  PSL         . ,     PSL  ,        ,          ,   ,           .         ,   ,                  ,       .   ,            ,     ,   ,  .   ,      ,        ,         ,           ,      . , ,  ,    ,               ,                      .
10.2307/3673871|Since the Age of Enlightenment, modernization has taken the form of a parallel growth of the significance of both the state and the individual, at the expense of the intermediary or secondary groups or collectives of various kinds. With a modern notion of over-burdening and high transaction costs of the mature state and a disrupting alienation of the individual, the search for institutional solutions that are "neither market, nor state," has intensified in both academia and bureaucracies. However, such efforts often clash with many of the values of modern Western society. In Northern Norway, the political struggle over the reintroduction of Commons Law for Mountain Areas revealed some of these contradictions. This example also shows why many suboptimal solutions in modern resource management are favored because of the value attached to individual freedom and equal treatment by the state; even when these contradict the sustainable governing of a resource. In contrast, institutional designs based on smaller collectives are perceived as less attractive because they involve less individual freedom, more duties and more inequality. The lessons are used for a discussion of the role of common property institutions in the process of modernisation. /// Depuis le Sicle des lumires, la modernisation a pris la forme d'une croissance parallle de l'importance de l'tat et de l'individu, aux dpens des groupes intermdiaires ou secondaires ou des collectifs de toutes sortes. Grce  une notion moderne des cots de gestion levs et accablants de l'tat mr et  une alination perturbante de l'individu, la recherche de solutions institutionnelles qui ne sont "ni march, ni tat" s'est intensifie  la fois dans le monde universitaire et dans la bureaucratie. Toutefois, ces efforts se heurtent souvent  un grand nombre de valeurs de la socit occidentale moderne. Dans le nord de la Norvge, la lutte politique pour la rintroduction de la loi sur les communaux dans les rgions montagneuses a rvl certaines de ces contradictions. Cet exemple montre galement pourquoi tant de solutions sous-optimales de gestion moderne des ressources sont choisies en raison de l'importance attache  la libert individuelle et  l'galit de traitement par l'tat, mme quand celles-ci contredisent la viabilit de la gestion des ressources. Par contraste, les modles institutionnels fonds sur de plus petits collectifs sont considrs comme tant moins intressants car ils comportent moins de libert individuelle, plus de devoirs et plus d'ingalit. Les leons tires sont utilises pour discuter du rle des institutions communes dans le processus de modernisation. /// Seit dem Zeitalter der Aufklrung ist die Modernisierung gleichbedeutend mit einer parallelen Zunahme der Bedeutung sowohl des Staates als auch der Einzelperson auf Kosten der Zwischen- oder Sekundrgruppen oder -gemeinschaften unterschiedlicher Art. Bei der heutigen berlastung und den hohen Transaktionskosten des vollentwickelten Staates und einer zerrttenden Entfremdung der Einzelperson wird sowohl in akademischen als auch in brokratischen Kreisen der Ruf nach institutionellen Lsungen laut, die weder markt- noch staatsbezogen sind. Solche Bemhungen kollidieren jedoch hufig mit den Wertvorstellungen der modernen westlichen Gesellschaft. In Nordnorwegen hat der politische Kampf um die Wiedereinfhrung des Allmenderechtes fr Bergregionen einige dieser Widersprche offenbart. Dieses Beispiel zeigt auch, warum heute viele Lsungen zur Bewirtschaftung der Naturschtze, die durchaus nicht optimal sind, auf Grund des Wertes, der der Freiheit des einzelnen und der Gleichbehandlung durch den Staat beigemessen wird, bevorzugt werden, auch wenn sie einer langfristigen Erhaltung dieser Rohstoffquellen entgegenstehen. Im Gegensatz dazu werden Programme von Institutionen, die auf kleinere Gemeinschaften zugeschnitten sind, als weniger attraktiv erachtet, da sie geringere individuelle Freiheiten, mehr Pflichten und mehr Ungleichheiten nach sich ziehen. Diese Lektionen sind die Grundlage einer Diskussion ber die Rolle des institutionalisierten Gemeinschaftsbesitzes im Zuge der Modernisierung.
mounresedeve.34.2.118|Water has been identified as a key resource for Nepal's economic growth. Although the country has 225 billion cubic meters of water available annually, less than 7% has been utilized. Climate change is a frequent topic in national development discussions in part because of its possible impact on future water availability. This study assessed the likely impact of climate change on water resources development in the Koshi River basin, Nepal, using the Soil and Water Assessment Tool to generate projections for the 2030s and 2050s. Results suggested that the impacts are likely to be scale dependent. Little impact is projected at annual, full-basin scales; but at sub-basin scale, under both the IPCC's A2 and B1 scenarios, precipitation is projected to increase in the upper transmountain subwatersheds in the 2030s and in most of the basin in the 2050s and to decrease in the lower subbasins in the 2030s. Water yield is projected to increase in most of the basin except for the A2 scenario for the 2030s. Flow volumes are projected to increase during the monsoon and postmonsoon but decrease during the winter and premonsoon seasons. The impacts of climate change are likely to be higher during certain seasons and in some subbasins. Thus, if infrastructure is in place that makes it possible to store and transfer water as needed, the water deficit due to any changes in rainfall or flow patterns could be managed and would not be a constraint on water resources development. The risks associated with extreme events such as floods and droughts should, however, also be considered during planning.
10.2307/3673658|During the twentieth century there have been many changes in land use in the Spanish Pyrenees. The area of cultivated land has decreased; meadows have replaced former grain fields; transhumance has practically disappeared; livestock pressure has much diminished; and there is a clear trend towards the replacement of sheep by cows. The consequence is a progressive abandonment of hillslope locations and a reassessment of land use in valley bottoms, where most of the fodder needed to feed the livestock in winter is grown. Similarly, other changes have been induced by national and international factors. These include reservoir construction for irrigation or power production; improvement of international roads; development of tourism, including urbanization and construction of hotels, ski resorts, and camp-grounds. These new developments also tend to be located in the valley bottoms. Thus, there is strong competition between differing land uses within limited, reduced space and this contributes to further stress on the traditional way of life. The study of changes in sources of food for livestock shows increasing importance of the meadows and also the relationship between availability of local winter fodder and numbers of livestock. /// Durant le <tex-math>${\rm XX}^{\grave{{\rm e}}{\rm me}}$</tex-math> sicle, plusieurs changements ont affect l'utilisation du sol dans les Pyrnes espagnoles. La surface cultive a subi une contraction superficielle brusque, les prairies ont remplac les anciennes cultures cralires; la trashumance a presque totalement disparu; la pression de l'levage a fortement diminu et le cheptel bovin tend  remplacer le cheptel ovin. Au point de vue spatial, la consquence en est une sorte d'abandon progressif des prairies ainsi qu'une remise en valeur des fonds de valles, qui produisent une part importante des fourrages ncessaires pour l'alimentation du btail en hiver. Paralllement, d'autres changements ont eu lieu: la construction de barrages pour tendre davantage les surfaces en irrigu ou bien dans le but de produire de l'nergie lectrique; une amlioration des routes internationales, des campings, des htels et des stations de ski. Ces nouvelles activits et infrastructures se localisent surtout au niveau des fonds de valles. Par ailleurs, ceci provoque une concurrence dans l'utilisation des sols, ce qui contribue  une dsorganisation plus accentue des activits traditionnelles. L'tude de l'volution des sources d'alimentation du btail met en vidence l'importance croissante des prairies de fonds de valles ainsi que l'ajustement entre les ressources locales d'hiver et le nombre de ttes du btail. /// Die Landnutzung der spanischen Pyrenen unterlag im 20. Jahrhundert vielen Veranderungen. Die bestellte Flche verkleinerte sich; ehemalige Kornfelder wurden durch Wiesen ersetzt, Viehwirtschaft mit saisonbedingtem Abtrieb gibt es kaum noch, das Viehversorgungsproblem ist gelst und ein Trend, Schafe durch Khe zu ersetzen, ist klar erkennbar. In der Folge wurden mehr und mehr Hanglagen aufgegeben, womit die Landnutzung in den Talsohlen, wo der grte Anteil des Viehfutters fr die Winterzeit wchst, in den Vordergrund rckte. Ebenso fhrten nationale und internationale Einflsse zu weiteren Vernderungen. Dazu gehren Planung von Stauseen zur Bewsserung oder elektrischen Energieerzeugung, Verbesserung des internationalen Straennetzes, Anstieg des Tourismus einschlielich Urbanisierung und Hotelbauvorhaben, Skigebiete und Campingpltze. Alle diese Neuentwicklungen sind auf Landflchen in den Tlern vorgesehen. Daraus ergibt sich eine starke Konkurrenz unter den verschiedenen Landnutzungen auf der begrenzten, und immer kleiner werdenden Flche, was die traditionelle Lebensart zustzlich unter Druck setzt. Eine Untersuchung der Vernderungen bei den Viehfutterquellen zeigt, da Wiesenflchen an Bedeutung gewinnen, da das rtlich vorhandene Winterfutter die Gre des mglichen Viehbestandes bestimmt. /// Durante el siglo XX se han producido muchos cambios en los usos del suelo de los Pirineos espaoles: La superficie cultivada ha sufrido una brusca contraccion superficial, los prados han sustituido a los antiguos cultivos cerealistas; la trashumancia ha desaparecido casi totalmente; la presin ganadera ha disminuido mucho y el ganado vacuno tiende a sustituir al ovino. Desde un punto de vista espacial, la consecuencia es un progresivo abandono de las laderas y una revalorizacin de los fondos de valle, que producen una parte muy importante del forraje necesario para alimentar al ganado en invierno. Paralelamente, otros cambios han tenido lugar: Construccin de embalses para la ampliacin de reas de regado o para producir energa elctrica; mejora de carreteras internacionales; desarrollo turstico, lo que implica urbanizaciones, campings, hoteles y estaciones de esqu. Estas nuevas actividades e infraestructuras tienden tambin a localizarse en los fondos de valle. De esta forma surge una fuerte competencia en los usos del suelo, lo que contribuye a desorganizar an ms las actividades tradicionales. El estudio de la evolucin de las fuentes de alimentacin del ganado demuestra la creciente importancia de los prados de fondo de valle y el ajuste entre los recursos locales de invierno y el nmero de cabezas de ganado.
10.2307/3673690|In the last century marijuana (kif) has become a crop of increasing importance to the rapidly growing population of the Rif mountains (northern Morocco). Once grown chiefly for domestic use, both for its fiber and its narcotic quality, since the 1960s kif has been the leading export crop of the Rif. The best soils are now used for kif production. Production has increased exponentially in response to northern European demand for Rifian marijuana. Hence the kif trade plays a key role in allowing the Rif to subsist fairly peacefully, despite the highest rural population density in Morocco, poor soils, and one of the most acute erosion problems in the world. Kif (and labor migration) are now absolutely necessary to avoid social catastrophe in the Rif. But kif production promotes the slower ecological catastrophe of accelerated erosion. As elsewhere in the Mediterranean world, goats in the Rif prevent vegetation cover from developing to the point where it can protect soils from the torrential winter rains. In most of the Rif, vegetation is confined to garrigue and maquis, and is maintained in this state by heavy grazing, the purpose of which is mainly to provide manure for kif. One normally supposes that a peaceful drug trade victimizes only consumers; but Rifians are addicted to the production of drugs and are inadvertently destroying their homeland in the process. /// Au cours du sicle dernier, la culture de la marijuana (kif) est devenue de plus en plus importante pour la population en croissance rapide des montagnes du Rif (nord du Maroc). Auparavant, le kif tait cultiv principalement pour la consommation domestique, en vertu de ses fibres et de ses proprits narcotiques, mais depuis les annes 60, il est devenu l'un des principaux produits d'exportation du Rif. Les meilleurs sols sont maintenant utiliss pour la production de kif. La production a augment exponentiellement pour rpondre  la demande des pays du nord de l'Europe pour la marijuana rifaine. Le commerce du kif joue donc un rle trs important du fait qu'il permet  la population du Rif de subsister d'une manire relativement pacifique en dpit de la densit de population rurale la plus leve au Maroc, des sols de mauvaise qualit et des problmes d'rosion les plus srieux du monde. La culture du kif, ainsi que la migration de la main-d'oeuvre, sont maintenant indispensables pour viter une catastrophe sociale dans le Rif. Malheureusement, la production de kif entrane une rosion acclre qui constitue une catastrophe aussi importante bien que plus lente. Comme partout ailleurs dans les rgions mditerranennes, les chvres du Rif empchent la couverture vgtale de se dvelopper jusqu'au point o elle peut protger les sols contre les pluies torrentielles hivernales. Dans la plus grande partie du Rif, la vgtation est confine  la garrigue et au maquis; elle est maintenue dans cet tat par un pturage intensif dont le but principal est de fournir du fumier pour le kif. On suppose normalement que le commerce pacifique des narcotiques ne fait de victimes que les consommateurs, mais les habitants du Rif s'adonnent maintenant  la production de narcotiques et sont en train de dtruire leur rgion. /// Im vergangenen Jahrhundert hat die Bedeutung von Marijuana (Kif) als Feldfrucht bei der schnell wachsenden Bevlkerung des Rif Gebirges (Nordmarokko) stark zugenommen. Ursprnglich wurde es hauptschlich wegen seiner Faser und seiner narkotischen Eigenschaft fr den huslichen Gebrauch angebaut. Seit den 60iger Jahren ist Kif Hauptexportgut der Rif Gegend. Die besten Bden werden heute zum Kifanbau genutzt. Die Marijuanaproduktion ist im Rif Gebiet exponentiell angestiegen als Folge der nordeuropischen Nachfrage. Der Handel mit Marijuana spielt eine wichtige Rolle und erlaubt der Rif Region eine friedliche Existenz, trotz der hchsten Bevlkerungsdichte in ganz Marokko, trotz schlechter Bden und trotz der akutesten Erosionsprobleme auf der Welt. Kif (und Migration der Arbeiter) sind im Rif Gebiet absolut notwendig, wenn eine soziale Katastrophe vermieden werden soll. Die Kif Produktion untersttzt aber eine schwelende kologische Katastrophe: Die beschleunigte Erosion. Ebenso wie in anderen Mittelmeerlndern verhindern die Ziegen im Rif Gebiet den Vegetationswuchs, soda die Bden vor den winterlichen, wolkenbruchartigen Regenfllen ungeschtzt sind. Die Vegetation in groen Teilen des Rif Gebietes beschrnkt sich auf Gestrpp und Unterholz; Uberweidung lt greres Wachstum nicht zu, ihr Hauptzweck ist natrliche Dungproduktion zum Kifanbau. Normalerweise sind bei einem friedlichen Drogenhandel nur Konsumenten die Opfer; die Bewohner des Rif Gebietes sind jedoch der Drogenproduktion verhaftet und zerstren dabei langsam ihre Heimat.
mounresedeve.33.4.437|The 11th Conference of the Spanish Association of Terrestrial Ecology, held in Pamplona, Spain, on 610 May 2013, included a symposium on alpine ecological research in the Iberian Peninsula. This session offered an excellent opportunity to assess the state and progress of alpine ecology in this region, identify knowledge gaps, and discuss further directions for research. Iberian alpine ecosystems are biodiversity hotspots and have traditionally contributed to sustaining rural livelihoods. Today, these ecosystems are subjected to large changes in land uses, including land abandonment, and are affected by climate change. This article reviews the current state of Iberian alpine ecology and proposes a research agenda. Alpine ecology in the Iberian Peninsula is a growing field of research. The need for larger spatial and temporal scales in research and monitoring, along with the integration of socioecological aspects, is a critical issue for understanding the major drivers of change in the alpine ecosystems of the Iberian Peninsula. The implementation of effective mitigation strategies aimed at reducing the impact of the pressing environmental and socioeconomic problems of Iberian mountain areas can only be accomplished through a multidisciplinary and integrative approach.
3674628|Abundant rivers, streams, rivulets, and lakes are found in the Indian mountain region; ultimately, they flow down to meet the water needs of the population residing in the plains. Adequate efforts have not been made to harness the water resources that originate in the Himalayan region in order to address the increased need for small-scale energy for local use and sustainable livelihoods among the population living in remote and inaccessible mountain areas. Most of these areas are still without electricity, which plays a vital role in the development of any society. There is a need to ensure that local communities can benefit from energy just like people in the plains: they need to be empowered to tap and make the best use of local water resources, based on traditional knowledge of techniques to do this and improvement of time-tested technologies for better efficiency. This will allow them to produce added value and enhance their livelihood options.
mounresedeve.35.4.382|Any resource of high value and relevance to rural livelihoods is at risk of overexploitation. The anthropogenic pressure on the caterpillar fungus, Ophiocordyceps sinensis (Berk.) G.H. Sung, J.M. Sung, Hywel-Jones & Spatafora 2007, commonly referred to as
mounresedeve.33.1.11|Rangelands are considered critical ecosystems in the Nepal Himalayas and provide multiple ecosystem services that support local livelihoods. However, these rangelands are under threat from various anthropogenic stresses. This study analyzes an example of conflict over the use of rangeland, involving two villages in the Mustang district of Nepal. This prolonged conflict over the use of rangeland rests on how use rights are defined by the parties, that is, whether they are based on traditional use or property ownership. Traditionally, such conflicts in remote areas were managed under the Mukhiya (village chief) system, but this became dysfunctional after the political change of 1990. The continuing conflict suggests that excessive demand for limited rangelands motivates local villagers to gain absolute control of the resources. In such contexts, external support should focus on enhancing the management and production of forage resources locally, which requires the establishment of local common property institutions to facilitate sustainable rangeland management.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s47|The conference on Global Change and the World's Mountains held in Perth, Scotland, in 2010 offered a unique opportunity to analyze the state and progress of mountain research and its contribution to sustainable mountain development, as well as to reflect on required reorientations of research agendas. In this paper we provide the results of a three-step assessment of the research presented by 450 researchers from around the world. First, we determined the state of the art of mountain research and categorized it based on the analytical structure of the Global Land Project (GLP 2005). Second, we identified emerging themes for future research. Finally, we assessed the contribution of mountain research to sustainable development along the lines of the Grand Challenges in Global Sustainability Research (International Council for Science 2010). Analysis revealed that despite the growing recognition of the importance of more integrative research (inter- and transdisciplinary), the research community gathered in Perth still focuses on environmental drivers of change and on interactions within ecological systems. Only a small percentage of current research seeks to enhance understanding of social systems and of interactions between social and ecological systems. From the ecological systems perspective, a greater effort is needed to disentangle and assess different drivers of change and to investigate impacts on the rendering of ecosystem services. From the social systems perspective, significant shortcomings remain in understanding the characteristics, trends, and impacts of human movements to, within, and out of mountain areas as a form of global change. Likewise, sociocultural drivers affecting collective behavior as well as incentive systems devised by policy and decision makers are little understood and require more in-depth investigation. Both the complexity of coupled socialecological systems and incomplete data sets hinder integrated systems research. Increased understanding of linkages and feedbacks between social and ecological systems will help to identify nonlinearities and thresholds (tipping points) in both system types. This presupposes effective collaboration between ecological and social sciences. Reflections on the Grand Challenges in Sustainability Research put forth by the International Council for Science (2010) reveal the need to intensify research on effective responses and innovations. This will help to achieve sustainable development in mountain regions while maintaining the core competence of mountain research in forecasting and observation.
25164069|The Khangchendzonga Biosphere Reserve (KBR) is one of the latest additions to the protected areas network in the Indian Himalayan Region. Located in the picturesque state of Sikkim in the eastern Indian Himalayan Region with snow-clad mountain peaks, numerous glaciers, a snow- and glacier-fed stream network and high-altitude lakes, this biosphere reserve (BR) is named after the world's third highest mountain peak, Mt Khangchendzonga (8598 m), 1 of the 14 peaks in the world above 8000 m. The KBR covers an area of 2619.92 km, 36.92% of the land area of Sikkim (Figure 1). BRs exemplify participatory sustainable resource use and ecosystem conservation. It is therefore important to consider the human dimensions of a BR from the outset and to survey stakeholders' attitudes about conservation in order to take into account the inherent traditional dependence of people on forest-based resources. Potential future conflicts of interest need to be addressed through well-thought out strategies and integration of traditional conflict prevention mechanisms. Experience gained in the KBR may be useful in light of the widely reported conflicts in other BRs and protected areas around the world. Careful and informed planning may help reduce the likelihood of conflicts arising in newly established BRs.
3674310|Many mountain communities around the world have promoted ecotourism ventures to ameliorate problems of environmental degradation and underdevelopment. Although there is no agreement on what ecotourism is or should be, it is generally believed that this form of tourism in the mountains will foster responsible tourist behavior, conservation of important wildlife habitats and ecosystems, appreciation of local cultures and traditional lifestyles, and provision of sustainable forms of livelihood for people living in remote areas and communities. The present article provides a brief overview of the trends in mountain ecotourism in developed and developing countries, concluding with a proposed framework for designation of mountain ecotourism sites.
90013233|The world is facing numerous and severe environmental, social, and economic challenges. To address these, in September 2015 the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the resolution
mounresedeve.33.3.343|This article discusses historical patterns of energy supply, electricity generation, and sectoral energy consumption as well as the emission of energy-related greenhouse gases during 19952008 in 5 Hindu KushHimalayan countries, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, and Pakistan, and reviews major studies that predict energy use and greenhouse gas emissions during 20052030 in the absence of climate policy interventions. It presents a range of energy use and greenhouse gas emission projections for the selected countries as a whole, and for the Hindu KushHimalayan areas in those countries for 2030. This study shows a need to establish a spatially disaggregated (district-level) energy database in the Hindu KushHimalayan countries to enable more accurate estimates of energy use and associated greenhouse gas emissions in the region.
10.2307/3673569|Extensive high-quality hydrologic and sediment yield data would greatly aid planning for the use of water resources of the Sutlej River system. The total catchment within the mountains is <tex-math>$47,480\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, with the Spiti and Kinnaur tributaries accounting for 5,875 and <tex-math>$5,157\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectively, in India. By far the largest part lies in Tibet. This paper attempts to utilize the available data to provide a first estimate of the magnitude of the problem facing development engineers. It is concluded that extensive sediment control treatment will be necessary to improve the safety and efficiency of the many hydroelectric projects that are being planned for the Sutlej and its tributaries which drain from the Himalaya. Nine years of discharge and sediment yield data collected daily from calibrated sections of the rivers form the basis for this study. While the monthly and annual runoff data show little variation throughout the period, sediment yield was extremely variable. About 80 percent of the annual flow occurs between May and September, mainly from snowmelt. Sediment yield increased exponentially with increased discharge, with especially high concentrations from June through August. The main sediment sources are gully erosion, stream-bank erosion, landslides, road construction, and glacier erosion. The sediment from this region accounts for half the annual accumulation in the Bhakra reservoir farther downstream. /// Des donnes abondantes et fiables concernant les rendements en eau et en sdiments aideraient beaucoup  planifier l'utilisation des ressources en eau du bassin du Sutlej. Le bassin versant total dans les montagnes couvre <tex-math>$47\ 480\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, dont 5 875 et <tex-math>$5\ 157\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> en Inde pour les affluents Spiti et Kinnaur respectivement. La majorit du bassin versant se trouve au Thibet. Cet article essaie d'utiliser les donnes disponibles pour fournir une premire estimation du problme confrontant les ingnieurs de dveloppement. La conclusion en est que des travaux importants de lutte contre les sdiments sont ncessaires pour amliorer la scurit et l'efficacit des nombreux amnagements hydro-lectriques prvus pour le Sutlej et ses affluents qui drainent les eaux de l'Himalaya. Des donnes relatives aux rendements en eau et en sdiments ont t recueillies quotidiennement pendant neuf ans dans des sections calibres des cours d'eau, et forment la base de cette tude. Alors que les rendements en eau mensuel et annuel sont rests relativement stables au cours de cette priode, le rendement en sdiments a beaucoup vari. Environ 80 pourcent de l'coulement annuel se produit entre mai et septembre, principalement par suite de la fonte des neiges. Le rendement en sdiments  augment exponentiellement en fonction du dbit d'eau, avec des valeurs particulirement leves entre juin et aot. Les sdiments proviennent principalement de l'rosion par ravelines, l'rosion des berges, les glissements de terrain, la construction de routes et l'rosion glaciaire. Les sdiments en provenance de cette region constituent la moiti de l'accumulation de solides dans le rservoir Bhakra en aval. /// Bei der Planung der Wasserressourcen des Sutlej Flusses knnen umfassende, zuverlssige Daten ber Wasserertrge und Sedimentansammlungen auerordentlich hilfreich sein. Der gesamte Wasserertrag des Berggebietes betrgt <tex-math>$47.480\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, wovon <tex-math>$5.875\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> auf den Spiti und <tex-math>$5.157\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> auf den Kinnaur entfallen, die als Nebenflsse aus Indien kommen. Der weitaus grte Teil des Sutlej liegt in Tibet. Diese Verffentlichung versucht, vorliegende Daten zu interpretieren, um eine erste Beurteilung der Probleme zu erhalten, die Entwicklungsingenieure bercksichtigen mssen. Es folgt, da umfangreiche Sedimentkontrolle notwendig sein wird, um die Sicherheit und Leistungsfhigkeit der vielen hydroelektrischen Projekte zu verbessern, die fr den Sutlej Flu und seine Nebenflsse, die aus dem Himalaya kommen, geplant sind. Grundlage dieser Studie sind die ber einen Zeitraum von neun Jahren tglich an bestimmten Fluabschnitten gesammelten Daten ber Wasser- und Sedimentmengen. Die Daten des monatlichen und jhrlichen Abflusses zeigen nur geringe Schwankungen; die Daten der Sedimentmenge, dagegen, schwanken erheblich. Hauptschlich durch die Schneeschmelze bedingt, fllt ca. 80% des jhrlichen Abflusses in den Zeitraum zwischen Mai und September. Die Sedimentmenge nahm exponentiell mit vermehrtem Wasserflu zu, wobei besonders von Juni bis August hohe Konzentrationen vorlagen. Die Hauptquellen fr Sedimente sind Gullierosion, Erosion an den Fluufern, Erdrutsche, Straenbau und Gletschererosion. Die Sedimente aus diesem Gebiet liefern etwa die Hlfte der jhrlichen Ablagerungen im Bhakra Reservoir fluabwrts.
10.2307/3673040|Development projects are normally aimed at reaching and affecting certain target groups. Post-evaluation often reveals that the effects were quite different from those anticipated. At Huai Thung Choa, a project to introduce wage-labour led to increased social and economic stratification. An assessment of the socio-economic impact of a project requires complex sampling techniques and a reasonable duration of observation. If geographical and ethnic differences in behaviour are known before opportunities for change are introduced they can act as timely indicators of possible consequences in socio-economic stratification. Within the UNU-CMU joint research project on agro-forestry at Mae Muang Luang, data on the acceptance of wage-labour opportunities and the spread of coffee cultivation were analysed for the first 18 months of project implementation. It would be premature to see evidence of long-term trends in this short period. However, the striking ethnic and spatial imbalances in development which became evident indicate that these aspects must be considered in further project planning. /// Les projets de dveloppement cherchent en gnral  atteindre et affecter certains groupes particuliers. L'levation ultrieure de ces projets rvle souvent que les effets diffrent beaucoup de ceux escompts. En ce qui concerne Huai Thung Choa, un projet visant  introduire le travail salari dans la rgion, a engendr une stratification sociale et conomique plus marque. L'valuation de l'impact socio-conomique d'un projet ncssite des techniques complexes d'chantillonnage et une dure d'observation suffisamment longue. Si les diffrences ethniques et gographiques du comportement sont connues avant que des possibilits de changement ne soient introduites, elles peuvent tre utilises comme indicateurs fiables des consquences possibles du point de vue de la stratification socio-conomique. Dans le cadre du projet de recherche common UNU-CMU sur l'agro-foresterie  Mae Muang Luang, les donnes concernant l'acceptation du travail salari et l'expansion de la culture du caf ont t analyses pour les 18 premiers mois d'exercice du projet. Il serait prmatur d'essayer d'extraire des tendances  long terme sur la base d'une priode d'observation aussi courte. Nanmoins, des dsquilibres ethniques et gographiques dans le dveloppement se sont clairement rvls, indiquant que ces facteurs doivent dornavant tre pris en compte dans la planification du projet. /// Entwicklungsprojekte sind in der Regel auf bestimmte Zielgruppen und Ziele hin ausgerichtet. Sptere Evaluationen zeigen oft, da die Ziele von den verschiedenen Beteiligten in unterschiedlichem Mae verwirklicht wurden und zu fortschreitender sozialer und konomischer Stratifizierung fhrten. Eine Beurteilung der sozio-konomischen Einflsse eines Projektes erfordert komplexe Erhebungsmethoden und einen lngeren Beobachtungszeitraum. Grobe rumliche und ethnische Differenzierungen des Innovationsverhaltens knnen dahingegen oft frhzeitig und mit geringerem Aufwand erkannt werden. Sie dienen dabei als Indikatoren sich anbahnender Stratifikationsprozesse. Im Rahmen des "UNU-CMU joint research project on agro-forestry" in Mae Muang Luang wurden fr die ersten 18 Monate der Projektlaufzeit Daten bezglich der Akzeptanz von Lohnarbeit und Kaffeeanbau ausgewertet. Es wre voreilig von dieser kurzen Zeitspanne aus auf langfristige Entwicklungen zu schlieen. Doch die substantiellen ethnischen und rumlichen Ungleichgewichte im Entwicklungsprozess welche sich herausstellten zeigen die Notwendigkeit auf, Aspekte der Innovationsdiffusion in die zuknftige Projektplanung mit einzubeziehen.
3674054|Most landscapes in Chiapas were recently subjected to a change in land use that has caused various environmental problems in a highland-lowland interactive system. In the Soconusco coastal plain, cash crops with long dry fallow periods caused a decline in precipitation, whereas in the lower escarpment of the Sierra Madre, coffee plantations with unshaded cultivation in rows and inputs of herbicides reinforced major hydrological fluctuations. While these impacts have been reduced during the last decade, demographic pressure in the upper part of the Sierra Madre and in the Altos de Chiapas, resulting in a growing need for land, is responsible for advancement of the frontier of settlement into steeper parts of the Sierra and toward Lacandonia. The resulting soil erosion and leaching cause further degradation, and, together with elevated runoff rates, also have a heavy impact on the forelands. This was evident in September 1998 in the form of disastrous floods and devastation in the Soconusco plain.
25164203|Alpine landscapes arouse emotions and yearnings: feelings of belonging, freedom, or holidays. Images and notions about Alpine landscapes not only influence landscape experiences, they also play an important role in decision-making processes and conflict mitigation. Different stakeholders-ie locals, tourists, tourist entrepreneurs, politicians, farmers, hunters, etc-regard Alpine landscapes with different eyes, yet there are also connecting elements: these are referred to in tourism marketing and in political dialogue. The present article develops a conceptual model landscape perception consisting of 4 poles-'nature' and 'culture' as well as 'individual' and 'society'-that contributes to a better understanding of the meanings that landscapes have for different people. The model helps to find existing commonalities among stakeholders and overcome obstacles. It is exemplified by 6 dimensions with distinct foci on landscapes through which researchers look at Alpine landscapes. The article concludes with recommendations for ethical landscape development practice and policy.
mounresedeve.36.4.553|The Centre for Mountain Studies (CMS), located at Perth College, University of the Highlands and Islands, Scotland, hosts the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization Chair in Sustainable Mountain Development. Since 2000, CMS staff and students have been active in research and knowledge exchange activities at scales from the localin Scotlandto the global (Price 2011; Glass et al 2013). In addition to hosting the Mountains of our Future Earth conference (Perth III), recent international activities have focused on climate change, biosphere reserves, social innovation, and stakeholder engagement in biodiversity research. Projects in Scotland have mainly addressed land management and local communities. The CMS also runs a parttime online MSc program in Sustainable Mountain Development.
10.2307/3673617|In mountain regions the development of natural resources depends predominantly on factors of social and economic values. Most government funding for mountain areas is allocated to the development of transportation and agriculture. Geographical differences within the Federal Republic of Germany have led to a great number of regional programs that depend on directives determined by the European Community but are integrated into federal programs. These are described; they take into consideration the different local conditions and foster development at the regional level. /// Le dveloppement des ressources naturelles dans les rgions montagneuses dpend principalement de facteurs sociaux et conomiques. Les fonds publics sont en grande partie allous au dveloppement du transport et de l'agriculture. Les diffrences gographiques au sein de la Rpublique Fdrale d'Allemagne ont donn naissance  de nombreux programmes rgionaux soumis aux directives de la Communaut Europenne, mais intgrs dans des programmes fdraux. Ces programmes tiennent compte des diffrences de conditions locales et encouragent le dveloppement  l'chelle rgionale. Remarque: Cet article a t prpar pour la Confrence TOME de 1989. Il fait rfrence  la Rpublique Fdrale d'Allemagne telle qu'elle existait avant le 3 octobre 1990, et n'inclut pas les rgions montagneuses de l'ancienne Rpublique Dmocratique d'Allemagne. /// Die Bewertung natrlicher Ressourcen der Gebirgsregionen hat sich von produktionswirtschaftlichen Zielen zu sozialen und kologischen berlegungen verschoben. ffentliche Subventionen untersttzen noch immer in erster Linie Verkehrserschlieung und Landwirtschaft. Die durch die fderative Struktur der Bundesrepublik Deutschland bedingte rumliche Differenzierung zeigt sich in einer Vielzahl einzelner Frderprogramme, die insgesamt den EG-Richtlinien unterliegen, in Bundesprogramme (Gemeinschaftsaufgaben, Bundesraumordnungsprogramm) eingebunden sind, aber dennoch den Lndern gengend Spielraum fr eigenstndige Entscheidungen und fr regionale Entwicklungen lassen. Diese Verffentlichung war fr die TOME Konferenz 1989 vorbereitet. Sie bezieht sich auf die BRD in ihren Grenzen vor dem 3. Okt. 1990 und schliet die Berggebiete der ehemaligen DDR nicht ein.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r5|              .         -#x0043A;   .         2002 .,          .  ,             .  ,     ,     ,    , ,          .    ,     ,   ,    2009             ,            .            .
10.2307/3673405|Nepal has been an integral part of ancient Asian civilization from the dawn of recorded history yet it remained almost uninfluenced by the industrial revolution and subsequent technology until the middle of this century. A detailed study of the deforestation and forest degradation which have occurred in Nepal therefore reveals many echoes of ancient and medieval times in the Mediterranean basin and we affirm that the state of Nepal's forests arises not from any modern novelty but is a consequence of gradual evolution over centuries from petty states to the present kingdom. We also reject views that the present forest situation is redeemable solely by technological action or that it arose from peasant ignorance or mismanagement, from simple overpopulation, or through any loss of primitive purity in the face of modern market economies. The concept of "the pressure of production on the resource" is found to provide a useful starting-point for the construction of a simple classification of the results of various pressures on the forest resource. Some implications of these matters for future forest policy and action are briefly discussed. /// Le Npal a fait intgralement partie de l'ancienne civilisation asiatique ds le dbut de l'histoire connue, mais nanmoins il n'a vraiement commen  tre affect par la rvolution industrielle et la technologie rsultante qu'au milieu du vingtime sicle. Une tude dtaille de la dforestation et de la dgradation des forts qui se sont produites au Npal rvle des parallles avec les poques ancienne et mdivale dans le bassin mditerranen, ce qui permet d'affirmer que l'tat des forts npalaises n'est pas un phnomne moderne mais dcoule plutt d'une volution progressive au cours des sicles, de petits tats jusqu'au royaume actuel. Cette tude met galement en doute les opinions qu'il n'est possible de remdier aux conditions actuelles que par des moyens technologiques, ou que ces conditions sont des  l'ignorance et  la mauvaise gestion de la part des paysans, au surpeuplement pur et simple, ou  une perte de la puret primitive au contact des modernes conomies de march. Le concept de "pression de la production sur la ressource" fournit un bon point de dpart pour tablir une simple classification des effets de diverses pressions sur la ressource forestire. Un certain nombre d'implications sont prsentes en rapport avec la politique et les dcisions futures concernant les forts. /// Obwohl Nepal seit Beginn der Geschichtsaufzeichnungen ein tragender Bestandteil der alten asiatischen Zivilisation war, blieb es bis zur Mitte dieses Jahrhunderts von der Industrierevolution und der folgenden Technologisierung fast unberhrt. Eine detaillierte Untersuchung der Entwaldung und Walddegradation, die in Nepal eingetreten sind, hat viel hnlichkeit mit altertmlichen und mittelalterlichen Entwicklungen im Mittelmeerraum. Wir behaupten, da der Zustand der nepalesischen Wlder nicht die Folge moderner Neuerungen ist, sondern die Konsequenz einer langsamen, ber Jahrhunderte dauernden Entwicklung, die den vormals unbedeutenden Staat in das gegenwrtige Knigreich umwandelte. Auerdem lehnen wir Ansichten ab, die behaupten, der gegenwrtige Zustand der Wlder sei durch buerliche Unwissenheit und Miwirtschaft entstanden und kann allein durch technologisches Einwirken verbessert werden. Auch liefern berbevlkerung und ein Verlust der primitiven Ureigenheiten angesichts moderner Markwirtschaft keine annehmbare Erklrung. Ein brauchbarer Ausgangspunkt bei der Klassifikation unterschiedlicher Einflsse auf die Waldressource dagegen ist das Prinzip des "Ressourcenproduktionszwanges". Daraus folgende Konsequenzen fr zuknftige Richtlinien und Aktionen in der Waldwirtschaft werden kurz diskutiert.
25164076|Cattle grazing, although widely practiced in Himalayan conifer forests, is perceived to be harmful to the environment. The present article summarizes experiences in Bhutan where grazing in the forest remains the single, most important source of cattle fodder. The ongoing debate about the effect of cattle grazing is often based on speculation and driven by conflicting interests. With a few exceptions, descriptive observations consider grazing as harmful to the forest and the environment. Quantitative observations, however, do not support these assertions. Removal of herbaceous biomass by grazing enhances regeneration of conifer species and reduces damage done by small rodents. Grazing, however, diminishes the number and the density of broadleaved species. Through livestock grazing, plant nutrients are transferred from the forest to the agricultural systems. This may result in a gradual decline in the fertility of forest soils. The nutrients, especially P, are of utmost importance to agricultural production on marginal mountain soils. Silvopastoral systems combining dairy and timber production with coniferous species offer promising opportunities for many temperate regions of Bhutan. When assessing the opportunities and the problems of forest grazing, it will be important to consider sociocultural aspects and to include the opinions of farmers and herders in the debate.
mounresedeve.36.2.183|Conversion of forested land for agriculture has obvious detrimental effects on its ecological functions, but these effects are not uniform. Mountain land use systems are diverse, encompassing managed forests and cultivated land. This study examined land use systems in 3 mountain villages in northern Thailand with different patterns of cultivation and evaluated the amount of carbon they have accumulated. Land use and management by individual farmers and communities were determined by interviews, field verification, and mapping. Biomass carbon in trees was determined nondestructively, and carbon in ground cover, litter, and soil organic matter was determined by chemical analysis of replicated samples. The 3 villages, with access to land ranging from 1.3 to 6.3 ha per capita, managed largely pristine headwater forests for security of water supply and made a living from crop production supplemented by harvests of timber, firewood, and other forest products from managed community forests. Cultivated land varied in composition and management among the villages, from shifting cultivation with fallow periods of different lengths to permanent cultivation of food and commercial crops. Per capita carbon storage in the villages well exceeded average per capita carbon dioxide emissions in Thailand, with most of the carbon stored in the forests. This has important implications for programs that offer incentives to mountain villages to maintain or enhance their carbon storage, such as the United Nations' REDD (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation) program.
25578194|The last few decades have seen an exponential increase in the atmospheric concentration of reactive nitrogen. This has led to concerns from scientists, ecologists, and land managers regarding a cascade of ecosystem impacts, and the potential for elevated atmospheric inputs to significantly alter nutrient-poor systems. At particular risk are fragile mountain ecosystems, normally low in nutrients. Control of enhanced nitrogen deposition is required to prevent damage to terrestrial biodiversity and soil water quality, and decrease the release of excess nitrogen into headwaters to the detriment of aquatic ecology. To meet this challenge, control measures operate through legislation aimed at reducing emissions or by ecosystem management at a local level. Current legislation to reduce emissions is under review, whilst techniques aimed at managing nitrogen in lowland ecosystems are impractical in most remote mountain environments. Here we present research which shows the extent of ecosystem damage from enhanced nitrogen deposition and aims to inform future policy in support of national and international action to reduce nitrogen emissions.
mounresedeve.32.2.176|The third dimension of mountain agricultural productivity, pollination, helps to maintain crop productivity and thus makes a great contribution to agricultural economy. In the absence of natural pollinators for a variety of reasons, farmers in Maoxian County of southwestern China employ human pollinators to pollinate apple and other fruit crops to secure yields. In 2001, we conducted a study to gain an understanding of the process and significance of hand pollination of apples, which revealed that 100% of the apples in Maoxian were hand pollinated. Because it was a unique approach developed by these Chinese farmers the authors were curious to revisit the site in 2011 to assess the sustainability of human pollination and see whether farmers had invented better alternatives. The findings suggest that, recently, Maoxian farmers have been working toward phasing out apples and replacing them with plums, walnuts, and loquats along with vegetables. These new fruit and vegetable crops are economically and ecologically more appropriate to them, because they do not require pollination by humans and also fetch a better price. However, hand pollination by human pollinators is still practiced with apples to a lesser degree, which indicates that all these farmers have yet to find satisfactory alternatives to this economically unsustainable practice.
mounresedeve.32.1.73|A simple environmental vulnerability assessment scheme is developed and illustrated using several streams in Azerbaijan as examples. Vulnerability of a river ecosystem is defined in terms of a combined impact of pressure factors such as water withdrawals, pollution, climate change impact on flow variability, and land use. These factors are used to measure the sensitivity of various elements/components of the system to impacts. The choice of these indicators may vary from area to area and depends on the nature of man-made and natural conditions. Each factor is characterized and quantified using a specific indicator and score. The total vulnerability score is estimated as a sum of the scores of all indicators. Most of the streams studied in Azerbaijan were found to be very vulnerable or extremely vulnerable, according to the developed scheme. The overall approach is straightforward and transparent. Conclusions are made about the vulnerability and/or resiliency of streams, to be taken into consideration when planning for water-sources development for the future.
25164175|Most small farmers in remote areas like the southern highlands of Tanzania cannot link to markets. Lack of information and lack of power at the negotiating table leave them open to exploitation by other participants in the market chain. Phase 1 of the First Mile Project, implemented from June 2005 to March 2006, set out to help small farmers improve their access to markets and market information. Good communication is vital in marketing. The project encouraged people in isolated rural communities to use new information and communication technologies (ICTs), including the mobile phones that are spreading rapidly throughout Tanzania, as well as E-mail and the Internet to share local experience and learn from one another. At the heart of the project is an innovative approach called Linking Local Learners (LLL). It enables poor farmers, traders, processors, and others from rural areas to learn together how to build profitable marketing chains from producers to consumers. By encouraging smallholder farmers to use mobile phones and the Internet to collaborate and learn together, First Mile enables them to participate more equally in time-sensitive, complex marketing transactions and to take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalization.
10.2307/3673045|Tropical soils are commonly highly weathered and nutritionally poor, and their apparent fertility derives principally from good organic development and rapid mineralization of the detrital pool. When the forest is cleared the nutritional status declines rapidly and restoration is dependent upon site recapture by successional species. Maintenance of adequate fertility for slash-and-burn utilization depends upon the effectiveness and duration of bush fallow. Commonly, over-utilization has resulted in degradation of fertility to the point where unproductive but relatively stable grassland dominates. Some loss of site nutrient capital occurs but, more importantly, there are significant deleterious changes to the soil organic regime. Improvement and stabilization of degraded soils requires reintroduction of the pattern of nutrient dynamics that is evident in native forests. This is best accomplished by species with the capacity to create the appropriate microclimatic conditions that will allow development of a rapidly cycling surface organic pool of nutrients. Deep-rooted tree species appear most effective and these should be encouraged as a first priority, either as plantations of selected exotics, or by facilitating natural regrowth. Incorporation of agricultural or pastoral phases into a forest-based system of land use is briefly discussed; it is necessary to avert present land degradation under short-cycle swidden cultivation. /// Les sols tropicaux sont gnralement trs dgrads par les lments et pauvres en tant que milieu nutritif; leur fertilit apparente dcoule principalement d'un bon dveloppement organique et d'une minralisation rapide du fonds dtritique. Lorsque la fort est dfriche, le capital nutritionnel dcrot rapidement et la restauration dpend de la reprise du site par des espces successives. Le maintien d'une fertilit adquate par la cultivation sur brlis dpend de l'efficacit et de la dure de la priode de friche. Le plus souvent, une exploitation abusive entrane une baisse de la fertilit jusqu'au point o un herbage non-productif et relativement stable finit par dominer. Une perte du capital nutritionnel s'ensuit, et, plus grave encore, des changements nuisibles se produisent dans le rgime organique du sol. L'amlioration et la stabilisation des sols dgrads ncssitent la rintroduction de la dynamique nutritionnelle prsente dans les forts indignes. Ceci peut tre accompli avec des espces capables de crer les conditions microclimatiques appropries au dveloppement d'une couche superficielle de substances nutritives  cycle rapide. Les espces d'arbres  racines profondes semblent tre les plus efficaces de ce point de vue et leur utilisation doit tre encourage sur une base prioritaire, soit en plantant des espces exotiques slectionnes, ou en facilitant la repousse naturelle. L'incorporation de phases agricoles ou pastorales dans un systme d'exploitation du sol bas sur la fort est examine dans cette tude. Il est indispensable de contrecarrer la dgradation actuelle du sol due au cycle trop rapide de la culture sur brlis. /// Gewhnlich sind tropische Bden stark verwittert und arm an Nhrstoffen. Ihre scheinbare Fruchtbarkeit erlangen sie hauptschlich durch gute organische Zersetzung und schnelle Mineralisierung des gerllhaltigen Untergrunds. Sobald der Wald gerodet ist, sinkt der Nhrstoffgehalt rapide, und eine Wiederherstellung hngt davon ab, wie schnell nachfolgende Pflanzenarten vom Boden Besitz ergreifen. Erhaltung ausreichender Fruchtbarkeit fr die Roden- und Brennutzung hngt von der Wirksamkeit und Dauer des brachliegenden Buschwuchses ab. Im allgemeinen ergibt sich bei bernutzung eine sinkende Fruchtbarkeit bis zu dem Punkt, da unproduktives, aber relativ stabiles Grasland die Oberhand gewinnt. Ein gewisser Abbau des vorandenen Nhrstoffbestands tritt ein, aber viel wichtiger sind stark nachteilige Vernderungen der organischen Bodenzusammensetzung. Verbesserung und Stabilisierung verarmter Bden erfordern die Wiederein fhrung des Nhrstoffkreislaufs, so wie er in heimischen Waldgebieten vorhanden ist. Dies geschieht am besten durch Pflanzenarten, die die Fhigkeit besitzen, geeignete, mikro-klimatische Bedingungen zu schaffen, die die Entwicklung einer schnell wiederkehrenden organischen Nhrstoffansammlung an der Oberflche zulassen. Baumarten mit tiefen Wurzeln erscheinen am erfolgreichsten und sollten bevorzugt angepflanzt werden, entweder in Schonungen mit ausgesuchten, fremdlndischen Arten oder durch Frderung des natrlichen Neuwuchses. Die Eingliederung von landwirtschaftlichen und weidewirtschaftlichen Phasen in ein Landnutzungssystem, das auf Forstwirtschaft basiert, wird kurz diskutiert. Es ist notwendig, der gegenwrtigen Bodenverschlechterung, die durch kurz-zyklische Roden- und Brennkultivierung entsteht, entgegenzuwirken.
3674267|Sometimes the most appropriate form of economic development consists of retaining native forests on steep slopes where other land uses are environmentally destructive and where economic or humanitarian considerations do not override these limitations. This is especially the case when native plant and animal species are diverse and special, as, for example, in many of the forested areas found on the humid eastern slopes of Peru's Andes Mountains. The authors recently evaluated the biological diversity there. They provide a brief outline of their findings and conclusions.
mounresedeve.33.3.248|The Alps and the Andes are both considered water towers in their respective continents and are thus significant not only for their own water needs but also for those of lowland regions farther downstream. As climate change impacts on the hydrology of mountain regions are increasingly observed, attention is turning to the adaptive capacity of the water governance regimes in mountain communities. This paper explores the adaptive capacity of two contrasting water governance regimes in the Swiss Alps and the Chilean Andes. It assesses adaptive capacity by analyzing a set of governance-related adaptive capacity indicators in the context of recent extreme events, which serve as proxies for future climate change. Across these highly contrasted governance contexts, analysis reveals both similar and distinct institutional challenges for developing and mobilizing adaptive capacity in relation to climatic uncertainty and change. It also identifies emergent tensions related to temporal and spatial scales. Conclusions point to the need to focus on challenges relating to trust, integration of hydroclimatic information, and flexibility and iterativity of rules and plans across governance scales to better manage the exacerbating impacts of both climate variability and climate change.
10.2307/3673046|"Alang-alang" (Imperata cylindrica (L.) Beauv.) is a troublesome perennial grass, especially in perennial crops. It may cause serious losses in crop production because it is so strongly competitive and also a fire hazard. Its control, therefore, must be conducted as part of a long-term programme to ensure the success of the whole production system. This is necessitated by its strong perennial characteristics. In Indonesia alang-alang occupies a vast area where improper shifting cultivation is a common agricultural practice and where forest logging is not properly followed by forest rehabilitation. With the present rate of population growth (2.5 percent) the population will almost double in less than 25 years and will reach 225 million in A.D. 2000. This requires more land for settlement, and for food and forest production. Efforts are being made, therefore, to rehabilitate alang-alang dominated areas, as the first priority in land reclamation for transmigration, for expansion of agricultural land, and for reafforestation. Rehabilitation should follow an integrated management system in which pure stands of alang-alang, uncontrolled alang-alang grazing areas, and areas with improper shifting cultivation practices are converted into areas of permanent agriculture, or converted into forest through artificial, natural, or semi-natural (Versteegh) systems. In all efforts, possible utilization of the grass for various purposes should be kept in mind, for instance, for roofing materials, for making cartons, for medicinal purposes, animal fodder, and juice extraction. Only if these efforts are properly programmed, well coordinated, implemented consistently, and evaluated at appropriate times will the alang-alang areas be converted into a useful environment. /// En Indonsie, l'"alang-alang", ou Imperata cylindrica (L.) Beauv., est une herbe nuisible, en particulier pour les plantes vivaces cultives. Elle peut causer des pertes de production srieuses, du fait qu'elle est trs comptitive et prsente un danger d'incendie. La lutte contre l'envahissement doit donc tre mene dans le cadre d'un programme  long terme, pour assurer le succs de la stabilit du systme de production. Cette approche est indispensable  cause du caractre trs vivace de cette herbe. L'alang-alang est trs rpandue en Indonsie, l o une divagation inapproprie des cultures est pratique couramment et o l'abattage des arbres n'est pas suivi d'une restauration adquate des forts. Avec le taux actuel de croissance dmographique (2,5 pour-cent), la population doublera presque en moins de 25 ans et atteindra 225 millions d'habitants en l'an 2000. Cela va crer des besoins pour le peuplement ainsi que la production de denres alimentaires et de bois. Pour cette raison, des efforts sont deploys pour restaurer les zones couvertes d'alang-alang sur une base prioritaire, dans le cadre de la mise en valeur des terres pour la transmigration, de l'expansion des terres cultives, et du reboisement. La restauration doit tre rgie par un systme de gestion integr de telle sorte que les herbages purs d'alang-alang, les pturages d'alang-alang  l'tat sauvage, et les zones de divagation inapproprie des cultures puissent tre convertis en zones agricoles permanentes ou en forts,  l'aide de systmes artificiels, naturels, ou semi-naturels (Versteegh). Tous ces efforts doivent tenir compte de toutes les utilisations possibles de cette herbe: couverture de toits, fabrication de carton, usages mdicinaux, fourrage pour le btail, extraction du jus, etc.... Il est indispensable que ces efforts soient bien planifis et coordonns, appliqus systematiquement, et valus au bon moment pour que les zones couvertes d'alang-alang puissent tre converties en un environnement utile  l'homme. /// "Alang-alang" (Imperata cylindrica (L.) Beauv.) ist ein mehrjhriges, unkrautartiges Gras, das besonders zwischen winterharten Feldfrchten wchst. Es verursacht betrchtlichen Ernteausfall, da es alles berwuchert und ist daneben auch eine Feuergefahr. Fr den Erfolg langfristiger Produktionsplne ist es wichtig, diese Grasart unter Kontrolle zu bringen. Dies ist besonders dringlich, da es selbst gut berwintert. Alang-alang bedeckt grosse Gebiete Indonesiens, in denen unwirtschaftlicher Wanderhackbau und Abholzung ohne angemessene Aufforstung blich sind. Bei der jetzigen Bevlkerungswachstumsrate (2.5%) wird sich die Bevlkerung in weniger als 25 Jahren verdoppeln und im Jahre 2000 die 225 Mill. Grenze erreichen. Diese Entwicklung erfordert Land zur Besiedelung und zur Nahrungsmittel- und Holzproduktion. Als erster Schritt zur Landreklamation fr Umsiedelung, zur Erweiterung landwirtschaftlich genutzter Flchen sowie zur Aufforstung werden Anstrengungen gemacht, die von alang-alang berwucherten Gebiete zurckzugewinnen. Der Nutzlandgewinnung sollte ein integriertes Management folgen, das Gebiete mit alang-alang Bewuchs, unkontrollierte alang-alang Weideflchen und Land, das mit ungeeignetem Wanderhackbau bestellt wird, in landwirtschaftliche Nutzflchen oder Waldgebiete umwandelt. Dies knnte durch knstliche, natrliche oder teilweise natrliche (Versteegh) Methoden erfolgen. Trotz allem sollte aber eine mgliche Nutzung des Grases zum Dachdecken, Herstellen von Kartons, fr medizinische Zwecke, als Viehfutter und zur Saftgewinnung nicht bersehen werden. Nur wenn diese Unternehmungen vernnftig programmiert, gut koordiniert, konsequent durchgefrt und ausgewertet werden, knnen alang-alang Flchen in Nutzland umgewandelt werden.
10.2307/3673049|Agro-forestry in a broad sense is not new to Indonesia; it has been practised for a long period of time. Agro-forestry research, however, has been initiated only recently. Patterns and purposes of mixed planting of trees and other crops are different in different parts of the country. A large number of tree species, including fruit trees, has been used. The species of tengkawang (Shorea spp.) has a great potential to be developed as an agricultural crop and used in agro-forestry. Many species of fast-growing trees occurring in secondary and primary forests are available and have good prospects for rehabilitating degraded lands, Imperata grasslands, and logged-over forests. /// L'agro-foresterie au sens large n'est pas nouvelle en Indonsie; elle est en fait pratique depuis bien longtemps. Par contre, la recherche dans ce domaine n'en est qu' ses dbuts. Les formes et les buts de la plantation intercalaire d'arbres et de plantes cultives varient suivant les rgions du pays. Un grand nombre d'espces d'arbres, y compris les arbres fruitiers, a t utilis. L'espce tengkawang (espces Shorea) prsente de grandes possibilits de dveloppement en tant que produit agricole dans le cadre de l'agro-foresterie. De nombreuses espces d'arbres  croissance rapide sont disponsibles dans les forts primaires et secondaires; elles sont prometteuses pour la restauration de terres dgrades, d'herbages d'Imperata, et de forts dgarnies. /// In Indonesien ist Agro-Forstwirtschaft im weiteren Sinn nichts Neues, sie wird seit langem ausgebt. Forschung in dieser Richtung wurde jedoch erst seit kurzer Zeit betrieben. Beim gemischten Anbau von Bumen und Feldfrchten sind Muster und Zielsetzung fr verschiedene Teile des Landes unterschiedlich. Viele Baumarten, Obstbume eingeschlossen, werden angebaut. Die tengkawang (Shorea spp.) Sorte hat die besten Aussichten, in der Landwirtschaft und in der Agro-Forstwirtschaft genutzt zu werden. Viele schnell wachsende Baumarten, die in Primr- und Sekundrwldern gefunden werden, stehen zur Verfgung und versprechen gute Aussichten, runtergewirtschaftete Landflchen, Imperata Grasflchen und berrodete Waldgebiete wiederherzustellen.
4540676|Mountains have been an intergovernmental and transnational issue of growing importance for 15 years. Thanks to global conferences such as the UN Conference on Environment and Development in 1992 and regional treaties such as the Alpine Convention (1991), it is easier and increasingly useful for local communities to connect across borders. This growing will and capacity to be associated with intergovernmental initiatives is the result of a general trend in public affairs to bring together different stakeholders at various levels. However, the "voice" of mountain people sometimes remains outside debates and decision-making processes related to mountain development. The present article focuses on the emergence of a mountain community network in Central Asia. It addresses the issue of local governance and the international networking process to strengthen the "voice" of mountain people.
10.2307/3673534|Chimkhola, an upper-elevation village located on the southeastern flank of Dhaulagiri Himal, has virtually no irrigated agricultural fields, but large areas of widely dispersed, rain-fed fields and large areas of forest and alpine pastures. Villagers fertilize agricultural fields by taking livestock onto fields for one to several weeks prior to planting so that manure falls directly on the soil. The movement of herds from field to field, and to forest when all fields are planted, determines and coordinates the village subsistence system. Of the 17,035 dry weight kg of forest products collected by the average household each year, 32.8% is fuelwood for herders, 23.8% is livestock fodder, and 19.2% is fuel for houses. Shortages of forest products have relatively recently begun to affect Chimkhola, and villagers have established a series of regulations designed to conserve forests and needed forest products. These measures, however, seem inadequate to halt the forest degradation process. Unless villagers insure forest regeneration by managing livestock grazing and browsing, a change that seems unlikely, the current communally controlled agro-silvo-pastoral system will probably dissolve into one of individual action, with increasingly intensive agricultural production on fewer, more spatially concentrated holdings and with fewer livestock which are kept close to the house and fed fodder from private trees. /// Chimkhola est un village de haute montagne situ sur le flanc sud-est du Dhaulagiri Himal, et qui est pratiquement dnu de champs irrigus pour l'agriculture. Il comporte des champs arross par les pluies, dissmins sur de grandes tendues, ainsi que des grandes zones de forts et de pturages alpestres. Les habitants fertilisent les champs en y gardant le btail pendant quelques semaines avant la plantation, pour que l'urine et les excrments tombent directement sur le sol. Les dplacements des troupeaux d'un champ  un autre, et vers la fort quand tous les champs sont plants, dterminent le systme d'autoconsommation du village. Chaque famille recueille en moyenne 17.035 kg (poids sec) de produits forestiers, dans les proportions suivantes: 32,8% comme bois de chauffage pour les bouviers, 23,8% pour l'alimentation du btail et 19,2% comme bois de chauffage pour les habitations. Le manque de produits forestiers a rcemment commenc  affecter Chimkhola, et les habitants ont tabi un certain nombre de rgles destines  conserver les forts et les produits forestiers qui leur sont ncessaires. Nanmoins, ces mesures semblent tre insuffisantes pour freiner le processus de dgradation de la fort. A moins que les habitants n'assurent la rgnration de la fort en limitant le broutage par le btail, ce qui est peu probable, le prsent systme agro-silvo-pastoral dirig par la communaut va probablement laisser place  l'action individuelle caractrise par une agriculture de plus en plus intensive sur un plus petit nombre de proprits plus concentres dans l'espace, et par une diminutin du btail gard au voisinage des habitations et aliment avec du fourrage en provenance d'arbres privs. /// Chimkhola, ein Hochgebirgsdorf an der sd-stlichen Seite des Dhaulagiri Himal gelegen, hat kaum knstlich bewsserte, landwirtschaftlich genutzte Felder, sondern groe, weitverstreute, regenversorgte Anbauflchen, sowie Waldgebiete und alpine Weiden. Die Dorfbewohner dngen die Felder, indem sie das Vieh mehrere Wochen vorher oder kurz vor der Bestellung auf die Felder treiben, damit der Dung direkt auf den Boden fllt. Das Umherziehen der Herden von Feld zu Feld und, wenn alle Felder bestellt sind, in den Wald, bestimmt die Selbstversorgungswirtschaft des Dorfes. Von den 17.035 kg (Trockengewicht) an Waldprodukten, die durchschnittlich pro Haushalt jhrlich verbraucht werden, sind 32,8% Brennholz fr die Hirten, 23,8% Viehfutter und 19,2% Brennmaterial fr das Haus. Neuerdings ist eine Verknappung der Holzprodukte in Chimkhola eingetreten, und die Dorfbewohner haben Verordnungen zur Erhaltung der Wlder und der bentigten Waldprodukte erlassen. Diese Manahmen sind jedoch unzureichend, um Versorgungsengpsse zu vermeiden. Wenn die Dorfbewohner die Regeneration des Waldes nicht durch geregeltes Weiden und Grasen sichern - eine nderung, die unwahrscheinlich ist, - wird das gegenwrtige kommunal kontrollierte Agrar- Wald- und Weidesystem bald individueller Kontrolle unterliegen. Dies fhrt zu intensiverer landwirtschaftlicher Produktion auf weniger zahlreichen, mehr rumlich konzentrierten Flchen, zu kleinerem Viehbestand, der nahe des Hauses gehalten wird und zur Futtergewinnung von privatem Baumbestand.
mounresedeve.31.4.334|China's rapid economic development is influencing cultural practices and natural resource management in indigenous mountain communities throughout the country. Numerous studies have documented loss and change of cultural practices and environmental degradation in indigenous communities with the expansion of roads, markets, tourism, and other infrastructure development. The present study focuses on papermaking, a socioecological practice that began in China, as a case study to examine the influence of development on cultural practices and natural resource management. The Naxi are an indigenous people who primarily inhabit the mountains of the eastern Himalaya in China's northwest Yunnan province. The Naxi people are unique in that they have the last remaining pictographic writing system in the world. The Naxi pictographic script is customarily learned and mastered by shaman priests known as Dongba (Dto'mba) who transmit their knowledge to their sons. Approximately 300,000 Naxi live in this area. The pictographic system is transmitted on paper sourced from montane forest resources, primarily
10.2307/3673039|Ban Hua Lao is a traditional Karen village lying within the Huai Thung Choa Project area. It has a population of 115 persons and, so far, has not been influenced by the experimentation with agro-forestry systems characteristic of much of the project area. The Karen of Ban Hua Lao still depend upon subsistence swidden agriculture supplemented by cultivation of wet-rice terraces, with incidental cash income from miang (fermented tea) picking and occasional wage labour outside the village. The population structure, land requirements, and agricultural systems are reviewed. It is concluded that availability of labour and suitable land will be primary constraints if more intensive land-use practices, such as agro-forestry, are to be introduced. This conclusion is also relevant to other communities within the project area that are already being subjected to change. However, differences between Karen, Lisu, and Khon Muang (ethnic Northern Thai) traditions and practices must also be taken into consideration. /// Ban Hua Lao est un village Karen traditionnel, de 115 habitants, situ dans la zone du projet Huai Thung Choa, mais qui n'a pas encore t touch par l'exprimentation avec les systmes agro-forestiers qui caractrise une grande partie de cette rgion. Le rgime d'autoconsommation des Karens de Ban Hua Lao dpend encore de la culture sur brlis avec un complment de culture de riz en terrasses inondes, plus un revenu secondaire provenant de la vente de miang (th ferment) et de la fourniture occasionnelle de main-d'oeuvre  l'extrieur du village. Cette tude passe en revue la structure dmographique, les besoins agraires, et les systmes agricoles. Elle conclut que la disponibilit de la main-d'oeuvre et de terres appropries sera la contrainte principale pour l'introduction de mthodes plus intensives d'exploitation du sol, telles que l'agro-foresterie. Cette conclusion s'applique galement  d'autres communauts situes dans la zone du projet, qui ont dj t affectes par les changements. Nanmoins, les diffrences entre les traditions et pratiques des Karens, Lisus et Khon Muangs (Thalandais ethniques du Nord) doivent tre prises en compte. /// Ban Hua Loa ist ein typisches Karen Dorf, das im Gebiet des Thung Choa Projekts liegt. Es hat 115 Einwohner und blieb bisher von den Experimenten in der Agro-Forstwirtschaft, die fr einen grossen Teil dieses Gebietes charakteristisch sind, unbeeinflusst. Die Karen von Ban Hua Loa hngen fr die Deckung des Eigenbedarfs noch immer von der Methode des Rodens und Brennens ab und ergnzen diese durch terrassierten Nass-Reisanbau. Gelegentlich knnen sie ihr Einkommen mit Sammeln von miang (fermentierter Tee) oder durch Gelegenheitsarbeit ausserhalb des Dorfes aufbessern. Die Bevlkerungsstruktur, Landanforderungen und landwirtschaftlichen Systeme werden untersucht. Daraus ergibt sich, dass Arbeitskrfte und geeignetes Land die Hauptbeschrnkungen fr intensivere Landnutzungstechniken sind, wie z.B. fr Agro-Forstwirtschaft, die eingefhrt werden soll. Dieses Ergebnis ist auch von Bedeutung in anderen Gemeinden innerhalb des Projektgebietes, die solchen Vernderungen bereits ausgesetzt sind. Daneben mssen auch die Unterschiede in Tradition und Bruchen zwischen den Karen, den Lisu und den Khon Muang (ethnisch Nordthailand) bedacht werden.
3674178|The Himalaya harbor a wealth of springs and shallow wells used for drinking water and other household purposes. However, discharge from these sources has declined in recent decades-some springs have even dried up-making water a crucial development issue in the region. This article describes a field experiment to increase spring discharge with simple ecotechnology (spring sanctuary development) in the recharge zone of a nearly extinct spring in a Himalayan microwatershed in Uttaranchal. In the years after the experiment, water discharge increased from 1055 to 2153 L/d (1995-2000). Though much of this increase was probably because of above-average rainfall in the dry season of 2000, the results are very encouraging. In addition, the discharge of all springs in the watershed was pooled and more rational use of water was promoted.
10.2307/3673321|The analyses of the development of tourism in the Swiss MAB test areas include the equal consideration of economic, societal, and environmental values. The four areas cover the broad spectrum of Swiss tourist regions, from the Pays-d'Enhaut on the agro-touristic periphery to the urban centre of Davos. The broad empirical basis permits generalizations and conclusions at both local and regional scales. A basic model of the mechanisms of tourist development provides a framework for the systematic discussion of the economic, societal, and environmental effects of the rapid changes of the 1960s and 1970s. While the analysis does not permit global conclusions, it appears that the negative economic and societal effects act to slow the speed of development earlier than the ecological effects which are only locally evident. The findings are translated into four levels of proposed action at the communal and regional levels: an active land policy; a restrictive and selective expansion policy; a labour market policy; and an agricultural policy for retaining capital. /// Les analyses du dveloppement touristique du programme MAB Suisse, faites dans quatre aires-test, s'inscrivaient dans une optique globale, avec une considration quivalente des buts et intrts de l'conomie, de la socit, et de l'environnement. Les aires-test reprsentent une gamme trs large de rgions touristiques des Alpes suisses, allant de la priphrie agro-touristique (Pays-d'Enhaut) jusqu'au centre touristique urbanis de Davos. Cette base empirique trs large permet de faire des gnralisations et de tirer des conclusions qui vont bien au-del du cadre local ou rgional. A partir d'un modle de base qui met en vidence les mchanismes du dveloppement touristique, tels qu'ils se sont tablis dans les conditions de croissance des annes 60 et 70, les rpercussions sur l'conomie, la socit, et l'environnement naturel sont systmatiquement discutes. Le bilan ne permet pas de jugement global: des rpercussions ngatives peuvent aussi tre constater dans les domaines de l'conomie et de la socit, et on peut supposer qu'ils exerceront d'avantage de pression pour freiner la vitesse du dveloppement que les charges cologiques qui, elles, ne sont perues que d'une manire trs slective. Finalement, ces connaissances acquises sont traduites en acte, au niveau communal et rgional, dans une politique concerte de dveloppement et d'amnagement. Les quatre axes d'effort sont: une politique foncire active, une politique de desserte restrictive et slective, une politique du march du travail favorisant la qualit, ainsi qu'une politique d'conomie agricole qui a pour but de conserver la substance. /// Die im Rahmen des schweizerischen MAB-Programmes durchgefhrten touristischen Entwicklungsanalysen in vier Testgebieten standen unter einer ganzheitlichen Optik, die eine gleichwertige Bercksichtigung wirtschaftlicher, gesellschaftlicher und umweltpolitischer Ziele und Interessen erlaubt. Die Gebiete decken ein breites Spektrum von Fremdenverkehrsregionen im schweizerischen Alpenraum ab, von der agrar-touristischen Peripherie (Pays-d'Enhaut), bis zum urbanisierten touristischen Zentrum Davos. Diese breite empirische Basis gestattet Verallgemeinerungen und ermglicht Schlussfolgerungen, die wesentlich ber den lokalen und regionalen Rahmen hinausfhren. Ausgehend von einem Grundmodell touristischer Entwicklung, das die empirisch belegten Wirkungsketten aufzeigt, die sich unter den Wachstumsbedingungen der <tex-math>$60^{{\rm er}}$</tex-math> und <tex-math>$70^{{\rm er}}$</tex-math> Jahre eingespielt haben, werden die Auswirkungen auf Wirtschaft, Gesellschaft und natrliche Umwelt systematisch diskutiert. Die Bilanz erlaubt kein Pauschalurteil: Negative Auswirkungen sind auch in den Bereichen Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft festzustellen, und es ist zu vermuten, dass diese Belastungen eher Druck zur Bremsung des Entwicklungstempos ausben werden als die kologischen, die nur sehr selektiv wahrgenommen werden. Die Erkenntnisse werden schliesslich in vier Stossrichtungen einer aktiven Entwicklungs- und Gestaltungspolitik auf Stufe Gemeinde und Regionen umgesetzt. Sie liegen in einer aktiven Bodenpolitik, einer restriktiven und selektiven Erschliessungspolitik, einer qualittsfrdernden Arbeitsmarktpolitik und in einer substanzerhaltenden Landwirtschaftspolitik.
mounresedeve.32.1.30|Accurate quantification of the spatial distribution of precipitation in mountain regions is crucial for assessments of water resources and for the understanding of high-altitude hydrology, yet it is one of the largest unknowns due to the lack of high-altitude observations. The Hunza basin in Pakistan contains very large glacier systems, which, given the melt, cannot persist unless precipitation (snow input) is much higher than what is observed at the meteorological stations, mostly located in mountain valleys. Several studies, therefore, suggest strong positive vertical precipitation lapse rates; in the present study, we quantify this lapse rate by using glaciers as a proxy. We assume a neutral mass balance for the glaciers for the period from 2001 to 2003, and we inversely model the precipitation lapse by balancing the total accumulation in the catchment area and the ablation over the glacier area for the 50 largest glacier systems in the Hunza basin in the Karakoram. Our results reveal a vertical precipitation lapse rate that equals 0.21  0.12% m
mounresedeve.34.4.356|Andean wetlands or
mounresedeve.36.4.417|Agroforestry is seen as a promising set of land use practices that can lead to increased ecological integrity and sustainable benefits in mountain areas. Agroforestry practices can also enhance smallholder farmers resilience in the face of social and ecological change. There is a need for critical examination of existing practices to ensure that agroforestry recommendations for smallholder farmers are socially inclusive and grounded in local experience, knowledge, and perceptions. In this paper, we present a transdisciplinary systems approach to the identification and analysis of suitable agroforestry options, which takes into account gendered perceptions of the benefits and values of natural resources. The 4-step approach consists of an appraisal of local perceptions of the socialecological context and dynamics, an inventory of existing agroforestry practices and species, a gendered valuation of agroforestry practices and species, and the development of locally adapted and gender-sensitive agroforestry options. In a study using this approach in the Peruvian Andes, data were collected through a combination of participatory tools for gender research and ethnobotanical methods. This paper shares lessons learned and offers recommendations for researchers and practitioners in the field of sustainable mountain development. We discuss methodological considerations in the identification of locally adapted agroforestry options, the understanding of local socialecological systems, the facilitation of social learning processes, engagement in gender research, and the establishment of ethical research collaborations. The methodology presented here is especially recommended for the exploratory phase of any natural resource management initiative in mountain areas with high environmental and sociocultural variability.
10.2307/3673222|The Andes, initially settled by hunter-gatherers, witnessed the autonomous development of agriculture, pastoralism, and political centralization which culminated in the Inca Empire. This was quickly and radically changed by the Spanish Conquest in 1532 and the subsequent development of a colonial mining economy. These changes can be better interpreted as transformations rather than portrayed in terms of continuities and discontinuities. The conquerors and the native peoples reshaped certain indigenous forms of economic, social, and political organization which continue, in somewhat new guises, to the present. The expansion of the world economy and state institutions has led to new forms of involvement of native highland peoples in the national societies of the Andean republics. The continued presence of ethnically distinct highland peoples is presented as a result of incorporation into the world economy rather than isolation from it. /// Les Andes, habites d'abord par des peuples s'adonnant  la chasse et  la cueillette, ont t le sige d'une expansion autonome de l'agriculture et des pturages, et d'une centralisation politique, qui ont culmin avec l'Empire inca. Cette situation a rapidement et fondamentalement chang par suite de la conqute par les Espagnols en 1532, et l'tablissement subsquent d'une conomie minire. Il est prfrable d'interprter ces changements comme des transformations plutt que de les dcrire en termes de continuits et discontinuits. Les conqurants et les autochtones ont refaonn certains modes indignes d'organisation conomique, sociale, et politique qui subsistent encore sous des formes tant soit peu diffrentes. L'expansion de l'conomie mondiale et des institutions d'Etat a amen de nouvelles formes de participation des habitants originaires des rgions montagneuses dans les socits nationales des rpubliques andines. La prsence continue de peuples ethniquement distincts des rgions montagneuses est prsente comme le rsultat d'une incorporation dans l'conomie mondiale plutt que d'une isolation par rapport  celle-ci. /// Die Anden - ursprnglich von Jgern und Sammlern besiedelt - erlebten, verbunden mit politischer Zentralisierung eine autonome Entwicklung in der Land - und Weidewirtschaft, die im Inkareich ihren Hhepunkt fand. Dies nderte sich schnell und drastisch durch die spanische Eroberung im Jahre 1532 und durch die folgende Entwicklung einer kolonialen Wirtschaft auf der Grundlage von Bergbau. Verglichen mit Begriffen wie Kontinuitt und Unterbrechung knnen diese Vernderungen eher als Umwandlungen interpretiert werden. Die Eroberer, zusammen mit der einheimischen Bevlkerung, vernderten gewisse berlieferte Wirtschaftsformen sowie die soziale Ordnung dahin, wie sie in etwa heute noch bestehen. Die Ausdehnung der Weltwirtschaft und staatlicher Einrichtungen fhrte zu neuen Verflechtungen der Hochlandbevlkerung in der Gemeinschaft der Anden Republiken. Dass die ethnisch abgesonderte Hochlandbevlkerung bestehen bleibt, ist eher als Ergebnis von Eingliederung in die Weltwirtschaft zu sehen, denn als Folge von Isolation. /// La evolucin cultural andina empez con la colonizacin de la regin por poblaciones de cazadores-recolectores, y sigui con el desarrollo autnomo de la agricultura y la centralizacin poltica, que culmin en el imperio incaico. Este orden fue cambiado rpida y radicalmente por la conquista espaola (1532) y el desarrollo de una economa minera colonial. Los conquistadores y sus sujetos reformaron ciertas formas andinas de la organizacin econmica, social y poltica, las cuales se mantienen hasta hoy, aunque cambiadas. La expansin de la economa mundial y de las instituciones estatales han conducido a nuevas formas de participacin de los pueblos indgenas de las zonas de gran altura en las sociedades nacionales de las repblicas andinas. La presencia de etnas distintas en las zonas de gran altura surge mas del resultado de su incorporacin a la economa mundial que de su aislamiento de ella.
3674654|The impact of livestock grazing on soil nutrients and vegetation parameters was studied in dry montane steppes of southern Mongolia in order to assess the risk of habitat degradation. Data were collected along transects radiating away from permanent water sources. Dung unit density counts revealed gradients of livestock activity, but utilization belts around water sources overlapped, indicating that pastoral land use affects the entire landscape. Dung unit counts corresponded to gradients in soil nutrient parameters (C, N, P), which significantly decreased with distance from the wells. However, no significant correlation was observed for plant species richness and vegetation composition with distance from water source. This indicates that soil parameters and livestock grazing exert a relatively smaller influence on the vegetation than the high interannual variability in precipitation. Therefore, the ecosystem at the study site was found to react in a non-equilibrium way, which suggests that the risk of degradation is low, at least insofar as plant community composition is concerned.
3674458|Disasters associated with mountain hazards have had considerable impact throughout the world, especially in least favored regions such as Asia and Latin America-as illustrated by the case of Puebla Province in the Sierra Norte, Mexico, devastated by an extreme precipitation event in October 1999. The effect of disasters on mountain areas depends on the spatial and temporal distribution of hazards, as well as the degree of vulnerability faced by the population. Given the nature of the planet, it is rather difficult to control hazards in terms of actual processes. The key to reducing disasters and their impacts is thus to focus on decreasing vulnerability and promoting prevention. The latter can be achieved to some extent by incorporating local knowledge and initiatives into the framework of public policy and decision-making.
3674321|The debate over sustainable development raises the question of regional potential to improve resource management from an ecological point of view. This involves finding substitutes for nonrenewable resources, increasing resource efficiency, and increasing regional autonomy with regard to mass resources. In this context, the question of the possibilities for neighboring highland and lowland regions to find a win-win situation in resource management gains new relevance. Swiss highland and lowland areas served as the study area for the present article. Material flow analysis was applied to quantity the physiological interactions. Energy, human nutrition, and animal fodder served as indicators. Interactions are discussed on the basis of 2 "sustainability scenarios": (1) a 2-kW society, and (2) a diet with low meat consumption. The results led to the following main conclusions. First, physiological net interactions between the regions are currently very low. The natural resource potentials of the regions cannot be used intensively as objects of exchange. Mass resources such as water, biomass, and construction materials play a minor role in the overall regional economic output. With respect to energy and nourishment, the "global hinterland" as the main supplier is much more important for both regions. Second, in sustainability scenarios, the 2 regions could become complementary in the production of food and fodder. In addition, the highlands could eventually become a supplier of renewable energy. Thus, a high degree of sustainability in resource management can increase interregional resource interaction because of the promotion of regional resource idiosyncrasies.
10.2307/3673892|The Black Forest is a typical low-range mountain region (Mittelgebirge) in Central Europe. It serves as an example for discussion focusing on the relationship of historical evaluation of natural resources, development of settlement patterns, and sustainable economic processes in mountains. The theoretical framework is described in terms of sustainable development, accessibility, and vulnerability. Examples of resource use during different historical stages are chosen to illustrate the development of the present-day cultural landscape and to indicate the multiple adaptations of the region to external challenges. The choice of representative locations relates to the itinerary of an excursion led by the author in conjunction with the IGU symposium "Mountain Geoecology and Sustainable Development" in August 1994. /// La Fort-Noire est une rgion de moyennes montagnes (Mittelgebirge), typique de l'Europe Centrale. Elle sert d'exemple pour la discussion des interrelations entre l'valuation historique des ressources naturelles, le dveloppement des modes de peuplement et les processus d'conomie soutenable dans un milieu montagnard. Le cadre thorique est dcrit par les notions de dveloppement soutenable, d'accessibilit et de vulnrabilit. Des exemples d'utilisation des ressources au cours de l'histoire ont t slectionns dans le but d'illustrer le dveloppement du paysage culturel actuel et de mettre en vidence les adaptations multiples de la rgion aux contraintes externes. Le choix des exemples est li  l'itinraire d'une excursion mene par l'auteur dans le cadre du symposium IGU "Gocologie des montagnes et dveloppement soutenable" en aot 1994. /// Der Schwarzwald gehrt zu den typischen Mittelgebirgen Mitteleuropas. Er kann als Beispiel fr eine Diskussion des Zusammenhanges zwischen historischer Ressourcenbewertung, Siedlungsentwicklung und nachhaltiger Wirtschaftsweise dienen. Vor dem theoretischen Hintergrund von nachhaltiger Entwicklung, Zugangsmglichkeit und Verwundbarkeit werden Beispiele der Ressourcennutzung aus verschiedenen Phasen der Kulturlandschaftsentwicklung genannt. Sie dokumentieren die vielfltige Anpassung der Region an genderte Rahmenbedingungen. Die Auswahl der Beispiele beruht auf einer Exkursion im Rahmen des IGU-Symposiums "Mountain Geoecology and Sustainable Development" im August 1994.
3674555|The town of Nakuru-Kenya's fourth largest town-lies in a unique setting in the Great Rift Valley (Figure 1). Recent developments on the Menengai Crater, the Mau Escarpment, and the Bahati Highlands exemplify the impacts of poorly planned urban growth on mountain ecosystems. The Nakuru Local Urban Observatory (LUO) project was initiated by the Municipal Council of Nakuru in January 2003, in collaboration with the Centre for Development and Environment (CDE) of the University of Berne and the Intermediate Technology Development Group (ITDG), and with funding from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC). The project aims to provide a framework for sustainable urban development practices by building technical skills and improving participation by local stakeholders in decisionmaking processes. The potentials of information technology (IT) are being tapped to provide up-to-date information to decisionmakers and democratize access to information, in order to improve public participation. The overall objective is to find ways of achieving better urban management in order to mitigate non-sustainable development trends in the town and its surroundings.
3674274|In the pramo ecological belt of the Venezuelan Andes, a long fallow agricultural system is used to produce potatoes and cereals. Total rainfall, surface runoff, soil moisture, drainage, and soil loss were measured in this system during two consecutive years on 10 plots cropped with potatoes and on two successional plots with fallow periods of 1 and 15 years. Total rainfall (1129 mm on average) is characterized by many low-intensity events. The low rainfall intensity and high soil infiltration capacity partly explain the very low runoff (only 1.7% of the rainfall) and the low rates of soil loss (0.58 t/ha/y) on the cultivated plots. The main water outputs were by evapotranspiration (61%) and drainage (37%). The greatest runoff and soil losses were observed at the beginning of the fallow period when the ground cover was scarce; however, after a few months of fallow, both processes decreased below the rates measured on the cultivated plots. Because soil loss was not significant on all study plots, it is suggested that traditional fallow agriculture does not have a negative environmental impact at a local scale.
10.2307/3673168|The shrubby vegetation of the Andean slopes of Central Chile is being subjected to a variety of perturbations caused by human activities. Some perturbations are absorbed; others significantly change the existing vegetation patterns. This paper describes and discusses the results of experiments designed to evaluate the impacts caused by the introduction of rabbits and goats, and by the increasing incidence of fire. The analysis demonstrates that type and degree of impact depends upon the type of stimulus, the relationship to other perturbations, the amount of vegetation cover, and the past history of the area under study. These characteristics are discussed in the context of ecosystem stability and instability. /// La vgtation frutescente sur les pentes andines du Chili central est soumises  des perturbations varies dues aux activits humaines. Certaines perturbations sont absorbes naturellement, d'autres changent sensiblement les formes vgtales existantes. Cette tude dcrit et discute les rsultats d'expriences destines  valuer les effets de l'introduction du lapin et de la chvre, et de la frquence accrue des incendies. L'analyse des rsultats dmontre que le type et le degr de l'impact humain dpend du type de stimulus et de sa relation avec d'autres perturbations, de la densit de la couverture vgtale, et du pass de la rgion tudie. Ces caractristiques sont discutes dans le cadre de la stabilit et instabilit de l'cosystme. /// Das Buschwerk auf den Andenhngen in Zentralchile wird, verursacht durch menschliche Aktivitten, verschiedenen Strungen ausgesetzt. Einige dieser Belastungen haben keinen nachhaltigen Einfluss, andere hingegen verndern die bestehende Vegetationsstruktur erheblich. Dieser Beitrag beschreibt und erlutert Ergebnisse einer Versuchsreihe, die bewertet, welche Folgen die Einfhrung von Kaninchen und Ziegen hatte, ebenso auch die Folgen einer Zunahme von Brnden. Die Analyse zeigt, dass Art und Grad der Beeinflussung vom Stimulus, vom Verhltnis zu anderen Strfaktoren, von der Vegetationsdichte und von der Entwicklungsgeschichte des untersuchten Gebietes abhngen. Diese Merkmale werden im Zusammenhang mit der Stabilitt/Instabilitt des kosystems diskutiert.
10.2307/3673878|The present analysis compares the income from harvesting timber and non-timber forest products in the Philippine uplands. It draws from detailed profiles of forests and communities in three cases: Paranas in a rugged hilly region of the Visayas islands, San Pablo at the base of the Sierra Madre mountains in northern Luzon, and Lianga Bay in a karstic region of eastern Mindanao. Each case represents an area where industrial timber concessions have recently ended and where second-growth forests have potential for community forestry. The matter of income generation is an empirical question varying with local circumstances. However, timber comprises a high proportion of forest assets and income potential in each of the three cases. In view of the private profitability of logging, a central issue is how to grant sensible timber cutting rights within a larger framework of forest protection and regeneration. Management planning addresses this by recommending against harvesting in areas above 1,200 m elevation, on slopes exceeding 50 percent, and in strips 20 m wide on each side of rivers and creeks. /// La prsente analyse compare le revenu issu de l'exploitation du bois d'oeuvre et des produits non ligneux dans les hautes terres des Philippines. Elle s'appuie sur les caractristiques dtailles de trois cas distincts: Paranas dans la rgion accidente des les Visayas, San Pablo situ au pied des montagnes de la Sierra Madre dans le nord de Luzon, et la Baie de Lianga dans la rgion karstique de l'est de Mindanao. Chaque cas correspond  une rgion marque par l'abandon rcent des concessions forestires industrielles, et o les revenues constituent une ressource potentielle pour la foresterie communautaire. Le question de la gnration de revenu est une question empirique, qui varie selon les circonstances locales. Nanmoins, dans les trois cas, le bois d'oeuvre reprsente une forte proportion du capital forestier et une source potentielle de revenu. Du fait de la rentabilit l'exploitation forestiere a titre priv, une question essentielle est de savoir comment octroyer les droits de coupe sur une base juste et quitable, dans le contexte plus large de la protection et de la rgnration des forts. La planification de la gestion rpond  cette question en recommandant l'interdiction de l'abattage dans les zones situes  plus de 1,200 mtres d'altitude, sur les pentes excdant 50 pourcent, et sur une bande de terrain de 20 mtres de large de chaque ct des rivires et des ruisseaux. /// Die vorliegende Untersuchung betrifft die Hochlande der Philippinen. Sie vergleicht die Einknfte aus der Nutzholzgewinnung mit denen aus dem Verkauf von anderen Waldprodukten. Als Quelle dienen drei Fallstudien mit detaillierten Angaben ber Waldbestnde und Gemeindestruktur: Paranas, ein unzugngliches, hgeliges Gebiet der Visayas Inseln; San Pablo am Fue der Sierra Madre Gebirgskette im nrdlichen Luzon und die Lianga Bucht in einem Karstgebiet des stlichen Mindanao. Jede dieser Gemeinden mu sich mit den Problemen von gerade abgelaufenen industriellen Nutzholzkonzessionen auseinandersetzen, und dabei versuchen, ihr Wirtschaftspotential durch Ertrge aus Sekundrwldern zu verbessern. Das Problem, Einkommen zu erzeugen, wird empirisch untersucht, wobei lokale Umstnde besonders bercksichtigt werden. In allen drei Fallstudien hat Nutzholz den grten Anteil am Wert des Waldbestandes und am Einkommenspotential. Das Hauptproblem hinsichtlich privaten Profits aus der Holzwirtschaft ist die Frage nach einer fairen Vergabe der Konzessionen, wobei die Auflagen des Waldschutzes und der Aufforstung bercksichtigt werden mssen. Management Empfehlungen gehen dahin, die Holzgewinnung in Gebieten oberhalb von 1.200 m, an Hngen, die steiler als 50% sind und auf einem 20 m breiten Landstreifen beiderseits von Flubetten und Bchen, zu verbieten.
3674652|Despite its importance for tourism and rural development, the biogeographic status of semi-desert and savanna transition inselbergs and mountains in central Namibia is poorly known. This study therefore investigates 11 inselbergs and their mountain flora in the central Namib Desert with regard to biogeographic patterns. Variation between seasons in variable environments is one of the most critical factors biasing global biodiversity analyses, and often results in lack of biogeographic analysis in these areas altogether. This study shows that patterns in floristic measures were largely maintained when a subset of the data was analyzed that contained only perennial plants (which are visible at these sites also during a poor rainy reason). This approach may hence be adapted in other areas that experience similar problems in data coverage related to seasonal differences.
10.2307/3673124|The magnificent palace of Leh, built at the beginning of the seventeenth century, ceased to be a royal residence in 1834. It has since deteriorated into a state of total neglect and near collapse. This paper examines in detail the architecture of the palace and describes its former use. The purpose is to highlight the importance of this monument by placing it in its environmental and historic context. Tourism and modernization are now being introduced into Ladakh and the authors make a plea for action to repair and renovate this unique historic monument before it falls into total ruin. /// Le palais de Leh, construit au dbut du XVIIme sicle, a cess d'tre residence royale en 1834. Non entretenu il est tomb dans un tat d'abandon et menace ruine. Cet article presente l'architecture du btiment et ses anciennes fonctions. Le tourisme et une modernisation se developpent au Ladakh et les auteurs suggrent qu'une intervention rapide ait lieu pour rparer, renover ce monument historique tout en lui donnont une nouvelle fonction. /// Der prchtige Palast in Leh, im 17. Jahrhundert erbaut, war bis zum Jahre 1834 knigliche Residenz. Seitdem ist er grob vernachlssigt und dem Einsturz nahe. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht Einzelheiten der Architektur des Palastes und beschreibt seine geschichtliche Bedeutung. Ein volles Verstndnis des geschichtlichen Hintergrundes der Bevlkerung in den tibetischen Hochebenen und der sie umgebenden Berge erfordert eine Wrdigung der bedeutenderen architektonischen berreste, die einen Einblick in die Anpassung der regionalen Kulturen an die uerst widrige Umwelt des Hochgebirges erlauben. Ladakh wird dem Tourismus und der Modernisierung geffnet, und die Autoren pldieren fr Reparatur und Renovierung dieses stattlichen, historischen Monuments, bevor es vllig verfllt.
3674337|New directions in conservation and development have fostered participation by local people. In Peru, people in Andean communities are now considered to have valid objectives, desires, and interests. Peru is finding new ways of building a nation of different people learning from each other. The present article presents experience in incorporating a gender perspective in Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (ICDPs), as gained by The Mountain Institute's Andean Program in the Huascarn Biosphere Reserve. In 2001, a number of nongovernmental organizations formed the Conservation and Gender Group-Peru in order to strengthen efforts to incorporate a sound gender perspective in their activities. On the basis of results from the National Balance Document on the current situation related to gender perspective, this article shows how an intuitive approach to gender helped facilitate an ICDP and its positive impacts. Various tools, methodologies, and approaches were applied, depending on the specificities of local communities. The aim was to integrate all family members in ICDPs. But this intuitive, unsystematic approach limited positive impacts, aggravated conflicts, and reinforced gender inequality.
10.2307/3673879|The geoecology of the Norra Storfjllet region is reconstructed from the record of deglaciation beginning about 8000 yr BP with the first break-up of the Fenno-Scandian ice sheet (Stage 1). By Stage 2 valleys below 600 m a.s.l. (the Trna Valley was an exception) had become free of ice. Stage 3 involved a retreat of small valley glaciers to about 700-800 m, major nunataks appeared on the high plateau, and outlet glaciers were considerably reduced in size. Stage 4 was characterized by a warmer and wetter climate (Mid-Atlantic chronozone, 6000-5000 yr BP) when timberline rose to about 900 m. This led to the development of Spodosols (podzols) under stands of dwarf pine in swale topography. This paleo-podzolic signature was not erased during alpine conditions that typified the Sub-Boreal (Stage 5) and Sub-Atlantic (Stage 6) chronozones that followed. These were periods of lower temperatures and with reduced precipitation initially during Stage 5. Precipitation increased during the Sub-Atlantic and, together with temperature, remained similar to the present. Human settlement began about 6000 yr BP and had a recognizable impact on the landscape. This activity accelerated during the Sub-Boreal and Sub-Atlantic, with more intensive use of the mountains for reindeer procurement. The reconstructions are based upon glacial, geomorphological, pedological, and archaeological evidence. /// La gocologie de la rgion de Norra Storfjllet est reconstitue  partir des vestiges de la dglaciation qui a commenc il y a environ 8,000 ans avec la premire dbcle de la nappe glaciaire fennoscandienne (stade 1). La valle du Tarna excepte, les valles situes au-dessous de 600 m a.s.l. (audessus du niveau de la mer) n'taient plus couvertes de glace au stade 2. Le stade 3 a vu le retrait des glaciers de petites valles jusqu' environ 700-800 m a.s.l., des nunataks importants sont apparus sur le haut plateau, et la taille des glaciers de dcharge s'est considrablement rduite. Le stade 4 a t caractris par un climat plus chaud et plus humide (chronozone du midatlantique, 6,000  5,000 ans avant le prsent), lorsque la limite forestire s'est leve jusqu' environ 900 m a.s.l. Cela a men au dveloppement des spodosols (podsols) sous des peuplements de pins nains dans le cadre d'une topographie de dpressions de terrain. Cette signature palopodzolique n'a pas t efface par les conditions alpines typiques des chronozones subborale (stade 5) et subatlantique (stade 6) qui ont suivi. Des priodes de basses tempratures et de prcipitations rduites ont initialement svi au cours du stade 5. Les prcipitations ont augment au cours de la chronozone subatlantique et, de mme que la temprature, sont restes semblables aux rgimes prsents. L'tablissement humain a commenc  environ 6,000 ans avant le prsent et a produit un impact visible sur le paysage. Cette activit s'est acclre au cours des chronozones subborale et subatlantique, avec une utilisation plus intensive des montagnes pour l'approvisionnement en caribou. Les reconstitutions sont bases sur des observations glaciaires, gomorphologiques, pdologiques et archologiques. /// Die Geokologie des Norra Storfjllet Gebietes wird in sechs Phasen rekonstruiert. Die erste Phase beginnt mit dem Zeitpunkt vor etwa 8,000 Jahren, als die Gletscher ihren Rckzug begannen, und die Fenno-Scandian Eisdecke zum ersten Mal aufbrach. Whrend Phase 2 waren Talgebiete, die tiefer als 600 m .M. lagen, schon eisfrei (ausgenommem das Tarna Tal). Phase 3 erfat den Zeitraum, in dem kleine Talgletscher bis auf etwa 700-800 m .M. zurckgingen und hhere Berge, von Eis umgeben, auf dem Hochplateau erscheinen; auerdem nahm die Gre der Randgletscher mit Abflu zum Meer deutlich ab. Phase 4 ist durch wrmeres, feuchtes Klima gekennzeichnet (Mid-Atlantic Zeitalter, vor etwa 6,000 bis 5,00 Jahren). Die Baumgrenze stieg bis auf etwa 900 m .M. an und unter Zwergkiefernstnden in Senken bildete sich Podsol. Dieses paleo-podzolische Kennzeichen wurde auch nicht durch die alpinen Bedingungen ausgelscht, die die folgenden Sub-Boreal (Phase 5) und Sub-Atlantic (Phase 6) Zeitrume kennzeichnen, die, besonders in Phase 5, niedrigere Temperaturen und geringere Niederschlgen hatten. Die Niederschlge sowie die Temperatur nahmen whrend des Sub-Atlantic wieder zu-bis auf Werte, die in etwa den gegenwrtigen entsprechen. Besiedelung begann etwa vor 6,000 Jahren und hinterlie erkennbare Spuren in der Landstruktur. Dieser Vorgang beschleunigte sich whrend des Sub-Boreal und des Sub-Atlantic durch die intensivere Nutzung der Bergwelt fr die Rentierhaltung. Alle Rekonstruktionen sttzen sich auf die vorhandenen glazialen, geomorphologischen, pedologischen und archologischen Nachweise.
3674481|Grassland degradation has become a serious environmental problem in semiarid areas, where it is responsible for land degradation and declines in livestock production. China has about <tex-math>$4,000,000\ km^{2}$</tex-math> of grassland (cao di, ie, any land that is not classified as "forest," "cultivated land," or "no vegetation"), accounting for 40% of its total area, mainly in the middle and western parts of the country, where the economy is relatively underdeveloped. One third of the grassland in China is degraded, and degradation continues at the dramatic rate of <tex-math>$6700\ km^{2}$</tex-math> per year. This has hindered animal husbandry development and social development in pastoral areas. Grassland rehabilitation has now become an urgent task of local economic development in western China. The Jinsha River valley (Yunnan Province), a main source of sediment for the Yangtze River, is characteristic of fragile ecosystems in western China. In this area, the primary development problems involve conflicts between ecological rehabilitation (especially restoration of grassland) and grazing. Serious degradation of soil and vegetation on account of the fragility is the result of both natural fluctuation and human intervention. To maintain social and economic sustainability, countermeasures are needed as quickly as possible.
mounresedeve.33.3.260|Knowledge about the extent of irrigated land in Colombia is scarce because most irrigation is done informally and therefore not registered. Informal irrigation in Colombia has not been investigated, its national presence has not been identified, and its characteristics are still unknown. The present article aims to help fill this gap. Because of topographical and agricultural patterns, Andean informal irrigation is impossible to identify or characterize using standard methods. To provide information on the scale of informal irrigation systems in Colombia, their type, the users they serve, and the type of water sources they use, a largescale partial inventory was made combining statistical analysis, questionnaires, interviews, and field trips. The findings indicate that informal irrigation is widespread in the country's mountainous zones, in a great diversity of environments, characterized by an equally great diversity of local uses and water-use strategies. This diversity has resulted from the coexistence of very different community and state institutions, posing challenges for planning and organizing water-resource management more efficiently and sustainably for producers, the government, and other stakeholders.
mounresedeve.33.3.323|We studied the distribution and composition of plant communities along an altitudinal gradient on the arid western slopes of the Helan Mountains in northwestern China by means of multivariate analyses. Two data sets that originated from fieldwork in 20052006 were subjected to principal component analysis (PCA), resulting in 3major vegetation categories: desert shrubland, desert grassland, and prairie shrubland. Ordination based on canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) divided the desert shrubland category into a
10.2307/3673798|Land-use change over a 12-year period was investigated for a pilot area of 200 km<sup>2</sup> of the Middle Mountain zone in Dhankuta District. The studies were based on interpretation of air photographs taken in 1978 and 1990 and field checks on a sample of 13 sites of 300 ha each, representing a 20% sample. Six categories were mapped: agriculture (7 sub-categories); abandoned farmland; forest (7 sub-categories); grazing; shrub; and other (such as landslides, urban, and water). Separate measurements were made of crown cover of trees within arable lands. Population changes were estimated by house counts on the air photographs. The results indicated a stability in land use, despite an estimated 19% increase in population. No statistically significant changes in overall land use were detected but considerable internal trading occurred between categories within sample areas, especially between "forest" and "shrub," demonstrating a fluidity of land use. Total forest cover increased from 36.5% of the sample area in 1978 to 38.8% in 1990. Forest land increased by 34%, indicating a significant improvement in on-farm fodder, fuelwood, and fruit tree resources. Landslide areas increased from 1.0% of the total sample in 1978 to 1.9% in 1990. The method developed proved to be rapid and sufficiently accurate for determining farm-level land-use changes in steeply dissected mountain terrain. /// Les changements d'utilisation des terres sur une priode de 12 ans ont t tudis pour une zone-pilote de 200 km<sup>2</sup> dans les montagnes moyennes du district de Dhankuta. Ces tudes sont bases sur l'interprtation de photographies ariennes prises entre 1978 et 1990, et sur des vrifications sur le terrain portant sur 13 parcelles de 300 ha chacune et reprsentant un chantillon de 20 pour cent. Six catgories ont t cartographies: agriculture (7 sous-catgories), terres agricoles abandonnes, fort (7 catgories), pturages, vgtation arbustive et autres (glissements de terrain, centres urbains, tendues d'eau, etc.). Des mesures indpendantes de la couverture de cmes d'arbres ont t effectues dans les terres arables. Les changements dmographiques ont t estims en comptant le nombre de maisons sur les photographies ariennes. Les rsultats indiquent une certaine stabilit de l'utilisation des terres, en dpit d'une augmentation de la population de 19 pour cent. Aucun changement statistiquement significatif de l'utilisation de l'ensemble des terres n'a t dtect, mais des changes internes considrables se sont produits entre diffrentes catgories de la zone chantillon, en particulier entre les catgories "fort" et "vgtation arbustive", illustrant une certaine fluidit de l'utilisation des terres. La couverture forestire totale a pass de 36,5 pour cent de la zone chantillon en 1978  38,8 pour cent en 1990. Les terres couvertes de forts on augment de 34 pour cent, indiquant une amlioration considrable des ressources en fourrage, bois de chauffage et arbres fruitiers  l'chelle des fermes. Les zones de glissement de terrain ont augment de 1,0 pour cent de l'chantillon total en 1978  1,9 pour cent en 1990. La mthode mise au point s'est rvle rapide et suffisamment prcise pour dterminer les changements d'utilisation des terres  l'chelle des fermes, sur un terrain montagneux  fortes dcoupures. /// Fr ein Gebiet von 200 km<sup>2</sup> der Middle Mountain Zone im Dhankuta Distrikt, wurde die Landnutzungsnderung ber einen Zeitraum von 12 Jahren untersucht. Die Studien vergleichen Luftaufnahmen von 1978 und 1990 und berprfen vor Ort 13 Teststellen mit einer Gre von je 300 ha (ca. 20% der Gesamtflche). Die Kartierung erfolgte in sechs Gruppen: Landwirtschaft (sieben Untergruppen), brachliegendes Ackerland, Wald (sieben Untergruppen), Weideflchen, Buschbewuchs und anderes (Erdrutsche, Stdte, Wasser etc.). Der Baumbestand auf anbaufhigen Flchen wurde gesondert gemessen. Vernderungen in der Bevlkerungszahl wurden durch Zhlen der Huser auf den Luftaufnahmen abgeschtzt. Trotz eines Bevlkerungszuwachses von 19%, zeigten die Ergebnisse Stabilitt in der Landnutzung. Es wurden keine statistisch bedeutsamen Vernderungen in der gesamten Landnutzung festgestellt; innerhalb der einzelnen Gruppen der Teststellen zeigten sich besonders zwischen "Wald" und "Buschwerk" erhebliche Vernderungen ohne feste Abgrenzungen. Die gesamte waldbedeckte Flche im Untersuchungsgebiet vergrerte sich von 36,5% im Jahre 1978 auf 38,8% im Jahre 1990. Der Anteil an Wldern stieg um 34%, was die Futterversorgung auf den Farmen, den Feuerholzvorrat und den Obstbaumbestand bedeutend verbesserte. Der Anteil an Erdrutschgebieten erhhte sich von 1% der gesamten Untersuchungsflche im Jahre 1978 auf 1,9% im Jahre 1990. Die angewandte Methode erwies sich als schnell und hinreichend genau, um Landnutzungsnderungen auf bewirtschafteten Flchen in steilem, zergliedertem Gebirgsgelnde zu bestimmen.
10.2307/3673034|The organizers of the conference directed participants' attention to the potential of agro-forestry in smallholder and community farming systems. In the absence of a representative highlander I assumed this role. I argue that forests are vitally important to the maintenance of rice production and the absence of virgin forest land for highlanders to clear places their community at risk. The current rice deficit has only been made up by profits earned from the strengthening of the market for the miracle crop: opium. Highlanders know that they cannot continue indefinitely to grow opium and would welcome the chance to work land on secure tenure under a sustainable yield, agro-forestry system. However, any such alternative must be posed in the broader framework of their socio-economic and political status: highlanders must also be offered the opportunity to become full Thai citizens. /// Les organisateurs de la confrence ont attir l'attention des participants sur les possibilits qu'offre l'agro-foresterie pour les systmes bass sur la petite exploitation ou la collectivit. En l'absence d'un reprsentant des communauts concernes, je jouerai donc ce rle. La thse de cette tude est que les forts sont d'une importance vitale pour soutenir la production de riz, et que l'absence de terres  dfricher dans les forts vierges engendre des risques srieux. Le dficit actuel en riz n'a t compens qu'en raison des bnfices tirs d'un march croissant pour la culture-miracle de l'opium. Les habitants des rgions montagneuses savent pertinemment qu'ils ne peuvent pas cultiver l'opium indfiniment; ils adopteraient facilement un systme d'agro-foresterie  rendement stable, bas sur un accs garanti aux terres. Nanmoins, toute alternative de ce type doit tre incorpore dans un cadre plus large: celui de la reconnaissance d'une existence politique et socio-conomique et d'une citoyennet tha de plein exercice. /// Die Konferenzveranstalter machten die Teilnehmer auf das agro-forstwirtschaftliche Potential von Kleinbauern und Landgemeinden aufmerksam. Da kein Vertreter der Hochlandbevlkerung answesend war, vertrat ich ihre Interessen. Ich argumentiere, dass auch Waldgebiete bei der Reisproduktion eine lebenswichtige Rolle spielen, und dass der Mangel an Wald, der zur Holzgewinnung den Hochlandbewohnern zur Verfgung steht, die konomie der Landgemeinden gefhrdet. Das derzeitige Defizit in der Reisproduktion kann nur durch Marktertrge mit der "Wunderfrucht" Opium wettgemacht werden. Die Hochlandbewohner wissen, dass sie nicht fr alle Zeit Opium anbauen knnen und begrssen jede Gelegenheit, das Land innerhalb eines agro-forstwirtschaflichen System, das Besitzverhltnisse und gleichbleibende Ernteertrge sichert, zu bestellen. Jede Alternative muss jedoch im grsseren Rahmen ihrer sozio-konomischen und politischen Lage gesehen werden: Den Hochlandbewohnern muss auch angeboten werden, thailndische Brger mit allen Rechten zur werden.
mounresedeve.34.3.214|Measures of gender-based labor distribution can contribute to understanding the feasibility of agricultural development in mountainous subsistence farming communities. Conservation agriculture (CA) can provide sustained crop yield and improved soil and water conservation in mountain areas prone to degradation and where few inputs are available. This study sought to measure the gendered labor impacts of CA practices and to assess their feasibility in remote farming communities. We surveyed farmers in 3 tribal villages in the Middle Hills of Nepal, where communities consist of smallholder (<2 ha) farmers cultivating highly sloping, marginal lands. Face-to-face interviews and time allocation surveys were used to quantify distribution of labor and to identify engagement in agricultural decision-making in 87% of the households. On-farm plots were used to measure differences between the gender-based labor demands of conventional and CA practices. Results show that women bear a disproportionate burden (5355%) of on-farm labor. Field trials showed that women would predominantly manage increases in labor demands from CA, particularly where more labor for plowing, sowing, and harvesting is required, yet 51.3% indicated that they have limited control over adoption of new practices. In situations where women are already overburdened, technologies that require additional labor may prove unsustainable. It is crucial to adapt technologies to provide gender-sensitive solutions and meet the needs of the local community. Identifying the gendered constraints of CA is vital to improving understanding of agricultural livelihoods.
mounresedeve.36.2.193|Guizhou Province is one of the most expansive and important forest regions in China. Traditional Miao people have inhabited the mountains and managed the forest resources of this region for more than 1000 years. In the 1980s, the Chinese government transferred many collectively owned forests to individual household control. Since then, there have been 3 forest tenure types in Miao areas: state forests, collective forests, and household forests. The Collective Forest Tenure Reform was implemented nationwide starting in 2005, and in Guizhou in 2007, to develop and stabilize the forest tenure institutions. To investigate the effect of tenure type on the floristic composition and size structure of local forests, we conducted inventories in replicate forests under each type of tenure in 3 traditional Miao villages in Leishan County. Results showed that tree species richness and diversity were significantly higher in state and collective forests than in household forests; no significant differences were detected among villages.
mounresedeve.35.1.27|One way of preserving the natural and cultural diversity of mountain areas and supporting their sustainable development is the establishment of protected areas. The scientific literature acknowledges the importance of participation by local stakeholders and of considering social cohesion in protected area management. Intergenerational practice has been shown to enhance participation and improve social cohesion; however, its potential role in natural resource management has not been considered by the research community. This paper explores the potential for integrating intergenerational practice into protected area management in mountainous regions, guided by 3 research questions: What challenges of protected area management could benefit from intergenerational practice? How can intergenerational practice help to address these challenges? And how could intergenerational practice be more strongly integrated into current protected area management? The paper focuses on selected management challenges, mostly related to the development function of protected areas, and suggests intergenerational practice solution pathways for each challenge, derived from qualitative content analysis of the literature, interviews with protected area and regional development experts, and participation in the project Big Foot: Crossing Generations, Crossing Mountains, which tested intergenerational learning approaches in 3 rural municipalitiesone each in Bulgaria, Greece, and Italy. Recommendations are proposed for integrating intergenerational practice into protected area management policy and practice at the global, regional, and local levels.
10.2307/3673799|The distribution of shallow soil-erosion scars (up to 1.2 m in depth) was mapped on a scale of 1:19,200 in the upper valley of the Langtang Himal, central Nepal. It coincides with the yak-grazing grassland along transhumance routes. Since soil erosion occurs on the stepped slopes, slope origin was examined using the grazing model of Howard and Higgins (1987). The result shows that all stepped slopes were formed by yak grazing, except those near Tangshap which were caused by sheep. The denudation rates by soil erosion on the yak-grazing steps are estimated at 0.02-0.16 mm/yr, when the period of intensive grazing is assumed to be 50 years. Soil erosion on yak-grazing steps is the most conspicuous phenomenon on the valley slopes. In terms of overall soil transportation from the High Himalaya to the lower plains, however, soil erosion on yak-grazing steps in the Langtang Valley appears to be a negligible contributor. It is concluded, therefore, that sediment transport to the lower elevations during the 50-year period since the introduction of transhumance is not significant. /// La distribution des cicatrices superficielles d'rosion du sol (moins de 1,2 m de profondeur) a t reporte sur une carte  l'chelle 1/19 200 de la valle suprieure du Langtang Himal, Npal central. Elle concide avec la prairie de pacage de yacks le long des voies de transhumance. Du fait que l'rosion du sol se produit sur les versants en gradins, l'origine des versants a t examine  l'aide du modle de pacage de Howard et Higgins (1987). Les rsultats indiquent que tous les versants en gradins ont t forms par le pacage de yacks,  l'exception de ceux situs prs de Tangshap qui ont t causs par les moutons. La plage de vitesses de dnudation par rosion du sol sur les gradins de pacage de yacks a t estime  0,02-0,16 mm par an, si l'on admet une priode de pacage intensif de 50 ans. L'rosion du sol sur les gradins de pacage de yacks constitue le phnomne le plus visible sur les versants de la valle. Nanmoins, en termes de transport global du sol de l'Himalaya suprieur vers les basses plaines, l'rosion du sol sur les gradins de pacage de yacks dans la valle du Langtang ne semble gure y contribuer. Pour cette raison, la conclusion en est que le transport solide vers les plus basses altitudes au cours des 50 annes depuis l'introduction de la transhumance, n'est pas significatif. /// Fr das obere Tal des Langtang Himal, Zentralnepal, wurde im Mastab 1:19.200 eine Karte erstellt, die die Oberflchenverteilung von Erosionsspuren (bis zu 1,2m Tiefe) aufzeichnet. Diese Verteilung stimmt mit den Grasflchen entlang der Viehtriebrouten berein. Da Bodenerosion auf den Trampelpfaden an Hngen erfolgt, wurde der ursprngliche Hangzustand unter Bercksichtigung des Weidemodells von Howard und Higgins (1987) untersucht. Das Ergebnis zeigt, da alle hanggelegenen Trampelpfade durch weidende Jaks entstanden sind; auer denen um Tangshap, die von Schafen verursacht wurden. Die Abtragungsraten durch Bodenerosion auf den Weidepfaden der Jaks werden, unter der Annahme einer 50-jhrigen intensiven Weideperiode, mit 0,02-0,16 mm/Jahr eingeschtzt. Die Bodenerosion auf von Jaks beweideten Terrassen ist die aufflligste Erscheinung an den Berghngen. Bezglich der gesamten Bodenverlagerung vom hohen Himalaya zu den niedriger gelegenen Ebenen, erscheint die Bodenerosion auf den von Jak beweideten Terrassen des Langtang Tals als unerheblich. Abschlieend wird bemerkt, da der Sedimenttransport nach niedrigeren Lagen ber den 50-jhrigen Zeitraum seit Einfhrung des Viehtriebs unbedeutsam ist.
10.2307/3673602|The seasonality of Pyrenean temperature fluctuations, varying with both altitude and longitude, is established and three critical isotherms are delineated. Each season is defined by the relationship between mean temperature and a previously established threshold temperature, either 0C or 7C. The vegetative period is defined as the period during which the mean temperature is equal to, or higher than, 7C. Six seasonal periods are defined using similar criteria. Altitudinal gradients of thermal variables (e.g., mean temperature from December to March, warmest month, annual) and seasonal means (duration, dates, intensities) are presented as regression equations. This allows the extrapolation of such variables to a range of altitudes. No variable showed a significant longitudinal change. The 0C isotherm for the period December-March inclusive was calculated to lie at 1,694 m a.s.l. This represents the lower limit of the stable winter snow cover. The 10C mean isotherm for the warmest month (July) was located at 2,438 m. This represents the potential upper forest limit. Finally, the 0C mean annual isotherm is at 2,726 m and indicates the lower limit of permafrost and related processes. /// La saisonnalit des fluctuations de temprature dans les Pyrnes, variant en fonction de l'altitude et de la longitude, est tablie et trois isothermes critiques sont mises en vidence. Chaque saison est dfinie par la relation entre la temprature moyenne et un seuil de temprature dj tabli ou 0C ou 7C. La priode vgtative est donc dfinie comme la priode pendant laquelle la temprature moyenne est gale ou suprieure  7C. Six priodes saisonnires sont dfinies  l'aide d'un critre similaire. Les gradients altitudinaux des variables termiques (par exemple, la temprature moyenne de dcembre  mars, pour le mois le plus chaud, pour l'anne) et les moyennes saisonnires (dure, dates, intensits) sont prsentes sous forme d'quations de rgression. Cela permet d'extrapoler ces variables sur une zone altitudinale. Aucune variable n'a exhib de variation significative en fonction de la longitude. Les calculs ont dtermin que l'isotherme 0C pour la proide dcembre-mars inclusivement se trouvait  1.694 mtres au-dessus du niveau de la mer. Cela reprsente la limite infrieure de la couverture neigeuse stable en hiver. L'isotherme moyenne 10C pour le mois le plus chaud (juillet) se situe  2.438 m, et reprsente la limite suprieure potentielle de la fort. Finalement, l'isotherme moyenne annuelle 0C se situe  2.726 m et indique la limite infrieure du perglisol et des processue connexes. /// Saisonbedingte Temperaturschwankungen in den Pyrenen werden als Funktion von Hhenlage und geographischer Lnge erfat und drei kritische Isothermen werden erlutert. Jede Jahreszeit wird durch das Verhltnis von Durchschnittstemperatur zu einer festgelegten Vegetations-Grenztemperatur, entweder 0C oder 7C, bestimmt. Dementsprechend wird die Vegetationsdauer als Zeitraum angegeben, in dem die Durchschnittstemperatur 7C erreicht oder bersteigt. Sechs Jahreszeiten knnen unter Anwendung hnlicher Kriterien definiert werden. Die Hhengradienten von Temperaturvariablen (z.B. Durchschnittstemperatur von Dezember bis Mrz, wrmster Monat, jhrlich) und jahreszeitlich bedingte Mittelwerte (Dauer, Datum, Intersitt) werden in Nherungsgleichungen erfat. Diese lassen eine Extrapolation der Variablen auf unterschiedliche Hhenlagen zu. Keine Variable zeigte eindeutige, der geographischen Lnge zuzuschreibende Vernderungen. Es wurde berechnet, da die 0C Isotherme unter Einbeziehung des Zeitraumes von Dezember bis Mrz bei einer Hhe von 1.694m .M. liegt. Diese Hhenlinie setzt eine untere Grenze fr eine dauerhafte Winterschneedecke. Die 10C Isotherme fr den wrmsten Monat (Juli) liegt bei 2.438m. Diese Hhenlinie bestimmt die mgliche obere Waldgrenze. Die 0C Isotherme des Jahresdurchschnitts liegt bei 2.726m und bildet eine untere Grenze fr Permafrost und der damit zusammenhngenden Vorgnge. /// Se establecen las fluctuaciones estacionales de la temperatura, variando con la longitud y la altitud, trazando tres isotermas crticas. Cada estacin se define por la relacin entre el valor de la temperatura media y la temperatura umbral 0  7C., previamente establecidos. De esa manera, el periodo vegetativo se define como aquel, durante el cual, la temperatura media es igual o superior a 7C. Utilizando criterios similares, se distinguen seis periodos estacionales. Se presentan datos en forma de ecuaciones de regresin, de las variaciones con la altitud de variables trmicas, tales: temperatura media de diciembre a marzo, idem del mes ms clido, media anual, lo mismo que de medias estacionales (duracin, fechas e intensidades). Todo ello admite la extrapolacin de tales variables segn franjas de distinta altitud. Por el contrario, los cambios longitudinales no parecen como significativos. Le isoterma de 0 del periodo diciembre-marzo incluido, se calcul como stuada a 1.694 m. S/M. Tal cota representara el lmite inferior y estable de innivacin invernal. La isoterma de 10C, correspondiente al mes ms clido (julio) se localiz a 2.438 m. S/M., representando al lmite superior del bosque potencial. Finalmente, la media anual de 0, establecida a 2.726 m. S/M., indicara el lmite inferior del "permafrost", - es decir, el suelo permanentemente congelado de ao en ao - y procesos relacionados.
10.2307/3673172|The Khumbu district of Nepal has undergone numerous changes during the past decade as the result of the rapid growth of tourism and related activities. As part of an attempt to document the effect of this rapid exposure to external influences on the district's native population, demographic information from each household was collected during the summer of 1982 and compared with that of a similar survey conducted in 1970. Major shifts have occurred in the ethnic structure of Khumbu's population, most noticeably an increase in the number of Nepali inhabitants and a decrease in the number of Tibetans. Population growth among the Sherpas has been at a virtual standstill over the past decade with births barely outnumbering deaths. Although infant and child mortality declined substantially, children's declining economic importance, and time spent away from home by married heads of household engaged on expedition work, have effectively lowered the overall fertility rate of this population. Continued preoccupation with trekking and tourism will likely cause these trends to continue. /// Le district de Khumbu au Npal a fait l'objet de nombreux changements au cours de la dernire dcennie, du fait de la croissance rapide du tourisme et des activits connexes. Dans le cadre d'un projet destin  documenter l'effet sur la population locale de cette exposition rapide  des influences extrieures, des donnes dmographiques couvrant toutes les familles ont t rassembles au cours de l't 1982, et compares  celles d'un recensement similaire effectu en 1970. Une volution majeure s'est produite dans la structure ethnique de la population du Khumbu, en particulier une augmentation du nombre de Npalais et une diminution du nombre de Thibtains. La croissance dmographique des sherpas a t partiquement nulle au cours des dix dernires annes, les naissances tant  peine suprieures aux dcs. Bien que la mortalit infantile ait beaucoup dclin, la valeur conomique moindre des enfants et l'absence des chefs de famille occups par les expditions montagnardes, ont effectivement abaiss le taux global de fertilit de ce peuple. L'intrt conomique prsent par la randonne en montagne et le tourisme est tel que ces tendances vont probablement continuer. /// Seit 1970 hat die schnelle Entwicklung des Tourismus and der damit verbundenen Industrie viele Veraenderungen in der Bevoelkerung der Khumbu Region des Staates Nepal verursacht. Um den Effekt dieses betraechtlichen Ausseneinflusses auf die Bevoelkerung zu dokumentieren, haben wir alle Haushalte der Region in Sommer 1982 demographisch untersucht, und unsere Ergebnisse mit den Ergebnissen aehnlicher Untersuchungen im Jahre 1970 verglichen. Bedeutende Verschiebungen in der Bevoelkerungstruktur erscheinen bemerkenswert. Einwohner, nepalischer Abstammung, haben sich vermehrt; der Bevoelkerungsanteil der Tibetaner hat sich vermindert; und der Anteil der Scherpa, der Hauptbevoelkerung, hat sich in den letzten zehn Jahren kaum geaendert. Scherpa Geburten werden von Todesfaellen nur gering uebertroffen. Obwohl Saeuglings- und Kindersterblichkeit sich vermindert haben, hat die kinderreiche Familie inzwischen ihre wirtschaftliche Bedeutung verloren, und die langandauernden Abwesenheiten der verheirateten Maenner, als Expeditionsfuehrer oder Expeditionstraeger, hat dazu beigetragen, die Fertilitaet der Scherpas zu vermindern. Da Trekking und Tourismus die wirtschaftliche Grundlage geworden sind, wird die Tendenz der langsamen Entvoelkerung wahrscheinlich andauern.
10.2307/3673201|"Intensified forestry" can mean many things but one question must always be clearly faced - for what purpose? The answer involves not only the nature and distribution of forest products but many issues of a socio-economic, cultural, and political nature. If these are not considered properly, forest activities occur in an inadequate policy framework and severe conflicts are likely to arise. It is asserted that "intensification" in the Himalayan region should be largely non-commercial and aimed at supporting subsistence agriculture. Much remains to be learnt of such systems and participatory action research, rather than applied research, is advocated as the appropriate operational mode. /// Le terme "foresterie intensifie" peut signifier beaucoup de choses, mais une question doit toujours tre clairement pose: dans quel but? La rponse implique non seulement la nature et la distribution des produits forestiers, mais aussi de nombreuses questions de nature socio-conomique, culturelle et politique. Si ces questions ne sont pas soigneusement examines, les activits forestires seront conduites dans le cadre d'une politique inapproprie et des conflits srieux risquent de se produire. Il est propos que "l'intensification" dans la rgion himalayenne ne soit en gnral pas commerciale, mais vise plutt  soutenir l'agriculture d'auto-consommation. Beaucoup reste  apprendre au sujet de ces systmes et des recherches participatives orientes vers l'action, plutt que des recherches appliques, sont recommandes en tant que mode de travail appropri. /// Der Begriff "Intensive Forstwirtschaft" ist mehrdeutig, aber einer Frage kann man nicht ausweichen: Wozu? Die Antwort betrifft nicht nur Art und Verteilung von Waldprodukten, sondern beinhaltet viele Probleme sozio-konomischer, kultureller und politischer Natur. Falls diese nicht genau durchdacht werden, spielt sich die Forstwirtschaft in einem unbefriedigenden Rahmen ab, woraus sich schwerwiegende Konflikte ergeben knnen. Es wird hervorgehoben, da "Intensivierung" im Himalaya Gebiet in der Hauptsache nicht kommerziell geschehen sollte, sondern darauf ausgerichtet sein mu, die Landwirtschaft bei der Selbstversorgung zu untersttzen. ber solche Systeme gibt es noch viel zu lernen und nicht angewandte, sondern aktive Forschung wird als best-geeignete Arbeitsmethode befrwortet.
10.2307/3672943|The fragility of high mountain systems, their sensitivity to even small disturbances, and the tendency of such disturbances to be irreversible, have focused scientific and developmental attention onto the deteriorating physical environment in mountain areas such as the Himalaya. While this focus is obviously important, it has tended to obscure an equally critical dimension of the problem namely, the social environment. Despite the remoteness and apparent traditionalism of Tibetan populations inhabiting the high mountain areas of the Himalaya, in reality, these groups have either undergone or are now undergoing a major transformation of their social structure. This paper examines the manner in which this transformation has occurred. It argues that the traditional social adaptation was as fragile as the mountain environment itself and discusses the manner in which fraternal polyandry (two or more brothers sharing a wife), the traditional Tibetan marriage and family system, was an adaptation to an encapsulated environment. It then demonstrates the manner in which a variety of different exogenous influences have unintentionally de-encapsulated this environment and undermined the traditional system. Ladakh in India and Limi in northwestern Nepal are used to illustrate different stages of this process of social transformation and some of its demographic, ecological, and economic consequences. /// La fragilit des systmes de haute montagne et leur sensibilit aux moindres perturbations, dont les consquences sont souvent irrversibles, concentrent aujourd'hui l'attention des milieux scientifiques et des organismes d'amnagement sur la dtrioration physique en cours dans les milieux naturels montagnards tels que l'Himalaya. Cet intrt est certes important, mais il a pour rsultat de relguer au second plan un autre aspect, pourtant tout aussi dcisif, du problme: le milieu social. Malgr l'isolement et le traditionalisme apparent des communauts tibtaines qui habitent les rgions himalayennes de haute montagne, une transformation profonde vient en fait d'avoir lieu, ou est en train de se drouler, dans la structure sociale de ces groupes. Cet article examine les modalits de cette transformation. Il dmontre que l'adaptation sociale traditionnelle tait tout aussi fragile que le milieu montagnard naturel, et discute la polyandrie fraternelle (o plusieurs frres se partagent une seule femme), qui reprsente le systme matrimonial et familial tibtain traditionnel, en tant qu'adaptation  un milieu naturel "capsul,"  potentiel de production fini. Il dcrit ensuite comment de nombreuses influences exognes diverses ont involontairement dcapsul ce milieu et sap le systme traditionnel. Le district indien de Ladakh, et Limi, dans la partie nord-ouest du Npal, ont t choisies pour illustrer les divers stades de ce processus de transformation sociale et quelques-unes de ses consquences dmographiques, cologiques et conomiques. /// Die Anflligkeit des Hochgebirges, seine Empfindlichkeit selbst gegen kleine Strungen, und die Tendenz, da solche Strungen meistens nicht rckgngig zu machen sind, haben die wissenschaftliche und entwicklungsgeschichtliche Aufmerksamkeit auf die schlechter werdenden Umweltbedingungen solcher Gebirgsgegenden wie z. B. den Himalaya, gelenkt. Zweifellos ist diese Beachtung wichtig, aber sie kann einen ebenso kritischen Aspekt, nmlich den der sozialen Struktur, verschleiern. Tatschlich hat eine betrchtliche Vernderung der gesellschaftlichen Ordnung der tibetischen Bevlkerung, die im Himalaya wohnt, bereits stattgefunden, trotz der Abgeschiedenheit und des offensichtlich traditionellen Lebensstils dieser Gruppen. Die vorliegende Verffentlichung untersucht in welcher Form diese Umgestaltung vorgegangen ist. Sie errtert, da die berlieferte, soziale Anpassung ebenso zerbrechlich war wie die gebirgige Umwelt selber. Die Ursache der Polyandrie (bei der mehrere Brder eine Frau teilen), die das traditionelle Ehe- und Familiensystem ist, wird als Anpassung an den abgekapselten Lebensraum erklrt. In der Folge werden verschiedene, uere Einflsse aufgezeigt, die unbeabsichtigt diese Abkapselung sprengten, und damit das berlieferte System untergruben. Ladakh in Indien und Limi im Nordwesten Nepals werden als Beispiele angefhrt, um verschiedene Stufen im Prozess der sozialen Umschichtung und die daraus folgenden Konsequenzen fr die Bevlkerung, Umwelt und Wirtschaft aufzuzeigen.
25164152|Vulnerability to earthquake disasters in mountainous regions frequently escapes investigation and analysis. The tragic and costly earthquake disasters that have recently occurred in Central Asia have spurred important questions among local, regional, and international policymakers, scientists, and social activists regarding the root causes of earthquake vulnerability. Drawing on an analysis of recent earthquake disasters in Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, this article explores the concept of "seismic culture" (Degg and Homan 2005) in relation to vulnerability. Specifically, it argues that diminishing levels of indigenous hazard knowledge, demographic shifts, gendered livelihood transformations, and the lack of public access to science-based earthquake information have contributed to overall low levels of seismic cultures of prevention in the region. A major finding of the study points to the particular role of women in helping to redress the erosion of seismic culture, thereby bolstering local resilience, earthquake preparedness, and disaster risk reduction.
10.2307/3674097|Since the early 1990s, Nepal has changed from a net exporter to a net importer of food. Nearly half of Nepal's districts have become deficient in food. The situation is most serious for peripheral mountain regions of the Middle Hills. The paper concentrates on food deficient village communities in fragile mountain tracts of Nepal. It is based on household surveys in six peripheral mountain villages. More than fifty percent of all households are not even self-sufficient in food for six months in a year. The project then focuses on the coping strategies of the mountain farmers which aim at bridging this gap in food supply. The analysis reveals highly diverse, complex, and innovative strategies which require high degrees of mobility and activity. There is a general tendency that these strategies are increasingly oriented towards markets. It becomes clear that the growing tendency towards external linkages offers new potentialities, but, at the same time, new risks for the mountain population. The project therefore examines the major determinants which make specific coping strategies more or less successful. In addition to caste and ethnicity, household structures (including work participation patterns, gender composition, age structure, and health status) emerge as most decisive factors. Despite all efforts, the majority of the mountain population, nevertheless, is severely undernourished. For an increasing proportion of the village people, survival has becomes a permanent crisis.
mounresedeve.33.2.161|Invasion of high-altitude grasslands by unpalatable shrubs poses a serious threat to the livelihoods of mountain herders. To address the issue, a study was conducted on shrubinfested grasslands in the Himalayan rangeland of Bhutan to compare the effects of prescribed burning and vegetation cutting on the relative abundance of several key types of plants, forage dry matter production, and yak carrying capacity, and to suggest appropriate time intervals for the application of management measures. The proportions of broadleaf and grass and palatable dry matter yield were higher on sites with a northwesterly aspect. Prescribed burning led to a significant increase in the proportion of all plant categories except rhododendron. Compared with the control (no treatment) and cutting, prescribed burning resulted in significantly higher palatable dry matter yield, which increased during the first 4 years after burning and then declined in the following 2 years. The annual carrying capacity per hectare for the burned plots was 0.23 livestock units, compared to 0.05 livestock units for the control and cut plots. These results suggest that prescribed burning is an effective tool to restore high-altitude shrub-dominated grasslands. We suggest a time interval of 6 years between burnings.
25164176|Changes in the economies, societies and politics of Europe and across the globe that have taken place since 1990 have started to impact upon 'transition countries.' People in the mountainous regions of Eastern Europe have begun to face completely new economic and ecological problems. The increased incorporation of rural subsistence economies into the world market will inevitably lead to socioeconomic change. Decision makers at the national and regional levels promote this process to a certain extent; yet they are in part also forced to simply follow its course. This is inducing major alterations to landscapes, brought about by increasing farm sizes and greater specialization, mechanization, and intensification on more fertile soils. Existing conflicts between over-exploitation of resources and sustainable land use await resolution. This can be achieved through the creation of new economic perspectives and with the participation of stakeholders, including politicians, government, and local people. A traditional cultural landscape in the Apuseni Mountains of Romania, its land use systems, and future perspectives for sustainable development were analyzed in the context of the Proiect Apuseni, an inter- and transdisciplinary bi-national project based in Romania and Germany. The aim of the project was to investigate the transformation processes, to identify and evaluate development strategies, and to make recommendations for sustainable regional development in participation with the local people and Romanian politicians.
3674604|The iconic summer tourism destination in the Australian Alps National Parks is the summit area of continental Australia's highest mountain, Mt Kosciuszko. Currently 70,000 people visit the alpine area during the snow-free period each year, and about 21,000 of these take a day-walk to the summit and back. The environmental impacts of summer tourism include: soil compaction and erosion; introduction and spread of weeds; fecal contamination of lakes and creeks; increased feral animals; and vegetation clearance. The principal management responses have been: hardening of tracks; provision of toilets; education, including minimum-impact codes; and restrictions on activities such as camping in the catchment areas of glacial lakes. Currently, only the access tracks and immediate alpine area around the summit of Mt Kosciuszko receive so many visitors in such a small area. The summit area has become a honeypot focusing tourism and its impacts at one site. Effective management is needed to ensure that the summit along with the rest of the Kosciuszko alpine area remains viable for conservation and outdoor recreation.
10.2307/3673616|High mountain areas in low (tropical) latitudes are contrasted with those in middle and high latitudes in terms of their ability to provide a natural resource base for human development. The initial superiority of low-latitude mountains is outlined in the context of the broad span of human history and civilization. Early advantages are shown to become disadvantages as centers of technological development and political power moved progressively northward from the Stone Age to the modern era. Isolation of tropical mountain societies has resulted in stagnation and retrogression and by the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries the beginnings of major environmental degradation. This scenario is developed using Ethiopia as a case study. Deforestation and soil erosion on a tropical high mountain periphery, leading to extensive depletion of an unusually rich gene pool, sets the pattern for accelerated famines triggered by droughts in recent decades. An entirely new approach to development and environmental protection is needed before the losses incurred by Ethiopia today are transferred downstream to the Sudan and Egypt and eventually to world society at large. /// Les rgions de hautes montagnes  latitudes basses (tropicales) sont compares  celles  latitudes moyennes et hautes en ce qui concerne leur capacit de fournir une base suffisante de ressources naturelles pour le dveloppement humain. La supriorit initiale des montagnes  latitudes basses est examine dans le cadre du vaste panorama de l'histoire et de la civilisation humaines. L'article montre comment les avantages initiaux sont devenus des inconvnients au fur et  mesure que les centres de dveloppement technologique et de pouvoir politique se sont dplacs progressivement vers le nord, de l'ge de la pierre jusqu'aux temps modernes. L'isolation des socits de montagnes tropicales a entran leur stagnation et rgression, et, aux dix-neuvime et vingtime sicles le dbut d'une dgradation majeure de l'environnement. Ce scnario est illustr  l'aide d'une tude de cas portant sur l'Ethiopie. La dforestation et l'rosion du sol des hautes montagnes tropicales priphriques, entranant une dpltion extensive d'un pool gnique particulirement riche, cre les conditions propices aux famines intenses des  la scheresse qui ont svi au cours des dernires dcennies. Une approche totalement nouvelle vis--vis du dveloppement et de la protection de l'environnement est requise pour viter que les pertes subies par l'Ethiopie ne se propagent vers le Soudan et l'Egypte, et ventuellement au reste du monde. /// Hochgebirgsregionen in tropischen Breiten werden mit denen in mittleren und nrdlichen Breiten verglichen hinsichtlich ihres Potentials, eine Naturressourcenbasis fr menschliche Nutzung zu liefern. Die natrliche berlegenheit der Gebirge in tropischen Breiten wird im Zusammenhang mit der mannigfaltigen menschlichen Geschichte und Zivilisation dargestellt. Als sich jedoch die Zentren der technischen Entwicklung und der politischen Vormachtstellung von der Steinzeit bis in die Moderne mehr und mehr nach Norden verlagerten, wurden ursprngliche Vorteile zu Nachteilen. Die Isolation der tropischen Gebirgsbevlkerung brachte Stagnation und Niedergang, und im 18. und 19. Jahrhundert zeigten sich Anfnge einer zunehmenden Umweltverschlechterung. thiopien dient als Fallstudie fr diese Entwicklung. Entwaldung und Bodenerosion am tropischen Hochgebirgsrand, die zur vlligen Erschpfung des ursprnglich reichen Genpools fhrten, sind die Ursache von zunehmenden Hungersnten, die durch Drreperioden in jngsten Jahrzehnten ausgelst wurden. Vllig neue Beurteilungen des Gebietsmanagements und des Umweltschutzes sind ntig, damit sich die Verluste, die Athiopien heute erleidet, nicht auf die fluabwrts gelegenen Gebiete des Sudans und gyptens bertragen, um sich dann mglicherweise zu einem globalen Problem auszuweiten.
90013236|Austria is one of the few countries with a long tradition of monitoring the economic performance of forest holdings. The national Farm Accountancy Data Network also addresses some forestry-specific issues, given the high significance of farm forestry in this country. However, it is not possible to assess the profitability of smallscale farm forestry in mountainous regions based on a representative sample. In this paper, we demonstrate how information gaps can be overcome by means of economic modeling and present results of this approach for mountain forestry for the first time. In spite of the unfavorable conditions of an alpine setting, forestry tends to be of special significance for the viability and resilience of family farms in these regions. Sustainable forest management that safeguards the ecosystem services provided by forests relies mostly on the profitability of timber production. Thus, the economic development of farm forestry is a key factor in achieving targets 15.1 and 15.4 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in mountain regions.
mounresedeve.34.2.167|The Institute of Mountain Hazards and Environment (IMHE) was jointly established by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and the Ministry of Water Resources in 1966. It is a state academic institution engaged in research on mountain hazards, the mountain environment, sustainable mountain development, and digital analysis of spatial information. Its mission is to conduct innovative research on key aspects and principles of mountain science and serve sustainable development in China. It also aims to play a leading role in related fields and cultivate high-level talent.
25164030|Research to address hillside environmental issues in Central America, undertaken by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), is carried out at different scales and in collaboration with multi-institutional consortia. These represent the national and local watershed, or municipal, scales of decision making that the research is designed to support. The research framework is presented. It links development of decision-support systems for participatory planning of land care and technology development for resource-poor farmers in the tropical American hillsides, with research on organizing stakeholders to help them make collective resource management and technology choices. The approach is illustrated by results from current research in the Central American hillsides and the Andean region where land degradation, genetic erosion, and poverty are very serious. GIS methods have been developed to improve the extrapolation of results from these and other sites, and to assist policy makers to target participation, decision-support, and new technologies for specific stakeholder groups, in particular the very poor, using a poverty mapping approach. Provision of training and the development of training kits, together with institutions involved in collective resource management decisions at local or national scales, is an integral part of the approach. This has involved participants from over 100 organizations in Central America in 1998.
3674667|What do the snow leopard in the Kangchenjunga Conservation Area in Nepal, flood water diversion on Mount Kenya, waste separation in Manantln (Mexico), conflict transformation workshops in Sudan, Ethiopia and Egypt, law and policy analysis with vigilantes in the Tunari park in Bolivia, and a radio program for Nepali migrants have in common? They are all so-called Partnership Actions for Mitigating Syndromes of Global Change (PAMS)-projects in an innovative research approach developed by the Swiss National Centre of Competence in Research (NCCR) North-South. This approach merges scientific knowledge and local, tacit or "non-scientific" real-life knowledge in a genuine, grounded research experience.
3674057|The influence of reindeer pasturing on high mountain ecosystems in northern Norway was investigated using a landscape-ecological analysis. The most visible impacts of over-grazing are on the vegetation. In addition, soils and humus have been changed due to morphodynamic processes induced to a large extent by reindeer pasturing. Degradation of the high mountain landscapes within the last 30 years is described on 3 spatial levels: large-scale effects at specific localities, linear effects along reindeer fences, and small-scale effects on the altitudinal zonation of entire mountain systems. The structure of the ecosystem has changed completely due to reindeer pasturing, which has resulted in landscape degradation under great pasturing pressure. The processes that influence the ecosystem as a function of different pasture intensities are described and show a complex correlation and interaction between the ecofactors. These include destruction of vegetation cover, reduction of root density, erosion of humus and mineral soil horizons, reduction of soil moisture and soil stability, and changes in plant species composition. On the whole, degradation leads to a depression of the altitudinal belts, indicated by the new organization of the ecosystems. It can be concluded that reindeer herding at current levels is a destructive form of land use in the northern Norwegian high mountains and hence is not sustainable. The author believes that destruction of the natural environment could be reversed, although this is not to be expected.
25578203|Thufur, 42-200 cm long and 9-27 cm high, are distributed in a summit crater of Mt Halla where freeze-thaw days occur over 70 times annually. The cryogenic mounds are frozen as a hard solid mass during winter and their lower part remains frozen until late April even though they begin to thaw in mid-March. Since the water content of thufur increases and exceeds a liquid limit during March and April, thufur soils may be subject to cryoturbation. An exfoliating terrace in a northwestern grassland of Mt Halla retreated at a rate of 22.2 mm/year from 2002 to 2004. Frost action is the process contributing most to turf exfoliation, with the maximum retreat rate observed from late March to early May. Thufur and turf exfoliation indicate that the subalpine grassland of Mt Halla is likely to be situated in a periglacial environment. However, global warming has affected these periglacial features through vegetation changes. The withering of alpine shrubs is partly responsible for the formation of crater-like thufur and subsequent rupture of thufur, while the rapid spread of Sasa quelpaertensis checks the retreat of turf terraces.
mounresedeve.30.4.344|The Andes of Ecuador are one of the world's hotspots of vascular plants. These hotspot characteristics apply particularly to the divergence zone of the study site situated in the Cordillera Real near the Estacin Cientfica San Francisco (ECSF) in the northernmost part of Podocarpus National Park (358S; 7904W). Here, family and species numbers vary considerably between primary mountain forest stands and anthropogenic sites at similar altitudes. The highest family as well as species numbers (95 and 491, respectively, at 20002100 m; 68 and 296 at 24002500 m, with sample areas of 400 m
25578208|Longbasaba and Pida lakes are two moraine-dammed lakes located at the headwaters of the Geiqu River, a tributary of the Pumqu River in the Chinese Himalayas, at an elevation of about 5700 m. The minimum distance between the two lakes is 24 m and their difference in elevation is about 76 m. Breach risks were assessed on the basis of field surveys carried out in the summers of 2004, 2005, and 2006. Empirical formulae for breaching of moraine dams and the BREACH model for earthen dam failure were employed to simulate the breach properties and hydrograph of floods at the breaching site of the dam from the two lakes. The modeling showed that an outburst flood from Longbasaba and Pida lakes would last for about 5.5 hours and have a peak discharge of about 3-5  10 m/s at about 1.8 hours after the beginning of the outburst.
10.2307/3673611|Comparison of maps that show the location of equilibrium lines of glaciers during this century and the latter half of the nineteenth century indicate the magnitude of the recession of glaciers and the associated changes of climatic parameters. A mathematical model was used to assess the corresponding changes in the elements of the heat budget by vertical belts. In addition, the transformation of the water budget as a result of changes of the climatic parameters was studied in relation to specific landscape types in the region. Areas of high mountains are greatly influenced by natural trends of climate and by landscape structure, and areas of low mountains by anthropogenic factors. Positive feedbacks in the geographical sphere are identified: climatic warming has caused a reduction of the area covered by permanent ice and snow and changes in vegetation at lower altitudes. /// Une comparaison de cartes montrant l'emplacement des lignes d'quilibre des glaciers au cours du vingtime sicle et de la seconde moiti du dixneuvime sicle fournit une indication de l'tendue du recul des glaciers et des changements affectant les paramtres climatiques rsultants. Un modle mathmatique a t utilis pour valuer les changements correspondants des lments du bilan thermique par zones verticales. De plus, la transformation du bilan hydrique de aux changements affectant les paramtres climatiques a t tudie en rapport avec certains types particuliers de paysages de la rgion. Les zones de hautes montagnes sont trs influences par les tendances naturelles du climat et par la structure du paysage, et les rgions de basses montagnes par les facteurs anthropogniques. L'article identifie les rtroactions positives dans la sphre gographique: le rchauffement du climat a caus une rduction de la zone couverte en permanence par la glace et la neige, et des changements de vgtation aux basses altitudes. /// Ein Vergleich der Landkarten, die die rtliche Ausdehnung von Gletscherzungen in diesem Jahrhundert und in der zweiten Hlfte des 19. Jahrhunderts angeben, zeigt das Ausma der Gletscherrckgnge als Indikator fr damit verbundene Klimanderungen. Es wurde ein mathematisches Modell verwendet, um innerhalb vertikaler Zonen entsprechende Vernderungen von individuellen Beitrgen zum Wrmehaushalt zu beurteilen. Daneben wurden fr bestimmte Landschaftsarten des Gebietes nderungen im Wasserhaushalt als Folge der vernderten klimatischen Parameter untersucht. Hochgebirgsregionen werden wesentlich durch natrliche Klimatendenzen und durch die Landschaftsstruktur beeinflut; Mittelgebirge dagegen mehr durch anthropogene Faktoren. Im geographischen Bereich werden positive Rckwirkungen identifiziert: Klimabedingte Erwrmung verringerte die Flchen, die mit permanentem Schnee und Eis bedeckt sind und in niedrigeren Lagen fhrte sie zu nderungen in der Vegetation.
25164068|All human beings must satisfy their basic needs. When they cannot do so, they compete with their fellow beings, get involved in conflicts, and sometimes exert violence. In many parts of the Himalayas, the potential for conflicts linked to the use of natural resources to satisfy basic needs is high because traditional livelihoods depend very much on agricultural land, pastures, and forests. A negative balance of demand and supply drives people to obtain resources forcefully wherever possible, which frequently leads to confrontation. Such conflicts can be mitigated by providing people with other sources of income and reducing their dependence on the limited local resource base. The people of Pangi Valley in the state of Himachal Pradesh, India, have experienced these processes and have now reached a stage where conflicts over natural resources are no longer a major concern. The availability of alternative economic opportunities has enabled people to free themselves from the constraints of traditional livelihoods based only on local natural resources.
3674394|Resettlement of peripheral areas ("counterurbanization") is driving population growth in the central Sierra Nevada of California and Nevada. The present study analyzes the impact of "urban refugees" on socio-economic conditions in rural high mountain regions (above 1800 m). From 1960 onward, the High Sierra counties have ranked among Californian high mountain regions with the heaviest relative population growth. Tourism provides the most important impulse for the diffusion of metropolitan populations to high altitude areas, and constitutes the major source of employment there. People who migrate to the study areas (Lake Tahoe region and Mammoth Lakes area) tend to be white, well-educated, with considerable household earnings, but do not fall into the senior citizen category. There is no doubt that their demand for vacation or permanent homes has increased housing prices enormously. Planning problems that tend to come with settlement expansion in high mountain regions represent a certain potential for conflict between people who have been living here for a long period (more than 15 years) and recent, affluent amenity migrants ("newcomers"). So does the fact that a majority of homes have meanwhile been priced well beyond the reach of people on local salaries. Finally, the study addresses the problem of various attitudes towards planning strategies in the Sierra Nevada.
10.2307/3673206|Water is a crucial resource for development efforts in the Himalayan region. Both large- and small-scale development projects require a variety of hydrologic data for planning implementation. Absence of long-term records and practical difficulties in maintaining data quality lead to high levels of uncertainty in water resource assessments. Additionally, basic unanswered questions about the hydrology of the hill regions limit the development and application of effective watershed management practices. A combined programme of data and report compilation, application of existing hydrologic techniques, and new research initiatives is suggested to reduce the uncertainty associated with hydrologic estimates in the Himalaya. /// L'eau constitue une ressource primordiale pour le dveloppement de la rgion himalayenne. Les projets  grande et petite chelle ncessitent des donnes hydrologiques varies pour planifier leur ralisation. Le manque de donnes couvrant de longues priodes de temps et les difficults pratiques  maintenir la bonne qualit des donnes font en sorte que les valuations des ressources en eau sont entaches d'erreur. De plus, le manque de rponses  des questions fondamentales concernant l'hydrologie des rgions montagneuses limite la mise au point et l'application de techniques efficaces de gestion des bassins hydrographiques. Un programme combin comprenant la compilation de donnes et de rapports, l'application systmatique de techniques modernes d'hydrologie et l'institution de nouveaux travaux de recherche, est propos pour rduire le niveau d'incertitude associ avec les estimations hydrologiques dans l'Himalaya. /// Bei Entwicklungsanstrengungen im Himalaya Gebiet ist Wasser eine entscheidende Ressource. Entwicklungsprojekte in kleinem und groem Umfang erfordern zur Planungsdurchfhrung verschiedenartige hydrologische Informationen. Langfristige Aufzeichnungen fehlen, und es bestehen praktische Schwierigkeiten, gleichbleibende Datenqualitt zu sichern. Dies fhrt zu groer Unsicherheit in der Bewertung von Wasserressourcen. Viele unbeantwortete Fragen ber die Hydrologie dieser Bergregion erschweren die Entwicklung und Anwendung effektiver Verfahren beim Management der Wassereinzugsgebiete. Um die Ungewiheit in der hydrologischen Beurteilung im Himalaya zu reduzieren, wird ein kombiniertes Programm der Datenerfassung, Anwendung vorhandener hydrologischer Verfahren sowie neue Forschungsinitiativen vorgeschlagen.
3674393|The development of Swiss Alpine landscapes must comply with the needs of different interest groups. We assume that the way people relate to places, and particularly the sense of place they have, is a basis for their needs and aims regarding future landscape development. Conflicts among aims can be better understood if the underlying place relations are known. Therefore, we inductively examined differences between locals' and tourists' sense of place by means of a qualitative interview study in Alvaneu, a Swiss Alpine village. In social science theory, "sense of place" is used as an umbrella concept for manifold people-place relations. The findings reveal that the place characteristics relevant to sense of place are approximately the same for both groups. However, locals and tourists attribute different meanings and significance to these characteristics, and thus have distinct needs regarding landscape development. Consequently, a balance between appropriate economic development desired by locals and the preservation of the cultural characteristics and authenticity sought by tourists must be found when pursuing sustainable landscape development.
3674505|The Tansen Community Multimedia Center (CMC) initiative is part of a regional innovation and research project initiated by UNESCO to study the potential of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for poverty reduction. The project is looking for ways in which ICTs can be used to empower and strengthen the voices of the poor. Community multimedia centers are an extension of UNESCO's long-standing work with community radio, inspired by the increasingly important role played by new digital technologies. Community multimedia centers like the one in Tansen, Palpa District, Nepal, combine traditional community media-in Tansen's case video, cable TV, and print-with new media tools such as computers and the Internet. The goal is to explore ways in which Tansen can use ICTs as dynamic development tools: to bring more voices, cultural forms, ideas, and issues into the community's media space, and to provide poor, marginalized youth with new skills and opportunities. The combination of established local media such as community TV with new technologies like the Internet opens up great possibilities to link small, comparatively inaccessible towns and villages such as Tansen to new global networks. New media are not only powerful tools for producing content, they are also gateways to ever-expanding information and knowledge resources.
3674364|In Thailand water is widely perceived as an open access resource. It is also common belief that organization of highland irrigation in northern Thailand is characterized by a relatively simple structure, and that local communities are not able to adjust their management practices to new realities. The existence of diverse forms of control, ownership and rights of use relating to water resources is widely ignored. This goes along with a stereotypical and static picture of highland people-and ethnic minorities in particular-as being environmentally destructive and culturally backward. These misperceptions fail to recognize that economic, institutional and social conditions are rapidly changing in the highlands of northern Thailand. These changes bring about a range of cultural and economic adjustments at the local level, which is also reflected in the management of water resources. The present article argues that cultural identities and social norms in the highlands are fluid, that local communities continuously adapt their water management practices to new circumstances, and that the outcomes of this process are not always beneficial to sustainability and distributional equity.
10.2307/3673203|This paper reports on recent changes and future potential developments in land use in Nepal. It discusses differential population growth rates and land potentiality; it describes the rising pressure on land and how the people are adjusting by changes in land use, or migration, or both. The results of three studies, on potential land-use development, agricultural production, and food availability by AD 2005, are reported. Bringing new land into cultivation is a less effective measure than land-use intensification. The central role of irrigation is emphasized, together with the need for the integration of the three main land-use types - crops, grassland, and forest. A number of research priorities are presented. /// Cette tude considre les changements rcents et l'volution possible des modes d'exploitation du sol au Npal. Elle examine les diffrences de croissance dmographique et de ressources potentielles du sol; elle dcrit l'impact croissant sur les terres et la manire dont la population s'est adapte  la situation, soit en changeant le mode d'exploitation du sol soit en migrant, ou les deux. Les rsultats de trois projets sont communiqus, concernant respectivement l'expansion possible de l'exploitation du sol, la production agricole, et la disponibilit de denres alimentaires en l'an 2005. La mise en culture de nouvelles terres est une mesure moins efficace que l'intensification de l'exploitation du sol. Le rle primordial de l'irrigation est mis en valeur, ainsi que le besoin d'intgrer les trois modes principaux d'exploitation du sol: terres cultives, prairies et forts. Certaines priorits sont proposes pour les recherches. /// Diese Verffentlichung berichtet ber krzlich vorgenommene Vernderungen und mgliche Entwicklungen in der Landnutzung in Nepal. Unterschiedliche Bevlkerungswachstumsraten und Landergiebigkeit werden diskutiert; zunehmender Druck nach neuen Landflchen wird beschrieben, und wie die Bevlkerung sich durch nderungen in der Landnutzung, durch Migration oder durch beides anpat. Die Ergebnisse dreier Studien ber potentielle Landnutzung, landwirtschaftliche Produktion und Nahrungsmittelverfgbarkeit bis zum Jahr 2005 werden vorgelegt. Neue Landflchen zu kultivieren ist weniger effektiv als die Landnutzung zu intensivieren. Die wichtige Rolle, die die Bewsserung spielt, wird unterstrichen zusammen mit der Notwendigkeit, drei Hauptnutzungsarten des Bodens zu integrieren: Feldfrchte, Weideland und Waldflchen. Sich ergebende Forschungsprioritten werden erwhnt.
10.2307/3673968|This paper explores the idea of hybrid knowledge by combining anthropological research with soil science to investigate orthodox assumptions about shifting cultivation among the Wola highlanders of Papua New Guinea. It is commonly assumed that shifting cultivation exhausts soil fertility rapidly, leading to the relocation of settlements and gardens. However, in Wolaland, farmers can maintain soil fertility without needing to relocate. Evidence from this research suggests that chemical properties of soil fertility, such as nitrogen, potassium, and organic matter, decline after cultivation, and that phosphorous is always low. Whatever, local soil-management measures allow farmers to cultivate non-perennial crops semi-permanently through incorporating compost from short grassy fallows into 'soil mounds,' with sweet potato as a staple crop. As a result, farmers are able to avoid long-term fallowing, and the Wola have developed sustainable cultivation regimes in land often considered marginal. /// Cet expos explore l'ide d'une connaissance hybride en associant la recherche anthropologique  la pdologie afin d'examiner des hypothses orthodoxes sur le dplacement des cultures chez les montagnards Wola de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine. On prsume gnralement que dplacer les cultures puise rapidement la fertilit du sol, entranant ainsi un transfert des populations et de leurs habitations et jardins. Toutefois, dans Wolaland, les agriculteurs peuvent maintenir la fertilit du sol sans devoir s'installer ailleurs. Cette recherche apporte la preuve que la fertilit du sol, comme l'azote, le potassium et les matires organiques, perd ses proprits chimiques aprs la culture de la terre et qu'il y a toujours peu de phosphore. Toutefois, des mesures locales de gestion du sol permettent aux agriculteurs de cultiver des plantes non-vivaces de faon semi-permanente en incorporant du compost des friches rases et herbeuses  des "buttes de terre", avec la patate douce comme culture de rente. Les agriculteurs peuvent ainsi viter la mise en jachre  long terme et les Wola ont mis au point des systmes de cultures viables sur des terres souvent considres comme ayant peu de rendement. /// Der vorliegende Text erforscht den Gedanken einer hybriden Kenntnis durch eine Kombination anthropologischer Forschungen mit Bodenwissenschaften zur Untersuchung orthodoxer Auffassungen ber den von den Wola-Hochlandbewohnern in Papua Neuguinea praktizierten Fruchtwechsel. Es wird allgemein davon ausgegangen, da ein Fruchtwechsel die Fruchtbarkeit des Bodens schnell erschpft und somit zu einer Umsiedlung von Drfern und Feldern fhrt. Im Wolaland gelingt es den Bauern jedoch, die Fruchtbarkeit des Bodens zu erhalten, ohne umsiedeln zu mssen. Erkenntnisse aus dieser Forschung zeigen, da chemische Bodeneigenschaften, die fr die Fruchtbarkeit von Belang sind, wie z. B. der Gehalt an Stickstoff, Kalium und organischen Stoffe, nach einer Kultivierung abnehmen und da der Phosphorgehalt stets auf einem niedrigen Niveau ist. Es wird den Bauern jedenfalls im Rahmen lokaler Bodenbewirtschaftungsmanahmen erlaubt, nicht perennierende Feldfrchte auf semipermanenter Basis anzubauen, indem sie Kompost aus kurzgrasigen Brachfeldern in Erdwlle einarbeiten, wobei als Haupterzeugnis Skartoffeln angebaut werden. Hieraus ergibt sich, da die Bauern auf ein langfristiges Brachliegenlassen der Felder verzichten knnen, und die Wola haben hierdurch langfristige Anbausysteme entwickelt, die die Qualitt solcher Bden erhalten, die sonst oft als unrentabel angesehen werden.
10.2307/3673931|The distribution of active geomorphic features in an area of the Central Spanish Pyrenees has been studied using GIS techniques and multivariate statistical procedures. First, the geomorphologic map of the area was digitized to include the geoforms of present or very recent geomorphologic activity: mass movements, forms derived from overland flow, and phenomena linked to thermic contrasts or the persistent presence of ice in the soil. Second, a Digital Elevation Model was produced, allowing automatic calculation of the gradient and exposure maps. Finally, a multivariate statistical technique was used to indicate the most important factors in the spatial organization of the geoforms. The very important role played by the lithology was confirmed, since some types of rocks favor the presence of certain geoforms and yet are unfavorable for others. The most significant result is that from discriminant and hierarchical cluster analysis three groups of geoforms can be defined, which show a very similar spatial pattern as a consequence of similar environmental interactions. One of these groups appears to be related to the deforestation that has lowered the upper forest limit since the eleventh century. /// La rpartition des traits gomorphiques actifs dans une rgion des Pyrnes centrales espagnoles a t tudie  l'aide de techniques d'un systme d'information gographique et de mthodes statistiques  plusieurs variables. D'abord, la carte gomorphologique de la rgion a t numrise de manire  inclure les goformations issues de l'activit gomorphologique actuelle ou trs rcente: mouvements de terrain, formations cres par l'coulement de surface, et phnomnes lis aux contrastes thermiques ou  la prsence continuelle de glace dans le sol. Ensuite, un modle numrique d'altitudes a t labor, permettant le calcul automatique des cartes de pente et d'exposition. Finalement, une technique statistique  plusieurs variables a t utilise pour indiquer les facteurs les plus importants mis en jeu dans l'organisation spatiale des goformations. Le rle trs important de la lithologie a t confirm, du fait que certains types de roche favorisent la prsence de certaines goformations, tout en tant toutefois dfavorables  d'autres. Le rsultat le plus significatif obtenu  l'aide d'analyses typologiques, discriminante et hirarchique, est que l'on peut distinguer trois groupes de goformations avec configurations spatiales trs similaires, par suite d'interactions environnementales similaires. L'un de ces groupes semble tre li  la dforestation qui a abaiss la limite forestire suprieure depuis le onzime sicle. /// Multivariate statistische Verfahren und GIS-Techniken wurden zur Untersuchung der Verteilung vernderlicher Oberflchenphnomene eingesetzt. In einem ersten Schritt wurde eine geomorphologische Karte des Untersuchungsgebietes digitalisiert zwecks der Eingabe von Oberflchenformen, die auf jngste bzw. nicht lang zurckliegende Ereignisse zuckgehen, wie beispielsweise Massenbewegungen, Formenelemente, die auf an der Oberflche ablaufende Fliebewegungen zurckgehen, und Phnomene, die auf Temeperaturunterschiede oder die berdauernde Einlagerung von Eis in Bden zurckzufhren sind. In einem zweiten Schritt wurde ein digitales Hhenmodell erzeugt, das automatisierte Gradientenberechnungen und die Ausgabe von Expositionskarten gewhrleistete. Letztlich wurden multivariate statistische Verfahren zur Hervorhebung der wichtigsten Faktoren bezglich der rumlichen Verteilung von geomorphologischen Oberflchenformen eingesetzt. Als Ergebnis dieser Vorgehensweise wurde die herausragende Bedeutung der Gesteinsformationen besttigt, da eine hohe Korrelation zwischen Gesteinssubstrat und bestimmten auftretenden Oberflchenformen verzeichnet wurde. Die Anwendung diskriminierender und hierarchischer Cluster-Analyseverfahren ergab als wichtigstes Ergebnis die Unterscheidung von drei Gruppen von geomorphologischen Formen, die hnliche rumliche Muster als Ergebnis vergleichbarer Umwelteinwirkungen aufweisen. Eine dieser Gruppen scheint mit der Entwaldung verknpft zu sein, die seit dem 11. Jahrhundert die obere Waldgrenze erniedrigt hat. /// Por medio de tcnicas de SIG y procedimientos estadsticos multivariables se estudian los factores que explican la distribucin de geoformas muy dinmicas en un rea de montaa de los Pirineos centrales espaoles. En primer lugar se elabor el mapa geomorfolgico, digitalizando las geoformas indicadoras de actividad actual o muy reciente: movimientos en masa, formas derivadas del arroyamiento superficial y fenmenos ligados a contrastes trmicos o a la presencia persistente de hielo en el suelo. En segundo lugar, se realiz un Modelo Digital del Terreno que permiti elaborar los mapas de pendientes y exposiciones. Finalmente se emple un tratamiento estadstico multivariable para conocer los factores ms importantes en la organizacin espacial de las geoformas. Se confirma el papel muy importante que juega la litologa, ya que algunos tipos de rocas favorecen la presencia de ciertas geoformas y son desfavorables a otras. El resultado ms interesante es que a partir del Anlisis Discriminante y del anlisis jerrquico de cluster se definen tres grupos de geoformas que muestran un comportamiento espacial muy similar. Uno de estos grupos parece relacionarse con la deforestacin que hizo descender el lmite superior del bosque desde el siglo XI.
3674556|Nearly two-thirds of the population in the European Alps (which totals 14.2 million) lives in towns or periurban municipalities. We state that strong towns in the Alps are necessary to prevent outmigration. But these towns must be internally integrated with their hinterlands and externally integrated in supraregional networks to maintain the quality of life and contribute to regional economic growth. This appears to be possible despite the differences that typify Alpine agglomerations, since both large and small towns have an internal and an external function; what differentiates them is the proportion between the two functions. Although these differences imply that possibilities for future development vary, some strategies may be generally valid for towns in the Alps.
mounresedeve.34.3.255|Natural resourcedependent isolated mountain communities are highly vulnerable to climatic and environmental stresses, and migration is often the most important livelihood diversification strategy for insuring a household against shocks. In this paper, we present some key results from a study conducted in the West Karakoram region of Pakistan to assess the influence of environmental shocks on migration and the effect of remittances on the adaptive capacity of recipient households and on gender relations. Primary data were collected at community and household level through in-depth interviews, focus group discussions, and quantitative questionnaires covering 210 households in 6 villages of the West Karakoram. Our findings suggest that migration is adopted as a core response to environmental pressure, both as an ex ante form of household risk mitigation against decreased and uncertain agricultural production, and as an ex post coping mechanism in the wake of environmental shocks. Gender structures migration; only men participate in circular labor migration to urban areas, while women are left behind to take care of the agricultural work and the household. Despite women's increased role in farming activities, no significant changes were noted in the decision-making power of women as a result of male outmigration. Gender positive transformative processes are more likely to be intergenerational and driven by increased access to education for girls.
3674675|Much concern has been raised about population increase in the highlands of Ethiopia and its potential to decrease runoff from the upper Nile Basin to the lowland countries of Sudan and Egypt. The present article examines long-term data on population, land use, land management, rainfall, and surface runoff rates from small test plots (<tex-math>$30\ m^{2}$</tex-math>) and micro-catchments (73-673 ha) in the highlands of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Although the data were generated only on small areas, the results of the analyses can nevertheless be used to draw some conclusions relevant to the highland-lowland water controversies that have persisted in this particular region for many decades. The data indicate that there have been no significant trends over the long term in total annual rainfall in the highlands over the past 30-50 years. Nevertheless, test plot surface runoff rates are clearly influenced by land use and soil degradation, and hence by population density and duration of agriculture. In effect there is 5-30 times more surface runoff from cultivated or degraded test plots than from forested test plots. Analysis and interpretation of data support the hypothesis that surface runoff and sediment yield from the Ethiopian and Eritrean highlands into the upper Nile Basin have most probably increased in the long term due to intensified land use and land degradation induced by population increase, when seen in a historical perspective. Rates of base flow, in turn, must have decreased during the same period, but to a much lesser extent, although conclusive empirical evidence cannot be gained from this experimental setting. One can assume that soil and water conservation measures aiming to ensure long-term livelihoods in the humid to sub-humid highlands will, on the one hand, barely affect overall catchment runoff to the downstream areas, though they will considerably reduce surface runoff and soil loss on slopes as well as river sedimentation rates. On the other hand, in a semiarid catchment where intensive soil and water conservation was carried out, reduction in runoff rates was more pronounced. It can be concluded that population increase in the Ethiopian highlands increased overall runoff rates to lowland areas in earlier times, while recent efforts to conserve watersheds might affect total runoff rates in catchments only in semiarid parts, and much less in humid parts of the Ethiopian highlands.
3674388|The Philippine government has committed itself to the Millennium Development Goal of achieving 100% primary education in 10 years. At the national level and within the context of formal education, Education for All (EFA) has been adopted as the flagship program and the Department of Education (DepEd) has a mandate to be aggressive in pursuing reforms to boost performance, eg through the Basic Education Reform Agenda (BESRA). BESRA propels the "School First Policy" that aims to give local governments more leeway in planning their education reform agenda. A policy of devolution ensures freedom to local DepEd units in implementing EFA goals, especially in funding. This is complemented by basic reforms within the DepEd bureaucracy, including the transformation of the Non-Formal Education (NFE) Bureau into the Bureau of Alternative Learning Systems (BALS). Particularly on mountainous Mindanao-home to at least 2 major groups of indigenous and minority populations, the Moro and the Lumad-the Arroyo administration has taken a cue from the Republic Act 9054, otherwise known as the Organic Act on Autonomous Muslim Mindanao-a by-product of the 1996 Peace Accord-to be cognizant of plurality and cultural diversity on Mindanao. Thus, the DepEd is charged with spearheading the cultural integration agenda by including Islamic values and basic Arabic grammar into the curriculum in areas where Muslims are a majority. Meanwhile, catering to the non-Muslim indigenous Lumad, the DepEd passed a memorandum in June 2004 accrediting Indigenous People's (IP) schools. Yet it is apparent that the reforms have so far been national in focus and integrationist, rather than substantial moves towards the full recognition and empowerment of traditional systems and indigenous ways of educating the IP and minority children. Policy is one thing, but implementation remains palliative and lukewarm.
25164105|Three new records of the highest treelines in the northern hemisphere are presented here, based on the definition of a "tree." The tree species with the highest treeline in the northern hemisphere is Juniperus tibetica Kom. The highest forest stand is located at 4900 m in southeast Tibet. The highest tree stands of Juniperus indica Bertol. in the Himalaya were found in northern Bhutan at 4750 m. Information from such observations is decisive for the development of hypotheses on the limits of tree growth. We compare the present findings with findings on highest treelines in other mountain areas worldwide and draw some conclusions.
10.2307/3673989|Residential and commercial land development quickened during the 1990s throughout the U.S. Rocky Mountains, especially in Colorado, increasing the pace and extent of regional land use and landscape change. Unlike previous booms in mining, cattle, or energy, the current development wave is driven by growth in the secondary and tertiary economies-services, recreation, and information businesses-instead of commodity production. The result is sprawling land-use conversion, mostly from agricultural to residential, in even the most rural areas. This development pattern is examined in light of mountain and rural land-use theory, and its effects are evaluated at three scales in the Colorado mountains-regional, landscape, and site. The social and ecological impacts cited in previous rural development literature are evident, but also documented are landscape effects associated with the particular affluence of Colorado mountain development and the emergence of far-reaching rural sprawl and gentrification. Current development tends more than in the past to fragment land ownership, steepen land-use gradients at public/private boundaries, and increase human presence and disturbance in the urban/wildland interface. The paper concludes with suggestions for planning focused at the landscape scale. /// L'amnagement des terres rsidentielles et commerciales s'est acclr dans les annes 90 dans l'ensemble des Montagnes Rocheuses des Etats-Unis, en particulier au Colorado, augmentant la vitesse et l'tendue de l'utilisation rgionale des terres et du changement du paysage. A l'oppos des booms prcdents de l'industrie minire, de l'levage du btail ou de l'nergie, la vague actuelle d'amnagement est propulse par la croissances des conomies secondaire et tertiaire,  savoir les services, les loisirs et l'information, au lieu de la production primaire. Le rsultat en est une vaste conversion de l'utilisation des terres, principalement des terres agricoles en quartiers rsidentiels, mme dans les zones les plus rurales. Cette configuration de l'amnagement est examine dans la perspective de la thorie de l'utilisation des terres montagnardes et rurales, et ses effets sont valus  trois chelles dans les montagnes du Colorado,  savoir la rgion, le paysage et le site. Les impacts sociaux et cologiques mentionns dans les publications prcdentes sur l'amnagement rural sont vidents, mais on a galement document les effets associs  la richesse particulire de l'amnagement des montagnes du Colorado et l'mergence d'une expansion et d'un embourgeoisement considrables. L'amnagement actuel tend plus que dans le pass  fragmenter les proprits,  accrotre les gradients d'utilisation  la jonction des terres publiques et prives, et  augmenter la prsence et les perturbations humaines  l'interface des zones urbaines et des terres en friche. Cet article offre en conclusion des suggestions pour une planification  l'chelle du paysage. /// In den Rocky Mountains der U.S.A., besonders im Staat Colorado, beschleunigten sich in den 1990-iger Jahren Tempo und Ausma der Landerschlieung fr kommerzielle und Siedlungszwecke, was zu regionalen Vernderungen in der Landnutzung fhrte, und das Landschaftsbild modifizierte. Im Gegensatz zu frheren Hochkonjunkturen im Bergbau, der Rinderzucht oder Energiewirtschaft, die Gebrauchsgter erzeugten, wird die derzeitige Entwicklung vom Wachstum in der sekundr- und tertir Wirtschaft bestimmt, die Dienstleistungen, Freizeit und Informationsdienste umfat. Als Ergebnis zeigt sich eine unkontrollierte Landnutzung, die in der Mehrzahl der Flle, selbst in abgelegenen Gebieten dazu fhrt, da landwirtschaftlich genutzte Flchen in Siedlungsgebiete umgewandelt werden. Nutzungstheorien fr Berg- und Agrargebiete werden auf die neuen Tendenzen angewendet. Fr die Colorado Mountains werden drei spezifische Aspekte, nmlich regionale, landschaftliche und lokale Einflsse ausgewertet. Die offensichtlichen sozialen und kologischen Folgen des Entwicklungsprozesses sind bereits in frheren Verffentlichungen beschrieben worden - fr Colorado mu auerdem noch ein Wohlstandsfaktor bercksichtigt werden, der zu ungewhnlichen Bebauungsprojekten und Exklusivitt fhrt. Die gegenwrtige Entwicklung fhrt mehr als in der Vergangenheit dazu, da der Landbesitz zerstckelt wird, da sich die Abgrenzung zwischen ffentlicher und privater Landnutzung verschrft, und es an der Schnittstelle zwischen zunehmender Besiedelung und Naturgebieten zu Strungen kommt. Die Verffentlichung schliet mit Planungsvorschlgen, die das Landschaftsbild in den Mittelpunkt stellen.
10.2307/3673093|Many Indians of the Northern Andes of Colombia have successfully adapted to a slope environment in which local groups exploit a variety of ecological niches. This particular agricultural system has been little investigated by specialists but deserves closer study. An examination of the Kogi Indians of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta reveals a history of ecological adaptation, from intensive maize (corn) cultivation in the lowlands to plantain and cash-crop growing in the temperate zone, and demonstrates a number of cultural mechanisms in which the local shaman-priests take a leading part. Individual families exploit a wide range of microenvironments while, at the same time, they are made acutely aware of the need to preserve soil, water, and vegetation resources. The authority of Kogi priests is based upon a detailed knowledge of ecological facts, and upon intelligent decision making in the context of an agroecosystem controlled by local rituals. Kogi priests have two aims: to keep population density below the carrying capacity of the land, and to maintain areas of undegraded environment which might constitute reserves in times of need. At present, the continued functioning of this system, indeed even Kogi survival, is threatened by large-scale industrialization of the region, and by subsequent incorporation of the Sierra Nevada into world-wide marketing and technological projects. The prompt establishment of a biosphere reserve seems to be the only solution if a major catastrophe is to be avoided. /// De nombreux indiens ont russi  s'adapter  un environnement des pentes raides o les groupes locaux exploitent une varit de niches cologiques. Ce systme agricole particulier a t peu tudi par les spcialistes, et mrite d'tre tudier de plus prs. Un examen des Indiens Kogi des Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, nous rvle une histoire d'adaptation cologique en commencant par des cultures de mas dans les plaines jusqu' l'exploitation des plantains et des rcoltes au comptant dans les zones tempres, nous montrant ainsi un certain nombre de mchanisms culturels o les prtes-shaman locaux jouent un rle primordial. Des familles particulires exploitent une gamme varie de micro-environnements, tandis qu'elles deviennent vivement conscientes de la ncessit de conserver les ressources en eau, en sol, et en vgtation. L'autorit des prtes Kogi est base sur une connaissance dtaile des faits cologiques et sur des dcisions faites dans le cadre d'un systme agro-cologique contrl par des rites locaux. Les prtes Kogi ont deux objectifs: maintenir le densit dmographique endessous de la charge utile des terres, et protger les zones non-dgrades dont les rserves peuvent tre utiles dans les priodes de ncessit. A l'heure actuelle, le fonctionnement suivi de ce systme, voir la survie des Kogi, est menac par une industrialisation  grande chelle de cette rgion, et par l'inclusion des Sierra Nevada dan les projets de commercialisation et de technologie mondiaux. L'stablissement immdiat d'une rserve biosphre parat ds lors tre la seule solution pour prvenir un catastrophe primordial. /// Die Mehrzahl der Indianer, die in den nrdlichen Anden in Kolumbien wohnen, haben sich erfolgreich der steilen Umgebung angepasst, wobei sie den kleinen naturgegebenen Lebensraum optimal nutzen. Diese besonderen landwirtschaftlichen Gegebenheiten sind bisher von Experten kaum untersucht worden und bedrfen nherer Betrachtung. Eine Studie der Kogi Indianer in der Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta zeigt eine Entwichlungsgeschichte kologischer Anpassung vom intensiven Maisanbau in den Niederungen zum Bananenanbau und Ertragswirtschaft in der gemssigten Zone. Kulturelle Strukturen werden aufgezeigt, bei denen ortsansssige Shaman-Priester eine fhrende Rolle spielen. Einzelne Gruppen nutzen die vielfltige Mikro-Umwelt, wobei ihnen aber nachhaltig bewusst gemacht wird, dass Boden, Wasser und Vegetationsvorrte erhalten werden mssen. Die Autoritt der Kogi Priester basiert auf umfassendem Wissen kologischer Tatsachen und auf vernnftigen Entscheidungen, die im Bezug auf das ortsblichen Bruchen unterliegende Agrar-Ecosystem getroffen werden. Kogi Priester verfolgen zwei Zielsetzungen: Die Bevlkerungsdichte niedrig genug zu halten, sodass die Ertrge des Landes ausreichen und Landflchen unverdorben als Reserven fr Notzeiten zu belassen. Zur Zeit ist die Funktionsfhigkeit dieses Systems und der Fortbestand der Kogi bedroht durch massive Industrialisierung des Gebietes, was eine Eingliederung der Sierra Nevada in weltweite Markt-und technologische Unternehmen zur Folge hat. Um grsseren Katastrophen vorzubeugen, scheint die sofortige Schaffung einer Reserve in der Biosphre die einzige Lsung zu sein. /// Muchos indios de los Andes del norte de Colombia se han adaptado con xito a un medio ambiente de laderas en el que los grupos locales explotan diversos nichos ecolgicos. Los especialistas no han estudiado profundamente este sistema agrcola particular si bien se merece un estudio ms detallado. Si se examina a los indios Kogi de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, se descubre una historia de adaptacin ecolgica que va desde el cultivo intensivo de maz en las tierras bajas a cosechas de pltanos y cosechas para producir dinero en efectivo en las zonas templadas, y demuestra una serie de mecanismos culturales en los que los sacerdotes-shamanes locales juegan un papel importante. Las familias individuales explotan una amplia gama de micro-medio-ambientes, al mismo tiempo que se les hace agudamente conscientes de la necesidad de preservar los recursos de la tierra, el agua y la vegetacin. La autoridad de los sacerdotes Kogi se basa en un conocimiento detallado de los fenmenos ecolgicos y en decisiones inteligentes en el contexto de un ecosistema agrcola controlado por rituales locales. Los sacerdotes Kogi tienen dos objectivos: mantener la densidad de la poblacin por debajo de la capacidad para mantener que la tierra tiene, y conservar zonas del medio ambiente sin degradar que puedan constituir reservas en tiempos de necesidad. En el momento presente, el funcionamiento continuado de este sistema, en realidad la sobrevivencia de los Kogis se ve amenazada por la industralizacin en gran escala de la regin y por la incorporacin consiguiente de la Sierra Nevada a los proyectos tecnolgicos y de mercadotecnia mundiales. El establecimiento urgente de una reserva de la biosfera parece ser la nica solucin si se quiere evitar una gran catstrofe.
10.2307/3673896|An extensive El Nio, which normally causes droughts on the western side of the tropical Pacific basin, occurred from the spring of 1991 to May 1992. Measurements were taken of climatic variables associated with this irregular but reoccurring event in a high-altitude environment at 3,780 m near the upper timberline on Mount Kinabalu, Borneo, for one year in 1992. These included temperature above and below ground, vapor pressure, global radiation, photosynthetically active radiation, and rainfall. Mean monthly air temperatures at 1.5 m ranged from 6.6 (October) to 9.7C (March) with an annual mean of 8.1C. Relatively dry periods with monthly rainfall less than 100 mm ocurred from January to April and in August. Total rainfall for the year was 2,418 mm. Monthly rainfall minus potential evapotranspiration indicated net negative water budgets in the dry periods for all albedo values (0.1-0.5) which were used in the calculation. Associated with these droughts were freezing ground-air temperatures and an extremely high soil temperature. It is inferred that the marked aridity resulted from the ocurrence of air subsidence which adiabatically becomes dry and isolates the summit from uplifting moist air. However, the mechanisms causing putative subsidence remain unknown and I cannot conclude if the 1992 drought on Mount Kinabalu is attributable to the El Nio only. Nevertheless, this study suggests the possibility of extensive water stress to plants in the summit region. Small-sized leaves and sclerophylly, which characterize the site, appear to be morphological adaptations primarily to such water stress. /// Un vnement El Nio extensif, normalement la cause de scheresse dans la partie occidentale du bassin tropical du Pacifique, s'est produit du printemps 1991  mai 1992. Certaines variables climatiques associes  cet vnement de frquence irrgulire, ont t mesures pendant une anne dans un environnement de haute altitude (3 780 mtres), prs de la limite forestire suprieure du Mont Kinabalu, Borno, en 1992. Ces mesures ont englob des mesures de temprature au-dessus et au-dessous de la surface du sol, de pression de vapeur, de rayonnement global, de rayonnement photosynthtiquement actif, et de pluviosit. La temprature moyenne mensuelle de l'air  1, 50 m a vari de 6,6 C (octobre)  9,7 C (mars), avec une moyenne annuelle de 8,1 C. Des priodes relativement sches,  pluviosit mensuelle infrieure  100 mm, se sont produites de janvier  avril, et en aot. La pluviosit annuelle totale tait de 2 418 mm. La pluviosit mensuelle, moins l'vapotranspiration potentielle, a indiqu des bilans hydriques ngatifs nets pendant les priodes sches, pour toutes les valeurs d'albdo. Associes  ces scheresses, on a constat des tempratures glaciales de l'air  la surface du sol, et des tempratures du sol trs leves. Il en a t dduit que l'aridit prononce rsultait d'une subsidence d'air qui s'asschait adiabatiquement et isolait le sommet de l'air humide ascendant. Nanmoins, les mcanismes  l'origine de cette subsidence putative restent mystrieux et il est impossible de conclure si la scheresse de 1992 sur le Mont Kinabalu est attribuable uniquement  l'vnement El Nio. Nanmoins, cette tude suggre la possibilit d'un stress hydrique extensif sur les plantes poussant dans la zone du sommet. Les feuilles de petite taille et la sclrophylle qui caractrisent le site, semblent constituer principalement des adaptations morphologiques  un tel stress hydrique. /// Eine ausgedehnte, warme Meeresstrmung, genannt El Nio, fhrt auf der Westseite des tropischen Pazifikbeckens wiederholt zu Trockenperioden. Fr den Zeitraum vom Frhjahr 1991 bis zum Mai 1992 war dies der Fall. Im Verlauf des Jahres 1992 wurden am Mt. Kinabalu, Borneo, in 3.780 m Hhe nahe der oberen Baumgrenze, Klimawerte gemessen, die mit diesem ber die Jahre sich unregelmig wiederholendem Ereignis korreliert sind. Die Mewerte umfaten Luft- und Bodentemperaturen, Wasserdampfdruck, sowie atmosphrische und photosynthetische Strahlungsintensitten und die Niederschlagsmenge. In 1,5 m Hhe ber dem Boden lag der Mittelwert der monatlichen Temperaturen zwischen 6,60C (Oktober) und 9,70C (Mrz), wobei der Jahresdurchschnitt 8,10C betrug. Bei einem jhrlichen Gesamtniederschlag von 2.418 mm war der Zeitraum von Januar bis April und der Monat August mit monatlichen Werten unter 100 mm auerordentlich trocken. Die monatliche Regenmenge whrend der Trockenzeiten zeigt netto bezogen auf die potentielle Verdunstung fr alle Albedo-Werte ein Manko im Wasserhaushalt an, wobei die Lufttemperatur unter dem Gefrierpunkt lag und der Boden uerst warm blieb. Daraus folgt, da Trockenperioden das Ergebnis von adiabatisch getrockneter Fall- Luft sind, die das Gipfelgebiet von der Thermik der feuchten Luft abschirmt. Welche Vorgnge im Einzelnen die fallende Luft verursachen, ist nicht genau bekannt; und ich kann nicht mit Sicherheit beweisen, da die Trockenperioden von 1992 am Mt. Kinabalu ausschlielich Folge der El Nio Meeresstrmung waren. Immerhin untersttzt der Charakter des Gipfelbewuchs das Auftreten von langanhaltender Wasserknappheit. Die Ursachen fr die im Gipfelgebiet vorgefundene kleine Blattgre und die sklerophylly Vegetation scheinen hauptschlich in einer morphologischen Anpassung an Wassermangel zu liegen.
10.2307/3673806|Landslides occur frequently in areas prone to earthquakes and neotectonic activities. The identification and classification of hazard prone areas according to the degree of actual or potential danger is a necessary step in hazard assessment. This paper describes the methods of landslide hazard zonation that were tested in the Srinagar-Rudraprayag area of the Garhwal Himalaya. The factors of slope angle, lithology, distance from a major geological discontinuity, land use, drainage, relative relief, and existing landslides all contribute to slope instability. These are analyzed in relation to landslide frequency and are numerically weighted based on their relative importance. From this, the study area has been classified into five zones of instability and the results have been verified in the field. The map of this landslide hazard zonation may serve as a base for further study. /// Les glissements de terrain se produisent annuellement dans les zones o les tremblements de terre et les actions notectoniques sont frquents. L'identification et la classification des zones soumises aux glissements de terrain en fonction du niveau de danger rel ou potentiel constitue une tape ncessaire pour l'valuation des risques. Cet article dcrit les mthodes de dtermination de la zonalit des risques de glissement de terrain qui ont t mises  l'preuve dans la rgion de Srinagar-Rudraprayag, Garhwal Himalaya. L'inclinaison, la lithologie, la distance par rapport  une discontinuit gologique majeure, l'utilisation des terres, le drainage, le relief relatif et les glissements de terrain existants contribuent  l'instabilit des pentes; ces facteurs sont analyss en relation avec la frquence des glissements de terrain et sont numriquement pondrs en fonction de leur importance relative. En consquence, la zone tudie a t divise en cinq zones d'instabilit et les rsultats ont t vrifis sur le terrain. La carte de cette zonalit des risques de glissement de terrain peut servir de base pour des tudes ultrieures. /// In Gebieten, in denen Erdbeben und neotektonische Vorgnge hufig sind, treten regelmig Erdrutsche auf. Fr die Abschtzung der Erdrutschgefahr in diesen Gebieten ist es notwemdig, die tatschlichen und die potentiellen Bedrohungen zu identifizieren und zu klassifizieren. Dieser Aufsatz beschreibt die Methodik zur Erdrutschgefahr-Zonierung, die im Srinagar-Rudraprayag Gebiet des Garwhal Himalaya getestet wurde. Hangneigung, Lithologie, Entfernung von einer greren, geologischen Strung, Landnutzung, Abflu, relatives Relief und vorhandene Erdrutsche tragen zur Instabilitt der Hnge bei. Diese Faktoren werden in Abhngigkeit von der Erdrutschhufigkeit analysiert und gem ihrer relativen Bedeutung numerisch erfat. Daraus folgend wurde das Untersuchungsgebiet in 5 Instabilittszonen eingeteilt, und die Resultate wurden vor Ort besttigt. Die Karte der Erdrutschgefahr-Zonierung kann als Ausgangspunkt fr weitere Untersuchungen dienen.
mounresedeve.33.3.195|Water governance of Andean river valleys that are the site of large-scale water transfers and the home to highland communities with their own irrigation practices has been the subject of research and debate since the large water transfers began. In Peru, local and regional water governance has been shaped by changing national water laws that remain controversial regarding their effects on highland water users. This article presents findings from the Colca Valley, where water has been transferred to the Majes Irrigation Project since 1983, while many highland communities still struggle to access sufficient irrigation water. It summarizes the attempts by Colca Valley communities to protect their water rights and water management institutions under a system oriented to regional and national rather than local water resources management, with a detailed discussion of the community of Coporaque. It also presents data on the area's highly variable water allowances and water use patterns, which demonstrate the need for more transparency and agro-ecological understanding of local irrigation needs and efforts to support them. Processes of representation, participation, and water redistribution are discussed as critical issues in improved regional water governance in the Colca Valley.
10.2307/3674023|This study analyzes seven little disturbed stands of temperate forest located at Bakum Ghyang monastery, 40 km north-northeast of Kathmandu, in northern Sindhu Palchok District, Nepal. The stands were 1,200 m<sup>2</sup> in area, located on homogeneous sites of a west-facing slope between 2,400 and 2,900 m. Elevation, aspect, slope angle, and topographic position were measured at each plot. The diameters and heights of all trees and saplings in the plots were measured, identified to species, and evaluated for cutting or lopping. Small seedlings were counted in ten randomly located subplots. Stands were ordinated with Detrended Correspondence Analysis and axes correlated with environmental variables. Three of the stands, on lower elevation or more mesic sites, were dominated by Quercus oxyodon and four by Tsuga dumosa. The more remote stands had small amounts of fodder lopping and livestock browsing. The first and second ordination axes correlated highly with elevation and aspect, respectively. Mesic Q. oxyodon stands had Q. lamellosa and several species of the Lauraceae. Q. semecarpifolia and Rhododendron arboreum were second and third most important species on Tsuga dominated southwest-facing stands. In the highest stand Abies spectabilis was almost as important as Tsuga. The only major canopy dominant which seemed to be regenerating sufficiently to maintain its population structure was Tsuga dumosa. In view of the poor Quercus regeneration in the areas with little human activity, I hypothesize that Quercus species are unable to reproduce in individual treefall gaps, but need more severe disturbances, probably from intense ground fires and mass wasting. /// Cette tude analyse sept peuplements forestiers peu perturbs de la zone tempre, situs prs du monastre de Bakum Ghyang, 40 kilomtres au nord nord-est de Kathmandou, dans le nord du district de Sindhu Palchok, Npal. Les peuplements de <tex-math>$1\,200\ {\rm m}^{2}$</tex-math> de surface taient situs sur des sites homognes du versant ouest, entre 2400 et 2900 m d'altitude. L'altitude, l'orientation, la pente et la position topographique ont t mesures pour chaque peuplement. Le diamtre et la hauteur de tous les arbres et gaulis dans les parcelles ont t mesurs, les espces identifies et la coupe ou l'branchage valus. Les jeunes plants ont t compts dans dix sous-parcelles choisies au hasard. Une ordination des peuplements a t effectue par analyse des correspondances avec tendance limine, et les axes corrls avec des variables environnementales. Trois peuplements,  plus basse altitude ou sur des sites plus msiques, taient domins par Quercus oxyodon, et quatre par Tsuga dumosa. Les peuplements les plus loigns ont t soumis  un peu d'branchage pour le fourrage et de broutage par le btail. Le premier et le deuxime axes d'ordination sont hautement corrls avec l'altitude et l'orientation respectivement. Les peuplements msiques de Q. oxyodon comportaient l'espce Q. lamellosa et plusieurs espces de la famille des Lauraces. Q. semecarpifolia et Rhododendron arboreum constituaient les deuxime et troisime espces les plus importantes des peuplements orients vers le sud-ouest et domins par le genre Tsuga. Dans les peuplements les plus levs, Abies spectabilis tait presque aussi important que Tsuga. La seule espce dominante du couvert qui semble se rgnrer suffisamment pour maintenir la structure de sa population tait Tsuga dumosa. Du fait du faible taux de rgnration de Quercus dans les zones  faible activit humaine, il est prsum que les espces Quercus sont incapables de se reproduire dans les espaces laisss par les chutes d'arbres, mais qu'elles ont besoin de plus de perturbations graves, probablement causes par des feux de profondeur intenses et des mouvements de masse. /// Diese Studie analysiert sieben wenig gestrte, gemigte Waldflchen in der Nhe des Vakum Ghyang Klosters, welches 40 km nordstlich von Kathmandu im nrdlichen Sindhu Palchok District von Nepal gelegen ist. Alle untersuchten Flchen umfassten <tex-math>$1200\ {\rm m}^{2}$</tex-math> und waren auf gleichartigen Standorten auf einem nach Westen gerichteten Abhang zwischen 2400 und 2900 m Hhe gelegen. Fr jede Flche wurden Hhe, Landschaftsbild, Neigungswinkel und topographische Position festgestellt. Alle Bume in den Untersuchungflchen wurden nach Umfant und Hhe vermessen, ihre Art bestimmt, und auf erfolgten Schnitt order Abhacken untersucht. Baumkeimlinge wurden in zehn nach dem Zufallsprinzip ausgesuchten Unterflchen gezhlt. Die Flchen wurden mit der "Detrended Corrspondence Analysis" ordiniert und die Achsen mit Umweltfaktoren korreliert. Drei in geringerer Hhe oder in mesischeren Gegenden gelegene Flchen wurden von Quercus oxyodon und die vier weiteren Flchen von Tsuga dumosa dominiert. Die entlegeneren Flchen zeigten wenig Anzeichen fr Futtereinschlag oder Weideaktivitt. Die erste und die zweite Ordinationsachse waren hochgradig mit der Hhe ber dem Meeresspiegel und mit dem Landschaftsbild korreliert. In mesischen Q. oxyodon Flchen fanden sich Q. lamellosa und einige Lauranceen-Arten. Q. semecarpifolia und Rhododendron arboreum waren die zweit-und drittwichtigsten in den von Tsuga dominierten, nach Sdwesten ausgerichteten Flchen. In den am hchsten gelegenen Untersuchungsflchen kam Abies spectabilis fast ebensohufig wie Tsuga vor. Die einzige dominante Baumkronenart mit zur Sicherung der Populationsstruktur ausreichenden Regenerationsraten war Tsuga dumosa. Aufgrund der sprlichen Regeneration von Quercus in Gegenden mit geringer menschlicher Aktivitt gelange ich zu der Hypothese, da Quercus-Arten nicht in der Lage sind, sich in durch einzelne umgestrzte Bume entstandenen Baumlcken zu vermehren, sondern grere, wahrscheinlich durch Brnde und Erdrutsche hervorgerufenen Strungen bentigen.
10.2307/3673537|Traditional subsistence practices of the Sherpa formerly included activities that functioned as de facto conservation strategies. Demands by people and livestock on such wildland resources as range and forest were mitigated by these practices, which prevented environmental destruction and permitted centuries of occupation and use of a fragile high-altitude area of inherently low productivity, high variability, and risk. Recent transformations of Sherpa society and economy have disrupted traditional practices, and consequently have had increasing impacts on the environment of Khumbu-Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) National Park. Evidence of both the cultural resiliency of Sherpas and the place-wisdom acquired over many generations of residence in Khumbu suggest that revitalization of traditional conservation systems may offer an answer to recently increasing problems of environmental deterioration. /// Dans le pass, les pratiques d'autoconsommation des Sherpas comprennaient des activits qui jouaient effectivement le rle de strategies de conservation. Ces pratiques ont eu pour effet de rduire la pression exerce par la population et le btail sur les ressources naturelles telles que les pturages et les forts, en ainsi d'empcher la destruction de l'environnement, et ont permis des sicles d'occupation et d'utilisation d'une zone fragile  haute altitude, caractrise par une faible productivit, une grande variabilit et de gros risques. Les transformations rcentes de la socit et de l'conomie des Sherpas ont perturb les pratiques traditionnelles et, par consquent, ont eu un impact croissant sur l'environnement du Parc national du Khumbu-Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest). Des signes de la rsilience culturelle des Sherpas et de la connaissance profonde de l'environnement acquise au cours de centaines d'annes d'occupation du Khumbu tendent  indiquer que la revitalisation des systmes de conservation traditionnels peuvent fournir une solution aux problmes croissants de dtrioration de l'environnement. /// berlieferte Praktiken in der Selbstversorgungswirtschaft der Sherpas schlossen Handlungen ein, die de facto als Erhaltungsstrategie wirkten. Anforderungen von Bewohnern und Viehbestand an die natrlichen Ressourcen (Weideland und Waldgebiete) wurden durch diese, der Umweltzerstrung entgegenwirkenden Praktiken, unter Kontrolle gehalten, was eine jahrhundertlange Besiedelung und Nutzung von leicht zerstrbaren Hochgebirgsgebieten zulie. Diese Gebiete haben von Natur aus geringen Ertrag, verndern sich schnell und sind stark gefhrdet. Die gegenwrtige Umgestaltung der Sherpa Gemeinschaft und ihrer konomie hat berlieferte Bruche gestrt und damit zunehmend auch die Umwelt des National Parks von Khumbu-Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) beeinflut. Anzeichen sowohl von kultereller Anpassungsfhigkeit der Sherpas, als von der Bestndigkeit ihres Erfahrungsschatzes, der ber viele Generationen im Khumbu Gebiet erworben wurde, deuten darauf hin, da ein Wiederbesinnen auf berlieferte Erhaltungspraktiken eine Antwort auf jngste, zunehmende Probleme in der Umweltverschlechterung sein knnte.
mounresedeve.34.3.197|Despite widespread gender issues in natural resource management and rural livelihoods strategies, there has been little study of how new development strategies, such as Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+), consider gender issues. Gender consideration in REDD+ is especially important in mountainous countries like Nepal, where the majority of the rural population, especially women and socioeconomically disadvantaged households, depend on forests for many of their subsistence needs. Any changes in forest access or use rights or rules as a result of REDD+ would impact marginalized people whose inclusion, voice, and access to and control over forest resources are influenced by deeply gendered power relations and socio-institutional practices in Nepali society. This article analyzes ways the REDD+ initiatives in Nepal have considered gender issues identified in earlier studies. The main finding is that the REDD+ policy process is inadequate to account for underlying power dynamics, and thus is unable to achieve equity goals. In the absence of accounting for power, the consideration of gender issues in forest management by explicit inclusion of women in the payment criteria and policy discussions within REDD+ programs, including the REDD+ payment pilot project, is insufficient to redress gender imbalances. Forest actors such as the government and other project implementersincluding community institutionslack strategies and responsibilities for applying REDD+ initiatives that are gender equitable and ensure REDD+ benefits and decision-making opportunities for women and other marginalized people. To tap the potential of REDD+ to contribute to both climate change mitigation and mountain development, efforts are needed to make REDD+ national strategy- and policy-making gender sensitive. The critical areas to be addressed in Nepal include framing the REDD+ strategy within the forest ministry's Gender and Social Inclusion Strategy 2008, and then by judicious implementation ensuring access of poor and disadvantaged women and men to forest resources, carbon funds, and decision-making roles in order to undermine entrenched unequal relations.
3674586|The present paper describes land cover classification and habitat mapping for the Tibetan wild ass (Equus kiang), also commonly known as kiang, in the Surkhang VDC, Upper Mustang, Nepal. Remote sensing techniques were applied for this classification, employing an ASTER satellite image from October 2002. The whole region was classified into 6 land cover types, relevant to the application of habitat mapping for the kiang. The classes are: grassland, shrubland, bare land, water bodies, snow cover, and agriculture and settlement. The area of each land cover type was tabulated to give a general picture of the land cover situation. Habitat information was collected mostly from the literature and partially from a field visit. GIS tools for spatial analysis were used to identify the suitability of the habitat in the region. The whole region was classified into 3 different suitability levels, ie primary, secondary, and non-suitable, based on use and potential use by the species in the particular area. The region with suitable habitats was delineated so that any further conservation activities related to kiang habitat can be concentrated within this boundary as a management implication.
mounresedeve.32.4.468|This paper presents a detailed review of atmospheric pollution observed in the Hindu KushHimalaya (HKH) region and its implications for regional climate. Data from in situ measurements made at high-altitude stations in the HKH region, observations from satellitebased instruments, and global climate modeling study results are discussed. Experimental observations discussed include both atmospheric measurements and data from snow and ice core sampling from different glaciers in the HKH region. The paper focuses on the atmospheric brown cloud loadings over the Himalayas, particularly black carbon (BC) and ozone, which have links to regional climate and air-pollutionrelated impacts. Studies show elevated levels of anthropogenic ozone and BC over the Himalayas during the premonsoon season with concentrations sometimes similar to those observed over an average urban environment. The elevated concentration observed over the Himalayas is thought to come from the lowlands, especially the highly populated areas of the Indo-Gangetic Plains. The implications of high BC loading in the Himalayan atmosphere as well as elevated BC deposition on snow and ice surfaces for regional climate, hydrological cycle, and glacial melt are discussed.
10.2307/3673606|This paper discusses the evolution of land use in the Spanish Pyrenees and the environmental and demographic factors that led to change. The traditional system depended upon a complex social organization and abundant cheap labor; there was extensive summer grazing for sheep which in winter moved to the Ebro Basin; and, despite the unfavorable environment, the cultivation of cereals was important. In the second half of the twentieth century, outmigration led to a disruption of the management systems: transhumance disappeared and cattle replaced sheep; cultivated slopes have been abandoned while in the valley bottoms agriculture has been intensified; meadows have been converted to cereal production to ensure the supply of winter feed to livestock. /// Cet article examine l'volution de l'utilisation des terres dans les Pyrnes espagnoles, ainsi que les facteurs environnementaux et dmographiques qui ont provoqu ces changements. Le systme traditionnel reposait sur un rgime social complexe ainsi qu'une main-d'oeuvre abondante et bon march. Il tait caractris par un pturage extensif des moutons en t, et par un repli vers le bassin de l'Ebro en hiver. En dpit des conditions dfavorables, la culture des crales tait importante. Au cours de la seconde moiti du vingtime sicle, l'migration a provoqu une perturbation des systmes de gestion: la transhumance a disparu et les bovins ont remplac les moutons; les pentes cultives ont t abandonnes alors que l'agriculture a t intensifie dans les valles; les pturages ont t convertis  la culture de crales pour assurer l'alimentation du btail en hiver. /// Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert die Entwicklung der Landnutzung in den spanischen Pyrenen, sowie solche Umwelt- und demographischen Faktoren, die zu Vernderungen fhrten. Das traditionelle System sttzte sich auf eine komplexe, soziale Gemeinschaft mit vielen billigen Arbeitskrften; fr Schafherden gab es ausreichendes Sommerweideland, im Winter wurden sie ins Ebro Becken abgetrieben; und trotz widriger Umweltbedingungen war auch Getreideanbau wichtig. In der zweiten Hlfte des 20. Jahrhunderts fhrte Abwanderung jedoch zu Strungen im Management-system: Die Schafwirtschaft verschwand und wurde durch Rinderzucht ersetzt; kultivierte Hnge lagen brach, whren in den Tlern die Landwirtschaft intensiviert wurde. Um die Viefutterversorgung fr den Winter zu sichern, wurden Weidflchen zum Getreideanbau umgepflgt. /// Se expone la evolucin de los cultivos y utilizacin del territorio en el Pirineo espaol, adems de las causas ambientales y los factores demogrficos que han regido los referidos cambios. El sistema tradicional se apoyaba en una compleja organizacin social y acusada dedicacin al pastoreo; tal ltima actividad se refera al aprovechamiento extensivo de las estivas de altitud preferentemente con ganado ovino y el descenso invernal a la depresin del Ebro; pese a lo desfavorable del entorno, en los valles altos, fu importante el cultivo de los cereales. En el transcurso de la segunda mitad del siglo XX, la emigracin quebrant el sistema gestor: desapareci la trashumancia y el vacuno reemplaz al ovino; las laderas labradas se abandonaron, mientras se intensific la agricultura de los fondos de valle; los prados han sustituido la produccin de cereal, intentando asegurar con excedentes de hierba, la sobrevivencia invernal del ganado.
10.2307/3673438|Soil degradation in the Ethiopian highlands and mountains was initiated with the introduction of agriculture several thousand years ago. Favourable conditions attracted early human settlers to this largest mountain complex in Africa and gradually all agriculturally suitable areas were occupied, including marginal land on slopes highly susceptible to soil erosion and degradation. The extent and distribution of soil degradation in the highlands as a whole is outlined and shows significantly greater damage in the northern and eastern regions which were settled first. There, the poor soil quality today results in reduced crop productivity and greater vulnerability to famine. Actual rates of soil loss are estimated according to the Universal Soil Loss Equation; the highest soil erosion rates occur in the western areas which clearly indicates that soils here are degrading more rapidly than soils in the north. The natural process of soil regeneration in the west is slow, with rates ten times lower than actual soil loss rates. However, measures introduced by the government in the last ten years are being applied by the Ethiopian associations of peasants. A more secure future requires that increases in production will exceed population increases and further, that soil depletion can be drastically reduced in order to sustain production in the long term. /// La dgradation des sols dans les hautes terres et les montagnes de l'Ethiopie a commenc avec l'introduction de l'agriculture il y a quelques milliers d'annes. L'environnement de ce complexe montagneux, le plus important en Afrique, a favoris le peuplement humain et toutes les zones propices  l'agriculture ont t progressivement occupes, y compris les terres marginales situes sur des pentes sujettes  l'rosion et  la dgradation. Cette tude examine l'tendue et la rpartition de la dgradation des sols dans l'ensemble des hautes terres, et montre que les dommages les plus srieux se sont produits dans les rgions du nord et de l'est qui ont t peuples les premires. Aujourd'hui, la mauvaise qualit du sol dans ces endroits se traduit par une rduction de la productivit agricole et une augmentation des risques de famine. Les taux actuels de perte de sol en Ethiopie ont t valus  l'aide de l'Equation Universelle de Perte de Sol: les taux d'rosion les plus levs ont t enregistrs dans les rgions occidentales, indiquant clairement que les sols s'y dgradent plus rapidement que dans le nord. Le processus naturel de rgneration du sol est lent  l'ouest; les taux y sont dix fois plus bas que les processus actuels de l'erosion. Nanmoins, des mesures prises par le gouvernement au cours des dix dernires annes sont maintenant appliques par des associations de fermiers. Pour assurer un futur viable, il est indispensable que l'accroissement de la productivit compense largement la croissance dmographique, et aussi que les pertes de sol soient beaucoup rduites pour arriver  soutenir une production agricole  long terme. /// Bodendegradierung setzte im thiopischen Hochland mit dem Beginn des Ackerbaus vor einigen Jahrtausenden ein. Wegen gnstiger Umweltbedingungen sind menschliche Siedler in diesen grssten Gebirgskomplex Afrikas eingewandert und haben schrittweise alle landwirtschaftlich geeigneten Gebiete besetzt, so dass sie heute auf marginalem Land auf Hngen existieren mssen, die fr Erosion und Degradation sehr empfnglich sind. Das Ausmass und die Verteilung von Bodendegradierung wird in geschtzter Form fr das gesamte Hochland zusammengefasst. Es wird sichtbar, dass im Norden und Osten des Hochlands, das zuerst besiedelt worden war, die Degradation am weitesten fortgeschritten ist. Als Folge des schlechten Bodenzustandes resultiert dort eine niedrigere Produktion und eine hhere Anflligkeit fr Hungersnot. Aktuelle Bodenerosionsraten werden fr Aethiopien mit der angepassten Universellen Bodenverlustgleichung grob geschtzt. Sie zeigen, dass die grssten aktuellen Bodenverluste im Westen des Hochlandes vorkommen. Diese Gebiete werden viel schneller zerstrt sein und in denselben schlechten Zustand wie die nrdlichen Gebiete fallen. Der Prozess der Bodenregeneration luft sehr langsam ab, mit Raten, die im Landesmittel bis zu 10 Mal kleiner sind als die Erosionsraten. Bodenkonservierung in der Form von Schutzgebieten, strukturellen und biologischen Massnahmen wird deshalb durch die thiopische Regierung in Zusammenarbeit mit den Bauerngenossenschaften seit 10 Jahren intensiv realisiert. Die Zukunftsperspektiven fr Aethiopien sind nur dann vielversprechend, wenn die Bevlkerungszunahme kleiner wird als die Produktionszunahme der Landwirtschaft, und wenn die Bodenressource in kurzer Zeit stabilisiert werden kann, um eine nachhaltige Nutzung zu ermglichen. Die Konservierungsaktivitten in Kombination mit anderen Massnahmen mssen in den nchsten 20-50 Jahren noch intensiver verfolgt werden, um diese Ziele zu erreichen.
10.2307/3673698|This study focuses on agro-ecological zonation along an altitudinal gradient in the montane oak forest belt of the Los Santos Forest Reserve in Costa Rica. Above 2,000 m three major zones were distinguished: (i) a lower montane fruit-tree zone (2,000-2,300 m); (ii) an upper montane potato zone (2,300-2,700 m); and (iii) an upper montane charcoal zone (2,700-3,000 m). This zonation is determined by changes in both climate and anthropogenic conditions. Socioeconomic well-being (measured as monthly income per farm) changes with altitude, the fruit-tree zone being the most productive and the charcoal zone the most marginal. At lower altitudes fuelwood is becoming scarce and erosion risks are high due to a history of indiscriminate deforestation and the present uncontrolled use of herbicides. Reforestation activities at the farm level are few and involve mainly exotic species as well as a native alder. Deforestation is continuing at higher elevations, but at a slower pace than two-to-three decades ago. Fragments of oak forest still provide peasants with sufficient fuelwood. When this region is compared and contrasted with similar Mexican, Ecuadorian, and Peruvian human-occupied mountain areas, a greater agro-ecological affinity with the Andes becomes evident. /// Cette tude examine la zonalit agro-cologique le long d'une pente altitudinale de la ceinture montagnarde de forts de chne, dans la rserve forestire de Los Santos au Costa Rica. Audessus de 2,000 mtres, trois zones agro-cologiques principales ont t identifies: (i) une zone montagnarde infrieure d'arbres fruitiers (de 2,000  2,300 m); (ii) une zone montagnarde suprieure de culture de pommes de terre (de 2,300  2,700 m); et (iii) une zone montagnarde suprieure de production de charbon de bois (de 2,700  3,000 m). Cette zonalit est dtermine par des changements de conditions climatiques et socioconomiques. Le niveau socioconomique (mesur en termes de revenu mensuel par ferme) varie avec l'altitude, la zone d'arbre fruitiers tant la plus productive et la zone de production de charbon de bois la plus marginale. Aux altitudes infrieures, le bois de chauffage devient rare et les risques d'rosion sont levs par suite d'une dforestation intempre dans le pass et l'utilisation abusive d'herbicides  prsent. Les tentatives de reforestation au niveau des fermes sont peu nombreuses et utilisent principalement des espces exotiques, ainsi qu'un aulne natif. La dforestation se poursuit  plus haute altitude, mais moins rapidement qu'il y a deux ou trois dcennies. Des fragments de forts de chne procurent encore suffisamment de bois de chauffage aux paysans. Lorsque cette rgion est compare et contraste avec de semblables rgions montagneuses habites du Mexique, de l'Equateur et du Prou, une affinit agro-cologique avec les Andes est mise en vidence. /// Diese Untersuchung richtet sich auf die agro-kologische Zonierung entlang eines altitudinalen Gradienten in dem montanen Eichenwald Costa Ricas in dem Los Santos Waldreservat. ber 2000 m NN Hhe knnen drei hhenbeschrnkte agro-kologische Zonen unterschieden werden: (i) die untere montane Fruchtbaumzone (ca. 2000-2300 m), (ii) die obere montane Kartoffelzone (ca. 2300-2700 m) und die (iii) obere montane Holzkohlzone (ca. 2700-3000 m). Die Hhengliederung ist hauptschlich bestimmt durch Klima und sozio-konomische Vernderungen. Sozio-konomische Wohlfahrt (gemessen als monatliches Einkommen pro Bauernhof) verndert pro Hhe und zeigt, da die Fruchtbaumzone am besten entwickelt ist und die Holzkohlzone am schlechtesten. An tieferen Lagen wird Brennholz knapp und die Erosion nimmt zu auf Grund von unkontrollierter Abholzung und der gegenwrtige Gebrauch von Herbiziden. Aufforstung auf Farmniveau (Plantationen) ist gering und beinhaltet hauptschlich exotische Arten jedoch auch die einheimische Erle. Abholzung findet ebenfalls in den hheren Lagen statt, aber jedenfalls langsamer als vor zwei oder drei Jahrzehnten. Hier versorgen Eichenwaldfragmente die Bauern mit ausreichendem Brennholz. Ein Vergleich mit mexikanischen, ekuadorianischen und peruanischen menschlich genutzten Gebirgsregionen zeigt, da es eine groe agro-kologische Affinitt mit den Anden gibt. /// Este estudio enfoca en la zonificacin agroecolgica a lo largo de un gradiente altitudinal en la faja montana de los robledales y encinares en la Reserva Forestal Los Santos en Costa Rica. Se distinguen arriba de los 2000 msnm tres zonas agroecolgicas altitudinalmente restringidas: (i) la zona montana baja de frutales (aprox. 2000-2300 msnm), (ii) la zona montana alta de papales (aprox. 2300-2700 m) y (iii) la zona montana alta de produccin de carbn (aprox. 2700-3000 msnm). Esta zonificacin altitudinal se determina principalmente por cambios climticos y socioeconmicos. Bienestar socioeconmico, medido como ingreso mensual por finca, cambia con la altitud, la zona de frutales siendo la mejor desarrollada y la zona de carbn la ms marginalizada. A altitudes menores la lea se est escaseando y el riesgo de erosin aumenta, debido a una historia de deforestacin indiscriminada y el presente uso no-controlado de hierbicidas. Actividades de reforestacin al nivel de finca (plantaciones) son pocas y involucran en su mayora especies exticas tanto como el jal nativo. Deforestacin continua todava a elevaciones mayores, pero ciertamente a un paso ms lento que hace dos o tres dcadas. Aqu, los fragmentos de los robledales y encinares abastecen los campesinos con suficiente lea. Cuando se compare el rea con regiones de montaa ocupado por el hombre en Mxico, Ecuador y Per, se revela una gran afinidad agroecolgica con los Andes.
10.2307/3673466|The watershed unit, which for many years has provided a fundamental unit of research in natural sciences, also provides a valuable framework for land-use planning and has been adopted for this purpose in Grenada, West Indies. The various physical components of the principal watersheds, namely, climate, geology, soils, and vegetation, are used to delimit sub-units within each watershed, and subsequently each of these is evaluated for a number of possible agricultural uses. An example of a sub-unit or land-mapping unit is given, together with a description of the factors assessed to determine its land suitability. A reconnaissance survey of the water quality of rivers that drain the major watersheds has been initiated to establish baseline data against which future land-use changes may be evaluated, and has identified some of the major environmental controls. This survey has highlighted the important role of the central mountain zone of Grenada in maintaining water quality and also the need for careful land-use planning in these source regions. /// Le bassin hydrologique, qui depuis longtemps s'est present comme une unit fondamentale de recherche dans les sciences naturelles, fournit aussi un cadre valable pour l'amnagement du territoire. Grenade, dans les Antilles a adopt un tel concept. Les divers lments physiques, c'est--dire climat, gologie, sols, vgtation, sont employs pour dlimiter des sous-units dans chaque bassin. Ensuite, le potentiel de plusieurs utilisaions agricoles possibles dans ces sous-units est evalu. Un exemple d'une de ces sous-units, ou unit cartographique, est present avec une description des lments examins, afin de dterminer son potentiel agricole. Une tude de la qualit des eaux dans les rivires provenant des bassins hydrologiques principaux a t entame de faon  tablir des donnes de base qui faciliteront des comparaisons pour valuer dans l'avenir des changements dans l'utilisation du sol. De plus, cette tude a identifi certains lments rgulateurs importants qui contrlent le systme cologique du bassin. Cette tude a soulign l'importance de la zone montagneuse centrale de Grenade, en ce qui concerne le maintien de la qualit de l'eau et aussi la ncessit d'une planification rigoreuse de l'utilisation du sol dans ces rgions de sources. /// Der Begriff Wasserscheide ist seit vielen Jahren ein Thema der Grundlagenforschung innerhalb der Naturwissenschaften; daneben liefert er einen sinnvollen Rahmen zur Landnutzungsplanung und wurde in diesem Sinne fr Grenada, Westindien, angewendet. Die verschiedenen, naturgegebenen Komponenten der Hauptwasserscheiden, nmlich Klima, Geologie, Bden und Vegetation werden benutzt, um Untereinheiten innerhalb einer Wasserscheide abzugrenzen, und jede Untereinheit wird nach unterschiedlichen, landwirtschaftlich mglichen Nutzungen ausgewertet. Ein Beispiel fr eine Einheit als kartographisch erfates Gebiet wird gegeben, zusammen mit einer Erluterung der Faktoren, die bei der Landeignungsbestimmung bercksichtigt wurden. Um Bezugswerte festzulegen, gegen die man zuknftige Vernderungen in der Landnutzung auswerten kann, wurden Gutachten fr die Wasserqualitt der Flsse, die von der Hauptwasserscheide ablaufen, angefertigt. Daneben werden die hauptschlichsten Umweltregulierungen identifiziert. Diese bersicht streicht die wichtige Rolle, die die Zentralgebirgszone Grenadas bei der Erhaltung der Wasserqualitt spielt, heraus und bekrftigt die Notwendigkeit umsichtiger Landnutzungsplanung in diesen Quellgebieten.
mounresedeve.32.2.213|Landscape pattern structure can be quantified by landscape pattern indices (LPIs). One major drawback of the commonly used LPIs is that the landscape is represented by a planar map, which depicts the projection of a nonflat surface into a 2-dimensional Cartesian space. As a result, ecologically meaningful terrain structures like terrain shape or elevation are not taken into account and valuable information is lost for further analysis. A method to compute LPIs in a surface structure has been developed by Hoechstetter et al, who calculated landscape patch surface area and surface perimeter from digital elevation models. In this paper, Hoechstetter's set of LPIs was used and extended. A parametric t-test was used to assess the differences between the commonly used planimetric metrics and the surface landscape metrics for quantification of a mountain vegetation pattern at 3 levels (patch, category, and landscape) and for natural and anthropogenic categories in the Lancang (Mekong) watershed in China. The results show that the surface-based metrics for area, perimeter, shape, and distance to nearest-neighbor metrics were significantly larger than the same metrics derived by a planimetric approach for patch, category, and landscape levels in 2 different mountainous areas. However, diversity and evenness metrics did not feature significant differences between the surfacebased landscape and the landscape represented in the planar maps. When comparing the area metrics for natural and for anthropogenic categories, significantly larger differences between these categories were found when the surface approach was used. The common planimetric method may underestimate the differences between natural and anthropogenic categories on areas and mean patch area in steep mountain areas.
3674535|The shortage of water in Iran and most countries in the arid and semiarid zones is approaching the critical stage. Because about 60% of the water used in Iran is supplied by underground resources and natural recharge cannot replace the amount of water exploited, artificial recharge of groundwater (ARG) is actively pursued in this country. Desiltation of turbid floodwaters in sedimentation basins is a prerequisite for ARG. It is executed close to the heads of alluvial fans on an extensive area in Iran. Because the sediment removal efficiency of sedimentation basins is not 100%, downward migration of some clay particles, both in sedimentation basins and recharge ponds, causes the gradual impermeability and eventual clogging of the vadose zone and reduces the economic life of the recharge systems. Coarse-grained alluvium beneath 2 sedimentation basins, one in operation for 13 years and the other for 11 years, was sampled down to a depth of 7.5 m. Sampling was repeated in a control area outside and adjacent to the ARG system. X-ray diffraction patterns clearly show the presence of illite, chlorite, kaolinite, smectite, and sepiolite. Single laths and bundles of laths of palygorskite-sepiolite, a well-formed 6-sided and a pseudohexagonal flake of kaolinite, and smectite particles with smooth, wavy edges are clearly seen in the transmission electron micrograph. The order of clay mineral accumulation at a depth of 7.5 m was as follows: sepiolite > palygorskite > chlorite. The relatively high concentration of sepiolite may indicate its neoformation in the rooting zone of river red gum (Eucalyptus camaldulensis Dehnh.).
10.2307/3673612|This paper discusses the social, economic, and ecological changes in terms of sustainable development in the mountain areas of North Africa. In many mountain ranges in Morocco, such as the Rif, the High Atlas, and the Anti Atlas, centuries old sedentary communities depended on terracing, cultivation of steep slopes, and intensive animal breeding. However, until the 1950s the northwestern section of the Middle Atlas was inhabited by semi-nomadic groups who depended on the summer pastures and in winter migrated to the surrounding lowlands in search of pasture and arable land. The paper recalls the cultural determinants behind these indigenous resource-use practices that no longer exist. During the last 35 years the pastoral nomadic migrations have disappeared; the people have settled permanently in the highlands for the first time and are engaged in a new pattern of agropastoral activities. The paper seeks explanation for the radical change in the perception and use of mountain resources. The detrimental impacts of these change processes endanger the viability of the natural resource base. /// Cet article porte sur la question du dveloppement permanent (ou viable) dans les rgions montagneuses de l'Afrique du Nord. A cette fin, l'exemple particulier de la chane du Moyen Atlas marocain est analys, vu que des changements sociaux, conomiques et cologiques importants s'y produisent depuis quelques dcennies. Contrairement aux autres montagnes marocaines (le Rif, le Haut Atlas et l'Anti Atlas) o la sdentarisation et la mise en valeur agropastorale des ressources de montagne sont des faits anciens, la partie nord-ouest du Moyen Atlas, jusqu'aux annes cinquante, fut utilise par divers groupes semi-nomades essentiellement comme pturages d't, ces groupes se deplacant en hiver vers les bas-pays environnants en qute de et/ou de terres cultivables, en suivant un rythme spatio-temporel bien rgl. Cet article rapelle de faon succinte les dterminants cologiques et culturels qui expliquent ces pratiques anciennes de gestion des ressources dans cette montagne. Cependant, il accorde une importance plus grande aux changements intervenus dans la rgion lors des dernires 35 annes. En effet, non seulement les anciennes migrations pastorales ont disparu, mais aussi (et surtout), une sdentarisation gnralise des populations dans les hauts-pays est intervenue. Aujourd'hui, ces populations se sont engages dans les activits agropastorales intensive et continues dans le temps. Cet article, tout en essayant d'expliquer l'origine des mcanismes  la base de ce changement radical, accorde une place privilgie  leurs consquences cologiques nfastes, vu qu'elles menacent la viabilit  moyen terme des ressources de la montagne. /// Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert soziale, konomische und kologische Vernderungen im Sinne von langfristiger Entwicklung in den Berggebieten Nordafrikas. In vielen Bergketten Marokkos, wie dem Rif, dem Hohen Atlas und dem Anti-Atlas, waren die ber Jahrhunderte ansssigen Gemeinden auf Terrassieren, Kultivieren steiler Hnge und intensive Viehwirtschaft angewiesen. Bis in die 50er Jahre war der nordwestliche Teil des Mittleren Atlas mit semi-nomadischen Gruppen bevlkert, die auf Sommerweidewirtschaft angewiesen waren, und die im Winter auf der Suche nach Weide- und Ackerland in umliegende Tiefebenen auswichen. Die Verffentlichung bringt die nicht mehr existierenden, aber dennoch entscheidenden kulturellen Faktoren hinter diesen lokalblichen Gewohnheiten bei der Ressourcennutzung in Errinnerung. Whrend der vergangenen 35 Jahre haben die pastoralen, nomadischen Migrationen aufgehrt; zum ersten Mal sind die Nomaden in den Hochlanden sehaft geworden und betrieben eine neue Form der Weidewirtschaft. Die Arbeit sucht nach einer Erklrung fr die radikalen nderungen in der Perzeption und Nutzung von Gebirgs-ressourcen. Die nachteiligen Auswirkungen dieser vernderten Vorgnge gefhrden die berlebensfhigkeit der Naturressourcen.
10.2307/3673629|Interaction between anticyclonic air masses, the effect of the cold Humboldt current, and the moisture barrier of the mountain chain results in extremely dry environmental conditions on the western slope of the Atacama Andes. Even the highest peaks above 6,700 m in the continuous permafrost belt are currently free of glaciers, and modern recharge of the water cycle is restricted to small catchments at high altitude. The vegetation between 3,100 and 4,800 m is too sparse to initiate any soil formation. The temperatures of the last cold maximum (18 kyr B.P.) were probably 7C lower than today. The late-glacial period (17-11 kyr B.P.) was characterized by 5-10 m higher lake levels, indicating a large increase in precipitation at latitude 23-24 South. The early Holocene (11-7 kyr B.P.) experienced wetter conditions and summer temperatures 3.5C higher than today, together with significant groundwater recharge. This provided favorable conditions for an early hunter-gatherer economy. After about 3000 B.P. conditions became drier; intensive pastoralism may have added to the impacts on vegetation cover, and groundwater recharge was curtailed. Natural resource management policies must take into account the dynamics of a changing environment. Present-day reliance on groundwater for mining, urbanization, and agriculture cannot be sustained, for supplies are believed to be fossil water, or else the recharge rate is so slow that actual use may far exceed replenishment. /// L'interaction entre masses d'air anticycloniques, l'effet du courant froid de Humboldt et la barrire  l'humidit constitue par la chane de montagnes produisent des conditions extrmement sches sur le versant ouest des Andes d'Atacama. Mme les pics les plus levs (au-dessus de 6,700 m),  l'tage du perglisol permanent, n'ont pas de glaciers et l'alimentation du cycle hydrologique se limite  de petits bassins hydrographiques de haute altitude. La vgtation prsente entre 3,100 et 4,800 m est trop clairseme pour contribuer  la formation du sol. La priode glaciaire (18,000 B.P.) tait caracterise par une temprature annuelle moyenne probablement 7C plus basse qu'aujourd'hui. Dans le tardi-glaciaire (17-11,000 yr B.P.) les niveaux lacustres taient 5  10 m plus levs, se traduisant par un accroissement fort des prcipitations dans les latitudes 23-24 Sud. Le dbut de l'Holocne (11,000  7,000 ans avant l'poque actuelle) tait caractris par des conditions plus humides et des tempratures estivales 3.5C plus leves qu'aujourd'hui, avec une alimentation importante des nappes souterraines. Ces conditions ont favoris trs tt le dveloppement d'une conomie base sur la chasse et la cueillette. Environ 3,000 ans avant l'poque actuelle, les conditions sont devenues plus sches, le pastoralisme intensif a probablement contribu aux impacts sur la couverture vgtale, et l'alimentation des nappes souterraines a beaucoup diminu. La politique de gestion des ressources naturelles doit tenir compte de la dynamique d'un environnement en pleine volution. L'utilisation prsente de la nappe phratique pour l'exploitation des mines, l'urbanisation et l'agriculture ne peut pas continuer de cette manire, du fait que l'eau utilise est probablement de l'eau fossile et que la vitesse d'alimentation est tellement faible que l'utilisation actuelle est probablement beaucoup plus leve que le rapprovisionnement. /// Die Kombination von sdost-pazifischem Hochdruckgebiet, kaltem Humboldtstrom und der N-S verlaufenden Hochgebirgskette der Anden fhrt in der Atacamawste zu extrem ariden Bedingungen von der Meereskste bis 6.700 m . M. So fehlen heute Gletscher selbst im kontinuierlichen Permafrostgrtel oberhalb 5.600 m, eine Erneuerung des Wasserkreislaufs kann nur in lokalen Einzugsgebieten im Altiplano beobachtet werden, und die Vegetation zwischen 3.100-4.800 m ist zu schwach, um zu einer Bodenbildung beizutragen. Terrestrische und limnische kosysteme oberhalb 4.000 m zeigen starke Vernderungen seit der letzten Kaltzeit (18.000 B.P.) Auf kalt-trockene Bedingungen (bis 200 mm Jahresniederschlag) folgte im Sptglazial ein kalt-feuchtes Klima mit mindestens 400 mm Jahresniederschlag, was zu groen Seen im Altiplano gefhrt hat. Fr das frhe Holozn zeigen Palobden mit der maximalen Ausbildung zwischen 4.500-4.700 m warm-feuchte Klimabedingungen mit Sommerregen an. Pollenanalysen weisen auf hhere Temperaturen im Holozn hin. Die heutigen warm-trockenen Bedingungen (bis 200 mm Jahresniederschlag) stellten sich ab ungefhr 3.000 B.P. ein. Fr die nachhaltige Nutzung der natrlichen Ressourcen ist unter heutigen Klimabedingungen der groe Bedarf an Wasser (Bergbau, Stdte, traditionelle Landwirtschaft in Oasen) besonders problematisch, weil es sich zum Teil um fossiles Wasser handelt.
10.2307/3673495|This paper discusses present-day land-use patterns in the northern Andean paramos (natural high-altitude grasslands). In contrast to the puna societies in the Central and Southern Andes, the human activities in the paramos are yet to be investigated thoroughly by social scientists. The various agricultural and pastoral production systems of this high mountain region are presented systematically and their organization is explained. In most Indian paramo communities one does not encounter nomadic pastoralism; the objective is to complement pastoral activities with small-scale agriculture within a community's boundaries. If this is not attainable, people search for access to arable lands in other communities. Two contemporary land-use strategies form the focus of the discussion-the upward expansion of the agricultural frontier and the escalation of market-oriented animal-raising activities in the lower ecozones of paramo communities. Of particular interest are the historical and social causes that led to these recent trends, and their negative ecological consequences for the rest of the country. /// Cet article examine les modes actuels d'utilisation des terres du paramos (prairies naturelles  haute altitude) septentrional des Andes. Contrairement aux socits de la puna dans les Andes centrales et mridionales, les activits humaines dans le paramos n'ont pas encore t srieusement tudies par les sociologues. L'article prsente systmatiquement les diffrents systmes de production agricole et pastorale de cette rgion de hautes montagnes et examine leur organisation. La plupart des communauts indiennes du paramos ne pratiquent pas le pastoralisme nomadique; leur objectif est de soutenir les activits pastorales avec une agriculture  petite chelle dans les limites de la communaut. Si cet objectif ne peut pas tre atteint, les habitants essaient d'obtenir l'accs  des terres arables dans d'autres communauts. Deux stratgies actuelles d'utilisation des terres font le sujet de la discussion: l'expansion vers le haut de la bordure agricole et le dveloppement de l'levage pour la vente dans les cozones infrieures du paramos. Cet article examine en particulier les causes historiques et sociales de ces tendances rcentes, et leurs consquences cologiques ngatives pour le reste du pays. /// Der Artikel diskutiert die heutige Art der Bodennutzung in den Paramos (natrliche Hochweiden und -steppen) der nrdlichen Anden. Im Gegensatz zu den Puna-Gesellschaften der sdlichen Zentralanden wurden die menschlichen Aktivitten in den Paramos von Sozialwissenschaftlern kaum erforscht. Zum ersten Mal werden die verschiedenen land- und viehwirtschaftlichen Nutzungssysteme dieser hchsten Gebirgslagen systematisiert und ihre Organisation erlutert. In den meisten indianischen Gemeinden der vegetationsreichen ekuatorianischen Paramos findet man keine "reine" (nomadisierende) Hirtenwirtschaft, wie sie von einigen Puna-Gemeinden der sdlichen Zentralanden bekannt ist. Vielmehr wird versucht, hirtenwirtschaftliche Aktivitten mit landwirtschaftlicher Parzellenwirtschaft innerhalb der Gemeindegrenzen zu komplementieren, oder falls dies unmglich ist, Zugang zu Ackerland in anderen Gemeinden zu finden. Im wesentlichen werden zwei aktuelle Bodennutzungstendenzen in den Paramos diskutiert-der hhenmssige Anstieg der oberen Ackerbaugrenze, und die Intensivierung einer marktorientierten Viehzucht in den untersten kozonen der viehwirtschaftlich orientierten Paramogemeinden. Es werden die historischen und sozialen Ursachen dieser beiden neuesten Entwicklungen untersucht, als auch auf ihre katastrophalen kologischen Konsequenzen fr den Rest des Landes verwiesen. /// El ensayo discute los patrones actuales del uso del suelo en los pramos ecuatorianos (pastos naturales alto-andinos). A excepcin de las sociedades de puna en el sur de los Andes Centrales, las actividades humanas en las alturas de los pramos norteos no han sido estudiadas por los investigadores sociales. Los multiples sistemas de produccin agro-pastoril de esa ecozona y su organizacin interna se presentan y se explican sistemticamente en este trabajo. En la mayoria de las comunidades indgenas del pramo, no se encuentra un sistema pastoril "puro", identificado como, "nmada" y que es conocido en varias comunas de puna. Ms bien, en los pramos ecuatorianos el objetivo es, combinar las actividades pastoriles con una pequea produccin agrcola dentro de los lmites comunales. S no se puede realizar esa complementariedad productiva, los pastores buscan acceso a areas cultivables en otras comunas. Principalmente se analiza dos tendencias actuales del uso de suelo-una es la arribacin de la frontera agrcola y la otra es la intensificacin de la produccin pecuaria para el mercado en la zonas bajas de las comunidades del pramo. El inters primordial es el analisis de la causas histricas y sociales que han generado stas tendencias, y tambin dar a conocer las consecuencias ecolgicas que estos sistemas desatan.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s23|Mountain regions provide diverse goods and services to human society. At the same time, mountain ecosystems are sensitive to rapid global development. Over the past 2 decades the number of papers mentioning ecosystem services (ESS) has risen exponentially. While the concept holds great potential to improve the societal relevance of conservation efforts, it is at risk of dying of misuse and reduction to a buzzword. The definitions of the term often compete and the utility of the concept is under debate. The present article reviews the literature on mountain ESS to investigate whether the term was understood correctly by the community, and addresses the question whether ESS is a suitable concept to protect mountain regions. We link land use and other physical properties of terrestrial ecosystems with their capacity to provide ESS with a view to mapping the global supply of ESS and we contrast it with population density data as a proxy for the demand for ESS. The spatially explicit assessment shows that we can distinguish between mountain areas where demand and supply are well balanced from mountain areas where demand and supply are unbalanced. For these different types of mountain regions we suggest different approaches to package the concept of ESS into spatial decision-making.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r74|          ,           10    1999 .      -        .                            .                -.  ,         :      -    ,       ,            ,   .     ,         ,      .          .   ,     .     ,  ,  ,    ,   ,  ,     ( ).       , ,             ,        .
10.2307/3673266|The paper evaluates recent evidence on the relationships between population, resources, environment, and development in the Himalaya. Some conventional views are challenged, particularly that population pressure is the prime cause of poverty, deforestation, and environmental degradation. The causes of poverty may relate rather to market factors. Some groups, notably young people, are most affected by poverty and other forms of deprivations which reduce their important and innovative role in bottom-up processes and communication. /// Cette tude value les faits rcents concernant les relations entre population, ressources, environnement et dveloppement dans l'Himalaya. Certains points de vue traditionnels sont remis en question, en particulier l'ide que la pression dmographique est la cause principale de la pauvret, de la dforestation et de la dgradation de l'environnement. Les causes de la pauvret sont plutt lies aux facteurs du march. Certains groupes, en particulier les jeunes, sont les plus affects par la pauvret et autres formes de privation qui rduisent le rle important et innovateur qu'ils peuvent jouer dans le dveloppement endogne et dans la communication. /// Die Abhandlung beurteilt neueste Aussagen hinsichtlich der Beziehungen zwischen Bevlkerung, Ressourcen, Umwelt und Entwicklung im Himalaya. Einige herkmmliche Auffassungen werden in Frage gestellt, so zum Beispiel die Theorie, dass der Bevlkerungsdruck der Hauptgrund fr Armut, Abholzung und Umweltschdigung sei. Die Grnde der Armut sind wohl eher durch marktbestimmte Faktoren bedingt. Vor allem junge Leute werden durch Armut und andere Formen von Entbehrungen stark in Mitleidenschaft gezogen, so dass sie ihre wichtige und innovative Aufgabe im Entwicklungs- und Kommunikationsprozess nicht wahrnehmen knnen.
3674557|The present article is based on a study of the rural-to-urban migration of nomadic pastoralists in the western Himalayan region of Ladakh. The particular case study is examined in relation to the rapid urbanization currently under way in Leh District. The evidence from 3 nomadic pastoral groups reveals some of the complexity within the process of urbanization. It is argued that policy to address urban growth in Ladakh must be informed by the empirical evidence of micro-level studies. The paper draws on secondary and aggregate sources of population data, in addition to quantitative and qualitative primary data collected among migrant and non-migrant households from 3 nomadic pastoral communities in Ladakh.
10.2307/3673424|A conceptual model presents the major components of a system and their interactions. If biotic components are represented, it is an ecosystem model. If geomorphic and landscape processes are included, it is a geosystem model. Processes may be organized hierarchically, according to different rates and scales. This paper describes a conceptual model of the alpine geosystem of the southern Rocky Mountains, with snow and wind as the principal driving variables affecting system structure and function. A simulation model derived from the conceptual model indicates the responses of treeline elevation and tundra vegetation communities to changing climatic trends. Natural disturbances are represented as functions or process rates acting outside their traditional hierarchy levels, thereby modifying the normal order of geosystem processes. Forest models and tree-growth models are reviewed and compared, and the urgent need to integrate these and hydrologic models with the economies and activities of mountain people is emphasized. The Obergurgl Model is an example of such integration for a specific location and set of conditions. Effort must now be devoted to linking appropriate models of mountain geosystems with economic, sociological, and religious goals to provide a general theory of people-mountain interactions in the world. /// Un modle conceptuel prsente les lments majeurs d'un systme et leur interaction. Si les lments biotiques sont reprsents, il s'agit d'un modle d'cosystme. Si les processus de gomorphie et de paysage sont inclus, il s'agit d'un modle de gosystme. Les processus peuvent tre organiss sous forme d'hirarchie, selon les diffrentes vitesses d'volution et les chelles. Un modle conceptuel du gosystme alpin des Rocheuses mridionales est dcrit, avec la neige et le vent constituant les variables dynamiques affectant la structure et la fonction du systme. Un modle de simulation driv du modle conceptuel indique les rponses respectives de la vgtation  la limite des arbres et dans la toundra,  des changements de climat. Les perturbations naturelles sont reprsentes par des fonctions ou des vitesses de processus agissant en dehors de leurs niveaux hirarchiques traditionnels, et modifiant donc l'ordre normal des processus du gosystme. Les modles de forts et les modles de croissance des arbres sont passs en revue et compars, et l'accent est mis sur le besoin urgent d'intgrer ceux-ci et les modles hydrologiques avec les conomies et les activits humaines dans les hautes montagnes. Le modle Obergurgl est un exemple d'une telle intgration pour un emplacement particulier et certaines conditions. Il faut maintenant essayer de relier les modles appropris de gosystmes montagnards aux objectifs conomiques, sociologiques et religieux, dans le but d'laborer une thorie gnrale des interactions entre le milieu montagnard et les tres humains partout dans le monde. /// Ein Modell konzipiert vor allem die Hauptkomponenten eines Systems und ihre Wechselwirkungen. Sind biotische Komponenten vertreten, ist es ein kosystemmodell, sind geomorphische und Landschaftsprozesse einbegriffen, ist es ein Geosystemmodell. Vorgnge werden entsprechend unterschiedlicher Raten und Skalen hierarchisch behandelt. Dieser Beitrag beschreibt das Konzept fr ein Modell, das ein alpines Geosystem in den sdlichen Rocky Mountains beschreibt, wobei Schnee und Wind die Hauptvariablen sind, die Struktur und Funktion des Systems beeinflussen. Von dem Grundkonzept wird ein Simulationsmodell abgeleitet, das beschreibt, wie Baumgrenzhhe und Tundravegetation auf klimatische nderungen ansprechen. Natrliche Strungen werden in Abhngigkeiten oder in Ablaufraten dargestellt, die nicht hierarchisch verlaufen, wodurch die normalen Prozesse im Geosystem gestrt werden. Wald- und Baumwuchs-modelle werden berprft und miteinander verglichen. Es wird betont, da es wnschenswert ist, diese sowie hydrologische Modelle der Hochgebirgswelt in die konomie und in menschliche Aktivitten zu integrieren. Das Obergurgl Modell fr spezifische Lagen und Bodenbeschaffenheiten ist ein Beispiel solcher Integration. Anstrengungen mssen jetzt gemacht werden, geeignete Modelle von Geosystemen des Gebirges mit den konomischen, soziologischen und religisen Zielen der Menschen zu verbinden und eine allgemeine Theorie der Wechselwirkungen Mensch-Gebirge weltweit zu liefern.
25164027|This paper focuses on the recently emerging, but infrequently considered, reasons for the non-adoption of soil conservation (SC) technologies by local farmers. They include insufficient economic returns on farmer investments which are often long-term in nature and difficult to perceive or measure. More recent innovations, such as multi-purpose hedges or cover crops, are often able to provide either productivity benefits within one year, or lateral benefits, such as marketable products, that offset the farmers' investment. Unfortunately, artificial incentives are still used by many government-funded projects to promote expensive traditional structures aimed at soil retention rather than vegetation cover. Such measures attract interest for the wrong reasons and seldom outlive the project since they undermine farmers' motivation to experiment or innovate. Rather than focus on the long-term adoption of a given technology SC projects should aim at building community capability for sustainable agricultural development. This will encourage farmers to adapt technologies according to their changing circumstances which will result in a sustainable development process. Capability should be built through farmer-to-farmer dissemination which begins by training the best motivated farmers as extensionists. Technologies should be simple, based on locally available materials, and offer rapid easy to recognize benefits that will motivate farmers. Productivity, or income generated on the recuperated soil, must be increased. Technologies for harvesting water may be required to make this viable.
mounresedeve.33.1.85|Land surface temperature (LST) is an essential parameter in the physics of land surface processes. The spatiotemporal variations of LST on the Tibetan Plateau were studied using AQUA Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer LST data. Considering the data gaps in remotely sensed LST products caused by cloud contamination, the harmonic analysis of time series (HANTS) algorithm was used to eliminate the influence of cloud cover and to describe the periodical signals of LST. Observed air temperature data from 79 weather stations were employed to evaluate the fitting performance of the HANTS algorithm. Results indicate that HANTS can effectively fit the LST time series and remove the influence of cloud cover. Based on the HANTS-derived mean term and annual harmonics, annual mean LST, seasonal fluctuation, and peak time of the LST annual cycle are discussed. The spatial distribution of annual mean LST generally exhibits consistency with altitude in the study area, and the spatial distribution of seasonal oscillation is closely related to precipitation. However, the timing of the peak LST does not exhibit an obvious regular pattern. The LST characteristics of different land cover types were also studied. Bare land has the highest mean LST and exhibits remarkable seasonal fluctuation. Snow, ice, or both show the lowest mean temperature, and forest shows the weakest seasonality. Different land cover types also reflect different peak occurrences of the LST annual cycle, with grassland showing the lowest annual phase value. This paper provides detailed information on the LST variations on the Tibetan Plateau, with the cloud contamination removed. The HANTS algorithm is demonstrated to be effective for understanding spatiotemporal variations of remotely sensed LST, especially for regions over which dense clouds cause large gaps in the LST data.
10.2307/3673369|The Sherpas of the Khumbu Himal in eastern Nepal react to their mountainous environment as they perceive and interpret it through previous experience and accumulated knowledge. This is influenced by their concept of Buddhism and their overall sociocultural situation. Mountain hazard perception is a "Western" concept and its origins are briefly outlined. It is applicable, however, in the Khumbu Himal because the Sherpas perceive their environment in a dualistic manner. On the one hand, they interpret any perceived hazard as an act of the gods; response to such a threat is in the form of religious or ritualistic counteraction. On the other hand, they regard certain hazards as the consequences of dynamic processes of the physical world; response in these cases is of a practical nature designed to mitigate impact. The interplay of supernatural and natural explanations is explored and particular catastrophic events are introduced as illustrations. The recent modification of the Khumbu and Sherpa traditional society by trekking tourism and mountaineering, and the destruction of development infrastructure, such as the Thame hydro-electric project by flood in August 1985, warrant a fuller investigation of the local mountain hazards as a basis for more effective mitigation. /// Les sherpas du Khumbu Himal dans l'est du Npal ragissent envers leur environnement montagnard selon la manire dont ils le percoivent et l'interprtent en fonction de leur exprience passe et leur connaissance accumule. Leurs attitudes sont influences par leur conception du Bouddhisme et leur situation socio-conomique gnrale. La perception des dangers de la montagne est un concept occidental et ses origines sont brivement passes en revue. Il s'applique nanmoins au Khumbu Himal car les sherpas percoivent leur environnement d'une manire dualiste. D'une part, ils interprtent les dangers de la montagnes comme des menaces ou des actes divins et y rpondent par un comportement religieux ou ritualiste. D'autre part, ils considrent certains dangers comme tant la consquence de processus dynamiques du monde physique et y rpondent par des mesures pratiques destines  en rduire l'impact. La combinaison d'explications naturelles et supernaturelles est examine dans cet article et certains vnements catastrophiques sont prsents en tant qu'exemples. La modification rcente de la socit traditionnelle du Khumbu et des sherpas par le tourisme et l'alpinisme, ainsi que la destruction de l'infrastructure de l'aide au dveloppement, en particulier la destruction du projet hydrolectrique Thame par les inondations d'aot 1985, ncessite une tude plus approfondie des dangers de la montagne locale comme base d'une rduction plus effective des risques. /// Die Sherpas von Khumbu Himal, im stlichen Nepal, verhalten sich in den Bergen so, wie es ihnen durch gewonnene Erfahrung und gesammeltes Wissen ber diese Umwelt diktitiert wird. Beeinflut werden sie dabei vom Buddhismus und ihrer allgemeinen sozio-kulturellen Lebenseinstellung. Der Begriff "Berggefahr" ist ein westliches Konzept und sein Ursprung wird erlutert. Er kann jedoch auch im Khumbu Himal Gebiet angewendet werden, da die Sherpas ihre Umwelt dualistisch sehen. Auf der einen Seite deuten sie jede sprbare Gefahr als eine Drohung oder Tat der Gtter, und ihre Reaktion auf solche Bedrohungen besteht in religiser oder ritualer Erwiderung. Auf der anderen Seite betrachten sie bestimmte Gefahren als Folgen dynamischer Weltvorgnge, und sie reagieren praktisch indem sie versuchen, die Auswirkungen zu mildern. Das Wechselspiel zwischen bernatrlichen und natrlichen Begrndungen wird untersucht, und besondere Katastrophen werden als Ilustrationen benutzt. Gegenwrtige Vernderungen der traditionellen Khumbu und Sherpa Gesellschaft durch Trekking- und Bergsteigertourismus, und die Zerstrung der Infrastruktur der Entwicklungshilfe, wie bei der berschwemmung des hydro-elektrischen Thame Projekts im August 1985, sind der Ausgangspunkt fr eine umfassende Untersuchung der rtlichen Berggefahren, um wirksamere Hilfeleistungen zu begrnden.
mounresedeve.30.1.33|The Changbai Mountain range is a well-known and important mountain chain in northeast China, bordering the Korean Peninsula in the south. It is also one of the areas most sensitive to global change. Massive peatlands that play a key role in the global carbon (C) cycle are found in this region. Estimating and assessing C dynamics in Changbai Mountain peatlands is of great importance to local sustainable development. Dry bulk density and C content analyses based on 8 selected peat cores dated by
10.2307/3673584|Continuous human interaction with nature, adjustment to land hazards, and transformation of large areas of the mountains into agriculturally-oriented land are characteristics of life in the Kakani-Kathmandu area of the Middle Mountains of Nepal. This ethnographic study attempts to determine perceptions and responses of the local people to mountain hazards and to assess the implications for future land-use policy. The study reveals a richness in local people's environmental knowledge and language vocabulary to express understanding of landscape, land-use practices, and erosional processes. The knowledge is used in the transformation of land-use practice to feed the growing population and to adjust to increasing incidences of landslide problems. Additional socio-economic factors relating to landslide hazards are outlined. Some methodological techniques are suggested for future studies of human perception. /// Cette tude ethnographique a essay d'valuer les perceptions et les ractions de la population locale vis--vis des risques de la montagne dans la rgion de Kakani-Kathmandou, et d'en dterminer les implications pour formuler une politique future d'utilisation des terres. Elle a rvl que la population locale possdait une grande abondance de connaissances concernant le milieu naturel et un vocabulaire tendu pour parler de la dynamique du terrain, des techniques d'exploitation du sol et des processus d'rosion. Ces connaissances servent  instituer les changements ncessaires pour satisfaire aux besoins de subsistance d'une population en pleine croissance et  s'adapter  la frquence accrue des glissements de terrain. D'autres facteurs socio-conomiques contribuant aux risques de glissement de terrain sont galement mentionns, et des techniques mthodologiques pour les futures recherches sont suggres. /// Diese ethnographische Studie versucht, das Erkennen von und die Reaktion auf Gebirgsgefahren unter der einheimischen Bevlkerung das Kakani-Kathmandu Gebietes zu erfassen und sich daraus ergebende Konsequenzen bei der Ausfhrung von zuknftiger Landnutzungspolitik zu beurteilen. Die Studie lt den Wissensreichtum der Bevlkerung ber ihre Umwelt erkennen und zeigt den Wortschatz, mit dem sie ihr Verstndnis fr Landschaftsdynamik, Landnutzungsbruche und Erosionsvorgnge ausdrcken. Notwendige, geplante nderungen, um dem Nahrungsmittelbedarf der wachsenden Bevlkerungszahl nachzukommen und sich dem immer hufigeren Vorkommen von Erdrutschen anzupassen, tragen diesem Wissen Rechnung. Zustzliche sozio-konomische Faktoren, die zur Erdrutschgefahr beitragen, werden beschrieben. Einige systematische Schritte fr Folgestudien werden vorgeschlagen.
mounresedeve.31.2.89|The provincial government of British Columbia (BC) has proactively pursued resort development opportunities in its interior towns. Traditionally dependent on extractive industries such as forestry and mining, many interior mountain communities in BC are increasingly looking toward tourism and resort-induced economic opportunities. Fueled by the movement of amenity seekers, primarily from urban areas, resort development in mountain communities has triggered several internal and external pressures. This exploratory study examines growth trends in the mountain resort industry in 5 communities in BC: Fernie, Golden, Kimberley, Rossland, and Revelstoke. The analysis is based on secondary data, followed by field visits during the months of June and July 2006, which included 30 qualitative interviews with the mayors, planners, residents, and other stakeholders in the tourism and resort sectors. Research results indicate a significant growth in resort-induced development, primarily to attract second home owners and seasonal tourists. The development of mountain resorts may be characterized as enclavic, where almost all resorts are physically separate from the towns. This has given rise to gentrified communities, and it has posed planning and destination management challenges. The study concludes that local-level planning capacity needs to be greatly improved to address issues that are much broader in scope and require collaborative approaches to address the conflicting needs of the various stakeholders.
10.2307/3673476|A grid analysis on alpine environmental factors was carried out in the Kuranosuke Cirque, central Japan (36.6N, 137.6E), as part of a geoecological study. The factors analysed were: maximum snow depth; snow-free period; surface materials; slope form; mean slope gradient; and surface processes. As a result, the cirque was divided into eight homogeneous areas (landscape units): 1) Pinus pumila-covered boulder area; 2) Pinus pumila-covered rubble area; 3) alpine meadow; 4) wind-swept bare ground; 5) snow-accumulating bare ground; 6) intermediate snow-accumulating boulder area; 7) rock walls and talus slopes; and 8) perennial snow patch. The mean value of maximum snow depth was the most decisive factor for the landscape unit differentiation. However, when the mean value for snow depth is identical, other alpine environmental factors become limiting descriptors. There is a likelihood for succession of some landscape units even if the environments in the cirque do not change greatly. The analysis is proposed as a basis for land-use policy formulation. /// Une analyse par quadrillage des facteurs d'un milieu alpin a t effectue dans le cirque Kuranosuke, au centre du Japon (36.6N., 137.6E.), dans le cadre d'une tude gocologique. Les facteurs analyss sont les suivants: profondeur maximale de la couverture neigeuse, priode de fonte des neiges, matriaux de surface, forme des pentes, gradient moyen des pentes et processus de surface. En consquence, le cirque a t divis en huit zones homognes (units de paysage): 1. Zone de galets recouverte de Pinus pumila; 2. Zone de moellons recouverte de Pinus pumila; 3. Prairie alpine; 4. Sol nu balay par le vent; 5. Sol nu o la neige s'accumule; 6. Sol nu intermdiaire; 7. Parois rocheuses et pentes de talus; 8. Plaque de neige ternelle. La valeur moyenne de la profondeur maximale de couverture neigeuse constitue le facteur dterminant pour diffrencier les units de paysage. Nanmoins, lorsque la valeur moyenne est identique, d'autres facteurs constituent des descripteurs limitatifs. Il existe une possibilit de succession de certaines units de paysage, mme si les environnements du cirque ne changent pas beaucoup. Cette analyse est propose comme base pour formuler une politique d'utilisation des terres. /// Als Teil einer geo-kologischen Studie wurde fr die angegebenen geographischen Koordinaten (36,6 Nord, 137,6 Ost) eine Netzanalyse der Landschaftsstruktur durchgefhrt. Die folgenden Faktoren wurden bercksichtigt: Maximale Schneetiefe, Zeitraum der Schneeschmelze, Oberflchenmaterial, Hangform, durchschnittliches Hanggeflle und Oberflchenvorgnge. Das Gebiet konnte in 8 Flchenklassen (Landschaftsgruppen) aufgeteilt werden: 1. Pinus pumila = bewachsenes Felsgebiet; 2. Pinus pumila = bewachsenes Gerllgebiet; 3. alpine Wiese; 4. windverblasener, kahler Boden; 5. unbewachsener Boden, der Schnee ansammelt; 6. teilweise kahler Boden; 7. Felswnde und Gerllhalden; 8. ewige Schneefelder. Der Unterscheidungsfaktor der Landschaftsgruppen war der Durchschnittswert der maximalen Schneetiefe. Wenn jedoch der Durchschnittswert der Schneetiefe gleich ist, dann liefern andere alpine Faktoren die Unterscheidungsmerkmale. Es kann der Anschein entstehen, da einige Landschaftsgruppen aufeinanderfolgen, auch wenn die Umgebung des Gebietes sich nicht stark verndert. Diese Analyse kann als Grundlage dienen, Landnutzungspolitk zu formulieren.
3674296|The human histories of the European and Southern Alps are very different, with contrasts in respective length of time settled, population, and the types of records that the populations in each environment have left behind. This article explores these differences for the period 1000-1900 AD, tracing the specific trajectories of Alpine development in both places before analyzing the discovery of both regions as recreational playgrounds by lowland peoples in the late 19th century.
4540672|The Alps, in the heart of Europe, are obviously an asset, but they also pose a serious challenge: some Alpine regions lag quite far behind economically, mainly because of the disadvantages of location. At the same time, their fragile ecological and cultural systems suffer from the unbalanced economic exploitation inherent in the "open access" policy formulated by the European Union's (EU) Lisbon Strategy. The Alpine Convention, a transnational treaty signed by all Alpine countries, is designed to guide progress in a sustainable way. Regional policy is a key tool for achieving this ambitious goal-a field of action to foster progress in a comprehensive way. Regional policy programs are run by all Alpine countries under the umbrella of the EU Cohesion Policy. In this context, the EU research project known as DIAMONT was designed to gain experience with benchmarking tools to support the Alpine Convention's efforts to monitor sustainable development. One research module focused on the question of the extent to which cultural factors still have an impact on regional policy and development at large. The results of this research are presented here, with a discussion of the influence of cultural factors, values, and attitudes about regional development.
25164180|Little is understood about the role of transhumance in subsistence economy and the interactions between cattle, forest, and pastureland in the Himalaya. We examined herding practices and the effects of grazing on forest ecology and grassland, using rapid rural appraisal techniques with transhumant herders in Haa and Merak in western and eastern Bhutan. Cattle are the main source of livelihood, contributing 71% and 84% of the herders' gross annual household income in Haa and Merak, respectively. Transhumance is a direct response to cold temperatures, shortage of forage, and the search for livelihood opportunities. Grazing rights over rangeland are individual and community-owned. Grazing regulations are based on mutual understanding and equity among high-elevation pastoralists and low-elevation sedentary cattle owners. The sustained use of rangeland requires accommodation of traditional rights and more clarity about ownership and rangeland management. Temperate forests and grasslands along the established migratory livestock routes exhibit signs of overgrazing that vary with forest types. Rotational grazing is recommended, particularly on severely depleted ranges.
mounresedeve.34.3.208|The present article argues for better assessing how drinking water supply interventions affect gender relations. This requires going beyond conventional water burden indicators such as time spent collecting water or distances walked to a water source. Based on research in the Shivalik hills of northwest India, the article shows how men's expectations of water uses changed when interventions brought piped water supplies to the area. Though the interventions reduced the distance women walked to reach water sources and the drudgery of negotiating steep mountain slopes, there was an increase in the volume of water women were expected to carry. Following the interventions, men began performing many water-use functions in the privacy of their homes rather than at public water sources, and women were forced to carry more water home for these purposes. The decline of common property resource institutions also resulted in greater dependence on piped water supplies, further increasing the volume of water women must carry. Employing a qualitative research design relying on semistructured interviews, direct observation, and participatory rural appraisal tools, the study described here makes a case for more qualitative assessments of water supply interventions' impacts on mountain women's quality of life. This would yield a better understanding of women's water burdens.
10.2307/3673322|The Pampa de Achala, a high plateau located in Cordoba Province, central Argentina, is the major catchment area of the region and exhibits some biogeographic peculiarities. However, little information is available on vegetation-soil relationships, considered to be of great importance for the conservation of the bio-geo-edaphic stability. This paper discusses plant communities and their associated soil conditions in a mountainous ecosystem. Seven plant communities are distinguished and the range of soil types on which they occur is described. A physiographic map gives a general idea of the spatial distribution of landforms with their corresponding soil and vegetation associations. From the analysis of the soil-vegetation relationships, it is concluded that the soil moisture regime is the principal environmental factor determining the type of vegetation community present at one particular place. This factor is a complex of variables of which soil texture, soil depth, and the hydrological position in the landscape are the most important. These variables can be arranged in an environmental gradient, ranging from shallow, sandy/rocky, dry places to deep, silty-to-clayey, wet places, in which all plant communities can be exactly situated. Successional features related to plant communities within that gradient are inferred and some conclusions drawn on the landscape stability of the area in relation to the gully erosion affecting the bottomlands. /// La Pampa de Achala, un haut-plateau situ dans la Province de Cordoba en Argentine centrale, constitue le bassin de captation principal de la rgion et prsente certaines particularits biogographiques. Nanmoins, peu d'informations sont disponibles sur les relations vgtation-sol qui sont d'une importance vitale pour la prservation de la stabilit bio-go-daphique. Cet article examine les communauts vgtales et les conditions daphiques correspondants dans un cosystme montagnard. Sept communauts vgtales sont identifies et les diffrents types de sols qui leur correspondent sont dcrits. Une carte physiographique est prsente pour donner une ide gnrale de la rpartition spatiale des configurations de la terre avec les associations daphiques et vgtales correspondantes. L'analyse des relations vgtation-sol permet de conclure que le rgime hydrique constitue le facteur qui dtermine le plus fortement le type de communaut vgtale prsent dans un endroit donn. Ce facteur est un complexe de variables parmi lesquelles la texture et la profondeur du sol, ainsi que la position hydrologique dans le paysage sont les plus importantes. Ces variables peuvent tre ordonnes dans un gradient de l'environnement s'tendant des endroits peu profonds, sableux/rocheux et secs jusqu'aux endroits profonds, limoneux--argileux et humides, et dans lequel toutes les communauts vgtales peuvent tre situes d'une manire prcise. Des caractristiques de succession lies aux communauts vgtales dans ce gradient sont infres et certaines conclusions sont tires sur la stabilit du paysage de la rgion en rapport avec l'rosion en rigoles qui affecte les terres en contre-bas. /// Die Pampa de Achala, eine in der Provinz Cordoba, Zentral-Argentinien gelegene Hochebene, ist bekannt als das wichtigste Niederschlagsgebiet der Region und wegen bestimmter biogeografischer Eigenarten. Wenig Information ist jedoch vorhanden ber die Wechselbeziehungen zwischen Bden und Vegetation, die von grsster Bedeutung erachtet werden fr die biologischbodenkundlichen Stabilitt der Landschaft. Diese Arbeit ist ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Pflanzengemeinschaften und in einem Gebirgskosystem. Sieben Pflanzengemeinschaften werden identifiziert und beschrieben, einschliesslich der Bodenarten auf denen sie vorkommen. Eine physiographische Karte wird prsentiert, um einen allgemeinen Eindruck der rumlichen Verteilung verschiedener Landschaftsformen mit ihren jeweiligen Boden- und Vegetationsassoziationen in dem Untersuchungsgebiet zu geben. Aufgrund der Analyse der festgestellten Boden-Vegetationszusammenhnge wird geschlossen, dass der Bodenwasserhaushalt der wichtigste Umweltfaktor ist, der die Pflanzengemeinschaft an einem bestimmten Standort festlegt. Dieser Faktor an sich ist ein Komplex verschiedener Umweltvariablen, von welchen die Bodenkrnung, Grndigkeit, und die hydrologische Position in der Landschaft die wichtigsten sind. Diese Variablen knnen in einem Umweltgradienten von einerseits flachgrndigen, sandig/steinigen, trockenen Standorten bis zu tiefgrndigen, schluffig bis tonreichen, nassen Standorten aufgezeigt werden, in dem alle Pflanzengemeinschaften genau zugeordnet werden knnen. Innerhalb dieses Gradienten werden Sukzessionseigenschaften der Pflanzengemeinschaften abgeleitet, und es werden einige Rckschlsse auf die Landschaftsstabilitt gegenber Rinnenerosion in den Talauen gezogen. /// La Pampa de Achala es una altiplanicie extendida en las Sierras de Crdoba (Argentina central), que constituye el rea de captacin ms importante de la regin; es conocida tambin por algunas peculiaridades biogeogrficas. Sin embargo existe escasa informacin referida a las relaciones entre el suelo y las comunidades vegetales, consideradas de gran importancia para la conservacin del equilibrio bio-geo-edfico en el rea. Este estudio constituye una contribucin al conocimiento de las comunidades vegetales y las condiciones edficas asociadas a ellas en este ecosistema montaoso. Se describen siete comunidades vegetales, incluyendo el gradiente edfico a lo largo del cul ocurren. Se presenta un mapa fisiogrfico que muestra la distribucin espacial de las formas del paisaje en el rea de estudio. A partir del anlisis de las relaciones detectadas entre el suelo y la vegetacin, se concluye que el rgimen hdrico del suelo es el factor ms activo en la determinacin de la presencia de una y otra comunidad vegetal. Este factor representa un complejo de varias variables ambientales entre las cuales la textura, la profundidad del suelo y la ubicacin en el paisaje son las ms importantes. Estas variables pueden disponerse en un gradiente ambiental, extendido desde sitios rocosos, arenosos y, en general, secos, a localidades con suelos profundos, limosos a arcillosos y hmedos. Las comunidades vegetales pueden ubicarse a lo largo de este gradiente con cierta exactitud.
mounresedeve.31.2.160|Plant species diversity was surveyed in the northern Gaoligong Mountains of western Yunnan, China, from 1990 to 2006. During the floristic surveys of seed plants, 2514 native species and 302 varieties (or subspecies) belonging to 778 genera in 171 families were recorded. We also found that 12 families are endemic to eastern Asia, 14 genera and 1232 taxa are endemic to China, and 132 taxa are endemic to the northern Gaoligong Mountains. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List Categories and Criteria, 25 threatened taxa identified in the survey are endemic to this region. The flora is rich because of the role the northern Gaoligong Mountains played as a center of species diversification during the uplift of the eastern rim of the Tibetan Plateau in the Quaternary and as a refuge during the last glacial maximum. Unfortunately, this biodiversity faces massive threats because of the combined effect of habitat destruction or fragmentation and overexploitation of natural resources. Taking into consideration that human population growth will further increase pressure on this biodiversity in the near future, we suggest that conservation priority be given to the endemic plants, as well as to the habitats of primarily evergreen broad-leaved forest, coniferous broad-leaved mixed forest, and alpine shrub and meadows.
10.2307/3673749|Climatic knowledge of mountain regions is limited by paucity of observations and insufficient theoretical attention to processes within these regions. This review article discusses the basic controls of mountain climate and the scales of climatic features, and illustrates data availability in several mountainous regions. Areas where our understanding is incomplete include orographic precipitation, especially extreme events, pollutant transport and deposition, and effects of forest cover on evapotranspiration and runoff. Sources of evidence for past climatic conditions in mountain areas are surveyed and particular aspects of mountain-lowland climate differences during the last glacial maximum, the Little Ice Age, and the 100-year observational record are noted. Finally, analogue and modeling approaches to assessing potential future climatic states are discussed in the context of mountain areas. The significance of such states in terms of snow cover and snowmelt runoff is described. The survey concludes with a series of recommendations for necessary actions. /// Le niveau des connaissances relatives aux climats des rgions montagneuses est limit par le manque d'observations et l'insuffisance d'tudes thoriques portant sur les processus  l'intrieur de ces rgions. Cet article examine les mcanismes de base des climats montagnards et les chelles des caractristiques climatiques, et illustre les donnes disponibles pour plusieurs rgions montagneuses. Les domaines pour lesquels les connaissances sont incompltes incluent les prcipitations orographiques, en particulier les vnements extrmes, le transport et le dpt de polluants, et les effets de la couverture forestire sur l'vapotranspiration et le ruissellement. Les sources d'informations sur les conditions climatiques anciennes des rgions montagneuses sont passes en revue et certains aspects particuliers des diffrences de climat entre les montagnes et les plaines au cours du dernier maximum glacial, la petite priode glaciaire, et les rsultats d'observations sur 100 ans sont nots. Finalement, des mthodes utilisant des analogues et des modles pour valuer les tats climatiques futurs possibles sont examines dans le contexte des rgions montagneuses. La signification de ces tats en termes de couverture neigeuse et de ruissellement nival est dcrite. L'tude conclut avec une srie de recommandations concernant les actions ncessaires. /// Kenntnis ber klimatische Vorgnge in Gebirgsregionen ist beschrnkt mangels ausreichender Beobachtungen und sorgfltiger theoretischer Behandlung solcher Vorgnge. Diese bersicht diskutiert die spezifischen Merkmale des Gebirgsklimas und ihren Umfang; sie illustriert die Verfgbarkeit von Klimadaten fr mehrere Gebirgsregionen. Gebiete, fr die unser Verstndnis unvollstndig ist, schlieen Niederschlag in Gebirgen, insbesondere die extremen Ereignisse, ein, sowie Transport und Ablagerung von Schadstoffen und die Auswirkung der Bewaldung auf Evatranspiration und auf den Wasserabflu. Das Quellenmaterial der vergangenen klimatischen Vorgnge in Gebirgsgegenden wird berprft, und die besonderen Aspekte der klimatischen Unterschiede zwischen Gebirge und Tiefland whrend der letzten Vergletscherung, whrend der kleinen Eiszeit, und fr Hundertjahr-Daten werden errtert. Abschlieend werden analoge Methoden und Modelle zur Beurteilung von potentiellen zuknftigen klimatischen Vernderungen bezglich Gebirgsgebieten diskutiert. Der Einflu von Klimazustnden auf das Ausma der Schneedecke und des Schmelzwasserablaufs wird beschrieben. Der Bericht schliet mit Empfehlungen, welche gezielten Aktionen notwending sind.
10.2307/3673392|This is the first of a series of papers seeking to set in a historical context man's influence on the forests of the Nepalese Pahad (Middle Hills and adjoining montane areas). In later papers, attention will be focused on two specific districts and on some forests within them. In this paper, the interactions between political history, the traditional resources of the state, and forests are considered. Two main conclusions are drawn. First, that the deforestation of the Middle Hills is not a recent phenomenon but has a long history, being well established by the late eighteenth century at least. Second, that deforestation was caused mainly by the joint attack of government land-use policy and subsistence agriculture. Government policy promoted the conversion of forests to agriculture in order to maximize agricultural surpluses and land taxes. The severity of taxation in turn led to further forest clearing as peasants attempted to maintain subsistence living standards. Many compulsory labour obligations also involved forests and contributed to their degradation. Only in recent years has a real consciousness of the value of forests arisen and this has been reflected in legislation aimed at fostering effective community forestry. /// Cet article est le premier d'une srie visant  placer dans un contexte historique l'impact humain sur les forts du Pahad au Npal (Montagnes centrales et tages montagnards avoisinants). Les articles suivants porteront sur deux districts particuliers et certaines forts qui s'y trouvent. Cet article examine les interactions entre l'histoire politique, les resources traditionnelles de l'Etat, et les forts, et en tire deux conclusions principales. La premire est que le dboisement des montagnes centrales n'est pas un phnomne rcent mais qu'il remonte loin dans le pass, tant dj bien tabli  la fin du dix-huitime sicle. La seconde est que de dboisement tait alors principalement d  l'effet combin de la politique officielle d'exploitation du territoire et de l'agriculture d'auto-consommation. La politique officielle encourageait en effet la conversion des forts en terres cultives afin d'accrotre au maximum les surplus agricoles et les impts fonciers. La lourdeur des impts provoquait  son tour une intensification du dfrichement, du fait que les paysans essayaient de maintenir leur modeste standard de vie. De plus, un certain nombre d'obligations de travail concernaient les forts et contribuaient  leur dgradation. Il a fallu attendre ces dernires annes pour que le gouvernement se rende compte de la valeur intrinsque des forts, et cre des lois destines  encourager une foresterie communale effective. /// Der vorliegende Artikel ist der erste Beitrag einer Folge, die versucht, in historischem Zusammenhang den Einflu des Menschen auf die Bewaldung des nepalesischen Pahad (Middle Hills und angrenzende Bergregionen) zu erfassen. Weitere Beitrge konzentrieren sich auf den Waldbestand in ausgewhlten Regionen. In diesem Artikel werden die Wechselwirkungen zwischen der politischen Geschichte und den herkoemmlichen Bodenschaetzen des Staates und Waelder betrachtet. Zwei Hauptergebnisse zeichen sich ab: 1) dass die Waldrodung der Middle Hills kein neues Phaenomen ist, sondern eine lange Geschichte hat, die wenigstens bis zum spaeten 18. Jahrhundert nachgewiesen ist. 2) dass die Waldrodung vorwiegend durch das gemeinsame Vorgehen der Regierung (Landnutzungspolitik) und der Bauern (Erschliessen von weiteren Ackerflaechen zwecks Sicherung der Existenz) hervorgerufen wurde. Die Regierungspolitik verordnete die Umwandlung von Wald zu Acker, um die Landwirtschaftsueberschuesse und Grundsteuern zu maximieren. Die Strenge der Besteuerung veranlasste die Bauern dann wieder zu weiteren Kahlschlaegen, da sie nur auf diesem Wege ihre Existenz bewahren konnten. Viele zwangsmaessige Arbeitsbindungen betrafen ebenso die Waelder und steuerten zu ihrer Abnahme bei. Erst in juengster Zeit entstand ein echtes Bewusstsein fuer den Wert des Waldes. Diese Wandlung spiegelt sich in der Gesetzgebung wider, die beguenstigend und wirkungsvoll auf den Gemeinschaftswald zielt.
25164121|Involving the local population in forest resource management is seen by the Vietnamese authorities as a key concept for reconciling forest use with long-term protection of multifunctional forest ecosystems. For the development of adapted resource management systems, the government closely collaborates with international development projects in the field of participatory forest use. SDC, the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, and the Swiss non-governmental organization Helvetas are involved in the advancement of the community forest management (CFM) approach, which, despite its short history in Viet Nam, has already illustrated that there is legitimate reason for hoping that it will contribute to 2 interlinked objectives: satisfying rural people's forest resource needs, and ensuring long-term conservation of unique multifunctional forest ecosystems.
mounresedeve.35.2.203|The Centre for Development and Environment (CDE) at the University of Bern has long-standing experience in conducting research in mountain regions around the world. CDE considers mountain regions to be a crucial context for sustainable development. Together with its partners, CDE aims to generate in-depth contextual knowledge about the dynamic social, economic, and ecological processes in mountain regions and elsewhere, with a view to informing development practices, while at the global level it engages in activities that help bring together these regional insights with the goal of informing policy-making. In doing so, CDE addresses the specific challenges of sustainable developmentin mountains and elsewhere.
3674602|The number and area of nature reserves in China have increased significantly in the last 2 decades. This massive increase has not been matched by a corresponding enhancement of management inputs and capabilities. Six major problems in protected area (PA) management are identified in this article: selection of unsuitable sites for conservation, shortage of funding, rising people-park conflicts, the paper park syndrome, multiple but disparate management agents, and lack of international experience. Five management quandaries are discussed to highlight the major dilemmas, ie, whether the reserves should exclude traditional resource-tapping activities, whether non-governmental organizations (NGOs) should be encouraged to help management agents, whether the management should earn income from the reserves, whether they should be the umpire or a player in the utilization of natural resources in reserves, and whether an integrated management structure should supersede the present compartmentalized arrangement. Finally, specific recommendations are obtained from the study.
25578196|The cryosphere is the body of the world's frozen water, composed of sea and continental ice, snow cover, and perpetually frozen soil and rocks (permafrost). Mountain glaciers cover about 160,000 km (World Glacier Monitoring Service 2008), sometimes reaching the lowlands and the sea. Awareness of their importance for water supply is rapidly increasing, as is their vulnerability as frozen "water towers" for the millennium. The snow cover is the outer surface of the cryosphere, with greater exposure to dust, pollutants, and ultimately contamination. There is a general perception of the importance of the cryosphere as a crucial thermodynamic system capable of storing water (when not needed) during the cold season and giving it back during the hot season (when necessary). At the same time, knowledge of the pattern and amount of contamination and the dynamics and interactions between pollutants and snow before, during, and after the melting processes is poor. Preliminary results of current research in Europe show a strong ionic release concentrated during the first phases of the melting season that could have a noticeable impact, not only on drinking water. The Environmental Monitoring of Snow project applied a relatively simple methodology to monitor the contamination of snow in Italy's mountains. This methodology could easily be used in other parts of the world, alerting the public to potential risks menacing water quality.
3674226|Can a community achieve economic development while protecting its forests? This question challenges communities for which forests represent a primary resource. Community forestry offers one approach, and two cases from mountainous zones in Mesoamerica illustrate its promise and difficulties. While the communities' exploitation of forest resources is limited, they face problems that reflect issues with wide relevance to the developing world and sustainable forestry.
25164095|Nowadays labor migration plays a very important role in the mountainous areas of countries such as Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Pakistan. The quality and direction of migration as well as its economic, social, and cultural impacts on the life of communities have changed, along with the increase in the numbers of migrants. There are conflicting opinions about whether temporary labor migration promotes or hinders the development of mountainous regions. While traveling along mountain roads in Central Asian countries, we investigated whether labor migration stimulates the development of mountain regions, interviewing local inhabitants, migrants, businessmen, authorities, and local representatives of international organizations. The data collected on our travels was used in an International Organization for Migration (IOM) research project on labor migration in Central Asian countries, Russia, Afghanistan, and Pakistan in 2004. The present article summarizes the results of our research and highlights a number of issues related to the economic and social impacts of labor migration.
10.2307/3674010|Studies of protected areas and their local communities are often framed in terms of "top-down" versus "bottom-up" development strategies. Such studies frequently emphasize the importance of grassroots involvement and organization on the part of local communities. Externally-driven, "top-down" models have been criticized as insensitive to local resource needs. This paper examines local participation in ecological preserve management in northern highland Ecuador and the limitations of development models as applied to the planning and management of protected areas. Local residents, preserve managers, and government officials were interviewed and census and archival research was conducted both in Ecuador and the U.S.A. In one preserve, locally-based, grassroots management has led to community factionalization and conflict regarding use of the protected area. At a second preserve, the "top-down" approach has resulted in a protected area which, while efficiently managed, is functionally isolated from its surrounding communities. It is argued here that an overemphasis on conventional grassroots and "top-down" development and management models is unsatisfactory. Managers of protected areas should look to the linkages between these approaches and attempt to build partnerships between large- and small-scale organizations and objectives. /// Les tudes de zones protges et de leur communauts locales mettent souvent en opposition les stratgies ascendantes de dveloppement et les stratgies descendantes. De telles tudes insistent souvent sur l'importance de la participation "au niveau du sol" et de l'organisation par les communauts locales. Les modles descendants mens de l'extrieur ont t critiqus comme n'tant pas sensibles aux besoins locaux. Cet article examine la participation locale dans la gestion des rserves naturelles, dans les montagnes du nord-est de l'Equateur, ainsi que les limitations des modles de dveloppement en termes de la planification et de la gestion des zones protges. Des rsidents locaux, des grants de rserves naturelles et des fonctionnaires du gouvernement ont t interviews, et des recherches ont t effectues  l'aide de dossiers de recensement et d'archives, en Equateur et aux Etats-Unis. Dans le cas d'une rserve naturelle, la gestion locale "au niveau du sol" a men  une factionalisation de la communaut et une discorde concernant l'utilisation de la zone protge. Dans le cas d'une autre rserve naturelle, l'approche descendante a men  la cration d'une zone protge qui, bien qu'efficacement gre, est fonctionnellement isole des communauts avoisinantes. L'tude suggre qu'il ne faut pas trop donner d'importance aux modles traditionnels de dveloppement et de gestion, ascendant ou descendant. Les grants de zones protges devraient examiner les points communs de ces deux approches et essayer de crer des partenariats entre les organisations et objectifs  grande et  petite chelle. /// Naturschutzgebiete und die anliegenden Gemeinden werden in Entwicklungsstudien oft im Gegensatz von "von-unten-herauf," zu "von-oben-herab" gekennzeichnet. Der Erfolg solcher Studien hngt jedoch in starkem Mae von der Beteiligung und dem Organisierwillen der lokalen Gemeinden ab. Von Auenstehenden "von-oben-herab" entwickelte Modelle werden regelmig kritisiert wegen ihrer Vernachlssigung der lokalen Ressourcenbedrfnisse. Diese Arbeit untersucht im nrdlichen Hochland von Ecuador die Mitarbeit Ortsansssiger beim Management der kologischen Schutzmanahmen und verweist auf die Beschrnkungen von Entwicklungsmodellen, wenn sie zur Planung und zum Management in Schutzgebieten angewendet werden. Einheimische, Naturschutz-Verwalter und Regierungsbeamte wurden befragt; auerdem wurden statistiche und archivalische Erhebungen aus Ecuador und aus USA bercksichtigt. Am Beispiel eines Naturschutzgebietes wird gezeigt, da selbst lokales, mit den rtlichen Verhltnissen vertrautes Management zu Gemeindekonflikten und zu Uneinigkeit ber die Nutzung des Schutzgebietes fhrte. In einem anderen Beispiel funktionierte das "von-oben-herab" verwaltete Gebiet zwar recht gut, war aber von den umliegenden Gemeinden praktisch isoliert. Diese Arbeit zeigt, da fr Entwicklungs- und Managementmodelle eine berbetonung der konventionellen Sicht und die "von-oben-herab" Methode zu unbefriedigenden Ergebnissen fhrt. Naturschutz-Verwalter sollten versuchen, beide Methoden bei Zielsetzungen zu bercksichtigen und Partnerschaften mit groen und kleinen Organisationen aufzubauen. /// Los estudios sobre reas protegidas y sus comunidades locales son a menudo enmarcados en trminos de estrategias de desarrollo "desde arriba" versus estrategias "desde abajo." Tales estudios inciden con frecuencia en la importancia de la participacin y organizacin internas por parte de las comunidades locales. Dirigidos desde el exterior, los modelos de desarrollo "desde arriba" de reas protegidas han sido categricamente criticados por su falta de sensibilidad para las necesidades locales de recursos. Este trabajo de investigacin sirve como examen del caso de la participacin de lugareos en la gestin de la conservacin ecolgica de la sierra del norte del Ecuador, y, asimismo, como muestra de las limitaciones de los modelos de desarrollo tal y como son aplicados a la planificacin y gestin de las reas naturales protegidas. Los datos han sido obtenidos mediante entrevistas con lugareos, con gestores de las reservas y con personal gubermental. Por otra parte, el censo y la investigacin de archivo fue llevada a cabo tanto en Ecuador como en los Estados Unidos. En el caso de una de las reservas, organizada por los lugareos, la gestin ha conducido a una divisin de la comunidad en facciones, y a una situacin de conflicto por el uso del rea protegida. En la segunda reserva natural, gestionada desde el exterior, el planteamiento de un desarrollo "desde arriba" ha dado como resultado un rea protegida que, si bien est eficazmente gestionada, se encuentra funcionalmente aislada de las comunidades vecinas. Se sostiene en este trabajo que un excesivo nfasis en models convencionales de desarrollo y gestin de los lugareos o "desde arriba" no resulta satisfactorio. Los gestores de reas protegidas deberan tener en cuenta las conexiones entre esos dos enfoques, e intentar establecer asociaciones entre organizaciones y objetivos de pequea y gran escala.
mounresedeve.33.4.443|This article synthesizes findings from a review of the state of research on sustainable land management in Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and from an analysis of the interface between research and action. Using the Global Land Project (GLP 2005) analytical framework, we analyzed the distribution of 131 selected publications (including a clearly defined set of local and international academic and gray literature) across the framework's components and links in a socialecological system. There is a strong emphasis in the literature on the impact of changes in land use and management on ecosystems; however, there is little research on the implications for ecosystem services. This finding is opposed to that of a similar analysis of publications at the global scale (Bjrnsen Gurung et al 2012). Another major gap was the lack of research on Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan regarding the influence of global factors on social and ecological systems, despite social, economic, and political integration into global structures since the collapse of the Soviet Union and the increasing influence of climate change. Our analysis disaggregated academic literature published in the region and international academic literature, revealing stark differences. These differences are partly attributable to the legacy of the late Soviet era principle of rational use of land resources, which fit the planned economy but lacks approaches for decentralized resource governance. Finally, the emphasis of research on systems knowledge, the lack of transdisciplinary research, and the critical feedback of stakeholders at a regional sustainable land management forum suggest that actionable sustainable land management research on Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan is rare. Recommendations are made for targeted, application-focused, multistakeholder research and knowledge sharing, including local and international researchers as well as practitioners, policy-makers, and land users.
3674276|Lauca National Park forms a unique area of puna and prepuna ecosystems in the high Altiplano of northeastern Chile. Its extensive puna steppe shrublands lying above 4000 m and high volcanoes reaching above 6000 m provide some of many strong justifications for its designation as a UNESCO International Biosphere Reserve in 1983. The park also contains Lago Chungar, the highest lake in the world at 4518 m elevation, and a rich variety of fauna and flora. The mammal fauna of the park includes notable populations of large herbivores such as vicua, guanaco, and huemul, and a rich diversity of rodent species. More than 140 species of birds, one third of the total Chilean bird fauna-with many rare wetland species- and more than 400 species of vascular plants occur within the park. Despite its relatively pristine natural environment, Lauca National Park faces numerous management challenges. These include the management of critical and limited water resources, the impacts of human population and tourism, management of rare and endangered species, and pressures from mining and agricultural interests to decertify areas currently within park boundaries. Expansion of the park boundary westward to include ecologically significant prepuna habitats should be a high priority of park management.
10.2307/3673910|This paper demonstrates the application of environmental economics to watershed protection in highland Bolivia. It indicates the high potential value of protection activities and explains how environmental economics can be used to improve the quality of decision making. In the Bolivian case study, three main benefits of watershed protection are identified and quantified-benefits to upper watershed farmers using soil conservation and improved farming practices, and the off-site benefits of flood prevention and aquifer recharge (due to the greater infiltration that the watershed protection activities permit). The high value of downstream urban and farming interests affected and the relatively early return on the project investment ensure a high rate of economic return. However, some of the calculations could be greatly improved by additional relatively low cost research. An important recommendation of the study is that local beneficiaries should pay a major proportion of the project costs. /// Cet article dmontre l'application de l'conomie environnementale  la protection des bassins hydrographiques dans les rgions montagneuses de la Bolivie. Il indique la haute valeur potentielle des activits de protection des bassins hydrographiques et explique comment on peut utiliser l'conomie environnementale pour amliorer la qualit de la prise de dcision. Dans l'tude de cas en Bolivie, trois avantages principaux de la protection des bassins hydrographiques ont t identifis et quantifis,  savoir les avantages pour les fermiers du haut des bassins hydrographiques utilisant la prservation du sol et des pratiques agricoles amliores, et les avantages autre part en termes de prvention des inondations et de rapprovisionnement des aquifres (par suite d'une infiltration accrue permise par les activits de protection des bassins hydrographiques). La haute valeur des intrts urbains et ruraux affects et un rendement relativement rapide des investissements dans le projet assurent un taux lev de rendement conomique. Certains calculs peuvent nanmoins tre beaucoup amliors en effectuant des recherches supplmentaires  un cot relativement bas. Un aspect important de cette tude est que les bnficiares locaux devraient payer un gros pourcentage du cot du projet. /// Diese Arbeit demonstriert, wie umweltgerechter, konomischer Schutz von Wassereinzugsgebieten im Hochland von Bolivien zur Wirkung kommt. Schutzmanahmen im Wassereinzugsgebiet haben einen hohen Stellenwert und umweltgerechte konomie wird angewendet, um Entscheidungsprozesse effektiver zu machen. In der bolivianischen Fallstudie wurden drei besonders wichtige Vorteile identifiziert und quantitativ erfat-von diesen Vorteilen profitieren fluaufwrts die Farmer, die Bodenerhaltung und verbesserte Anbaumethoden anwenden; indirekte Vorteile bestehen in der Verhtung von berschwemmungen und im Gewinn von zustzlichem Fluwasser (d.h., Schutzmanahmen im Einzugsgebiet fhren zu erhhter Einsickerung). Der nicht unerhebliche Wertmastab der stdtischen und lndlichen Unternehmen fluabwrts ist davon betroffen, und die kurzfristig zu erwartenden Wertzunahmen der Projektinvestitonen versprechen hohe wirtschaftliche Gewinne. Dennoch knnen Einzelheiten der Kalkulation noch entscheidend verbessert werden, wenn zustzliche Forschung mit relativ geringem Kostenaufwand betrieben wird. Ein wichtiger Punkt dieser Studie ist, da die ortsansssigen Nutznieer selbst den Groteil der Projektkosten bernehmen sollten.
mounresedeve.36.4.407|Since 1996, Mountain Legacy Project (MLP) researchers have been exploring change in Canadas mountain environments through the use of systematic repeat photography. With access to upwards of 120,000 systematic glass plate negatives from Canadas mountain west, the MLP field teams seek to stand where historic surveyors stood and accurately reshoot these images. The resulting image pairs are analyzed, catalogued, and made available for further research into landscape changes. In this article we suggest that repeat photography would fit well within the Future Earth research agenda. We go on to introduce the Image Analysis Toolkit (IAT), which provides interactive comparative image visualization and analytics for a wide variety of ecological, geological, fluvial, and human phenomena. The toolkit is based on insights from recent research on repeat photography and features the following: user-controlled ability to compare, overlay, classify, scale, fade, draw, and annotate images; production of comparative statistics on user-defined categories (eg percentage of ice cover change in each image pair); and different ways to visualize change in the image pairs. The examples presented here utilize MLP image pairs, but the toolkit is designed to be used by anyone with their own comparative images as well as those in the MLP collection. All images and software are under Creative Commons copyright and are open access for noncommercial use via the Mountain Legacy Explorer website. The IAT is at the beginning of its software life cycle and will continue to develop features required by those who use repeat photography to discover change in mountain environments.
25164106|Together with its partners and regional member countries, the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) shares a vision of prosperous and secure mountain communities living in peace, equity, and environmental sustainability. This vision defines ICIMOD's overall goal: secure and sustainable livelihoods for mountain peoples. ICIMOD's work as a "Mountain Learning and Knowledge Center" builds on achievements, competence, and lessons that the Centre and its partners have learned over the 2 preceding decades. ICIMOD is mandated to work in the Hindu Kush-Himalayan (HKH) region, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan.
25164045|This paper describes a methodology for quantifying the effects of live barriers on the stability of agricultural land in the Andean Valleys of Bolivia. The methodology involves calibrating a computer simulation of slope hydrology against an existing landslide leading to its use as a predictive tool for steep slopes nearby. Results are presented of the modeling of a steep agricultural plot for slope instability with various arrangements of live barriers consisting of the grass species, Phalaris tuberoarundinacea. Also described is a novel system developed for the extraction of large, intact soil samples for translational soil shear strength tests which produces results with very low scatter. It is concluded that although live barriers would increase infiltration and reduce hill slope stability, in extreme rainfall conditions this would not be so severe that failure would become imminent. Despite the many assumptions made, the models produce results that are considered to be close to reality.
3674183|This study analyzed the spatial and temporal changes in land use between 1978 and 1992 in a typical watershed covering <tex-math>$543\ km^{2}$</tex-math> in the Middle Hills of Nepal and used GIS to compare land use changes between village development committees (VDCs) with and without formally handed-over community forests during this period. The forest handover procedure followed the specifications of the national community forestry policy of Nepal. In the watershed, the total area of forested land (defined as high forest plus shrubland) declined by about 8% during the period. However, high forest increased over the study period, whereas shrubland cover declined. Between VDCs with community forests and those without, there were large differences in the rate of total forested area loss, with community forest VDCs losing less total forested area over the 14-year period. Moreover, in the group of VDCs with community forests, high forest area increased by 77%, in comparison with 13% for VDCs without community forests. Higher shrub loss in community forest VDCs was attributable to conversion into high forest via plantation establishment and natural succession. The results of this study indicate the positive impacts of Nepal's community forestry activities on the extent of forest cover.
3674634|The present article details a system of forest cover classification used by the Pwo Karen, an ethnic minority group living in Thung Yai Naresuan Wildlife Sanctuary in western Thailand. It considers the ways in which local communities sort forest cover types into classes that are meaningful to their livelihood practices, but are at the same time embedded in conservation priorities. Rather than constituting a threat to maintaining the park's integrity, the Karen's forest classification suggests priorities that are aligned with conservation goals. It is hoped that this account will stimulate further investigations into particular, localized land cover classification systems that offer an alternative lens through which forests and their conservation and livelihood meanings can be viewed.
mounresedeve.32.3.345|Drawing on a panel study of households established in 2002 and a revisit in 20082010 to a subsample, this paper explores the livelihood pathways of 24 households in 3 villages in Badakhshan in northeastern Afghanistan. It finds that most households were worse off than they were in 2001, although they experienced a brief period of relative prosperity based on the 1 market choice available, opium poppy. The paper draws attention to the corporate nature of villages and their variable capacity to support the provision of village-level public goods. This variability is influenced in part by the relative richness of the resource base of the village and the related degree of social differentiation. Where land inequalities are high and the elite are economically secure, they have few incentives to widen provision of public goods and can be immune from social sanctions. Where the elite are economically insecure, they are likely to have a shared interest in supporting village solidarity and a moral economy and may promote the provision of public goods. External interventions focusing on village governance need to pay much greater attention to village preconditions given the extent to which the effects of such interventions are often subject to the behavior of the elite and preexisting customary structures.
3674200|As the 21st century begins, mountain scholars and development specialists can congratulate themselves for having finally brought mountain issues to a global level of awareness. Through the efforts of a small number of dedicated individuals and institutions, the neglected mountain ecosystems and native peoples of the world were finally given official recognition at the 1992 Rio Earth Summit through Chapter 13 of Agenda 21 and again in 1998 by the UN General Assembly, which declared 2002 as the "International Year of Mountains." Today, the professional international mountain circuits, both the scholarly and development kinds, are buzzing with conferencing, e-conferencing, report writing and publishing, public awareness raising, and a host of other activities that could convince us that conditions have never been better for the mountain cause. While we should all applaud this much-needed progress at the political level, some very important unfinished business remains on the mountain agenda.
10.2307/3673254|This paper outlines the principles of experimental agronomy in the context of some of the peculiarities of a mountain environment that impinge directly on crop productivity. It is necessary to understand the physical basis which causes variation in crop productivity in mountain areas. Only then can appropriate strategies be developed to overcome the limiting factors and to exploit the crop's sensitive response to the habitat differentiation imposed by the combined effect of slope and aspect. By reference to field studies in western Nepal, relationships are developed between incident radiation and the resultant thermal and water balance regimes. The effect of these quantified through crop growth is examined. Because the radiation regime can be calculated from topographic data, sites can be indexed on a map for their crop suitability and yield potential. This will facilitate a more efficient exploitation of the local variation in mountain growing conditions. Factors limiting crop growth can be identified by a survey which relates yields to site conditions and existing farmer management practices; appropriate research priorities can then be established. Alternative crops or techniques should be tested with local farmers from the early stage to ensure relevance and acceptability. Such operational research avoids some of the pitfalls and difficulties of the conventional approach and achieves simultaneous experimentation and extension, evaluation and adoption. /// Cette tude expose les principes gnraux de l'agronomie exprimentale dans le context de certaines particularits d'un environnement montagnard qui affectent directement la productivit agricole. Il est d'abord ncessaire de comprendre les bases physiques des variations de productivit agricole dans les rgions montagneuses. Il est alors possible d'laborer les stratgies appropries pour surmonter les facteurs limitatifs et d'exploiter la rponse prcise des vgtaux  la diffrentiation de l'habitat impose par l'effet combin de la pente et de l'exposition. Sur la base d'tudes effectues sur le terrain au Npal occidental, des relations sont labores entre le rayonnement incident et les rgimes, thermique et balance hydrique, qui en rsultent. L'effet de ces relations, quantifi en se basant sur la croissance des vgtaux, est examin. Comme le rgime du rayonnement peut tre calcul  partir des donnes topographiques, les sites peuvent tre indexs sur une carte du point de vue de leur aptitude  la culture et leur production potentielle. Cela permettra une exploitation plus rationnelle des variations locales dans les conditions de croissance vgtale en montagne. Les facteurs limitant la croissance vgtale peuvent tre identifis au moyen d'un inventaire liant la production aux conditions des sites et au modes actuels de gestion des terres; les priorits appropries pourront alors tre tablies pour la recherche. D'autres cultures ou techniques possibles doivent tre mises  l'essai avec les fermiers locaux, ds le dbut, pour assurer leur applicabilit et acceptabilit. Une telle recherche oprationnelle vite certains piges et difficults de l'approche traditionnelle et accomplit simultanment l'exprimentation et l'extension, l'valuation et l'adoption. /// Diese Verffentlichung skizziert die Prinzipien experimenteller Agronomie im Hinblick auf diejenigen Umweltbesonderheiten im Gebirge, die direkten Einflu auf die Feldfruchtproduktivitt haben. Dazu mssen die naturgegebenen Grundlagen, die eine nderung im Feldfruchtertrag in diesen Gegenden zulassen, verstanden werden; erst dann knnen brauchbare Strategien zur berwindung einschrnkender Faktoren entwickelt werden. Dabei wird das empfindliche Ansprechen der Feldfrchte auf unterschiedliche Anbaulagen genutzt, wie sie sich durch das Zusammenwirken von Geflle und Lage ergeben. Unter Bezugnahme auf direkte Messungen im westlichen Nepal werden Verbindungen zwischen auftretender Sonneneinstrahlung und daraus resultierender Wrme- und Wasserbalance entwickelt. Die Beeinflussung des Fruchtswachstums wird quantitativ untersucht. Da die Einstrahlung anhand topographischer Daten berechnet werden kann, ist es mglich, das Gelnde nach Fruchteignung und Ertragspotential kartographisch zu erfassen. Im Gebirge fhrt dies zu einer rationelleren Nutzung der lokalen Unterschiede in den Wachstumsbedingungen. In einer bersicht werden wachstumsbegrenzende Faktoren aufgezeigt, wobei die Ertragsmenge ins Verhltnis zum Anbauort und zu bestehenden Anbaupraktiken gesetzt wird. Sinnvolle Forschungsprioritten knnen dann aufgestellt werden. Von Anfang an sollten alternative Feldfrchte oder Anbaupraktiken von den ortsansssigen Bauern ausprobiert werden, um den Nutzwert aufzuzeigen und ihre Eignung zu sichern. Ein solch praxisbezogener Versuch umgeht die Schwierigkeiten und Probleme konventioneller Methoden und erzielt gleichzeitig praktische Erfahrung, Wissenszuwachs, Beurteilung und Annahme neuer Erfahrung.
10.2307/3673547|Land use in the semi-arid highland of Laikipia (Kenya) has changed significantly during the last 100 years and there has been great intensification. Where in pre-colonial times semi-nomadic Massai pastoralists grazed their cattle and where once the European farmers owned large ranches, now smallholders, mainly originating from densely populated areas in the Central Province, are settling and implementing rain-fed crop production. Most of the newly settled areas are only marginally suitable for rain-fed agriculture and the risk of crop failure is very high. The food requirements of the ever increasing population cannot be met by mixed animal and agricultural production alone, and diversified income from both agricultural and non-agricultural sources is required. Development planning in the Laikipia District must adjust to this new reality in order to meet the people's needs and to make maximum use of available resources. Research aims at supporting the planning and implementation of development processes, keeping in perspective their long-term impacts and the consequences for the natural and social systems. /// L'utilisation du sol dans les hautes terres semi-arides de Laikipia (Kenya) a beaucoup chang au cours des 100 dernires annes, et a fait l'objet d'une grande intensification. Alors qu' l'poque pr-coloniale les Massai semi-nomadiques y levaient du btail, et ensuite les colons europens y exploitaient de grandes proprits, de petits exploitants, venant surtout des zones surpeuples de la Province Centrale, s'y sont maintenant tablis et pratiquent une agriculture pluviale. La plupart des zones rcemment peuples sont marginales pour l'agriculture pluviale et le risque de rcoltes insuffisantes est trs lev. Les besoins alimentaires de la population croissante ne peuvent pas tre satisfaits par la production agro-pastorale; une base de revenu plus diversifie est ncessaire, dans les secteurs agricole aussi bien que non-agricole. La planification du dveloppement dans le district de Laikipia doit tenir compte de ces ralits afin de satisfaire aux besoins de la population et d'utiliser au maximum les ressources disponibles. La recherche est destine  soutenir la planification et la mise en oeuvre des processus de dveloppement, sans perdre de vue l'impact  long terme et les consquences pour les systmes naturels et sociaux. /// Die Landnutzung im semi-ariden Hochland von Laikipia hat sich in den vergangenen hundert Jahren bedeutend verndert. Dort, wo zu vorkolonialer Zeit halbnomadische Massai-Viehhirten ihre Tiere weiden lieen und spter europische Bauern groe Viehfarmen hatten, nehmen jetzt Kleinbauern, die aus dichtbesiedelten Gebieten der Zentralprovinz stammen, Land in Besitz und betreiben von Regen versorgten Ackerbau. Die meisten neubesiedelten Gebiete sind fr die vom Regen versorgte Landwirtschaft nur marginal geeignet. Meistens ist das Risiko fr Fehlernten gro. Gemischte Land- und Viehwirtschaft kann die immer noch schnell wachsende Bevlkerung allein nicht ernhren. Deshalb wird es immer wichtiger, da die Familien ber ein diversifiziertes Einkommen aus landwirtschaftlicher Produktion und nicht landwirtschaftlichen Quellen verfgen. Eine Entwicklungsplanung fr den Laikipia-Distrikt mu diese neuen Realitten einbeziehen, um auf die Bedrfnisse der Bevlkerung eingehen und gleichzeitig die vorhandenen Ressourcen optimal nutzen zu knnen. Forschung, die auf bestimmte Engpsse in Entwicklungsprozessen angesetzt wird, soll die Planung und Anwendung untersttzen. Dabei mu sie den langzeitlichen Auswirkungen dieser Prozesse Rechnung tragen, und sie mu die Konsequenzen solcher Eingriffe in das natrliche und soziale System bercksichtigen.
10.2307/3673790|The Tatra Mountains have become one of the most endangered areas of Poland due to anthropogenic pressure, both historical and contemporary. The natural vegetation has been degraded and many indigenous species have been replaced by introduced trees and plants. Some mammal populations are threatened, certain butterfly species face extinction, and eutrophication of mountain lakes has many detrimental consequences. /// Les Tatras polonaises sont devenues l'une des rgions les plus menaces de la Pologne par suite de la pression anthropognique, passe aussi bien que prsente. La vgtation naturelle a t dtruite et beaucoup d'espces indignes ont t remplaces par des arbres et des plantes d'origine externe. Certaines populations animales sont menaces, certaines espces de papillons sont en voie d'extinction et l'eutrophisation des lacs montagnards a de graves consquences. /// Bevlkerungsdruck in der Vergangenheit, der auch gegenwrtig anhlt, hat das Tatra Gebirge zu einem der gefhrdetsten Gebiete Polens gemacht. Die natrliche Vegetation hat sich verschlechtert, und viele heimische Arten wurden durch eingefhrte Bume und Pflanzen ersetzt. Einige Sugetierarten sind gefhrdet, bestimmte Schmetterlingssarten sind vom Aussterben bedroht, und der Nhrstoffreichtum der Gebirgsseen hat viele nachteilige Folgen.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r107|     :  , ,        .     ,        ,       ().    ,     ,   ,     ,       ,         ,   ,  ,        .    ,    ,  ,   ,     .   ,    ,     ,  ,                 .   ,  ,                   .       ,  ,             .      ,   ,     ,        (  Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN)           ,   ,         ,           .
10.2307/3673170|The Mountain Hazards Mapping Project, sponsored by the Nepal National Committee for MAB and the United Nations University, is concerned with (1) the production of prototype maps to show slope stability and mountain hazards in Nepal and (2) the development of corresponding methods for assessing mountain hazards. In concurrence with the theme of the UNU Berne-Riederalp Workshop, September 1981, information gathered in the Kathmandu-Kakani area can be summarized as follows: due to natural factors (monsoonal climate, heavily weathered metamorphic rocks, steep slopes) the entire terrain of the field area is conditionally unstable. Intensive cultivation increases the danger of irreversible damage (i.e., deep-reaching soil erosion) and of instability as defined during the workshop. On the other hand, local farmers furnish an enormous stabilizing input by maintaining the cultivated terraces (some of which are irrigated). Consequently, the danger of reversible instability, that which can be corrected within a generation, is considered to be generally high. The danger of irreversible instability, at least under present-day circumstances, is considered to be relatively low. It is impossible to define unconditionally the amount of data essential to such investigations. Rather, the minimum data need must be adjusted to meet the requirements of each individual case. In the future, therefore, there should be added emphasis for developing methods for determining the relative minimum data need. /// Le projet Mountain Hazards Mapping du Nepal National Committee for MAB et de l'United Nations University a pour but principal l'tablissement de cartes de la stabilit des pentes et des dangers naturels au Npal ainsi que le dveloppement de mthodes d'valuation appropries. Dans la perspective de l'UNU-Workshop de september 1981  Berne (thmes: Stabilit et instabilit d'cosystmes de montagne ainsi que Minimum Data Need pour leur valuation), les connaissances acquises dans la rgion de Kakani-Kathmandu peuvent tre rsumes comme suit: En raison des conditions naturelles (climat de mousson, roche mtamorphique fortement altre, pentes raides), le terrain est gnralement labile. L'exploitation agricole intensive accrot le danger de dgts irrversibles dans le terrain (par exemple: rosion en profondeur des sols) et de conditions instables dans le sens du Workshop. D'autre part, les agriculteurs fournissent un remarquable "input de stabilit" par l'entretien constant et soigneux des terrasses de culture (en partie irrigues). C'est pourquoi le danger d'une instabilit rversible, c'est--dire qui puisse tre corrige en l'espace d'une gnration, est gnralement tax d'lev, alors que le danger d'une instabilit irrversible est estim-du moins dans les conditions actuelles-tre relativement faible. Etant donn qu'il n'est pas possible de porter un jugement gnral sur les donnes minimales  relever et  analyser pour de telles tudes, mais que le besoin de donnes peut varier de cas en cas, il faudrait se concentrer  l'avenir sur le dveloppement de mthodes et procds pour l'valuation du besoin minimal de donnes. /// Das Mountain Hazards Mapping Project des Nepal National Committee for MAB und der United Nations University beinhaltet im wesentlichen die Erarbeitung von Karten der Hanglabilitt und Naturgefahren in Nepal sowie die Entwicklung von entsprechenden Beurteilungsmethoden. Die in der Region Kakani-Kathmandu gewonnenen Erkenntnisse lassen sich im Hinblick auf die Themen des UNU-Workshops vom September 1981 in Bern (Stabilitt und Instabilitt von Gebirgskosystemen sowie Minimum Data Need zu deren Beurteilung) folgendermassen zusammenfassen: Wegen der natrlichen Gegenbenheiten (monsunales Klima, stark verwitterndes metamorphes Gestein, steile Hnge) ist das Terrain generell labil. Die intensive landwirtschaftliche Nutzung erhht die Gefahr von irreversiblen Schden im Terrain (z.B. durch tiefgrndige Bodenerosion) und von "instabilen" Verhltnissen im Sinne des Workshops. Andererseits leisten die Bauern durch die sorgfltige Pflege der (teilweise irrigierten) Ackerterrassen einen gewaltigen "Stabilittsinput". Deshalb wird zwar die Gefahr einer "reversiblen", d.h. innerhalb einer Bevlkerungsgeneration korrigierbaren Instabilitt generell als hoch, die Gefahr von "irreversibler" Instabilitt aber-wenigstens unter den heutigen Bedingungen-als relativ gering eingestuft. Weil fr solche Untersuchungen keine allgemeine Aussage ber die minimal zu erhebenden und auszuwertenden Daten mglich sind, sondern der Bedarf an Daten fr jeden Einzelfall anders sein kann, sollte man sich in Zukunft darauf konzentrieren, Methoden und Vorgangsweisen zur Bestimmung des jeweiligen minimalen Datenbedarfs zu entwickeln.
3674132|A study of high-elevation catchments in the San Miguel River Basin of southwest Colorado was conducted during the summer of 1997 to develop a scientifically based tool for water resources management. The authors mapped landscape types and associated water quality parameters with those types, enabling sensitivity assessment at the landscape unit scale, thus addressing catchment heterogeneity. Landscape-type maps and derived sensitivity maps were entered into a geographic Information system (GIS). They proved effective visual tools for use in policy decisions and public presentations. Water quality issues addressed were sensitivity to acidification and nutrient enrichment. Landscape types associated with surface waters having growing season acid neutralizing capacity (ANC) < 50 eq/L were considered sensitive to acidification and included talus and mining-related areas. Types sensitive to nutrient enrichment were those having average growing season <tex-math>$NO{}_{3}{}^{-}$</tex-math> concentrations > 9.0 eq/L, and included tundra, talus, and rock glaciers. Using the results of this study, San Miguel County commissioners adopted regulations for restricting development in sensitive high-elevation areas, including limits on building footprints and bans on septic systems. The adoption of these regulations lays the foundation for future application of this approach to headwater catchments in other western US locations.
3674537|Mountain lakes, an important mountain resource in China, are increasingly faced with degradation through pollution, eutrophication, and sedimentation. This article reviews the environmental situation of Qionghai Lake in Sichuan Province, China, and presents an analysis of the causes of its degradation. Regulations have been adopted for ecological restoration of Qionghai Lake, and a management bureau has been established. Although some positive results have been achieved, institutional and technical weaknesses and gaps remain. Degradation of mountain lakes is closely linked to degradation of their watersheds. Management of a mountain lake may extend beyond the body of water to overall improvement of its watershed, including livelihood improvement and development for all stakeholders along the lake or in upstream mountain areas. Environmental protection programs need to be integrated within development programs and involve active collaboration among various government agencies. Participatory planning and implementation of programs to restore degraded mountain lakes are also desirable. A multidimensional approach may help provide an in-depth, comprehensive understanding of the environmental problems of mountain lakes.
3674512|The International Year of Mountains (IYM) 2002 drew attention to mountain regions and their fragile ecosystems. The present article makes a comparative analysis of mountain case studies from developing countries (DCs) and industrialized countries (ICs) using sustainability variables in the framework of a Driving force-Pressure-State-Impact-Response Model (DPSIR Model). Response variables, ie efforts made by society to move towards sustainable mountain development (SMD), are believed to improve the situation with regard to sustainability, and are a focus of this study. In the course of the IYM, a total of 40 appropriate case studies were analyzed, to demonstrate the wide variety of approaches to SMD. Case studies that deal with themes considered to be particularly important in mountain regions were chosen for analysis. Such key themes include freshwater, forestry, agriculture, poverty, indigenous knowledge, migration, tourism, and legislation. Variables of great importance in any mountain area include "involvement of stakeholders in planning and development process (public participation)" and "gathering of baseline information." Additional challenges to SMD in DCs include lack of options to facilitate out-migration, declining forest cover, insufficient access to resources, and poverty. The main conclusion of this study is that the DPSIR Model that was applied is an adequate tool with which to analyze SMD case studies, especially studies relating to DCs.
3674610|A typical traditional Andean land-use system was analyzed as the outcome of long-term social learning processes. From this perspective the land-use system is the result of coevolution between society and nature, representing a successive embodiment of ethical principles corresponding to different periods in history. Ethical principles, understood in this study as the main values in which social and spiritual life is rooted, emerge from and are shaped by a process of dialogue between the local worldview and external historical influences. The degree of differentiation among ethical values corresponding to different stages of local history greatly depends on the type of cognitive competence developed by members of a community. The interplay between cognitive competence and concrete social action develops through a system of rotating duties aimed at lifelong learning and development of social competence derived from the ethical principles of the Andean worldview. The equilibrium between cognitive and social competencies creates social coherence, which was and still is necessary for withstanding moments of crisis and conflict. The learning process evolve from single- to double-loop learning, meaning that an individualized understanding of the epistemological basis of ethical values becomes a clear priority. This allows time to experiment with the land-use system as part of a social learning process. The positive conditions supporting social learning processes were a nondualistic worldview, local autonomy and self-determination in social and religious-spiritual life, territorial and productive organization, low levels of formalization of norms, deliberative rather than formal democratic decision making, and a combination of increasingly reflective attitudes and development of specific social competencies among all members of the community.
10.2307/3673541|This paper discusses a local level community forestry action (as opposed to a traditional community forestry program) in central Nepal. It highlights the findings of a case study and outlines factors influencing participation in a community forestry action and their relevance to planning project type social/community forestry programs. Attention is drawn to conditions under which local people are more likely to take a collective local forestry action without much impetus from outside sources; why a project-oriented community forestry program has difficulties in starting such a collective action where people from the entire community participate; and what we can learn about the dynamics of people's involvement from this case of community forestry action and the implications for planned community forestry projects. /// Cet article examine une action communautaire locale en matire de foresterie ( l'oppos d'un programme communautaire traditionnel) dans le Npal central. Il passe en revue les rsultats d'une tude de cas, et esquisse les facteurs qui influencent la participation  une action communautaire, ainsi que leur importance pour la planification de programmes de type projet social/communautaire pour l'exploitation des forts. L'attention est attire sur les conditions dans lesquelles la population locale tend  prendre des initiatives en matire de foresterie sans pression de l'extrieur; sur les raisons pour lesquelles un programme communautaire de foresterie avec une orientation de projet rencontre des difficults  engendrer de telles initiatives o la communaut entire participe; et sur ce que nous pouvons apprendre au sujet de la dynamique de participation de la population  partir de ce cas d'action communautaire, et les implications pour les projets planifis de foresterie communautaire. /// Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert ein forstwirtschaftliches Unternehmen in Zentralnepal, das auflokaler Ebene (im Gegensatz zu den traditionellen Gemeindeforstprogrammen) betrieben wird. Ergebnisse einer Fallstudie stellen die Faktoren heraus, die zu einer lokalen Beteiligung an Forstwirtschaftsunternehmen fhren. Der Wert der Ergebnisse fr die Planung von sozialen/kommunalen Forstprogrammen wird aufgezeigt. Die Vorraussetzungen, unter denen die Lokalbevlkerung, ohne Ansto von dritter Seite eher geneigt ist, gemeinsame forstwirtschaftliche Aktionen zu unternehmen, werden besprochen. Die Frage, warum ein projektorientiertes Forstprogramm Schwierigkeiten beim Aufbau eines kollektiven, die gesamte Gemeinde einschlieendes Unternehmen hat, wird untersucht, auerdem welche Erfahrung aus diesem Beispiel ber die Dynamik kommunaler Beteiligung gewonnen werden kann, sowie welche Folgen es auf hnliche zuknftige Gemeinschaftsprojekte hat.
10.2307/3673384|The altitudinal zonation model, derived from biogeography, has been widely used as a vehicle for characterizing man's imprint on the mountain landscape. Patterns of human activity visible on the landscape have ranged from alpine pastures, forest, and agriculture in a low local relief Alpine model to a six-story model of a high local relief valley of 3,500 m in the Peruvian Andes. These models reflect successful human manipulation of the great range in environmental conditions found in mountain habitats. With the advent of road, track, and bridge construction, especially in the Alpine region of Europe, radical changes in land use have occurred. These changes are functionally related to the degree of accessibility between mountains and lowland areas. A similar process is now under way in the Hindukush-Karakorum-Himalaya where wheeled vehicle routes, many of them constructed for military strategic purposes, have exposed isolated, subsistence-oriented mountain communities to rapid surface communication. Evidence from these mountain communities indicates that major changes in cropping systems, pasturing, and economic integration into marketing networks are taking place. The altitudinal zonation model is no longer suitable for characterizing mountain ecosystems now that human activity is directed to new motorized transportation networks linked to a wider political economy and no longer dependent on altitude. A model incorporating accessibility features is proposed. /// Le modle de formation par zones altitudinales, driv de la biogographie, a t beaucoup utilis comme moyen de caractriser l'impact des communauts humaines sur le paysage. La varit des formes d'activit humaine affectant le paysage a t reprsente, depuis un modle alpin local  bas relief incorporant pturages alpins, forts et terres cultives, jusqu' un modle  six niveaux d'une valle locale  haut relief dans les Andes pruviennes,  3.500 m d'altitude. Ces modles refltent le succs de la manipulation humaine des conditions trs diverses prsentes dans les habitats montagnards. La construction de routes, pistes et ponts, en particulier dans la rgion alpine de l'Europe, a entran des changements trs importants dans l'utilisation des terres. Ces changements sont fonctionnellement lis au niveau d'accessibilit entre les rgions montagneuses et celles en contre-bas. Un processus similaire se dveloppe dans l'Hindou Kouch, le Karakorum et l'Himalaya, o des routes pour la plupart construites  des fins de stratgie militaire offrent aux communauts montagnardes d'auto-consommation des moyens de communication rapide. L'observation de ces communauts indique que des changements importants sont en train de se produire dans les modes de culture, le pacage, et l'intgration conomique dans les rseaux commerciaux de distribution. Le modle de formation par zones altitudinales n'est plus valable pour caractriser les cosystmes montagnards maintenant que les activits humaines sont orientes vers les nouveaux rseaux de transport motoris relis  une conomie politique plus tendue et ne dpendent plus de l'altitude. Un modle tenant compte des facteurs d'accessibilit est propos dans cet article. /// Das Hhenzonierungsmodell, das sich aus der Biogeographie ableitet, ist weitgehend benutzt worden, menschlichen Einflu auf die Berglandschaft zu charakterisieren. Menschliche Aktivitten, die sichtbare Spuren im Landschaftsbild hinterlassen haben, umfassen im Modell alpines Weideland, Wald-und Landwirtschaft sowohl fr ein niedriges, alpines Relief als fr ein Sechs-Hhenniveau-Modell von einem 3500 m Hochtal in den peruanischen Anden. Die Modelle zeigen die erfolgreiche Anpassung an vielfltige Umweltbedingungen, wie sie in Berghabitaten angetroffen werden. Mit dem verstrkten Bau von Straen, Schienen und Brcken ergaben sich, besonders im europischen Alpenraum, radikale Vernderungen in der Landnutzung. Solche Vernderungen sind direkt abhngig von der Zugnglichkeit der Berge vom Tiefland aus. Ein hnlicher Prozess vollzieht sich im Hindukush-Karakorum-Himalaya, wo Straen, die hauptschlich fr militrische Zwecke gebaut wurden, isolierten Berggemeinden mit Selbstversorgungswirtschaft eine schnelle Verbindung zur Auenwelt bringen. Anzeichen aus diesen Berggemeinden deuten darauf hin, da einschneidende Vernderungen in den Anbau- und Weidesystemen, sowie eine konomische Integration in die Marktwirtschaft stattfinden. Das Modell der Hhenzonierung ist jetzt, da sich Aktivitten durch neue motorisierte Transportnetze unabhngig von der Hhenlage an einer umfassenderen politischen konomie orientieren, nicht mehr geeignet, Bergkosysteme zu charakterisieren. Es wird ein Modell vorgeschlagen, das die Merkmale der Zugnglichkeit bercksichtigt.
10.2307/3673439|This paper discusses altitudinal variation of temperature, radiation, and moisture in two extensive mountainous regions of Ethiopia. Mean values of climatic statistics at average altitudes are determined and their variation with altitude during the wettest and driest months are described. The critical altitudes seem to be 2,000 and 2,500 m. At these levels temperature, radiation, and moisture gradients change. It is these changes in gradient that probably influence the altitudinal zonation of vegetation and agricultural land use. /// Cet article discute les variations altitudinales de temprature, radiation et humidit dans deux rgions montagneuses tendues de l'Ethiopie. Les valeurs moyennes des statistiques climatiques  des altitudes moyennes sont dtermines et leurs variations en fonction de l'altitude au cours des mois les plus humides et les plus secs sont dcrites. Les altitudes critiques semblent tre de 2.000 et 2.500 m. A ces niveaux, les gradients de temprature, radiation et humidit changent. Ce sont ces changements de gradient qui influencent probablement la zonation altitudinale de la vgtation et de l'utilisation des terres pour l'agriculture. /// Der vorliegende Artikel diskutiert die Hhenvariabilitt von Temperaturen, Strahlung und Feuchtigkeit in zwei grossen Gebirgssystemen Aethiopiens. Mittlere Werte von Klimastatistiken in mittleren Hhenlagen wurden ermittelt und ihre Variabilitt mit der Hhe fr die feuchtesten und trockensten Monate beschrieben. Als kritischste Hhenlage erschien die Stufe zwischen 2000 und 2500 m .M., wo sich die Hhengradienten von Temperatur, Strahlung und Feuchtigkeit ndern. Diese Tatsache beeinflusst wahrscheinlich die Hhenzonierung von Vegetation und landwirtschaftlicher Nutzung.
4096453|In Southwest China, agricultural land and forestland are traditionally considered to be separate; but, rather than forestry plantations, there is tremendous potential to plant trees on farms to improve agroecosystem mosaics. Agroforests can increase agricultural productivity and supplement farmers' incomes through the sale of fruits, nuts, fuelwood, and timber. Trees on farms can also alleviate fuelwood and timber short-falls. The potential erosion and runoff control benefits provided by a mix of appropriately selected and placed trees can help achieve watershed and biodiversity conservation objectives; on farms these benefits are more significant than on plantations. The World Agroforestry Center (ICRAF) is developing agroforestry with farmers and foresters in Southwest China at several levels by: helping select trees and providing high-quality seeds and saplings; training in management and marketing; documenting experiences to inform policy; and supporting environmental educational and rehabilitation programs.
3674487|In the Italian Alps dairy cattle are taken to mountain ranges during the summer, which can lead to overlap of areas used by cattle with areas traditionally used by wild ungulates. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of dairy cattle husbandry on the utilization by red deer (Cervus elaphus) of a summer range at an altitude of 1500-1700 m in the Central Italian Alps. Spatial overlap between the 2 species occurred, suggesting that the presence of cattle themselves has a limited impact on red deer. The area where milking took place was among the areas most preferred by deer, probably because of the remains of supplementary feed delivered to cattle during milking operations as well as the presence of high concentrations of cattle urine (salt concentration). Milking operations in the field had the highest impact on red deer in our study, as shown by the dramatic reduction of deer in the area (index of presence: IP = 0.03  0.02 during milking versus 0.35  0.07 without milking; P < 0.001) and by the complete absence of spatial overlap during milking. This indicates that human activities related to dairy cattle husbandry had a higher impact on red deer than did the presence of cattle themselves. Deer seemed to adapt to the rhythm of milking operations, which were carried out routinely every day at fixed times, thus representing a predictable disturbance.
10.2307/3672988|Ten percent of the world's population actually lives in mountain regions but more than 40 percent is dependent on the use of mountain resources. Research in mountain ecology for a long time has concentrated on the natural conditions. An understanding of the overwhelming importance of human activity on changing mountain environments has only emerged during the last ten years. Mountains are defined as those areas that have a local relief sufficient to ensure significant vertical ecological differentiation. A continuous interaction between altitudinal belts because of human activity is taken as an integral part of this definition. There is a great contrast between mountain regions in industrialized and developing countries in terms of the patterns of land use and resource development. These processes of mountain resource use are strongly influenced by the degree and type of economic development of the contiguous lowlands. If mountain ecologists are to make a significant contribution to the solution of mountain resource development problems some well-defined steps will be needed. Research in the individual scientific disciplines must be developed within an overall holistic frame-work. An attempt must be made to detect the significant processes and critical indicators of environmental deterioration. Such an approach should lead to a precise determination of minimum data requirements to ensure more efficient use of scientific manpower. Mountain ecosystems should be considered as dynamic and integrated systems. Models should be used as instruments of communication. Effective decisions and their execution will depend upon a special type of education and co-operation for all participants-scientists, practitioners, local inhabitants. Practical ecology must be appreciated as the only effective path to economic stability. /// Dix pourcent de la population mondiale vivent dans les rgions de montagne, mais plus de 40% dpendent d'une manire ou d'une autre des ressources de la montagne. La recherche cologique en montagne s'est longtemps concentre sur les donnes naturelles de cette rgion. Ce n'est qu'au courant des dernires dcennies que o'on a commenc  comprendre l'influence gnralis et profonde des impacts humains sur les cosystmes montagnards sensibles. Les montagnes sont dfinies comme lvations qui montrent grce  leur relief une diffrenciation cologique significative en paliers d'altitude, qui dclenchent une interaction aussi bien dans l'espace naturel que dans l'activit humaine et l'utilisation des sols. Les montagnes des pays industrialiss et des pays en voie de dveloppement montrent une exploitation des terres et des ressources trs diffrencies de aux centres de direction de force conomique diffrente situs  l'entour. Nous avons besoin de recherche fondamentale oriente vers une discipline dans le cadre d'un contexte interdisciplinaire, pour comprendre les "processus cls" et les "indicateurs cls" qui disent des choses essentielles sur le changement de l'entourage. Le "minimum data need" (la ncessit de donnes minimale) est un problme important, pour faire un travail plus rapide et plus efficace. Un systme cologique de montagne devrait tre compris comme un systme dynamique et intgral dans lequel diffrentes scnes et stratgies peuvent se drouler. Dans ce sens, il s'agit d'un excellent instrument de communication entre tous les participants. Mais l'cologie exige aussi des dcisions et des mesures  prendre et ceci demande  son tour de la formation et de l'ducation. L'cologie n'est rien d'autre qu'une "conomie  long terme," mais cela doit tre compris de juste manire par les scientifiques, les responsables de dcisions et les habitants. /// Zehn Prozent der Weltbevlkerung leben in Gebirgsrumen, aber mehr als 40% hngen in irgend einer Weise von den Ressourcen der Gebirge ab. Die kologische Gebirgsforschung war ber lange Zeit hinweg auf die Grssen des Naturhaushaltes konzentriert. Erst in den letzten Jahrzehnten begann man die ber - und tiefgreifende Bedeutung der menschlichen Einwirkungen auf die empfindlichen Gebirgskosysteme zu verstehen. Gebirge werden definiert als Erhebungen, welche durch ihr Relief eine signifikante kologische Differenzierung in Hhenstufen zeigen, dadurch eine Interaktion zwischen diesen Stufen auslsen, sowohl im Naturhaushalt wie in der menschlichen Ttigkeit und Landnutzung. Gebirge in Industriestaaten und Entwicklungslnder zeigen eine sehr differenzierte Land - und Ressourcennutzung, bedingt durch konomisch verschieden starke Steuerungszentren des Umlandes. Wir bentigen eine disziplinorientierte Grundlagenforschung im Rahmen eines interdisziplinren Ansatzes, um "Schlsselprozesse" und "Schlsselindikatoren," die wesentliches ber die Vernderung der Umwelt aussagen, zu verstehen. Die "Minimum Data-Need" ist ein wichtiges Problem, um raschere und effizientere Arbeit zu leisten. Ein Gebirgskosystem sollte als ein dynamisches und integrales System verstanden werden, in dem verschiedene Szenarien und Strategien durchgespielt werden knnen. In diesem Sinne ist es ein ausgezeichnetes Kommunikationsinstrument zwischen allen Beteiligten und Betroffenen. Oekologie verlangt aber auch Entscheidungen und Massnahmen und dieses wiederum verlangt Ausbildung und Erziehung. Oekologie ist nichts anderes als "Langzeitkonomie," aber das muss von Wissenschaftern, Entscheidungstrgern und Einwohnern richtig verstanden werden.
10.2307/3673911|A study of afforestation projects in the Cuenca area of the southern Sierra of Ecuador led to identification of a number of factors that affect their success or failure. The aims of afforestation are diverse, and include increased production, farm diversification, soil conservation, and wildlife conservation, and each development scheme should have a combination of purpose. Various agencies have worked towards these needs but their priorities have differed. The physical survival of forests in this area is not a problem. The study indicates that economic success occurs at specific locations and begins with the commitment of small groups or enthusiastic individuals; this effort should be channeled into specific areas and then spread spatially and sectorally to other interests. This contradicts standard rural development policy which has emphasized an even spread of effort and benefits. Failures occur where lack of commitment leads to neglect, poor maintenance, deficient management, and lack of understanding between the agencies and the community. Conservation and production planning should incorporate the needs of different physical environments in the paramo uplands, on mountain slopes, and along valley floors. /// Une tude des projets de boisement dans la zone de Cuenca situe dans le Sierra Sud de l'Equateur a permis d'identifier un certain nombre de facteurs qui affectent leur russite ou leur chec. Les buts du boisement sont divers et comprennent une augmentation des profits raliss par les fermiers, la diversification des fermes, la prservation du sol et de la faune; chaque schma de dveloppement doit combiner plusieurs buts. Diffrentes agences ont essay de rpondre  ces besoins, mais leurs priorits ont diffr. La survie physique des forts dans cette zone ne prsente aucun problme. L'tude indique que le succs conomique se produit  certains endroits et commence avec l'engagement de petits groupes ou d'individus motivs; cet effort doit tre canalis dans des zones particulires et tendu spatialement et sectoriellement  d'autres intrts. Cela contredit la politique traditionnelle de dveloppement rural qui a mis l'accent sur une rpartition uniforme des efforts et des avantages. Les checs se sont produits lorsque le manque d'engagement a men  la ngligence,  un entretien insuffisant,  une mauvaise gestion et un manque de comprhension entre les agences et la communaut. La conservation et la planification de la production doivent incorporer les besoins des diffrents environnements physiques du paramo, sur les versants montagneux et dans les fonds de valles. /// An einer Studie von Aufforstungsbemhungen im Cuenca Gebiet in der sdlichen Sierra von Ecuador werden die Ursachen von Erfolgen und Fehlschlgen untersucht und benannt. Die Zielsetzungen der Aufforstung sind vielfltig und umfassen Steigerung der Farmprofite, Diversifizierung des Pflanzgutes, Bodenerhaltung, sowie Erhaltung der Tierwelt. Jeder Entwicklungsplan sollte eine Kombination dieser Zielsetzungen in betracht ziehen. Verschiedene Organisationen haben dies zur Kenntnis genommen, die Prioritten jedoch waren verschieden. Der Waldbestand des untersuchten Gebietes ist nicht gefhrdet. Die Studie findet, da an bestimmten Orten der erhoffte konomische Erfolg eintritt; wenn sich kleine Gruppen oder engagierte Einzelpersonen bemhen; fr bestimmte Gebiete sollten gezielte Unternehmungen angestrebt werden, die sich dann rumlich ausdehnen und andere Interessenbereiche miteinschlieen. Diese Auffassung widerspricht der geltenden buerlichen Entwicklungspolitik, die eine gleichmige Verteilung von Einsatz und Nutzen anstrebt. Zu Fehlschlgen kommt es wenn Desinteresse zu Vernchlssigung, schlechter Instandhaltung und mangelhaftem Management fhrt und wenn die Verstndigung zwischen Organisation und Gemeinde fehlt. Erhaltungsbemhungen und Produktionsplanung sollten die Besonderheiten der physikalisch verschiedenartigen Umweltgegebenheiten des paramo Hochlandes, der Berghnge und des Talbodens bercksichtigen.
10.2307/3673525|The Spitak earthquake, magnitude 7 on the Richter scale, which occurred on 7 December 1988 caused extensive damage throughout the area and resulted in over 25,000 deaths. This paper examines the geographical components of the damage and the reconstruction activities in relation to environmental factors such as tectonics, topography, location of settlements, land use, and types of construction and building materials used. An air survey was undertaken soon after the catastrophe and was repeated during the following summer to determine the relationship between the severity of damage and geographical parameters. An inventory of types of buildings revealed a high correlation between seismic resistance and quality of construction; the most heavily damaged buildings were usually occupied by low-income households. The main factors that determine the spatial pattern of earthquake damage were the distance from the epicenter, location in relation to active tectonic zones, the substrata and drainage systems, the quality of construction, and the settlement pattern and economic activity of each area. Reconstruction activities have involved the acquisition of what was formerly agricultural land to be used for sites for dumping waste and rubble, for construction, for production of building materials and transport facilities, and for housing for laborers. This land withdrawal has been indiscriminate and the established system of land use has been ignored. Negative results include the reduction in the area of agricultural land use and soil erosion so that the environmental and economic stability of the region is seriously threatened. /// Le sisme du Spitak, d'intensit 7 sur l'chelle de Richter, s'est produit le 7 dcembre 1988; il a caus des dommages considrables dans la rgion et a tu 25.000 personnes. Cet article examine les composants gographiques de l'endommagement et les activits de reconstruction en rapport avec des facteurs environnementaux tels que la tectonique, la topographie, l'emplacement des villages, l'utilisation des terres, ainsi que les types de construction et les matriaux utiliss. Un lev arien a t effectu juste aprs la catastrophe et de nouveau l't suivant, dans le but de dterminer la relation entre la gravit des dommages et les paramtres gographiques. Un inventaire des types de btiments a montr une haute corrlation entre la rsistance sismique et la qualit de la construction; les btiments les plus endommags taient en gnral occups par des familles pauvres. Les facteurs principaux qui ont dtermin la configuration spatiale des dommages sismiques sont la distance  partir de l'picentre, l'emplacement par rapport aux zones tectoniques actives, les substrata et les systmes de drainage, la qualit de la construction, et la configuration du peuplement et l'activit conomique de chaque zone. Les activits de reconstruction ont mis en jeu l'acquisition de terres agricoles pour la dcharge de dtritus et de dcombres, la construction, la production de matriaux de construction, les installations de transport et le logement des ouvriers. La raffectation des terres s'est faite au hasard, ignorant le systme existant d'utilisation des terres. Les effets ngatifs de ces activits comprennent une rduction de la superficie des terres cultives et un rosion du sol, et sont tels que la stabilit environnementale et conomique de la rgion est srieusement menace. /// Das Spitak Erdbeben mit Strke 7 auf der Richter Skala, das sich am 7 Dezember 1988 ereignete, verursachte ber weite Gebiete groen Schaden und forderte ber 25.000 Menschenleben. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht die geographischen Komponenten bei der Schadensbeurteilung und die Wiederaufbauanstrengungen in Verhltnis zu Umweltfaktoren wie Tektonik, Topographie, Lage der Siedlungen, Landnutzung, Bauart und benutzte Baumaterialien. Eine Begutachtung mittels Luftaufnahmen wurde kurz nach der Katastrophe und erneut whrend des folgenden Sommers vorgenommen, um eine Beziehung zwischen Schadensausma und geographischen Parametern zu finden. Eine Bestandsaufnahme der Gebudetypen ergab eine starke Wechselbeziehung zwischen seismischer Widerstandsfhigkeit und Konstruktionsgte. Die Gebude, die am schwersten beschdigt waren, gehrten hauptschlich zu Haushaltungen mit niedrigem Einkommen. Hauptfaktoren, die die Schadensverteilung bei Erdbeben bestimmen, sind die Entfernung vom Epizentrum, die Lage im Verhltnis zu aktiven, tektonischen Zonen, das System der Unterschichten und des Wasserabflusses, die Gte der Baukonstruktion und die Siedlungsart, sowie die ansssigen konomischen Unternehmungen. Der Wiederaufbau schlo den Erwerb von ehemals landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen ein, die als Schuttabladen, als Baupltze, zur Produktion von Baumaterial, als Transportwege und zur Unterbringung der Arbeiter genutzt wurden. Dieser Landentzug geschah willkrlich under Miachtung des bestehenden Landnutzungssystems. Die negativen Auswirkungen schlieen eine Verringerung des Ackerlandes ein und fhrten zu Bodenerosion, was die Umweltstabilitt und die konomische Basis dieses Gebietes ernsthaft gefhrdet.
10.2307/3673826|The introduction and extension of basic facilities in a rural landscape was analyzed in relationship to the development of a road network in a high-altitude, remote location in the Indian Central Himalaya. In general, the infrastructure was concentrated along a road or within a distance of two kilometers, and declined with increasing distance from the road. However, the distribution of primary education units and postal services was not affected by road development but the impact of a road was clearly visible. The major human and animal health-care facilities were concentrated at a few easily accessible points, and the location of other facilities was determined by distance from the road. Drinking water supplied by government agencies and an electricity network were initially introduced along the road network and then extended whereas telecommunication facilities (telephone and telegraph) and financial institutions were established only along the road. A road network is the most felt need for socioeconomic development in remote and inaccessible mountains areas that are cut off from mainstream development. /// L'introduction et l'extension des quipements collectifs dans un environnement rural ont t analyses en rapport avec le dveloppement d'un rseau routier dans une rgion isole de haute altitude situe dans l'Himalaya central de l'Inde. En gnral, l'infrastructure tait concentre le long des routes ou  moins de deux kilomtres des routes, et diminuait selon l'loignement des routes. La rpartition des units d'ducation primaire et des services postaux n'tait nanmoins pas affecte par le dveloppement du rseau routier, mais l'impact des routes tait nettement visible. Les services de sant principaux, pour les habitants et les animaux, taient concentrs  quelques points d'accs facile et l'emplacement des autres installations tait dtermin par l'loignement des routes. La fourniture d'eau potable par les agences gouvernementales et un rseau lectrique ont t initialement introduits le long du rseau routier, puis largis, alors que les installations de tlcommunications (tlphone, tlgraphe) et les institutions financires n'ont t tablies que le long des routes. Un rseau routier constitue le besoin le plus pressant pour le dveloppement socioconomique des rgions montagneuses loignes et inaccessibles qui ne sont pas en contact avec le courant de dveloppement dominant. /// Im Zusammenhang mit der Entwicklung des Verkehrsnetzes in einer abgelegenen Gegend hoch im indischen Zentralhimalaya wurden die Einrichtung und Erweiterung elementarer Versorgungseinrichtungen in dieser lndlichen Gegend untersucht. Im allgemeinen konzentrierte sich die Infrastruktur entlang der Straen oder innerhalb der angrenzenden zwei Kilometer und nahm mit zunehmender Entfernung von den Straen ab. Die Verteilung der Schulen und Postmter war dagegen nicht von der Straenentwicklung abhngig, wenn auch der Einflu der Straen deutlich erkennbar war. Die wichtigsten human- und tiermedizinischen Einrichtungen waren auf an einige gut erreichbare Orte beschrnkt, whrend die Plazierung weiterer Versorgungseinrichtungen von der Entfernung zur nchstgelegenen Strae bestimmt wurde. Die staatliche Trinkwasser- und Elektrizittsversorgung wurde zunchst entlang der Straen aufgebaut und dann erweitert, whrend Telekommunikationseinrichtungen (Telefon und Telegrafie) und Finanzeinrichtungen auf die Straen beschrnkt blieben. Fr die soziokonomische Entwicklung abgelegener und schwer zugnglicher Gebirgsgegenden, die vom allgemeinen Fortschritt nicht erreicht werden, wird am dringendsten ein Straennetz bentigt.
10.2307/3672932|This paper considers how the natural environmental characteristics and social evolution of the Central Andean region have interacted to produce the present-day land-use patterns. Causes of relatively low economic productivity are explored and suggestions are made for an ecologically balanced expansion of production. It is proposed that the upper limits of human activity are those imposed by phytomass productivity as the basis for domestic animal feed, rather than the physiological constraints of high altitude. The approach taken to meet these objectives is to describe the functioning of the Andean physical/sociological/political system at three points in history. These are: 1) the Inca period of the early sixteenth century; 2) the colonial period of the seventeenth century; and 3) the mid-twentieth century. From this historic base, the question of how the existing system might be enhanced is examined. This is undertaken through analysis of the current utilization and exploitation of the major environments that comprise the Central Andes. It is concluded that the Central Andes, like many major mountain areas of the world inhabited by peasant societies, is an economically poor region. It is a traditional source of emigration, yet national investment of development and research capital favours the adjacent low-lying areas and exacerbates the contrasts. Prospects for improved productivity and enhanced well-being of local highland communities are real. The paper ends with a review of several possible approaches. /// Cette tude examine la manire dont les caractristiques naturelles de l'environnement et l'volution sociale des Andes Centrales se sont conjugues pour produire les formes actuelles d'exploitation des terres. Les causes du rendement conomique relativement faible sont explores et des suggestions sont faites pour augmenter la production tout en prservant l'quilibre cologique. L'tude considre que les altitudes maximales de l'activit humaine sont dtermines par le rendement de la phytomasse formant la base de l'alimentation des animaux domestiques, plutt que par les contraintes physiologiques. L'approche utilise pour atteindre ces objectifs consiste  dcrire le fonctionnement du systme physique, sociologique, et politique andin au cours de trois priodes historiques: 1) la priode Inca au dbut du seizime sicle; 2) la priode coloniale du dix-septime sicle; et 3) le milieu du vingtime sicle. A partir de cette base historique, l'tude aborde la question des possibilits d'amlioration du systme actuel en analysant les prsentes formes d'exploitation des environnements prinicipaux des Andes Centrales. La conclusion est que les Andes Centrales, comme beaucoup d'autres rgions montagneuses du monde occupes par des socits paysannes, constituent une rgion conomiquement faible. Cette rgion a toujours t une source d'migration, et en dpit de cela, l'investissement national en capital pour le dveloppement et la recherche favorise les zones basses adjacentes, aggravant ainsi les contrastes. Nanmoins, les chances d'amliorer la productivit et d'augmenter le bien-tre sont relles. L'tude donne finalement un aperu des diverses aproches possibles. /// Es wird untersucht, wie die heutige Art der Bodennutzung in den Zentralanden durch die Wechselwirkung zwischen natrlicher Umwelt und sozialer Entwicklung entstanden ist. Die Ursachen der relativ niedrigen wirtschaftlichen Produktivitt werden gesucht und Vorschlge zu einer kologisch ausgeglichenen Produktivittssteigerung gemacht. Es wird vorgeschlagen, da die obere Grenze menschlicher Aktivitt durch den Bodenertrag gegeben wird, und nicht durch die physiologischen Zwnge, die sich aus der Hhenlage ergeben. Um diese Ziele zu erreichen, mu man das bestehende natrliche, gesellschaftliche und politische System der Anden in drei historischen Zeitabschnitten beschreiben. Diese sind: 1) Das Incazeitalter des frhen 16. Jahrhunderts, 2) Die Kolonialherrschaft des 17. Jahrhunderts, und 3) die erste Hlfte des 20. Jahrhunderts. Aus dieser historischen Sicht wird geprft, was unternommen werden kann, um das bestehende System zu verbessern. Dies geschieht durch eine Untersuchung ber die gegenwrtige Nutzung und Ausbeutung der Umwelt in den Anden. Wie viele andere groe Gebirgsgegenden der Welt, die von buerlichen Gemeinschaften bewohnt werden, sind die Anden ein wirtschaftlich armes Gebiet. Seit jeher ist die Abwanderung gro, trotzdem wird die anschlieende Tiefebene durch staatliche Investitionen zur Erschlieung und durch Forschungsgelder begnstigt, und die Gegenstze verschlimmern sich. Die Aussichten fr eine erhhte Produktivitt und wachsenden Wohlstand der Hochlandgemeinden sind gut. Die Verffentlichung schliet mit einem berblick ber verschiedene mgliche Methoden. /// Esta monografa examina la interaccin entre las caractersticas ambientales naturales y la evolucin social de la regin de los Andes Centrales y cmo sto ha resultado en las formas actuales del aprovechamiento de tierras. Se exploran las causas de la relativamente baja productividad econmica y se hacen sugerencias para la expansin de una produccin ecolgicamente equilibrada. Se propone que los lmites superiores de la actividad humana sean los impuestos por la productividad de la fitomasa como base para la alimentacin de los animales domesticados, en lugar de las restricciones fisiolgicas impuestas por la altura. El enfoque adoptado para alcanzar estos objetivos, es la descripcin del funcionamiento del sistema fsico-sociolgico-poltico de los Andes en tres perodos de la historia. Estos son: 1) el perodo inca a principios del siglo XVI; 2) el perodo colonial del siglo XVII; 3) el perode de mediados del siglo XX. Desde esta base histrica se examina la pregunta de cmo puede ser mejorado el sistema existente. Se intenta sto mediante el anlisis de la utilizacin y explotacin actual de las principales zonas que comprenden los Andes Centrales. La conclusin es que los Andes Centrales, como muchas reas montaosas importantes del mundo habitadas por sociedades campesinas, es una regin econmicamente pobre. Es una fuente tradicional de emigracin y, a pesar de eso, la inversin nacional para el desarrollo y los fondos para investigacin favorecen las reas bajas adyacentes, exacerbando los contrastes. Las perspectivas para mejorar la productividad y mejorar el bienestar local de las comunidades de las tierras altas son positivas. Lamonografa termina con un anlisis de varios enfoques posibles.
3674292|The Alps extend across the territory of 7 countries in Central Europe. But what do they actually represent? Do they constitute the major barrier between north and south? Are they a reservoir of future European resources? Are they an all-purpose Disneyland for anyone seeking recreation, fun, or simply a quick thrill? Should they be seen as a habitat and a cultural landscape or a global model for sustainable development? Depending on the personal point of view of the observer or of the people who inhabit the Alps, they may be all or only one of these things.
mounresedeve.31.1.5|In response to the devastating earthquake that hit northern Pakistan on 8 October 2005, the German Red Cross (GRC), in partnership with the Economic Security Unit of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), implemented a complex livestock restocking program combined with structural interventions in the basic animal health sector. Livestock restocking, which was a new experience for both GRC and ICRC, indicates a shift from the relief operations that are traditionally the main domain of both organizations toward development approaches that aim to provide sustainable support for affected populations. The project activities are an example of an agency's move to facilitate a transition from relief measures to lasting development, with the aim of reducing the frequency, intensity, and impact of livelihood shocks, while simultaneously reducing the need for emergency relief. The question remains whether the project's rehabilitation efforts succeeded in connecting the end of relief with the establishment of sustainability in the livestock sector, including the support of local livestock production, processing, and marketing systems. Overall, the livestock intervention project helped restore rural livelihoods in a remote mountain area and heightened coping capacities in households that succeeded in making productive and sustainable use of the animals.
10.2307/3673546|It is not easy to define the Ethiopian Highlands and to differentiate them from the lowlands. This paper represents an effort to define the Ethiopian Highlands and to assess the pressure from both human and animal impact and the general level of strain, which is perceived as the effect of stress, as expressed by food shortage years per awraja or province. /// Il n'est pas facile de dfinir les Hautes Terres de l'Ethiopie et des les diffrencier des basses terres. Cet article tente de dfinir ces hautes terres et d'y valuer l'impact des tres humains et des animaux, ainsi que le niveau gnral de contrainte exprim par le nombre d'annes de disette par awraja ou province. /// Es ist nicht leicht, die thiopischen Hochlnder zu beschreiben und sie von den Tieflanden zu differenzieren. Dieser Artikel versucht, die thiopischen Hochlnder zu definieren, ihre Belastung durch Mensch und Tier zu erfassen und kologische Belastungen abzuschtzen, die sich in nahrungsmittelknappen Jahren pro awraja oder pro Provinz bemerkbar machen.
10.2307/3673023|The grain-growing lowland regions of pre-industrial Switzerland are compared with the pastoral regions in the highlands with respect to their vulnerability to meteorological stress and changes in the carrying capacity of the land achieved by the introduction of new technologies between the sixteenth and the nineteenth century. The pastoral agriculture was basically unstable (no balance between winter and summer feeding capacity) and also highly vulnerable to climatic shocks. Apart from the potato, innovations could not be introduced during the nineteenth century. The lowland system on the other hand has been far better buffered from meteorological stress. In addition, agricultural output was raised substantially after the end of the eighteenth century due to the introduction of clover, the adoption of indoor cattle feeding in summer, and incorporation of the potato. /// Les rgions cralires de la Suisse pr-industrielle sont compares avec les rgions d'levage en montagne quant  leur vulnrabilit aux fluctuations mtorologiques et quant  leur potentiel d'adaptation aux innovations technologiques de l'agriculture durant la priode s'tendant du seizime au dix-neuvime sicle. L'conomie des rgions d'levage tait instable (dsquilibre entre les stocks fourragers en hiver et en t) et trs vulnrable aux extrmes climatiques. A l'exception de la pomme de terre, aucune des innovations du dix-neuvime sicle ne put s'y introduire. Les rgions cralires du Moyen-Pays taient par contre bien moins sensibles aux svices du climat. De surcrot, grce  l'introduction du trfle et de la pomme de terre d'une part, et de l'levage du btail en table en t d'autre part, la production agricole augmenta ds le dbut du dix-neuvime sicle. /// Die Getreidebaugebiete der alten Schweiz werden fr die Zeit vom 16. bis ins 19. Jahrhundert bezglich ihrer Belastbarkeit fr Klimaschwankungen und hinsichtlich ihres agrarischen Innovationspotentials mit den Viehzuchtgebieten des Hirtenlandes verglichen. Die Wirtschaft des Hirtenlandes krankte an einer unausgeglichenen Ftterungskapazitt im Sommer und im Winter. Sie war ausserdem sehr anfllig fr meteorologische Extremverhltnisse. Von den agrarischen Innovationen fand nur gerade die Kartoffel Eingang. Im Kornland konnten Missernten seit jeher besser verkraftet werden. Ausserdem konnte vom Ende des 18. Jahrhunderts an durch die Einfhrung des Kleebaus, der Kartoffel und der Stallftterung im Sommer die Brache und die Allmende bebaut werden. Damit konnte die wachsende Bevlkerung aus eigener Produktion ernhrt werden.
4540677|Climate change aggravates the challenges of sustainable development in mountain regions and calls for deeper insights into impacts on the vulnerability of mountain people and their options for adapting to changing conditions. Peru is considered highly vulnerable to climate change. Therefore, its government has initiated a program to strengthen the capacity for transdisciplinary research in order to propose adaptation measures and reduce the negative impacts of climate change. The present article describes the strategy for selecting the study area and for achieving collaboration between natural and social scientists, stakeholders, decision-makers, and other societal groups, in order to carry out an integrated assessment of climate change in the mountainous ecosystems region of central Peru, with an emphasis on vulnerability and adaptation.
mounresedeve.36.3.376|Mountain areas cover a significant proportion of the European continent. Within the European Union (EU), many of the newest Member States have particularly high proportions of mountainous land. Ongoing debates in the EU relate to perceptions of mountains as being handicapped or marginalized versus having specific development opportunities, and to the challenges of climate change and other global changes. In 2015 and 2016, these issues have been highlighted by the European Parliament and through the publication of a strategic research agenda by the SwissAustrian Alliance.
10.2307/3673659|Until the beginning of this century Mount Kenya was a fairly undisturbed equatorial mountain, but it is now recognized as a vital natural resource that influences all aspects of life around its volcanic slopes. Not only is it the source of water supplies for local people and livestock but it also provides abundant timber, rich soils, and excellent farmlands. The upper parts of the mountain still preserve the remnants of what were once more extensive tropical glaciers. The altitudinal zonation of vegetation makes it ideal for ethnobotanical studies and important for biodiversity, especially of tropical alpine flora. Therefore, Mount Kenya deserves careful land-use management so that the rich resources will be sustained for perpetual use by future generations. This paper assesses the impact of the dense and rapidly increasing human population that lives around the mountain. /// Jusqu'au dbut du vingtime sicle, le Mont Kenya constituait un environnement quatorial de montagne peu affect par l'impact humain, mais il est maintenant reconnu comme une ressource naturelle essentielle affectant tous les aspects de l'existence humaine au voisinage de ses versants volcaniques. Il constitue non seulement une source d'approvisionnement en eau pour la population et le btail, mais il fournit galement en abondance des arbres, des sols riches et d'excellentes terres agricoles. La partie suprieure de la montagne montre encore des signes d'anciens glaciers tropicaux de grande tendue. La zonation altitudinale de la vgtation est idale pour les tudes ethnobotaniques et d'une grande importance pour la biodiversit, en particulier la flore alpine tropicale. Pour cette raison, le Mont Kenya doit faire l'objet d'une gestion prudente de l'exploitation des terres, pour s'assurer que les ressources naturelles abondantes soient prserves pour les gnrations futures. Cet article value l'impact de l'accroissement rapide de la densit de la population humaine aux environs de la montagne. /// Bis zum Beginn dieses Jahrhunderts war Mount Kenia ein fast unberhrter, quatorialer Berg. Heute werden seine, alle Lebensbereiche beeinflussenden, vulkanischen Hnge als lebenswichtige Naturressource angesehen. Nicht nur ist er Quellgebiet fr die Wasserversorgung der lokalen Bevlkerung und ihres Viehbestandes, sondern er bietet auch reichlich Nutzholz, fruchtbare Bden und ausgezeichnetes Ackerland. Im oberen Berggebiet gibt es Reste von einst ausgedehnten, tropischen Gletschern. Die Hhenzonierung der Vegetation ist fr ethnobotanische Studien ideal, und sie frdert die biologische Vielfalt besonders der tropischen, alpinen Flora. Mount Kenia braucht ein umsichtiges Landnutzungsmanagement, um die reichen Naturressourcen zur anhaltenden Nutzung knftiger Generationen zu erhalten. Diese Verffentlichung beurteilt die Einwirkungen, die die hohe, schnell wachsende Bevlkerungsdichte auf die Umgebung des Berges hat.
10.2307/3673356|This paper examines demographic and socio-economic forces in high isolated parts of the world. These regions were not always isolated; they were once the centres of their own particular worlds which, in some cases, were complex civilizations. It is their relegation to the very periphery of the modern world that is the principal theme of this paper. Population migration, both into and out of these areas, has played a vital role in linking mountainous regions to the wider world. Particular attention is paid to the part played by the traditional mobility patterns and by the resource base of the mountains in the transformation of integral, self-sufficient cultures into dependent subservient part-cultures: the regions of refuge. The effect of population pressure and the development of outmigration from the Andes of Peru is examined first and the analysis is extended to the highlands of Papua New Guinea and to several regions in the Himalayan arc to provide the background for a comparative study of regions of refuge. /// Cette tude examine les forces dmographiques et socio-conomiques  l'oeuvre dans les rgions montagneuses isoles du globe. Loin d'avoir toujours t isoles, ces rgions taient jadis les centres de mondes particuliers o ont parfois fleuri des civilisations complexes. Le fait qu'elles soient maintenant relgues aux confins extrmes du monde moderne constitue le thme essentiel de cette tude. Les migrations de population en provenance et  destination de ces rgions, qui les ont relies au reste du monde, ont  cet gard jou un rle prdominant. Un intrt particulier est accord au rle des schmas traditionnels de mobilit et de la base de ressources disponibles dans la transformation de cultures cohrentes et autosuffisantes en sous-cultures asservies: les zones retranches. L'analyse porte d'abord sur les effets de la pression dmographique et des courants d'migration croissants dans les Andes pruviennes, puis dans les rgions montagneuses de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine, et enfin dans plusieurs rgions de la chane de l'Himalaya, aux fins d'une tude comparative de ces zones retranches. /// In diesem Beitrag werden die demographischen und sozio-konomischen Krfte untersucht, die in isolierten Hochlndern der Welt wirken. Diese Regionen waren nicht immer abgeschlossen; sie sind vielmehr Zentren ihrer eigenen, besonderen Welten gewesen, die in einigen Fllen vielschichtige Zivilisationen waren. Ihre Verbannung an den Rand der modernen Welt ist der Hauptgegenstand dieses Artikels. Bevlkerungswanderungen in und aus diesen Gebieten haben eine wichtige Rolle gespielt bei der Verbindung von Gebirgsregionen mit der brigen Welt. Traditionelle Mobilittsmuster sowie die Rohstoff- und Ernhrungsgrundlage waren ebenfalls von Bedeutung bei der Umwandlung von eigenstndigen Kulturen zu abhngigen Teilkulturen: den Fluchtregionen. Der Einfluss des Bevlkerungswachstums und die Entwicklung der Abwanderung aus den Andengebieten Peru's wird zunchst diskutiert, und die Untersuchung wird dann ausgeweitet auf das Hochland von Papua Neu Guinea und auf verschiedene Regionen in Himalaya Bogen, um damit den Hintergrund fr eine vergleichende Studie der Fluchtregionen zu liefern.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r62|       ,      (     ,     ),     (   ).                       .       ,           . -      ,           .     ,   ,  - ,   ,            .              - .               ,  -   - .
mounresedeve.30.3.205|Swidden agriculture is central to the livelihoods and culture of the Dulong people in northwest Yunnan, China. In 2002, the Sloping Land Conversion Program (SLCP) was first being implemented in the Dulong Valley. Under this program, all swidden land and most permanent arable lands were converted to forest, in return for which villagers received grain subsidies. In view of the importance of traditional agriculture in Dulong livelihoods and culture, and the potential uniqueness of agrobiodiversity in the Dulong Valley, the Center for Biodiversity and Indigenous Knowledge (CBIK), a nongovernmental organization based in Yunnan, has been undertaking surveys and action research on the impacts of the SLCP since 2005. By drawing on previous studies, data provided by the local government, and a new survey of the current status of traditional crop cultivation conducted in 2 villages in 2009, this article describes some of the impacts of the SLCP on agrobiodiversity, livelihoods, and traditional culture in the Dulong Valley. Results of surveys found that, before 2002, at least 12 crop types were commonly planted in swiddens, including 7 underutilized species. By 2009, only a minority of households continued to cultivate these crops. Changes in land use and grain availability have also led to a significant reduction in the number of livestock raised, and, in some cases, animal genetic diversity is being threatened. Elder Dulong villagers are concerned that these changes will lead to the erosion of traditional culture. The article also describes activities that are now being conducted to conserve agrobiodiversity and support cultural transmission in Dulong Valley. Events such as seed fairs, arts competitions, and revival of swidden cultivation on a small scale have attracted the attention of villagers and local government, and conservation of agrobiodiversity through value addition is now on the agenda.
10.2307/3673144|The annual influx of several thousand tourists into Nepal's Khumbu region, where Mount Everest and other well-known peaks are located, has created various demands on the limited natural resources of the area. It has resulted also in substantial tourist-related construction in the district capital, Namche Bazar. Between the early 1970s and the 1980s, the annual number of tourists visiting Khumbu rose from a few hundred to several thousand. Despite the substantial fuel requirements of this large visitor population, additional damage to the region's already partially denuded forests has been avoided by requiring all visitors to import their own fuel for cooking purposes. Local monitoring of tourist activities is made possible through the Sagarmatha (Everest) National Park whose Headquarters are located at Namche Bazar; the Park programmes include enforcement of wood-cutting regulations, trail and bridge maintenance, and upkeep of a visitor centre and research library. Continued involvement of local village government in Park management decisions seems essential if current problems, such as waste management, are to be resolved. /// L'afflux annuel de plusieurs milliers de touristes dans le Khumbu au Npal, l o se situent le mont Everest et d'autres sommets bien connus, a cr des exigences diverses au regard des ressources naturelles limites de la rgion. Il en a galement rsult un effort sensible de construction  Namche Bazar (capitale du district) pour pourvoir aux besoins du tourisme. Entre le dbut des annes 70 et les annes 80, le nombre de touristes ayant visit le Khumbu est pass de quelques centaines  plusieurs milliers par an. Nanmoins, l'obligation impose aux visiteurs d'amener leur propre combustible pour faire la cuisine a permis d'viter d'endommager davantage les forts avoisinantes qui taient dj partiellement dnudes. Le contrle local des activits touristiques a t rendu possible par la cration du parc national de Sagarmatha (Everest), dont le sige se trouve  Namche Bazar. Les programmes grs dans le cadre du parc comprennent l'application des rgles de coupe du bois, l'entretien des pistes et des ponts, et le maintien d'un centre d'acceuil et d'une bibliothque de recherche. La participation soutenue des autorits locales dans les dcisions affectant l'exploitation du parc semble tre indispensable pour que les problmes actuels, tels que la voirie, puissent tre rsolus. /// Der jhrliche Zustrom von mehreren tausend Touristen zum Mt. Everest und den umgebenden Hochgebirgsgipfeln stellt an die an sich geringen Natur- und Bodenschtze der Khumbu Region von Nepal erhoehte Ansprche. Die Zahl der Touristen hat sich von einigen Hunderten in 1971 bis ber 5000 in 1981 vermehrt, und das Stadtbild von Namche Bazar, der Zentrale des Khumbus, hat sich durch Bauten fr den Fremdenverkehr betrchtlich gendert. Trotz des vergrsserten Anspruchs des Fremdenverkehrs an das Holz, dem Hauptbrennstoff der Gegend, konnte weitere Entwaldung der schon teilweise abgeholzten Wlder vermieden werden. Touristen mssen jetzt ihren eigenen Brennstoff fr Kochzwecke einfhren. Der Fremdenverkehr wird von der Verwaltung des Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) Naturschutzparks berwacht. Der Park reguliert Holzfllen, hlt Wege und Brcken instand, und unterhlt ein Fremdenverkehrsbro und eine Forschungsbibliothek. Beteiligung der Einwohnerschaft an den Entscheidungen der Parkverwaltung ist unumgnglich, um solche modernen Probleme wie hygienische Abwsser zu lsen.
mounresedeve.31.1.61|Geographers face choices in publishing research in outlets that affiliate them with a discipline that gauges the overall development of their academic standing by the approval of the peer-review process. It is not only actual publication that counts but also when and where an article is published. Well-published geographers often find themselves at the fuzzy boundaries of traditional disciplinary work, because often the nature of the profession tends to develop holistically, which favors new hybrid approaches, fusing techniques, sharing methodologies, and above all, creating new coupled constructions for the appropriation of concepts associated with place and space. We argue that nowhere is this more important than in mountain geography, where different sciences not only converge to analyze mountain ecosystems but also apply the subspecialties of human and physical geography for better understanding of mountain landscapes. By separating physical geography journals from human geography outlets, geographers pigeonhole professional development and favor reductionistic views of mountain functions, forms, and changes.
mounresedeve.33.4.391|Inclusion of periods of unmanaged or natural fallowing is an important soil management practice in the potato-based cropping systems of the resource-poor Andean highland region (Altiplano) of Bolivia. However, in recent years the area in fallow and the fallow length are being reduced due to greater land use intensity and competing land uses. The objectives of this study were to determine the effects of the length of cropping and fallowing periods on soil degradation or soil restoration, and to compare the potential soil carbon and nitrogen mineralization from a range of cropped and fallow lands at different elevations. Four representative indigenous communities of the semiarid central Altiplano were selected, 2 at a relatively high elevation and 2 at a relatively low elevation. Soil samples were collected in 2006 and 2007 from fields at the first, second, and third year of crop rotation and from fields with 1, 10, 20, 30, and 40 years of fallow and analyzed for several soil properties. In general, the upper elevations had significantly higher soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, inorganic nitrogen, soil test phosphorus and potassium, exchangeable calcium and magnesium, and cation exchange capacity than the lower elevations. Cropping significantly decreased total and active soil organic carbon and total, inorganic, and active soil nitrogen. Fallowing was observed to restore total and active soil organic carbon and total and active soil nitrogen more rapidly in the higher communities than in the lower communities; this difference was mainly attributed to differences in initial soil properties, climate, and land management in cropped fields with elevation. Further research may be needed to determine which factor has the most influence on soil degradation and soil fertility restoration in this environment in order to assist farmers to improve soil fertility.
10.2307/3673250|There are two ways of approaching the environmental problems of the Himalaya. We can ask, "What are the facts?", and we can ask "What would you like the facts to be?". Here we concentrate on developing the second of these approaches through an exploration of the vast uncertainties that are so marked a feature of the region. Our aim is to demonstrate two things: the futility of speaking about the problem, and the pointlessness of generalizing data across the region. In place of these counterproductive tendencies we urge an institutional approach that respects the rich plurality of existing problem definitions and that focuses on the remarkable heterogeneity - physical, ecological, social, and cultural - that characterizes the entire Himalaya. /// Il y a deux faons d'aborder les problmes de l'environnement himalayen. La premire est de demander, "Quels sont les faits?", et la second de demander, "Que voudriez-vous que soient les faits?". Cette tude se concentre sur le dveloppement de la second approche en explorant les vastes incertitudes qui caractrisent cette rgion. Son but est de dmontrer deux choses: la futilit de parler du soit-disant problme, et le manque d' propos de gnraliser les donnes sur toute la rgion. Il est fortement recommand de remplacer ces tendances contre-productives par une approche institutionnelle respectant la riche pluralit des dfinitions actuelles du problme et se concentrant sur l'htrogenet remarquable - physique, cologique, sociale, et culturelle - qui caractrise l'ensemble de l'Himalaya. /// Man kann den Umweltproblemen im Himalaya auf zwei Arten beikommen. Man kann fragen: "Was sind die Fakten?" oder "Wie sollten die Fakten beschaffen sein?" In dieser Arbeit liegt die Betonung auf der zweiten Frage. Die fr dieses Gebiet typischen Ungewiheiten werden erforscht. Unser Ziel ist es, zwei Dinge aufzuzeigen: Die Sinnlosigkeit ber das Problem zu sprechen, und die Zwecklosigkeit, Daten ber dieses Gebiet zu verallgemeinern. Anstelle solch unproduktiver Bestrebungen drngen wir auf eine Einstellung, die von der Vielfalt der existierenden Problem-definitionen ausgeht, und dann die bemerkenswerte Heterogenitt des gesamten Himalaya in naturgegebener, kologischer, sozialer und kultureller Hinsicht in den Mittelpunkt stellt.
3674342|"Development without women is like a bird trying to take off with only one wing," according to Abeba Habtorm, director of the Ministry of Education in Asmara, Eritrea. Are mountain women adequately integrated in development cooperation efforts internationally, by region, nationally, and in local communities? Has the vital role of women in sustainable development of mountain communities been sufficiently documented, understood, and especially taken into account in development projects? Mountain women's concerns have been the subject of debate during the last 3 decades, and some efforts have been made to develop more gender-sensitive policies and programs as well as more opportunities for mountain women, especially at the local level. Yet, there is still a great lack of disaggregated data on women's roles and responsibilities, on their access to and control over natural resources, services, and infrastructure, and on their knowledge of and participation in the elaboration of strategies to improve the situation they face as a result of male out-migration, globalization, and hence marginalization. The "bird" can take off only if women and men have equal opportunities to design policies and take part in decision making on more sustainable forms of mountain development at all levels.
mounresedeve.33.4.453|The dried fruits of large cardamom (Amomum subulatum Roxb.), a high-value, low-volume spice crop grown only in the three eastern Himalayan countries, are widely used in foods, beverages, perfumes, and medicines. Production is currently declining, and improved postharvest management would be one way to help ensure the sustainability of this niche crop. The value chain for large cardamom consists largely of traditional practices; scientific improvements are needed in a number of postharvest steps, including marketing. This article reviews the crop's postharvest processing (with emphasis on curing, calyx cutting, packaging, and storage), quality issues, and trade patterns, and identifies research topics that could contribute to increasing its quality and value and thereby to protecting and promoting the livelihoods of several thousands of people in the value chain.
3674211|The improved process-based equilibrium terrestrial biosphere model (BIOME3China) was run under the present climate to model the potential biomes on the Tibetan Plateau on a 10 grid. The simulated biome was basically in good agreement with a potential natural vegetation map based on a numerical comparison between two maps using the V statistic (V = 0.38). A coupled ocean-atmosphere general circulation model including sulfate aerosols was used to drive a double greenhouse gas scenario to the end of the next century. The simulated vegetation under changed climate with a CO<sub>2</sub> concentration of 500 ppmv and a baseline biome map were also compared using the V statistic (V = 0.4). The climate change would cause a large reduction in the temperate desert, alpine steppe, desert, and ice/polar desert, a large increase in the cold-temperate conifer forest, temperate shrubland/meadow, and temperate steppe, and a general northwestward shift of all vegetation zones. In addition to simulation of biome distribution, BIOME3China also predicted net primary production (NPP) of each grid cell. Comparisons between predicted annual NPP and 160 forest NPP measurements show an agreement between them with a linear regression, despite many problems, such as the quality of the field data. The pattern of predicted annual NPP in the scenario with enhanced CO<sub>2</sub> concentration was the same as that under the present climate; however, the NPP of each biome would increase significantly. Present permafrost simulated using the air frost index was quite similar to the actual frozen ground distribution on the Tibetan Plateau. After the change in climate, the boundary between continuous and discontinuous permafrost would shift toward the north of the plateau by about 1-2 in latitude. The continuous permafrost would mostly disappear, whereas the no-permafrost area would greatly increase. The movement of permafrost would take place with the shift of vegetation zones to the north. The disappearance of permafrost and the expansion of no-permafrost areas would accelerate the desertification of the Tibetan Plateau.
mounresedeve.33.4.473|The Mountain Research Initiative (MRI), an international networking project for global change research in mountain regions, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation and founded under the auspices of the International GeosphereBiosphere and International Human Dimensions Projects (IGBP and IHDP), has worked assiduously for more than 10 years to develop a community of researchers and to synthesize and publicize knowledge about global change in mountain regions. The Initiative is now developing campaigns by which this stronger network can produce new research infrastructure and knowledge.
10.2307/3673296|For many arid or semi-arid regions, mountain ranges are the primary sources of annually renewed water supplies. They give rise to rivers which may be the only significant, sustainable source of water in the regions through which they flow. However, the nature of the hydrologic regime and the ways in which it differs from that of lowland regimes has received relatively little attention. A simple analysis of readily available data from the mid-latitude mountain ranges of the western United States of America is presented. The water balances appear to be determined by the altitude above sea level occupied by the base-ridge crest elevational interval for a given air mass. As the mean altitude of this interval increases, each mountain range will occupy a different vertical position with respect to air mass gradients of precipitable water vapour, temperature, air mass optical density, and wind speed. The resulting gradients of water exchange with altitude at the surface in a mountain range will be inversely proportional to the mean altitude of the interval for any given air mass. Above timberline wind redistribution of falling and fallen precipitation and direct shortwave solar radiation as an energy source will increase the importance of terrain aspect over elevation in determining the spatial patterns of the mountain water balance. The rapidly expanding use of both highland and lowland watersheds requires a much better understanding than now exists of the hydrologic interactions which link the two. The development of conceptual models, like that presented here, facilitating a systems approach should be a primary objective of future research on the hydrometeorology of large mountain ranges. /// Pour beaucoup de rgions arides ou semi-arides, les chanes de montagnes assurent la plus grande partie de l'alimentation annuelle en eau. Elles donnent naissance aux rivires, probablement les seules sources d'eau abondantes et sres pour les rgions qu'elles traversent. Nanmoins, la nature du rgime hydrologique des montagnes et la manire dont il diffre du rgime des plaines ont suscit relativement peu d'intert. Cette tude prsente une simple analyse des donnes disponibles sur les chanes de montagnes de latitude moyenne dans l'ouest des Etats-Unis. Les bilans eau semblent tre dtermins par l'altitude moyenne au-dessus du niveau de la mer de l'intervalle en hauteur entre le pied et la crte des montagnes, pour une masse d'air donne. Comme l'altitude moyenne de cet intervalle varie, chaque chane de montagnes occupe une position verticale diffrente par rapport aux gradients de vapeur d'eau prcipitable dans la masse d'air, la temprature, la densit optique de la masse d'air, et la vitesse du vent. Les gradients d'change d'eau en fonction de l'altitude  la surface d'une chane de montagnes sont inversement proportionnels  l'altitude moyenne de l'intervalle pour une masse d'air donne. Au-dessus de la limite des arbres, l'effet du vent sur les chutes de pluie et la pluie dj tombe, ainsi que la radiation solaire en tant que source d'nergie, augmentent l'importance de l'aspect du terrain par rapport  celle de l'altitude pour dterminer les structures spatiales du bilan eau des montagnes. L'utilisation rapidement croissante des bassins hydrographiques des montagnes et des plaines ncessite une meilleure comprhension de leurs intractions. L'laboration de modles conceptuels facilitant une approche organique, comme celui prsent dans cette tude, devrait tre un objectif majeur des futures recherches dans l'hydromtrologie des grandes chanes de montagnes. /// Gebirgszge sind die Hauptquellen der sich jhrlich erneuernden Wasserzufuhr fr viele aride und semiaride Gebiete. Die von ihnen gespeisten Flsse sind der einzige nennenswerte und bestndige Wasserlieferant fr die durchflossenen Gebiete. Im Gegensatz zu Systemen des Flachlandes, haben die Eigenheiten von hydrologischen Gebirgs-systemen wenig Beachtung gefunden. Eine vereinfachte Analyse vorhandener Medaten von Gebirgszgen mittlerer Breite in den westlichen USA wird vorgelegt. Der Wasserhaushalt scheint von der Hhe ber dem Meeresspiegel bestimmt zu werden, die das Hheninterval zwischen Bergfu und Kamm fr eine bestimmte Luftmasse einnimmt. Jeder Bergzug bedeckt, wenn die mittlere Hhe des Intervals zunimmt, eine unterschiedliche vertikale Flche bezglich des Massengradienten fr niederschlagbaren Wasserdampf, Temperatur, optische Luftdichte und Windgeschwindigkeit. Die Gradienten des Wasseraustausches als Funktion der Hhe an der Oberflche des Gebirgszuges sind fr jede beliebige Luftmasse umgekehrt proportional zur Durchschnittshhe des Intervals. Oberhalb der Baumgrenze wird der fallende und gefallene Niederschlag vom Wind umverteilt und direkte, kurzwellige Sonnenstrahlung als Energiequelle gibt dem Gelndeaspekt mehr Gewicht bei der Bestimmung des rumlichen Gebirgswasserhaushaltes, als der Hhenlage. Die schnell zunehmende Nutzung von Hoch- und Flachlandeinzugsgebieten erfordert ein besseres Verstndnis als bisher von allen hydrologischen Wechselwirkungen in beiden Gebieten. Das Hauptanliegen zuknftiger Forschung auf dem Gebiet der Hydrometeorologie ausgedehnter Gebirgszge sollte die Entwicklung sinnvoler Modelle - wie dem vorliegenden - sein, die eine system-bezogene Behandlung erleichtern.
mounresedeve.33.1.19|Sustainable management of rangeland ecosystems has direct implications for conservation of biological diversity and for the livelihoods of local communities in the Himalayan region in general and the Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone (SNPBZ) in particular. This study aims to analyze the status of rangeland management in the SNPBZ from an ecological perspective. We used multivariate and bivariate analysis and geographic information system techniques to analyze ecological data and land use trends. A significant annual change with a 3.38% decrease in glacier area was observed between 1978 and 1996. We observed 168 plant species in the SNPBZ with a range of 317 species per sample plot, where about 67% of plants were found to be palatable for livestock. Our study shows that total available fodder biomass on rangeland in the SNPBZ has not been fully utilized yet, because the total available supply exceeds the present demand under some assumptions: reduction of biomass through grazing causes higher productivity, resulting in a higher number of species, according to the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. The results of this study could help improve decision-making related to sustainable rangeland management.
25164200|As globalization advances, Alpine regions, among others, are increasingly seen as competitive entities in Switzerland. Still, tourism development is often criticized as not being sustainable. The questions arise: How can the sustainability of tourism development be monitored? What indicators can be used to identify sustainable development? How can a strategy be developed to integrate the outcomes of sustainability monitoring so that development is more sustainable? The goal of the research project described below was to develop indicators that can help those responsible in the various regions to shape tourism strategies in a more sustainable way. The indicators must be targeted to support regional management processes.
3674072|If current land use practices in the uplands of Central America are not modified soon, rural poverty will persist and lead to environmental collapse. There is a simultaneous need for increase of productivity, improved natural resource management, and recognition of people's rights to the resources they manage. Only when rural families can consider land to be their own, manage resources sustainably, and generate surplus will they be able to trigger genuine change in the system of governance. Top-down attempts to change the system of governance will only succeed in changing the form rather than the content. Until the governed have shaken off traditional patterns of dependency and control from above as well as modified their land use practices, the vicious circle of poverty will remain intact. The proposals for an alternative approach presented in this article are based on more than 6 years of field work in 20 municipalities in the mountains of Lempira, Honduras (Figure 1).
10.2307/3673494|Clastic sediment movement was evaluated in Roaring River Watershed in the Mummy Range of the Colorado Front Range. Photogeologic techniques and fieldwork on identifiable landforms were used to develop a terrain classification of sediment transfer. Terrain units formed the bases for assessing contemporary processes of sediment transport and for testing its usefulness in evaluating sediment flux. Contemporary behavior of terrain units suggests relative stability (short-term, i.e., 50 years) of the present system. The hillslope sediment transfer system appears to act as a closed system and is dominated by internal transfer of sediment moving on slopes with little clastic material entering the fluvial system. The method proposed here can be used by mountain park and wilderness area managers as a framework for determining alpine and subalpine ecosystem disturbance that results from recreational impact. /// Le dplacement de sdiments clastiques a t valu dans le bassin hydrographique de la rivire "Roaring River" situe dans la chane "Mummy Range" (chane frontale du Colorado). Des techniques photogologiques et des travaux sur le terrain ont permis de mettre au point une classification des transferts de sdiments, base sur des formes de terrain identifiables. La notion d'unit de terrain a permis d'identifier les processus actuels de transport de sdiments et de voir comment ils pouvaient aider  valuer le flux de sdiments. Le comportement actuel des units de terrain semble indiquer une stabilit relative (court terme = 50 ans) du systme actuel. Le systme de transfert de sdiments sur les flancs de montagnes semble se comporter comme un systme ferm domin par un transfert interne de sdiments se dplaant sur les versants, avec peu de matriaux clastiques passant dans le systme fluvial. La mthode propose dans cet article peut tre utilise par les responsables de parcs de montagne et de lieux sauvages en tant que structure pour dterminer les perturbations des cosystmes alpin et subalpin dues aux activits de loisir. /// USA. Im Roaring River Wasserscheidegebiet in der Mummy Range der Colorado Vorberge wurden klastische Sedimentverschiebungen abgeschtzt. Dabei wurden photogeologische Verfahren und Gelndeaufklrung von erkennbaren Landformen benutzt, um eine Klassifikation der Sedimentverschiebung zu entwickeln. Gelndeeinheiten bildeten die Grundlagen zur Festlegung gegenwrtiger Vorgnge im Sedimenttransport und bei der Untersuchung ihrer Ntzlichkeit zur Beurteilung des Sedimentflusses. Das derzeitige Verhalten der Gelndeeinheiten lt auf relative Stabilitt schlieen (kurzzeitig = 50 Jahre). Der Sedimenttransport an Hngen scheint als geschlossenes System zu wirken und wird von der internen Sedimentbewegung hangabwrts bestimmt, wobei nur wenig klastisches Material in das Flusystem eingeht. Die Methode, die hier vorgeschlagen wird, kann Managern in Gegirgspark- und Naturschutzgebieten als Rahmen bei der Abschtzung von Strungen im alpinen und subalpinen kosystem dienen, wenn Schden als Folge von Freizeitbelastung auftreten.
3674172|Intensification of crop production in the mountains has long been perceived as unsustainable. However, since the late 1980s it has become increasingly evident that decline and collapse are not always inevitable. The present article provides examples from the highlands of northern Thailand to show that local food security can be improved while impacts on the resource base and the environment are minimized. This was achieved with the help of cropping systems developed and adapted by farmers themselves (Figure 1). Studying farmers' management techniques will allow this success to be repeated elsewhere, but only if it is based on the idea of dynamic variation in cropping system management that occurs within and between mountain agroecosystems, defined as agrodiversity.
10.2307/3673684|This paper challenges the results of much of the earlier research that has drawn a picture of agricultural collapse, land abandonment, and outmigration of the Rif and Tell mountains of the Maghreb of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. There is no simple pattern of rural mountain socioeconomic stagnation and collapse. A much more complicated system of agricultural recession and expansion has occurred with wide diversity in both time and space. These spatial and temporal contrasts are explained by physical, cultural, and political factors including variations in bedrock and soil, local climate, and historical background. While much of the land has been abandoned in certain areas, remittances from outmigrating wage-earners (internal and abroad, temporary and seasonal), illegal traffic in hashish (kif), especially to Western Europe, and a host of local developments have led to great improvements in rural village infrastructure and in individual households. For the most part there is widespread agricultural expansion, although this is offset by increased soil erosion and reduced availability of water. A realistic picture of the dynamics of this vast mountain region requires detailed studies and a holistic perspective. /// Cet article remet en question une grande partie des rsultats de l'tude prcdente qui prdisait un effondrement de l'agriculture, l'abandon des terres et une migration de la population du Rif et du Tell dans le Maghreb, en Algrie, Maroc et Tunisie. La stagnation et l'effondrement socio-conomique rural dans ces montagnes ne se conforme pas  un simple modle. Un systme de rgression et d'expansion beaucoup plus compliqu, trs diversifi dans le temps et l'espace, s'est dvelopp. Ces contrastes dans l'espace et le temps s'expliquent en termes de facteurs physiques, culturels et politiques, y compris les variations de la roche de fond et du sol, le climat local et l'historique de la rgion. Bien que beaucoup de terres aient t abandonnes  certains endroits, les envois de fonds par les travailleurs migrs ( l'intrieur du pays et dans les pays trangers, temporaires et saisonniers), le trafic illgal du hashish (kif), en particulier vers l'Europe occidentale, ainsi qu'un grand nombre de projets de dveloppement locaux, ont entran des amliorations importantes de l'infrastructure rurale des villages et des familles. Dans l'ensemble, on constate une expansion agricole gnrale, bien que celle-ci soit contrecarre par une augmentation de l'rosion du sol et une disponibilit rduite des ressources en eau. Une vision raliste de la dynamique de cette vaste rgion de montagnes ncessite des tudes dtailles et une perspective holistique. /// Diese Verffentlichung stellt viele Ergebnisse frherer Untersuchungen in Frage, die ein Bild des landwirtschaftlichen Niedergangs, der Landflucht und der Abwanderung aus dem Rif und dem Tell Gebirge von Maghreb in Algerien, Marokko und Tenesien zeichnen. Sozio-konomische Stagnation und Niedergang in lndlichen Berggebieten laufen nicht schematisch ab. Die Vorgnge einer lndlichen Rezession oder Expansion sind komplizierter, und viele rumliche und zeitliche Faktoren spielen dabei eine Rolle. Diese rumlichen und zeitlichen Kontraste werden anhand physikalischer, kultureller und politischer Aspekte erklrt, die auch Vernderungen des Urgesteins und des Bodens, das lokale Klima und den historischen Hintergrund mit bercksichtigen. Whrend einige Gebiete verlassen wurden, haben Geldsendungen der abgewanderten Arbeiter (inlndisch oder ins Ausland, saisonal oder vorbergehend), der illegale Haschisch (kif)-handel, vor allem mit Westeuropa, und andere lokale Entwicklungen zur Verbesserung der lndlichen Infrastruktur und der Wirtschaftslage in einzelnen Haushalten gefhrt. Fast durchweg expandiert die Landwirtschaft, was zu erhhter Bodenerosion und verminderter Wasserverfgbarkeit fhrt. Eine realistische Beurteilung der Vorgnge in dieser ausgedehnten Gebirgsregion erfordert detaillierte Untersuchungen und eine ganzheitliche Perspektive.
mounresedeve.33.4.372|In early 2010, the massive Atta Abad landslide blocked the Hunza River in the Gojal region of northern Pakistan. It also buried or flooded 25 km of the Karakoram Highway, the only vehicular transportation route connecting this region to the rest of Pakistan. Since the Karakoram Highway opened in 1978, road mobility has become deeply integrated into the everyday economies and timespace fabric of Gojali households. In this paper, we focus on what happens when a natural disaster unexpectedly slams the brakes on movement as a way to understand more fully the sociodevelopmental implications of roads in the rural global South. We review the history of mobility in the region to explain the importance of the Karakoram Highway as a mobility platform that restructured sociospatial relations in Gojal. We then turn to interviews, ethnographic fieldwork, and local news sources to outline how residents of 4 Gojali communities were experiencing the economic, social, and emotional impacts of landslideinduced mobility disruptions in the 18 months following the disaster.
25163994|The geographic study of mountains has marked time since the 1930s. The reasons for this are: 1) neglect of the regional approach in geography; 2) lack of clarity in determining the study unit, which has affected the authenticity of different research and which does not permit comparisons. This paper proposes a model for the study of mountains which does not view the mountain as a monolithic structure. The mountain is presented here as being made up of three zones (belts) with a socio-economic basis: an upper belt, normally snowbound; an intermediate level, consisting of forest and pasturelands; and a lower belt with intensive and extensive agriculture and infiltration of urban elements from the plain below. With the aid of the generic regional approach, each of these divisions can be studied throughout the world and conclusions can be reached on the general characteristics of each. /// Voil cinquante ans que l'tude de la gographie des montagnes n'a pas progress. Les raisons de cet tat de fait sont les suivantes: 1) la ngligence de l'approche rgionale en gographie; 2) l'absence de dtermination claire dans l'unit d'tude, cette lacune ayant affect l'authenticit des diffrentes recherches et rendu les comparaisons impossibles. Ce travail de recherche propose un modle d'tude des montagnes, dans lequel celles-ci ne sont pas considres comme une structure monolithique. La montagne est prsente ici comme tant compose de trois zones, ayant une base socio-conomique: la zone suprieure, normalement couverte de neige; la zone intermdiaire, o se trouvent forts et pturages; et enfin la zone infrieure, qui est celle de l'agriculture intensive et extensive et dans laquelle ont pntr des lments urbains en provenance des plaines situes en aval. Chacune de ces zones peut tre tudis  travers le monde avec l'aide de cette mthode d'approche rgionale et on peut parvenir  des conclusions portant sur les caractristiques gnrales de chaque zone. /// ber die geographische Beschaffenheit gebirgiger Gebiete gibt es seit den dreissiger Jahren kaum Studien. Dies hat zwei Grnde: 1) Die Vernachlssigung des regionalen Blickpunktes der Geographie; 2) Die Definition des Forschungsgebietes ist unklar und uneinheitlich. Dies fhrte zu verschiedenen Auffassungen des Themas, und machte Vergleiche unmglich. Diese Abhandlung schlgt ein Modell der Bergstudien vor, welches die Berge nicht als ein einheitliches Gebiet versteht, sondern in drei sozial-wirtschaftliche Zonen einteilt: Das hhere, normalerweise schneebeckte Gebiet; die Mittelzone mit Wald und Wiese; das untere Gebiet, in dem intensive oder extensive Landwirtschaft von stdtischen Elementen aus den Niederungen durchdrungen sind. Mit Hilfe der regionalen Auffassung knnen diese Zonen weltweit erforscht werden, und die Endergebnisse sind allgemein gltige Eigenschaften jedes Gebietes.
mounresedeve.33.2.142|The Hindu KushHimalayan (HKH) region is characterized by a variety of climatic conditions from tropical to alpine. It has been documented that the rates of warming in the HKH region are significantly higher than the global average and that the warming is occurring at much higher rates in the high-altitude regions than in the low-altitude regions. Mountainous environments are considered sensitive indicators of climate change. Hence this study examined the potential impact of global warming on the HKH region by applying Hadley Centre's highresolution regional climate model PRECIS (Providing Regional Climates for Impact Studies) to 3 subregions: the western, central, and eastern Himalaya. The physical mechanisms that drive warming are different for the 3 regions, and the western Himalaya has 2 major rainy seasons, whereas the central and eastern Himalaya have only one. This study therefore focused on the common rainy season (JuneSeptember), during which all 3 regions receive the highest proportion of their annual rainfall. The 3 PRECIS simulations that correspond to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's A1B emissions scenario were carried out for a continuous period from 1961 to 2098. They were validated with high-resolution (0.25 latitude  0.25 longitude) data provided by the Asian PrecipitationHighly Resolved Observational Data Integration Towards Evaluation of the Water Resources (APHRODITE) project and by the US National Centers for Environmental Prediction and National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCEP/NCAR) reanalysis data. The model was reasonably effective in simulating the monsoon climate over the HKH region. The climate projections were examined over the short (20112040), medium (20412070), and long term (20712098). The model projections indicate that significant warming will occur throughout the HKH region toward the end of the 21st century. Summer monsoon precipitation is expected to be 2040% higher in 20712098 than it was in the baseline period (19611990). The 3 Quantifying Uncertainty in Model Predictions simulations show large differences in projections in the western Himalaya.
25164123|A geographical indication (GI) is a form of protection highlighted in the Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Agreement of the World Trade Organization (WTO). It protects intangible economic assets such as the quality and reputation of a product through market differentiation. It is considered a promising tool at the international level to maintain multifunctionality in rural landscapes and involve local populations in biodiversity management and conservation. Using the example of an existing GI for Coorg orange, a crop frequently associated with coffee agroforestry systems in the mountain region of Kodagu (Western Ghats, India), we discuss how a GI can be successfully used by local producers and what conditions are needed for it to have a positive impact on the landscape and its associated biodiversity.
10.2307/3673110|Mining is the most important economic activity on the western slope of the Southern Andes, especially in central and northern Chile. Chile has the greatest copper reserves in the world, large reserves of iron, molybdenum, and lithium, and lesser reserves of manganese, lead, zinc, mercury, cobalt, tungsten, gold, and silver; there are also non-metallic deposits of great importance such as nitrates, iodine, coal, and sulphur. In Argentina mining is of secondary importance. Mining often leads to drastic landscape modification, but the changes are highly localized, with the exception of water and air pollution which, depending on climatic and topographic factors, may affect quite extensive areas. /// L'exploitation minire constitue l'activit conomique la plus importante sur le versant ouest des Andes mridionales, en particulier dans le centre et le nord du Chili. Le Chili possde les plus grandes rserves de cuivre au monde, d'importantes rserves de fer, molybdne, et lithium, et des rserves plus modestes de manganse, plomb, zinc, mercure, cobalt, tungstne, or, et argent. Le Chili possde galement des gisements trs importants de produits non mtalliques tels que nitrates, iode, charbon, et soufre. En Argentine, l'exploitation minire est d'importance secondaire. L'exploitation minire entrane souvent une altration marque du paysage, mais nanmois les changements sont trs localiss,  part la pollution de l'air et de l'eau qui peut s'tendre sur de grandes rgions, en fonction des facteurs climatiques et topographiques. /// Der bedeutendste Wirtschaftszweig an den westlichen Hngen der sdlichen Anden, besonders in Zentral- und Nordchile, ist der Bergbau. Chile hat die grten Kupferreserven der Welt, groe Eisen-, Molybdn- und Lithiumvorkommen, daneben kleinere Mengen an Mangan, Blei, Zink, Quecksilber, Kobalt, Wolfram, Gold und Silber. Die Nitrat-, Jod-, Kohle- und Schwefelablagerungen sind bedeutsam. In Argentinien ist Bergbau nur von geringer Bedeutung. Bergbau fhrt oft zu drastischen Vernderungen im Landschaftsbild, die jedoch grtenteils lokal begrenzt sind. Eine Ausnahme bilden Wasser- und Luftverschmutzung, die-abhngig von klimatischen und topographischen Faktoren-groe Gebiete beeintrchtigen knnen. /// La minera es la actividad econmica ms importante en la ladera occidental de la Cordillera, sobre todo en el centro y norte de Chile. Chile tienen las reservas ms grandes de cobre en el mundo, como tambin grandes reservas de hierro, molbdeno, y litio, y reservas menores de manganeso, plomo, zinc, mercurio, cobalto, tungsteno, oro, y plata, como tambin grandes depsitos de substancias no metalferas, especialmente nitratos, iodo, carbn, y azufre. La minera en la Argentina es de importancia secundaria. La minera muchas veces lleva a grandes modificaciones ambientales, pero muy localizadas. Excepcin es la polucin del aire y el agua, que pueden afectar grandes reas. Factores climticos y topogrficos afectan la extensin del dao.
4096450|Research in Vietnam's uplands shows that poverty alleviation and environmental protection can be most readily achieved by communities buildings, protecting, and using their own assets more effectively. This approach starts by looking at what poor people already have, not what they lack. By contrast, government development policies often seek to modernize the rural sector through introduction of new agricultural technology and improved marketing without taking existing local capacities into account. Such policies often fail to achieve their objectives. Traditional composite swidden agriculture (CSA), by contrast, may be more environmentally sustainable and better able to enhance household food security than many "modern" agricultural systems. Therefore, improvement of existing systems of composite swiddening in combination with adoption of new ventures, such as cattle raising, may achieve greater success than attempts to replace swidden agriculture with completely new "modern" farming systems.
10.2307/3673219|Previous approaches to the ecological study of mountain peoples - Alpwirtschaft, verticality, and montane production strategy - are reviewed and shown to possess both strengths and weaknesses. Similarities and differences between the Andes and the Himalaya are related to generally similar environments but different histories (greater initial isolation and more thorough integration into the world economy in the Andes). Differences in the past relationships with Europe and North America are reflected in differing intellectual concerns of researchers in the two mountainous areas. Purported differences between the two areas (greater cultural diversity, greater variety of forms of community organization, more severe environmental degradation in the Himalaya) are related to differences in the histories and the research foci. Emphasis is placed on the importance of incorporating history and political economy into human ecology. /// Les mthodes antrieures d'tude de l'cologie des peuples montagnards, Alpwirtschaft, verticalit, et stratgie de production, sont passes en revue, et leurs points forts ainsi que leurs points faibles sont mis en vidence. Les similarits et les diffrences entre les Andes et l'Himalaya sont lies au fait que leurs environnements sont en gnral semblables, mais leurs historiques sont diffrents (plus grande isolation initiale et intgration plus complte dans l'conomie mondiale pour les Andes que pour l'Himalaya). Les relations historiquement diffrents avec l'Europe et l'Amrique du Nord sont refltes dans les diffrentes proccupations intellectuelles des chercheurs intrsss  ces deux rgions montagneuses. Les prtendues diffrences entre ces rgions (plus grande diversit culturelle, plus grande varit de formes d'organisation communautaire, dgradation de l'environnement plus srieuse dans l'Himalaya que dans les Andes) sont lies aux diffrences entre ces deux rgions dans l'histoire et dans l'orientation de la recherche. L'accent est mis sur l'importance d'incorporer l'histoire et l'conomie politique dans l'cologie humaine. /// Frhere Auffassungen in kologischen Studien der Bergvlker, der Alpwirtschaft, der vertikalen Anbautechnik und der Produktionsstrategie in gebirgigen Gegenden werden berprft und ihre Strken und Schwchen aufgezeigt. hnlichkeiten und Gegenstze zwischen den Anden und dem Himalaya ergeben sich aus der in etwa gleichen Umwelt, aber der stark abweichenden geschichtlichen Entwicklung (die Anden waren zuerst isolierter, spter aber strker mit der Weltwirtschaft verflochten als der Himalaya). Unterschiedliche Beziehungen in der Vergangenheit zu Europa und Nordamerika spiegeln sich in abweichenden, wissenschaftlichen Bewertungen dieser beiden Gebirgsgegenden. Scheinbare Unterschiede (grere kulturelle Vielgestaltigkeit, grere Mannigfaltigkeit in den Gesellschaftsordnungen, fortgeschrittenere Umweltschdigung im Himalaya als in den Anden) ergeben sich aus verschiedenen historischen Entwicklungen und unterschiedlichen wissenschaftlichen Bewertungen beider Gebiete. Die Betonung liegt auf der Bedeutung, die Geschichte und politische konomie in menschlicher kologie haben. /// Se repasan las orientaciones anteriores en el estudio ecolgico de los pueblos de gran altura (Alpwirtschaft, verticalidad y estrategia de produccin en zonas montaosas) y se presentan sus ventajas y defectos. Las semejanzas y diferencias entre los Andes y el Himalaya estn relacionados a sus ambientes similares e historias diferentes (mayor aislamiento inicial y mayor integracin completa a la economa mundial en los Andes en comparacin al Himalaya). La diferencia en las relaciones histricas con Europa y Norteamrica se refleja en las diferentes orientaciones y preocupaciones intelectuales de los investigadores de las zonas de gran altura. Diferencias significantivas entre las reas (mayor diversidad cultural, mayor variedad en las formas de organizacin de la comunidad, mayor degradacin ambiental severa en el Himalaya comparada con los Andes) estn relacionadas con las diferencias en las historias y en las orientaciones intelectuales de las investigaciones en las dos regiones. Se subraya la importancia de la integracin de la historia y la economa politica a la ecologa humana.
10.2307/3673208|Between 1880 and 1980 the population of the Dehra Dun valley increased by 426 percent and the density of population rose from 47 to 246 persons per sq. km. In the Dehra Dun metropolitan area population rose from 20,000 to about 300,000 today. This paper discusses the history of the changes and the effects on vegetation, land use, agriculture, and forestry. It concludes with suggestions for future historical research. /// La population de la valle de Dehra Dun a augment de 426 pour-cent entre 1880 et 1980, et la densit de la population est passe de 47  246 habitants au kilomtre carr. En particulier, la population de la zone mtropolitaine de Dehra Dun est passe de 20.000  300.000 habitants. Cette tude retrace l'historique de ces changements et leur effect sur la vgtation, l'exploitation du sol, l'agriculture, et la foresterie. Elle conclut en offrant des suggestions concernant les recherches historiques futures. /// Die Bevlkerungszahl des Dehra Dun Tals ist von 1880 bis 1980 um 426% gewachsen, wobei die Bevlkerungsdichte von 47 auf 246 Menschen pro km<sup>2</sup> stieg. Im Dehra Dun Stadtgebiet wuchs die Einwohnerzahl von 20.000 auf gegenwrtig 300.000. Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert den Hintergrund dieser nderungen und ihre Folgen auf Vegetation, Landnutzung sowie Land- und Forstwirtschaft. Abschlieend werden Vorschlge fr zuknftige Erforschung der historischen Grundlagen gemacht.
3674311|"Integrated tourism, to be successful, must promote sustainable development by establishing a durable productive base that allows local inhabitants and service providers to enjoy rising standards of living," wrote David Barkin in 1996. Ecotourism delivers these results because it aims to ensure ecologically, economically, and culturally friendly tourism. Sustainable tourism can best be achieved when activities are controlled by the local community in which tourism activities are being generated. In ideal situations sustainability, sound environmental management, and ecotourism are closely linked. Tourism activities in Pakistan are currently far from sustainable, as in many other mountain regions worldwide: deforestation, uncontrolled land utilization, unplanned growth of tourism, mushrooming growth of accommodations, and, above all, outmigration of young, energetic people as a result of limited job opportunities and lack of local ownership and participation in tourism ventures make change imperative. This paper recommends strategies and measures that urgently need to be developed at all levels.
mounresedeve.29.4.298|This article explores the factors that influence propoor commercial management of nontimber forest products (NTFPs) in 3 community forest user groups (CFUGs) in the Dolakha district in Nepal. Management of NTFPs through CFUGs is an important poverty-reduction strategy in rural Nepal. National policy documents encourage management of NTFPs by CFUGs for commercial purposes, particularly by involving marginalized communities. It is therefore important to understand the existing mechanisms of their involvement. We followed a case study approach and collected data through key informant interviews, focus group discussions, formal and informal discussions, participant observations, and study of secondary data, such as the constitutions and operational plans of the CFUGs. Because institutional arrangements varied across the 3 study CFUGs, the ability of marginalized people to benefit from the commercial management of NTFPs also differed. Results suggest that the involvement of external agencies, and the consequent conducting of NTFP-based pro-poor programs, positively influences commercial management of NTFPs and minimizes elite domination. Likewise, inclusion of representatives of marginalized people in the CFUG executive committees empowers them to lobby with external agencies for pro-poor programs. Furthermore, the geographic location of the community forest limits the involvement of external agencies and marketing of NTFPs. Therefore, because members of CFUGs in remote areas are heavily dependent on collection and sale of NTFPs for their livelihoods, we suggest increasing the focus of external agencies in such areas and including marginalized people in CFUG executive committees.
10.2307/3673914|Livestock husbandry is by far the most important activity in the former and present economies of the Kyrgyz Republic. Agricultural production systems under the Soviet order were mainly controlled as state farms or collective farms or enterprises, although individual households kept livestock on their plots. Since independence a variety of new systems has been developing but some still resemble the former state enterprises in many respects. Livestock numbers, in the Soviet quest for ever higher "production," built up rapidly to 1991 when they were well in excess of the carrying capacity of natural pastures and cultivated fodder areas. This process was obviously not sustainable and negative effects on the environment, especially on pasture production, were severe. Since independence livestock numbers have fallen dramatically, mainly by sale and slaughter to cover current consumption needs and to support crop enterprises by raising cash to buy fuel and spare parts for machinery. This "decapitalization" provides an opportunity for pastures to regenerate, for their more rational and sustainable use, and for adjusting future stocking rates to carrying capacity. /// L'levage du btail est de loin l'activit la plus importante de l'conomie actuelle de la Rpublique du Kyrgyz. Les systmes de production agricole sous le rgime sovitique prenaient surtout la forme de fermes tatiques ou de fermes ou d'entreprises collectives, bien que des fermiers individuels levaient du btail sur leurs parcelles. Depuis l'indpendance, de nouveaux systmes sont apparus, mais beaucoup ressemblent  bien des points de vue aux entreprises tatiques prcdentes. Dans le cadre de la politique des soviets d'augmenter constamment la "production," le nombre de ttes de btail a augment considrablement jusqu'en 1991 et a de beaucoup dpass la capacit limite des pturages naturels et des zones cultives pour le fourrage. Ce processus n'tait de toute vidence pas soutenable et les effets nfastes sur l'environnement, en particulier sur la production des pturages, taient graves. Depuis l'indpendance, le nombre de ttes de btail a t rduit de beaucoup par la vente et l'abattage, afin de couvrir la consommation actuelle et de soutenir les entreprises agricoles en obtenant de l'argent liquide destin  l'achat de carburant et de pices dtaches pour le matriel agricole. Cette "dcapitalisation" permettra de rgnrer les pturages en vue d'une utilisation plus rationnelle et soutenable, et d'adapter le nombre de ttes de btail  la capacit limite des pturages. /// In der vergangenen und gegenwrtigen konomie der kirgisischen Republik nimmt die Viehzucht den wichtigsten Platz ein. Unter dem sowjetischen Regime wurden landwirtschaftliche Produktionssysteme hauptschlich als Staatsgter oder Kollektivfarmen betrieben, wobei individuelle Haushaltungen Vieh auf ihren Grundstcken hielten. Viele neue Wirtschaftssysteme wurden seit der Unabhngigkeit erprobt, von denen einige in mancher Hinsicht den alten staatlichen Unternehmungen sehr hnlich sind. Unter sowjetischem Druck vergrerte sich der Viehbestand bis 1991 sehr schnell; dabei wurde aber die Ertragskapazitt der natrlichen Weide- und Futteranbauflchen weit berschritten. Dieses Wachstum war eindeutig nicht aufrechtzuerhalten, und die negativen Einflsse auf die Umwelt, insbesondere auf die Ertrge der Weideflchen, waren schwerwiegend. Seit der Unabhngigkeit ist der Viehbestand zugunsten des Ackerbaus drastisch zurchgegangen; Schlachtungen deckten den Verbraucherbedarf und Verkaufserlse bezahlten Treibstoff und Ersatzteile fr Landmaschinen. Der Rckgang in der Viehhaltung erlaubt eine ertragsgerechte Nutzung der Weideflchen und der zuknftige Viehbestand kann auf ein vernnftiges Ma gebracht werden.
3674411|Beforona is a mountainous region in eastern Madagascar, where slash-and-burn cultivation (tavy) has been practiced for several generations to produce rice, the staple food of the Malagasy people. This system of cultivation has long been unsustainable (deforestation, erosion, loss of soil fertility, etc). Other types of cultivation considered more sustainable were inventoried in a study, particularly the irrigated rice field and traditional agroforestry system known as tanimboly found in the valleys. On the basis of research results, data were incorporated into a Geographic Information System (GIS) to elaborate descriptive models using different parameters related to this farming system. Spatial distribution of tanimboly shows that more than 90% is concentrated along small streams, in concave areas, and not on slopes and hillsides. Tanimboly becomes scarcer as the distance from the forest edge approaches 2 km, and surface areas are drastically reduced in proportion to distance from roads. GIS and regression models made it possible to identify potential areas for tanimboly. Relations between the various parameters were calculated using logistic regression functions to predict occurrence of the tanimboly phenomenon in nonsampled zones. It appears that farming strategies are particularly influenced by infrastructure.
mounresedeve.36.2.162|Agrotourism is widely advocated as a useful strategy to develop mountain agriculture and improve farmers' income and quality of life. However, the relationship between agriculture and tourism is complex, and the extent to which tourism benefits farmers remains uncertain. This paper examines the relationship between agriculture and tourism and assesses to what extent agrotourism benefits farmers in Phu Ruea district, a popular tourist destination in the mountains of northeast Thailand. The Phu Ruea agrotourism system generated gross income for the district of almost US$ 16 million in 2014. About 80% of this income came from sales from specialty-crop farms and of tourism services operated by the households of local farms. The agrotourism system also created many employment opportunities for local people. There were 1500 people directly involved in the system, 90% of whom were farmers or members of farm households. Thus, there is no doubt that many local farmers derive significant benefits from their involvement in the agrotourism system. Although the Phu Ruea agrotourism system can be seen as a successful strategy for developing mountain agriculture, agrotourism is not a magic strategy to solve all the problems of rural development in the mountains. Only some localities are attractive to tourists, and only some farmers have the knowledge, skills, and resources to take advantage of the opportunities offered by tourism.
90001377|This study applied remote sensing techniques to the study of water color in Himalayan glacial lakes as a proxy of suspended solid load. In situ measurements gathered in 5 lakes in October 2014 during satellite data acquisition enabled the characterization of water reflectance and clarity and supported image processing. Field data analysis led to a distinction between 3 water colors and a consequent lake water color classification on a regional scale from Landsat-8 data previously corrected for atmospheric and adjacency effects. Several morphometric parameters (lake size and shape, distance between lake and glacier) were also computed for the lakes thus classified. The results showed spatial and temporal variations in lake water color, suggestive of relationships between glacier shrinkage and the presence of brighter and more turbid water. A finer-scale analysis of the spatial variability of water reflectance on Chola Lake (based on GeoEye-1 data captured on 18 October 2014) showed the contribution of water component absorption from the inflow. Overall, the findings support further research to monitor Himalayan lakes using both Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 (with its improved resolutions).
10.2307/3673236|The Callawaya Mountains, about 200 km north of La Paz, Bolivia, are used for agriculture up to about 4,000 m elevation. The highlands are intensively grazed by llamas and alpacas. Following a short description of the vegetation and soils, the mineral content and the nutritive value of plant samples are presented. At the end of the dry season there is a clear deficiency in P, K, and Mg in the fodder of the highlands. The shrub leaves provide better nutrition for the animals with P, K, Mg, Zn, Cu and raw protein. There is a great difference between the productivity of the meadows in the Pampa of Ulla Ulla and the estimated consumption of the 150,000 llamas and alpacas. The result of this over-population is over-grazing, soil erosion, and inadequate nutrition of the animals. /// La rgion de Callawaya est situe  environ 200 km au nord de La Paz. L'utilisation agricole remonte jusqu' 4000 m. Au-del se trouvent les pturages des llamas et alpacas. Aprs une courte description des sols, la teneur en lments minraux et la valeur fourragre de quelques plantes reprsentatives sont discutes. Les rsultats montrent, qu'en fin de priode sche il y a une carence en P, K, et Mg. Mais les feuilles des arbustes restent plus riches en P, K, Mg, Zn, Cu et en matires azotes brutes. Une diffrence marque existe entre la productivit des pturages dans la Pampa de Ulla-Ulla et les besoins des llamas et alpacas. Les rsultats sont: destruction de la couverture vgtale, rosion et malnutrition des animaux. /// Das Callawaya-Gebiet liegt etwa 200 km nrdlich von La Paz. Die Bden werden bis in Hhen von etwa 4000 m landwirtschaftlich genutzt. Darber erstrecken sich die intensiv von Lamas und Alpakas beweideten Flchen. In Anlehnung an die hhenzonale Vegetationsgliederung lassen sich in erster Annherung folgende Bodenzonen ausscheiden: blockreiche, tiefhumose Ranker in der oberen Bergwaldstufe; skelettreiche Ranker und Braunerden in der Gebschzone; zur Rasenstufe mit flachgrndigen Rankern leiten schwarzerdehnliche, mit Hochgrasvegetation bewachsene Bden ber. Fr das Altiplano (Pampa von Ulla-Ulla) ist eine Catena aus schwach lessivierten Pararendizinen (jngere Mornen), schwach pseudovergleyten und lessivierten Pararendzinen (ltere Mornen) und Gleyen (abflulose Hohlformen der Mornen sowie auf den Schotterebenen) erkennbar. Die Mineralstoffgehalte und der Futterwert von Pflanzen der verschiedenen Vegetationszonen werden diskutiert. Es zeigt sich, da am Ende der Trockenzeit besonders in den hheren Lagen ein deutlicher Mangel an P, K und Mg vorkommt, whrend die Bltter der Strucher in den tieferen Lagen eine bessere Versorgung der Tiere mit P, K, Mg, Zn, Cu und Rohprotein gewhrleisten. Es hat den Anschein, da die Produktivitt der Weiden in der Pampa von Ulla-Ulla nicht mehr ausreicht, um den Bedarf der 150.000 Lamas und Alpakas voll zu decken. Die Folgen sind berweidung, Bodenerosion und unzureichende Ernhrung der Tiere.
mounresedeve.35.1.49|The maintenance of family farms in mountain areas constitutes a serious challenge in the context of globalization. European mountain agriculture faces significant natural constraints and cannot follow the same development path as agriculture in the plains. The study reported here sought to analyze recent changes in mountain family dairy farming in the Vercors (Alpine uplands with urban and tourism development) and characterize the diversity of family farm development trajectories. We developed an analytical framework that allowed us, based on individual data from the National Census of Agriculture for 1988, 2000, and 2010 and semistructured interviews in farms, to capture and analyze patterns of change on family dairy farms between 2000 and 2010 and to link changes in farming systems and farming family organizations. Our results show a drop in the number of dairy farms and changes to their organization. This article discusses the different strategies adopted by dairy families, which are based on different adaptive resources.
10.2307/3673685|The Bamboutos Mountains (highest elevation, 2,740 m) in West Cameroon are one of the volcanic massifs on the major fault that extends from the Gulf of Guinea to the Tibesti Highlands. They are in Bamileke country and rise above a densely populated piedmont. It was not until the 1970s that the local rural population moved from the surrounding area into the mountains which hitherto had been used only for livestock grazing. The main reasons for this recent migration are the lack of modern agricultural techniques, impoverishment of soils, and declining crop yields in the foothill zone, together with the attractive potential for agricultural and pastoral activities in the mountains. The occupation of the mountains was rapid and destructive. The steepness of the slopes and relatively high altitude made the land ecologically fragile. Erosion and overgrazing are leading to landscape instability and environmental threats are being intensified by severe conflicts between farmers and pastoralists. /// Les monts Bambouto (altitude maximale 2,740 m) dans l'ouest du Cameroun constituent l'un des massifs volcaniques situs sur l'importante faille qui s'tend du Golfe de Guine jusqu'aux hautes terres du Tibesti. Ils se trouvent dans le pays bamilk et s'lvent audessus d'un pimont densment peupl. Dans les annes 70, la population rurale avoisinante a commenc  se dplacer vers les montagnes qui, jusqu' prsent, taient utilises exclusivement pour l'levage du btail. Les raisons principales pour cette invasion rcente tiennent au manque de techniques agricoles modernes,  l'appauvrissement des sols et au dclin des rcoltes dans la zone de contreforts, ainsi qu'au potentiel incomparable des montagnes pour l'agriculture et les activits pastorales. L'occupation des montagnes a t rapide et destructrice. Les fortes pentes et l'altitude relativement haute font en sorte que les terres sont fragiles du point de vue cologique. L'rosion et le surpturage ont entran une instabilit du paysage et les phnomnes menaant l'environnement sont intensifis par les conflits srieux entre les cultivateurs et les pasteurs. /// Das Bamboutos Gebirge (hchste Erhebung 2,740 m) im westlichen Kamerun ist eines der vulkanischen Massive auf der Hauptverwerfung, sie sich vom Golf von Guinea bis zu den Tibesti Hochlanden erstreckt. Es liegt im Bamileke Land und erhebt sich ber ein dicht besiedeltes Vorland. Erst in den 1970iger Jahren bevlkerten die Landbewohner der umliegenden Gebiete auch die Berge, die bis dahin nur als Viehweiden genutzt wurden. Hauptgrnde dieser neuerlichen Invasion waren die im Vorland fehlenden modernen landwirtschaftlichen Methoden, die Verarmung der Bden und abnehmende Ernteertrge, und andererseits die verlockenden landwirtschaftlichen und weidewirtschaftlichen Mglichkeiten in den Bergen. Die Besiedelung der Berge verlief schnell und hatte destruktive Folgen. Die Steilheit der Hnge und die relativ hohen Lagen machten die Landschaft kologisch anfllig. Erosion und berweiden fhren zu Landschaftsinstabilitten, was zu ernsthaften Auseinandersetzungen zwischen Landwirten und Weidebauern fhrt, was wiederum die Umweltbedrohung intensiviert.
10.2307/3672935|Migration always entails a change in social environment and adjustment to unfamiliar surroundings. Andean migration additionally often entails a major change in physical environment when high-altitude natives move down to low altitude. This case study was conducted in the Tambo Valley of south coastal Peru, an arid environment with high density populations dependent upon intensive irrigated agriculture. Puno natives from highland southern Peru comprise 42 percent of a migrant population of 13,650. The study permitted comparisons between lowland migrants, highland migrants, lowland sedentes and highland sedentes. Analysis included socio-economic factors, and fertility, mortality, health, and nutritional characteristics, of the various sub-populations. The principal factors distinguishing the present study from others were use of a larger array of fitness indicators and comparison of two migrant groups simultaneously arriving from differing original environments. Two broad generalizations emerge: 1) migrants from similar cultural and environmental backgrounds have a lower level of biological fitness than sedente populations in the place of destination; and 2) highland migrants compared with both lowland migrants and lowland sedentes, with the first population undergoing major changes in biocultural environment, show greater losses in most aspects of biological fitness. The analyses permitted the statement of several working hypotheses, and demonstrated the value of integrated studies of the behaviour and biology of Andean migrants. They also support the validity of the MAB Programme emphasis on the need to study the impact of the environment on the human population. Such is especially important for present and future planned colonization projects relocating altiplano residents into coastal and tropical forest environments. /// Toute migration implique un changement de milieu social et une adaptation  un cadre peu familier. La migration andine implique aussi un changement majeur du milieu physique lorsque des populations vivant  haute altitude migrent vers des rgions plus basses. Une tude de cas a t mene dans la valle du Tambo sur la cte mridionale du Prou, une rgion aride  haute concentration dmographique dont la subsistance repose sur une agriculture intensive base sur l'irrigation. Des 13.650 immigrants, 42% viennent de la puna mridionale pruvienne. Cette tude a permis de faire des comparaisons entre migrants des hautes terres, migrants des basses terres, sdentaires des basses terres, et sdentaires des hautes terres. L'tude englobe les facteurs socio-conomiques ainsi que les caractristiques de fertilit, de mortalit et d'tat de sant des diffrentes sous-populations. La diffrence principale entre cette tude et les autres rside dans l'utilisation d'un plus grande nombre d'indices d'tat de sant, et la comparaison entre deux groupes en provenance de milieux diffrents et arrivant simultanment. Deux grandes tendances se dgagent: 1)  l'endroit de destination, la sant biologique des immigrants en provenance de milieux physiques et culturels similaires n'est pas aussi bonne que celle des autochtones; et 2) compars aux autochtones et aux immigrants venant d'autres rgions basses, les immigrants venant de rgions hautes et dont l'environnement bioculturel a beaucoup chang, manifestent une dgradation plus importante de la plupart des aspects de l'tat biologique. Ces analyses ont permis d'laborer plusieurs hypothses de travail et ont dmontr la validit d'une tude intgre du comportement et de la biologie des migrants andins. Elle justifient aussi l'accent mis par le programme "L'Homme et la Biosphre" sur la ncessit d'tudier l'impact de l'environnement sur la population humaine. Celui-ci revt une importance particulire pour les projets actuels et futurs de colonisation visant  transfrer des rsidants de l'altiplano vers les zones ctires et les forts tropicales. /// Wenn die Sehaftigkeit aufgegeben wird, ergibt sich immer eine Vernderung der sozialen Umwelt und eine Anpassung an fremde Umgebung. Abwanderung im Gebiet der Anden bedeutet oft auch eine Vernderung im physischen Bereich, wenn die Einwohner des Hochlandes in die Ebene abwandern. Diese Fallstudie wurde im Tambo Tal im sdl. Kstengebiet von Peru durchgefhrt, einer trockenen Landschaft mit hoher Bevlkerungsdichte, die von intensiver, knstlich bewsserter Landwirtschaft abhngig ist. Die Puno Einheimischen des Hochlandes im sdl. Peru sind 42% der nicht sehaften Bevlkerung von insgesamt 13,650 Menschen. Die Studie lie einen Vergleich zwischen Einwanderern aus dem Tiefland und dem Hochland zu, sowie zwischen der sehaften Bevlkerung in Tief-und Hochland. Die Undersuchung umfate sozial-konomische Faktoren, Fortpflanzung, Sterblichkeitsrate, Gesundheit und Ernhrungsgewohnheiten fr diese verschiedenen Bevlkerungsgruppen. Die Hauptmerkmale, die diese Studie von frheren unterscheidet, waren die Vielzahl der zur Verfgung stehenden Fitne-Megerte und der gleichzeitige Vergleich zweier Bevlkerungsgruppen, die aus verschiedenen Ursprungsgebieten stammten. Verallgemeinernd ergaben sich zwei Gesichtspunkte: 1) Die nicht sehaften Vlker mit hnlichen kulturellen und umweltbezogenen Lebensumstnden haben am Bestimmungsort eine niedrigere Stufe biologischer Fitne als sehafte Vlker; und 2) Die wandernden Vlker aus dem Hochland zeigen beim Vergleich sowohl mit den nicht sehaften Vlkern aus dem Tiefland als auch mit den im Tiefland ansssigen deutliche Verluste in fast allen Merkmalen der biologischen Fitne, wobei die nicht sehaften Vlker aus dem Tiefland noch zustzlichen erheblichen Vernderungen ihrer biologischen und kulturellen Umgebung ausgesetzt waren. Die Untersuchungen erlaubten mehrere Arbeitshypothesen und zeigten die Bedeutung einer integrierten Forschung des Verhaltens und der Konstitution der nicht sehaften Andenbevlkerung. Sie untersttzten auerdem die Gltigkeit der MAB Programmthesen in der Erforschung des Umwelteinflusses auf die Bevlkerung. Fr gegenwrtige und zuknftige Kolonisationsprojekte, in denen Bewohner des Hochlandes in Kstengebiete oder tropische Waldzonen umgesiedelt werden, sind diese berlegungen besonders wichtig. /// La emigracin supone siempre un cambio en el medio-ambiente social y un ajuste a un medio extrao. La emigracin andina, a menudo, ocasiona un cambio importante en el medio-ambiente fsico cuando los nativos de las tierras altas se desplazan a las tierras bajas. Este estudio, en particular, fue realizado en el Valle de Tambo en la costa meridonal del Per; una zona rida con una alta densidad de poblacin que depende de la agricultura de irrigacin intensiva. Los nativos de Puno, en las tierras altas del Per meridional, ascienden al 42% de los 13.650 emigrantes que integran la poblacin. El estudio permiti la comparacin entre emigrantes de tierras bajas y de tierras altas y de habitantes residentes en tierras bajas y en tierras altas. El anlisis incluy los factores socio-econmicos, fertilidad, mortalidad, salud y caractersticas nutritivas de las varias sub-poblaciones. Los principales factores que diferencian el presente estudio de otros son el uso de gran cantidad de indicadores de la adaptabilidad y aptitud y la comparacin de dos grupos de emigrantes llegados simultneamente de dos medio-ambientes diferentes. De esto emergen dos generalizaciones: 1) los emigrantes de procedencia ambiental y cultural similar tienen un nivel de adaptacin biolgica inferior a la de la poblacin establecida del lugar de destino; 2) los emigrantes de tierras altas, comparados con los emigrantes y los residentes de tierras bajas, estando los primeros de stos sometidos a cambios mayores en el ambiente bio-cultural, muestran grandes prdidas en la mayor parte de sus capacidades de adaptacin biolgica. El anlisis permiti formular varias hiptesis de aplicacin prctica y demostr el valor de los estudios integrales sobre el comportamiento y la biologa de los emigrantes andinos. Tambin apoya la validez del nfasis puesto por el Programa MAB en la necesidad de estudiar el impacto del medioambiente en el ser humano. Este aspecto es especialmente importante para los proyectos de colonizacin presentes y futuros que impliquen el transplante de los residentes del altiplano en zonas costeras o tropicales.
25164202|Swiss National Research Programs (NRPs) are usually geared to addressing issues of major societal concern. In so doing these programs produce different kinds of knowledge: analytical knowledge necessary for revealing the driving forces, conflicting interests and institutional settings that govern the processes under scrutiny; target knowledge oriented towards revealing the directions in which the processes should be guided; and action knowledge that informs about the means by which this can best be achieved. Analytical knowledge answers the questions "what is the problem?" and "what causes it?" while target knowledge helps to define "what is our vision for the future?" and action knowledge deals with "how can we solve the problem?" Production of these 3 different types of knowledge is usually linked in an iterative process in the course of the research supported in an NRP.
25163989|This paper introduces the development, purpose, and philosophy of an environmental atlas of the Indian Peaks section of the Colorado Front Range. Most of the area covered by the atlas was designated as a Wilderness Area by Act of Congress in October 1978. It straddles the Continental Divide along which elevations exceed 3,600 to 4,200 m. This superb mountain area is easily accessible to a large urban population centred on Denver so that acute management problems have arisen. The concept of wilderness is briefly discussed; the atlas design is outlined; and some of its actual and potential contributions to wilderness management are introduced. The first atlas plate, shaded relief, scale 1:50,000 (folded-in), is described as an integral part of the paper. With accompanying photographs and diagrams it serves to provide the reader with a graphic portrayal of the area under study. The paper is intended as a framework for a series of papers to be published subsequently on specific thematic maps selected from the atlas. /// Cet article est une introduction au dveloppement, au but et  la philosophie d'un atlas de l'environnement dans la rgion des Indian Peaks de la Colorado Front Range. La majeure partie de la surface recouverte par l'atlas a t dclare "Wilderness Area" par acte du Congrs en octobre 1978. Cette zone s'tend le long du "Continental Divide," dont les sommets dpassent 3600  4200 m d'altitude. Ces merveilleux paysages de montagne sont facilement accessibles depuis la rgion urbanic fortement peuple de Denver, si bien que d'urgents problmes d'amnagement se posent. La notion de "Wilderness Area" (Rserve naturelle) est brivement discute et le concept de l'atlas est trac dans ses grandes lignes. Quelques contributions immdiates et potentielles de l'atlas  l'adminstration d'une telle rserve naturelle sont prsentes. La premire planche de l'atlas, un relief en demi-teintes ombres  l'chelle 1: 50,000 (dpliant) est dcrite dans l'article. Avec les photographies et les graphiques qui l'accompagnent, cette carte donne au lecteur une vision d'ensemble de la rgion tudie. Cet article sert galement de cadre pour une srie d'article  paratre, qui traiteront de cartes thmatiques spcifiques tires de l'atlas. /// Dieser Artikel ist eine Einfhrung in die Entwicklung, das Ziel and die Philosophie eines Atlas ber die Umwelt der Indian Peaks Region der Colorado Front Range. Der grsste Teil der durch den Atlas abgedeckten Gegend wurde durch den Kongress im Oktober 1978 als "Wilderness Area" bezeichnet. Diese Zone erstreckt sich entlang der "Continental Divide," dessen Hhen von 3600 m bis 4200 m reichen. Diese prchtige Gebirgslandschaft ist leicht erreichbar durch die grosse, stdtische Bevlkerung von Denver, so dass dringende "Management"-Probleme auftreten mussten. Das Konzept der "Wilderness Area" wird kurz diskutiert; die Art des Atlas beschrieben und einige aktuelle und potentielle Beitrge zur Verwaltung eines solchen Parkgebietes vorgestellt. Die erste Atlaskarte mit geschummertem Relief im Masstab 1: 50,000 (gefaltet beigelegt) wird als fester Bestandteil der Arbeit beschrieben. Die begleitenden Photos und Diagramme dienen dazu, dem Leser einen Ueberblick ber das Untersuchungsgebiet zu vermitteln. Der vorgelegte Artikel ist als erste Publikation einer Serie weiterer Arbeiten ber bestimmte thematische Karten des Atlas gedacht, die folgen werden.
10.2307/3673284|During the last 15 years orthophotographs and stereo-orthophotographs have been used for mapping topographic features of high mountains and orthophotomaps of glacier regions have been produced. The development of these techniques is explained and a satellite orthophoto map of the Eastern Alps produced from the first metric images taken on the Spacelab mission of December 1983 is discussed. /// Au cours des 15 dernires annes, les orthophotographies simples et stro ont t utilises pour faire des levs topographiques de hautes montagnes, et des orthophotocartes de rgions de glaciers ont t produites. La mise au point de ces techniques est explique dans cet article, et une orthophotocarte des Alpes orientales est passe en revue. Cette carte a t dresse  partir des premires images mtriques prises par satellite lors de la mission Spacelab de dcembre 1983. /// Seit 15 Jahren wird die Orthophototechnik im Hochgebirge zur Kartierung topographischer Details und zur Herstellung von Luftbildkarten vergletscherter Gebiete eingesetzt. Diese Entwicklung der Hochgebirgskartographie wird erlutert. Abschlieend wird eine Satelliten-Hochgebirgsluftbildkarte aus den Ostalpen besprochen, die aus Orthophotos erster Mebilder der Spacelab-Mission vom Dezember 1983 hergestellt wurde.
10.2307/3673935|The Kunlun is one of the most extensive of the high mountain ranges of the world. Located on the northern border of the Tibetan Plateau and sandwiched between warm temperate desert and Tibetan alpine desert, it has developed a special geoecological structure: patches of montane coniferous forest; coexistence of three types of desert at different altitudes; extensive distribution of montane desert; the high cold-arid core of the Tibetan Plateau, to list only a few of the major components. Reform of the grazing system is essential if sustainable development of these mountains is to be achieved. A nature reserve is proposed for the Uytag area in order to protect the rare montane forests of this section of the Kunlun. The mountains are closely interrelated to oases on the downstream piedmont plains; many aspects of their resources, ecology, economy, and administration form a remarkable highland-lowland interactive system. The mountains and plains must be considered together as a unit if any effective policy for sustainable mountain development is to be realized. This theme is closely related to the main recommendations contained in Chapter 13 of Agenda 21, the main publication of the Rio de Janeiro (UNCED) Earth Summit of 1992. /// Le Kunlun constitue l'une des chanes de hautes montagnes les plus tendues du monde. Situ  la frontire nord du plateau tibtain et intercal entre un dsert tempr chaud et le dsert alpin tibtain, le Kunlun a dvelopp une structure gocologique spciale: petites tendues de forts de conifres montagnardes; coexistence de trois types de dsert  diffrentes altitudes; grandes tendues de dsert montagnard; partie centrale leve, froide et aride du plateau tibtain, pour ne citer qu'une petite partie des composants principaux. La rforme du systme pastoral est indispensable  l'accomplissement d'un dveloppement soutenable de ces montagnes. Une rserve naturelle est propose pour la rgion de l'Uytag afin de prserver les rares forts montagnardes de cette section du Kunlun. Les montagnes sont troitement lies aux oasis des plaines du piedmond en aval; bien des aspects de leurs ressources, de leur cologie, de leur conomie, et de leur administration forment un systme interactif hautes terres-basses terres remarquable. Les montagnes et les plaines doivent tre considres en tant qu'unit pour arriver  laborer une politique efficace de dveloppement montagnard soutenable. Ce thme est proche des recommandations principales du Chapitre 13 de l'Agenda 21, la publication principale de la Confrence des Nations-Unies sur l'environnement et le dveloppement (CNUED) qui s'est tenue  Rio de Janeiro en 1992. /// Das Kunlun-Gebirge ist eines der groen Hochgebirgssysteme der Erde. Aufgrund seiner Lage an der Nordgrenze des Tibetischen Hochlandes und der Zwischenstellung zwischen warm-gemigten Wstenzonen und der tibetischen Gebirgswste weist es eine besondere geo-kologische Struktur auf: Isolierte Standorte von Bergnadelwald, das Nebeneinander dreier Wstentypen in unterschiedlichen Hhenstufen, ausgedehnte Bereiche von Hochgebirgswste und das hochgelegene kaltaride Zentrum des Tibetischen Hochlandes sind nur wenige ausgewhlte Stichworte in diesem Zusammenhang. Die Reform der Weidewirtschaftssysteme stellt eine wichtige Vorbedingung fr die Umsetzung nachhaltiger Entwicklungsmanahmen in dieser Region dar. Im Falle des Uytag-Gebiets wird die Umwandlung in ein Naturschutzgebiet vorgeschlagen mit dem Zweck, die seltenen Vorkommen von Gebirgswald im Kunlun zu schtzen. Die Gebirgsregionen weisen enge Beziehungen zu den ihnen vorgelagerten Oasen der Piedmontflchen auf. In vielerlei Hinsicht bildet die Region ein Hochland-Tiefland-Austauschsystem bezglich der natrlichen Rohstoffe, kologie, konomie und Verwaltung. Hochland und Tiefland sollten als eine Einheit betrachtet werden; effektive Verwaltungsmanahmen fr eine nachhltige Entwicklung werden bentigt. Diese Aufgabenstellung weist zahlreiche Parallelen zu den anllich des Umweltgipfels in Rio de Janeiro (UNCED) im Jahre 1992 publizierten zentralen Vorschlgen des Artikel 13 in der Agenda 21 auf.
25164024|Resource-use decisions made by households and local communities in pursuit of today's survival and livelihood security are influenced by the policies, institutions, and technologies that impact on their lives. Such decisions are the main determinants of links between poverty elimination, improved land care, and sustainable rural livelihoods. In the long term such goals can be compatible but in the short term the need for increased yields with increasing populations is likely to undermine sustainable natural resource management. Increasing analysis and understanding of poverty, its measurement, and identification of the processes that create poverty, as well as improved land care are key to creating sustainable livelihoods. Hillside and mountainous areas are particularly vulnerable to poverty due to their inaccessibility, fragility, marginality, and diversity. Although many of the world hot spots for land degradation are found in hillside areas, there are also many bright spots where improvements in natural resource management are resulting in increased incomes. Poverty elimination will require revival of the community stake in the natural resource base, restoring local control over local resources, and use of local perspectives and traditional knowledge systems in development activities. New policies, institutions, and technologies will need to reflect these principles.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s64|Sustainable Mountain Development (SMD) in the context of global warming, world population growth, increased water and energy consumption, persisting food insecurity and biodiversity loss, more frequent and intense natural calamities, and the depletion of vital natural resources is a key concern for humanity. It requires the attention and support of many stakeholders and shareholders, including development agencies. The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation has been a major promoter of SMD at the global policy and networking level. By supporting the Perth mountain conferences, it has also emphasized the role of research for SMD. With Rio 2012 fast approaching, it is important to understand past efforts to design what new support is needed for ensuring that SMD takes place effectively.
mounresedeve.33.2.179|Thirty years ago, 8 countries of the Hindu KushHimalayan region (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) realized the importance of mountains and established the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD). With an 8-country charter, ICIMOD serves as a regional intergovernmental center for cooperation on the sustainable development of the Hindu Kush Himalayan region. ICIMOD believes in a future in which the region's mountain people can experience enhanced livelihoods, equity, and social and environmental security; in which they can adapt to environmental, socioeconomic, and climate change; and in which generations of mountain and downstream populations can enjoy the benefits and opportunities afforded by the region's natural endowment. ICIMOD foresees a future in which the role of the region, as the water tower for more than a billion people, a cultural and spiritual hub, the home of global biodiversity hotspots, a significant ecological buffer zone, and a source of resources and services for mountain and lowland people, is upheld, valued, and recognized globally and regionally.
10.2307/3673370|Personal exposures to total suspended particulates (TSP) during cooking periods were monitored in 60 households in the Middle Hills of Nepal. Filters for gravimetric analysis were exposed in rural households with traditional (without flue) and improved (with flue) cookstoves. Also conducted were active stationary monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) and, in a subsample of households, passive area monitoring for nitrogen dioxide and formaldehyde. Results indicate that these improved cookstoves were effective in reducing the cooks' exposures to TSP by approximately two-thirds and reducing CO concentrations by three-quarters in comparison to neighbouring kitchens with traditional cookstoves. Behavioural observations and questionnaires revealed that women spend, on average, more than 90 percent of the cooking period within 2 m of the stove and that both traditional and improved stove owners cook for about 5 hours a day. Thus they spend almost 20 percent of the day near the cookstove. Lower indoor smoke concentration rather than fuel savings was stated as the principal advantage of the improved stove. Most cooks considered the extra stove maintenance required by improved stoves to be a reasonable cost to pay for a more comfortable and sanitary indoor environment. /// L'exposition aux particules en suspension dans l'air lors de la prparation des aliments a t mesure pour 60 familles dans les montagnes centrales du Npal. Des filtres pour l'analyse gravimtrique ont t exposs  l'air ambiant dans des rsidences rurales quipes de fourneaux traditionnels (sans tuyau de pole) et moderniss (avec tuyau). La prsence de monoxyde de carbone (CO) a aussi fait l'objet d'une surveillance active et, pour un sous-chantillon des familles, une surveillance passive a port sur le dioxyde d'azote et le formaldhyde. Les rsultats indiquent que ces fourneaux moderniss rduisent d'environ 66%, l'exposition des femmes aux particules en suspension et d'environ 75% l'exposition au monoxyde de carbone, compar aux autres femmes utilisant des fourneaux traditionnels. Une analyse du comportement et une enqute ont montr que les femmes cuisinent environ 5 heures par jour et se trouvent 90% du temps  moins de deux mtres du fourneau, traditionnel aussi bien que modernis. Elles passent donc 20% de leur temps prs du fourneau et trouvent que la rduction de la fume constitue l'avantage principal des fourneaux moderniss plutt que l'conomie de bois. La plupart des femmes considrent que l'entretien ncessit par ces fourneaux est largement compens par un milieu plus confortable et plus salubre. /// In den Middle Hills, Nepal, wurde in 60 Haushalten die persnliche Beeintrchtigung durch die Gesamtmenge an Schwebeteilchen (TSP = total suspended particulates) whrend der Kochzeit berprft. Filter zur gravimetrischen Analyse wurden in lndlichen Haushalten mit traditionellen (ohne Abzug) und mit verbesserten (mit Abzug) Herden dem Rauch ausgesetzt. Auerdem wurde der Kohlenmonoxidgehalt direkt gemessen, und in einer begrenzten Zahl von Haushalten wurden Stickstoffdioxid und Formaldehyd indirekt gemessen. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da im Vergleich mit Haushalten, die noch althergebrachte Herde benutzen, die verbesserten Herde die Beeintrchtigung des Kochs durch TSP wirksam um 2/3 und bei CO um ca. 3/4 reduzieren. Ein Verhaltenstest und eine Umfrage ergaben, da sich die Frauen durchschnittlich 90% der Kochzeit 2m vom Herd entfernt aufhalten, und da beide Gruppen-(Besitzer alter Herde, sowie die der verbesserten)-ca. 5 Stunden pro Tage kochen. Sie verbringen damit beinahe 20% des Tages in der Nhe des Herdes. Als Hauptvorteil des verbesserten Herdes wird eine niedrigere Rauchkonzentration im Innenraum angegeben und nicht die Brennstoffersparnis. Die meisten Kche empfanden die extra Wartung fr die verbesserten Herde als zumutbaren Preis fr eine angenehme, gesunde Innenumgebung.
10.2307/3672937|The Argentina puna has the characteristics of a cold semi-desert that can barely support a subsistence economy. Despite this, population densities have been relatively high, probably even before the Spanish conquest. The prehispanic economy appears to have been one of mixed agriculture and pastoralism whereas that of today is overwhelmingly pastoral. In order to elucidate the causes of this change, this paper examines the characteristics of prehispanic settlement patterns and economy in comparison with those of today. The objective is to interpret the differences and to make suggestions for improvement in agriculture and animal husbandry. The Guayatayoc Basin is used as the core area for the study. Its physiography, climate, and vegetation are described, and the changing socio-economic and settlement patterns are examined. Today a marginal pastoral economy barely survives; women and children are frequently left to manage animals and households while the menfolk seek supplementary wages by working in mines or mills. There is rapid depopulation. The question of the underlying causes of these changes is examined. Are they the result of deteriorating climate, or the destruction of the indigenous social and economic structures by the Spanish conquest? Possibly prehispanic deforestation, soil erosion, and decline in soil fertility had been occurring progressively so that the Spaniards found an already declining agriculture. Considering the very marginal situation of this southern puna environment, introduction of European cereals and especially livestock may have set off a slow trend toward predominance of pastoralism. It is concluded that no clear-cut answers are available. A fuller understanding of the various natural, socio-economic, and historic processes is needed as a basis for the development of improved management strategies. /// La puna argentine revt les caractristiques d'un semi-dsert froid  peine capable de soutenir une conomie d'autoconsommation. En dpit de ces conditions, la densit de la population est relativement leve et l'a probablement t avant la conqute espagnole. L'conomie prhispanique semble avoir t agro-pastorale alors qu'aujourd'hui elle est pratiquement pastorale. Dans le but de clarifier les causes de ce changement, cette tude examine les formes prhispaniques du peuplement et de l'conomie et les compare avec celles d'aujourd'hui. L'objectif vise  interprter les diffrences et  apporter des suggestions concernant l'amlioration de l'agriculture et de l'levage. Le bassin du Guayatayoc contitue la zone centrale de cette tude. Sa physiographie, son climat, et sa vgtation sont dcrits; l'volution des structures socio-conomique et dmographique est aussi examine. De nos jours, une conomie pastorale marginale survit  peine; souvent, seuls les femmes et les enfants s'occupent des animaux et des habitations alors que les hommes cherchent  augmenter leurs revenus en travaillant dans les mines ou les usines de traitement. Une dpopulation rapide prend place. Les causes possibles de ces changements sont examines: proviennent-ils de la dtrioration du climat, ou de la destruction des structures sociales et conomiques indignes suite  la conqute espagnole? Il est possible que le dboisement, l'rosion des sols et l'amoindrissement de leur fertilit se soient produits graduellement au cours de la priode prhispanique, et que les Espagnols se soient retrouvs face  une agriculture dj en dclin. Si l'on considre les conditions trs marginales de cet environment de la puna mridionale, l'introduction de crales europennes et surtout de bestiaux pourrait avoir engendr une volution lente vers la prdominance de l'conomie pastorale. L'tude conclut qu'il n'existe pas de rponses tranches. Une meilleure comprhension des processus naturels, socio-conomiques, et historiques est ncessaire  l'laboration de stratgies amliores pour la gestion des ressources. /// Die Puna Argentiniens wird als kalte Halbwste charakterisiert, die kaum eine sich selbst tragende Wirtschaft hat. Trotzdem ist die Bevlkerungsdichte seit der Zeit vor der spanischen Eroberung relativ hoch. Die Wirtschaft der vorspanischen Zeit scheint eine Mischung aus Ackerbau und Weidewirtschaft gewesen zu sein, wogegen die heutige hauptschlich Weidewirtschaft ist. Um die Hintergrnde dieses Wechsels aufzuhellen, werden im Vergleich zur Gegenwart die Merkmale der vorspanischen Besiedelungsstruktur und die Wirtschaft untersucht. Das Ziel ist, die Unterschiede zu interpretieren und Verbesserungsvorschlge fr Land -und Viehwirtschaft zu machen. Das Guayatayoc Becken ist das Kerngebiet der Studie; seine Physiographie, seine Vegetation und sein Klima werden beschrieben und auer den wechselnden sozial-konomischen Gegebenheiten auch die Siedlungsstruktur untersucht. Heutzutage kann rmliche Viehwirtschaft kaum berleben, Frauen und Kinder versorgen hufig die Tiere und den Haushalt, whrend die Mnner zustzlich in Bergwerken oder Htten arbeiten. Die Bevlkerungszahl nimmt schnell ab. Die Frage nach den Ursachen dieser Vernderung wird untersucht. Sind sie die Auswirkung des schlechter werdenden Klimas, oder der Zerstrung der einheimischen sozialen und konomischen Struktur durch die spanischen Eroberer? Es ist denkbar, da die Abholzung, Bodenerosion und der Rckgang der Bodenfruchtbarkeit so weit fortgeschritten waren, da die Spanier bereits eine zurckgehende Landwirtschaft vorfanden. Wenn man diese rmliche Umweltsituation der sdlichen puna bedenkt, ist es mglich, da die Einfhrung europischer Getreidearten und besonders anderer Vieharten die Tendenz zur vorherrschenden Weidewirtschaft ausgelst haben. Abschlieend wird bemerkt, da eine eindeutige Antwort nicht mglich ist. Es bedarf grerer Einsicht in die verschiedenen natrlichen, sozial-konomischen und geschichtlichen Prozesse, um verbesserte Bewirtschaftungstaktiken zu entwickeln. /// La puna argentina tiene las caractersticas de un semidesierto fro que apenas puede mantener una economa de subsistencia. A pesar de sto, la densidad de la poblacin ha sido relativamente alta, probablemente desde antes de la Conquista Espaola. La economa prehispnica parece haber sido una mezcla de agricultura y pastoreo, mientras que la de hoy es predominantemente de pastoreo. Para aclarar las causas de este cambio, esta monografa estudia las caractersticas de las corrientes de asentamiento prehispnico y su economa en comparacin con los de hoy. El objectivo es interpretar las diferencias y hacer sugerencias para mejorar la agricultura y la ganadera. La cuenca del Guayatayoc es usada como el rea central para este estudio. Se describen la fisiografa, el clima y la vegetacin y se examinan los cambios sufridos en las formas socio-econmicas y de asentamiento humano. Hoy da, apenas sobrevive una economa pastoral marginal. Con frecuencia, las mujeres y los nios quedan a cargo de los animales y las casas mientras los hombres buscan entradas suplementarias trabajando en minas o molinos. Hay una rpida despoblacin. Se examina las causas subyacentes de estos cambios. Son la consecuencia de un deterioro del clima o de la destruccin de las estructuras socio-econmicas por la Conquista Espaola? Es posible que la deforestacin, la erosin del suelo, la disminucin de la fertilidad de la tierra iniciadas en la poca prehispnica sea un fenmeno progresivo, de manera que los espaoles encontraron una agricultura ya decadente. Considerando la situacin muy marginal del medio ambiente de esta puna meridional, es posible que la introduccin de cereales europeos y, especialmente del ganado, haya iniciado una lenta tendencia hacia el predominio del pastoreo. Se concluye que no hay una respuesta definitiva. Se necesita una comprensin ms profunda de los procesos histricos, socio-econmicos y naturales como base para el desarrollo de estrategias mejores en el manejo de los recursos naturales.
3674459|Climate change scenarios predict impacts in Bolivia that include longer dry seasons and more frequent storms. Can the local population cope with these changes? How resilient are the social systems and local ecosystems? A case study prepared by Intercooperation (IC) for "Vulnerable Communities and Adaptation," an IC/IISD/IUCN/SEI project on Climate Change, investigated how Swiss development cooperation has helped reduce vulnerability to climate change in a community in the Altiplano of Bolivia. Regardless of considerations of climate change during planning and implementation of the project, one collateral benefit has been improvement in the resilience profile of the Khuluyo community.
mounresedeve.31.4.351|Despite the growing number of studies and research projects on climate change adaptation, only a few have examined the gender and cultural dynamics of the adaptation process. Inequality has been identified as a major indicator of the vulnerability of individuals and groups; nevertheless, the gender and cultural aspects of inequality have not received much emphasis. The present article attempts to analyze the influence of gender and cultural relations on the process of climate change adaptation by presenting a study of Dalit and Lama households in the mountainous Humla District of Nepal. The inhabitants of Humla have been experiencing a shift in the monsoon season, a decrease in snowfall, and longer dry periods, with adverse effects on their livelihoods. The main focus of this article is to highlight the cultural, social, and economic dependency of the Lama and Dalit ethnic groups and to examine whether processes of adaptation exacerbate or alter gender inequalities and intercaste dependencies.
mounresedeve.31.4.284|An increasing number of people find it difficult or even impossible to ensure adequate coverage of their energy needs. This situation, defined as energy poverty, is one of the results of the global energy crisis. Mountainous areas are especially vulnerable to energy poverty because their thermal energy needs are especially high and their economic environment is not a particularly prosperous one. We studied ways of reducing conventional fuel use and thus restricting the risk of energy poverty in Metsovo, a Greek mountain town. Given the special characteristics of energy consumption in the area and its energy potential, several alternative scenarios for saving energy in the town of Metsovo were constructed. The economic performance of the alternatives and their contribution to combating energy poverty were assessed. It was shown that utilizing locally produced biomass and applying energy-saving measures can bring households below the energy poverty limit. Moreover, dependence on diesel oil and electricity for heating purposes can be reduced to a very low level by applying financially viable energy practices. The case of Metsovo shows that the establishment of an appropriate framework of sustainable energy policy in mountainous areas can bring about significant environmental, social, and financial benefits. The general objectives of the energy strategy of the European Union, as well as its efforts to combat energy poverty, can be significantly supported by the rich renewable energy potential of its mountainous areas, which is well illustrated by the example of Metsovo.
mounresedeve.36.3.276|Agriculture is a minor contributor to local economies in European mountain and fjord areas where tourism is predominant; however, it is essential to maintain the agricultural landscape and other important nonmarket functions of mountain agroecosystems. Policy-makers have aimed to support agriculture in these areas, but farmers perspectives are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to analyze (1) the main characteristics of livestock farming systems and the recent changes they have undergone, (2) farmers perceptions of different functions of agriculture, (3) farmers goals, and (4) the relationships among these elements in order to support more targeted policy-making in fjord and mountain areas in Scandinavian countries. We collected data from 27 farms and conducted univariate and multivariate (principal components and cluster) analyses. Most recent changes in farming have been related to improving working conditions and increasing tourist activity. According to the farmers, the main nonmarket functions of agriculture were (1) maintaining cultural heritage and rural development, (2) delivering environmental services, and (3) promoting traditional agriculture. The farmers primary goals were (1) innovating for better farming, (2) improving the familys quality of life, and (3) achieving economic objectives. We identified 2 clusters of farmers based on divergent perceptions of rural development and the goal of improving the familys quality of life. These results point to the importance of integrated policies that address agricultural, environmental, and rural development together and take into account farmers diverse perceptions and goals.
10.2307/3673447|The Mau Hills form the western cuesta of the Great Rift Valley system in Kenya and have an altitudinal range from 2,000 to 3,098 m. The Hills are composed of Tertiary volcanics and receive high amounts of rainfall, experience moderate temperatures, and have fertile soils. The area is part of what is gazetted as indigenous forest reserves which form 2.4 percent of the country's total forest area. As a result of such favourable climatic elements and a rapidly growing population, there has been heavy pressure to convert the indigenous forest areas into either single-stand timber areas or into agricultural lands. The present paper outlines the hydrology of the Mau Hills with a view to understanding the nature of the conflicts in forest resource use and their hydrological consequences. Appropriate management techniques may be introduced to decelerate rates of erosion and mass wasting in mountain areas that are presently occupied by forest cover. /// Le Mau Escarpement forme la cuesta occidentale du Rift Valley (dpression tectonique) du Kenya, et son altitude varie entre 2.000 et 3.098 m. L'Escarpement est constitu de roches volcaniques tertiaires; les pluies y sont abondantes, les tempratures modres et les sols fertiles. Cette rgion fait partie des forts qui sont officiellement reconnues comme reserves indignes et qui constituent 2,4 pour cent de la totalit des forts. Par suite de ces conditions climatiques favorables et d'une croissance dmographique rapide, il est fortement considr de convertir les forts indignes en zones  peuplements uniques pour la production de bois, ou en zones de cultures. Cette tude passe en revue l'hydrologie du Mau Escarpement afin de mieux comprendre la nature des conflits lis  l'exploitation des ressources forestires et leurs rpercussions sur l'hydrologie. Des methodes de gestion appropries doivent tre introduites pour ralentir les taux d'rosion et de gaspillage de la biomasse dans les rgions montagneuses qui sont  prsent couvertes de forts. /// Die Mau-Hgel bilden den Westrand des grossen Rifttal-Systems in Kenya. Sie haben eine Hhenstufe von 2000 m bis 3098 m .M. Die Hgel bestehen aus tertiren Vulkanen und erhalten hohe Niederschlge, erfahren kalte Temperaturen und haben fruchtbare Bden. Das Gebiet beinhaltet mit 2.4% des Landesanteils an Wldern einen Teil der registrierten Waldreservate Kenyas. Wegen der gnstigen klimatischen Bedingungen und der grossen Bevlkerungszunahme war der Druck auf den Naturwald gross, um entweder eine Waldplantage oder aber landwirtschaftliches Land zu errichten. Der vorliegende Artikel beschreibt die Hydrologie dieses Gebietes im Hinblick auf die Ursache der Konflikte bei der Nutzung von Wald und ihre hydrologischen Konsequenzen. Angepasste Nutzungs-methoden knnen daraus abgeleitet werden, um Bodenerosion und Massenverluste in Gebirgen, die gegenwrtig von Wald bedeckt sind zu vermeiden.
10.2307/3674024|Lapse rates of slope air temperature required for modeling meltwater production are frequently difficult to derive in subtropical mountains due to the paucity of data. This paper reports on lapse rates calculated from slope air temperature data collected over two snowmelt seasons at seven high-elevation stations in the Punjab Himalaya, Pakistan. The results show a strong negative correlation between elevation and mean daily temperature, despite the relatively short periods over which temperatures are averaged. The calculated lapse rates are generally higher than reported from other studies, probably as a result of the relatively high thermal regime of the study area and the cooling influence of snow cover at some of the higher stations during the measurements. The lapse rates derived from this study should be used cautiously because of variations between the individual pairs of stations as well as between the two years. Some of the possible reasons for these variations are discussed. /// Les gradients adiabatiques de la temprature de l'air sur les pentes, requis pour la modlisation de la production d'eau de fonte, sont souvent difficiles  obtenir pour les montagnes subtropicales,  cause du manque de donnes. Cet article prsente les gradients adiabatiques calculs  partir de donnes de temprature de l'air sur les pentes, collectes pendant deux saisons de fonte des neiges  sept stations d'altitude situes dans l'Himalaya du Punjab, Pakistan. Les rsultats indiquent une forte corrlation ngative entre l'altitude et la temprature moyenne quotidienne, en dpit des priodes de temps relativement courtes sur lesquelles la moyenne est calcule. Les gradients adiabatiques calculs sont en gnral plus levs que ceux fournis par d'autres tudes, probablement  cause du rgime thermique relativement lev de la zone  l'tude et l'effet de refroidissement de la couverture nivale pendant les mesures  certaines stations plus leves. Les gradients adiabatiques drivs de cette tude doivent tre utiliss avec prcaution,  cause de variations entre les paires de stations et entre les deux annes. Certaines causes possibles de ces variations sont examines. /// Temperaturgradienten ("lapse rates") fr subtropische Gebirge, die fr Schmelzwasserproduktionsmodelle bentigt werden, sind aufgrund mangelnder Daten oftmals schwer abzuleiten. Dieser Beitrag enthlt Vernderungsraten, die mit Gradienten der Lufttemperaturen, die ber zwei Schneeschmelzen in sieben hochgelegenen Stationen im Punjab Himalaya in Pakistan gesammelt wurden, errechnet wurden. Trotz der relativ kurzen Zeitspannen, ber die die Temperaturen gemittelt wurden, zeigen die Ergebnisse eine starke negative Korrelation zwischen der Hhe ber dem Meeresspiegel und der mittleren Tagestemperatur. Die errechneten Vernderungsraten sind im allgemeinen hher als in anderen Untersuchungen. Dies ist wahrscheinlich eine Folge des relativ hohen Temperaturregimes im Untersuchungsgebiet und des khlenden Einflusses der Schneedecke in einigen hhergelegenen Stationen whrend der Messungen. Aufgrund von Variationen zwischen individuellen Stationenpaaren sowie zwischen den zwei Schneeschmelzen sollten die in dieser Untersuchung abgeleiteten Gradienten der Lufttemperatur mit Vorsicht genutzt werden. Einige der mglichen Grnde fr die Variationen werden in diesem Beitrag diskutiert.
10.2307/3673587|Forest degradation and conversion of forested land to agriculture may lead to changes in soil properties and soil fertility losses. An undisturbed and a degraded forest, and eight different agricultural rotation systems were selected in the Chitawan district to document differences in soil quality due to land-use changes. The results showed that soil fertility as expressed by organic carbon, total nitrogen, and cation exchange capacity decreased when natural productive forest was converted into agriculture. There was also a decline in soil quality when natural forests became degraded and over-utilized. Exchangeable bases, aluminum, pH, and compaction were significantly affected. Some of the very intensively cultivated soils under innovative triple-crop rotations showed that soil quality can be improved to conditions that are superior to those found under degraded forests. /// La dgradation des forts et la conversion des terres forestires en terres agricoles peut mener  l'rosion du sol et  une perte de fertilit de ces sols. Un fort naturelle et une fort degrade ainsi que huit systmes differents de rotation des cultures ont t slectionns dans le district de Chitawan afin de noter les diffrences de qualit du sol des aux changements d'utilisation des terres. Les rsultats ont indiqu que la fertilit des sols, exprime par le carbone organique, l'azote total et la capacit d'change cationique, diminuait lorsqu' une fort productive tait convertie en terre agricole. Une diminution de la qualit du sol fut galement note lorsque des forts naturelles se dgradaient ou taient sur-utilises. Les bases changeables, le pH, le compactage et l'aluminum taient galement affects de faon significative. Certains sols cultivs de faon intensive, utilisant la mthode innovatrice de rotation de trois cultures, ont dmontr que la qualit du sol peut tre ameliore de faon significative par rapport  celle des forts dgrades. /// Walddegradierung und die Umwandlung von Wald in landwirtschaftliche Flchen kann zu einer Vernderung der Bodeneigenschaften und zu einem Verlust der Bodenfruchtbarkeit fhren. Ein unberhrter und ein degradierter Wald, sowie acht landwirtschaftliche Systeme wurden in der Chitawan Region ausgewhlt, um Unterschiede in der Bodenqualitt als Folge der Nutzungsform zu dokumentieren. Die Ergebnisse zeigten, dass die Bodenfruchtbarkeit, ausgedrckt in Kohlenstoff- und Stickstoffgehalt und in der Kationenaustauschkapazitt, zurckging wenn der natrliche produktive Wald in landwirtschaftliche Flche umgewandelt wurde. Eine Verringerung der Bodenqualitt wurde auch festgestellt, wenn der natrliche Wald degradiert oder bernutzt wurde. Austauschbare Basen, pH-Wert, Bodenverdichtung und Aluminium wurden beintrchtigt. In einigen der sehr intensiv bewirtschafteten Bden mit innovativen dreifachen Fruchtfolgen wurde die Bodenqualitt, verglichen mit den degradierten Wldern, verbessert.
3674390|This paper examines the extent, causes, and consequences of abandonment of agricultural land near the village of Sikles in the Nepal Himalaya. Socioeconomic information was collected in a household survey. Abandoned agricultural land and geomorphic damage were mapped at plot level for an area of 149.6 ha. Plot-level analysis showed that nearly 49% of all khet land and 37% of all bari land had been abandoned. About 10% of all khet land had been completely damaged by landslides and floods. Nearly 41% of all abandoned plots were subjected to different forms of geomorphic damage. The amount of geomorphic damage on plots abandoned earlier is greater than that on plots abandoned recently. Abandonment of agricultural land does not automatically lead to plant colonization because geomorphic damage is intensified prior to colonization. Abandoned land requires further management for plant colonization as well as for reducing the risk of geomorphic hazards. Prevailing government policies and acts are not effective in managing abandoned land. The phenomenon of abandoned agricultural land observed in the Nepal Himalaya is not unique; it is common in many mountain areas in the world. However, this phenomenon has recently led to pronounced socioeconomic and environmental problems in Nepal.
90009007|The importance of mountains as natural water towers has been quantified by comparing water budgets in upstream (mountain) and downstream (lowland) areas, but their importance for tap water supplies has not been assessed. Here, we propose an isoscape approach to estimate the mean recharge elevation of tap water sources (rivers, reservoirs, springs, and wells) and apply it to a region in central Japan as a case study. Errors in the estimation of mean recharge elevation were estimated at 90140 m. Results show that mean recharge elevations for about 90% of sources in the region are at 1000 m above sea level or higher. A little over half of the land area is above that elevation, while 98% of the population lives below it. These findings indicate that tap water disproportionally depends on recharge in mountains and is disproportionately supplied to lowland residents. Higher locations of spring water sources and longer (vertical) distances of groundwater flow for well water sources make the recharge-to-population disproportionality more remarkable. Furthermore, our results suggest that larger cities require higher natural water towers to meet greater water demand, complemented by intermunicipal water suppliers. Some low-elevation municipalities depend heavily on water recharged in mountains well outside their territories. The method proposed here helps clarify how people depend on water supplies from mountains, providing essential knowledge for integrated management of mountains and water resources.
mounresedeve.30.4.391|The installation of a radio communication antenna on a sacred mountain, Mount Quimal, led to an interaction between a mining corporation and Atacameo people in northern Chile. The present article focuses on how language games that involve over- and undercommunication of information in this transactional event reflect the distribution of power in society. Specifically, it looks into the impression management (Goffman 1959, 1971) that took place in the interactions and negotiations between the corporation and the communities, within the context of a sustainable development discourse adopted by the corporate world.
10.2307/3673111|From a tourist point of view the Southern Andes offer both natural and cultural attractions. A variety of activities has led to the development of summer and winter tourism. Tourism has a series of environmental, sociological, and economic impacts, which are not always positive. Land is often converted to non-productive uses. Only a few areas have been affected by tourism so far in the Southern Andes but in some, such as Cordoba and the Southern Lakes region, the impact is quite strong. /// Du point de vue touristique, les Andes mridionales prsentent de nombreuses attractions naturelles et culturelles. Diffrentes activits ont permis au tourisme estival et hivernal de se dvelopper. Le tourisme implique un certain nombre d'effets cologiques, sociologiques, et conomiques qui ne sont pas toujours favorables. Bien souvent, les terres sont soumises  des modes d'exploitation non productifs. Jusqu' prsent, seules quelques rgions des Andes mridionales ont t affectes par le tourisme, mais dans certaines d'entre elles (Cordoba, rgion des lacs au sud) les effets sont plus marqus. /// Die sdlichen Anden sind fr Touristen kulturell reizvoll und bieten viele Naturattraktionen. Eine Vielzahl von Aktivitten frderte die Entwicklung des Tourismus' im Sommer und Winter. Der Fremdenverkehr beeinflut magebend Umwelt, Gesellschaftsstruktur und auch die Wirtschaft, jedoch nicht immer im positiven Sinn. Landflchen werden oft unproduktiv genutzt. In den sdlichen Anden sind bisher nur wenige Gebiete durch den Tourismus beeintrchtigt, whrend Regionen um Cordoba und im sdlichen Seengebiet bereits erheblich beeinflut sind. /// Desde el punto de vista de turismo la regin de los Andes del Sur presente atracciones naturales y culturales. La regin es excelente tanto para turismo de verano como de invierno. El turismo tiene una serie de impactos ambientales, sociolgicos y econmicos, que no son siempre favorables para la regin turstica. La tierra es frecuentemente usada para fines no productivos. Slo unas pocas reas han sido impactadas por el turismo en los Andes del Sur, pero en algunas de ellas tales como Crdoba y la regin de los lagos del sur en la Argentina, el impacto es bastante grande.
10.2307/3673553|What are the reasons for the strong demographic pressures that have occurred for a long time in major areas of the North African mountains? The most widely used explanation cites the historical role of the mountains as a refuge for populations subjected to external political-military pressures: people were forced to settle in the mountains because they had no better alternative and, consequently, this implies that the mountain environment is inferior to the surrounding lowlands. This paper rejects the logic and the empirical basis of this explanation. A comparative analysis of the potential resources available for human utilization, together with an estimation of natural hazards and an inventory of alternative ways to intensify agro-pastoral production, is proposed; this contradicts the theory that the mountains are inferior to the surrounding lowlands and rejects the historical explanation of population refuge. It calls for an analysis of the man-environment interaction in the mountains with a dynamic, cultural-ecological perspective. The resources of the mountains are considerable and need to be assessed within today's development processes. /// A quoi sont dues les fortes pressions dmographiques perceptibles depuis longtemps dj dans la majeure partie des montagnes de l'Afrique du Nord? Une explication qui circule largement met au premier plan le rle historique jou par la montagne comme refuge  des populations soumises  une pression politico-militaire externe. Cette thorie admet donc que ces populations furent accules  s'installer dans la montagne, faute de mieux, et par consquent, elle suppose une infriorit qui est inhrente  celle-ci. Cet article conteste le bien-fond aussi bien logique qu'empirique de cette explication. Une analyse comparative des ressources potentielles offertes  l'utilisation humaine, une mesure du degr d'ala et d'incertitude qui font partie du milieu naturel, et un inventaire des alternatives effectivement observes dans les niveaux d'intensification de la production agropastorale sont proposes pour rfuter l'hypothse de l'infriorit de la montagne vis--vis des basses terres environnantes. Sur la base de ces trois critres, l'explication historique du peuplement refuge devient contestable, ce qui appelle  une analyse d'interactions homme-milieu montagnard dans une perspective d'cologie culturelle dynamique. Du mme coup, compte tenu de ses ressources, la marginalit de la montagne dans le processus de dveloppement moderne apparat comme une grave aberration. /// Welche Grnde gibt es fr den starken Bevlkerungsdruck, der seit einiger Zeit in groen Teilen der nordafrikanischen Berge feststellbar ist? Die historische Rolle der Berge als Fluchtraum fr Menschen unter uerem politisch-militrischem Druck steht an erste Stelle als Erklrung. Die betroffenen Menschen waren, mangels besserer Mglichkeiten gezwungen, sich in die Berge zurckzuziehen. Diese Theorie stempelt die Gebirgsumwelt im Verhltnis zum umliegenden Flachland als minderwertig ab. Der vorliegende Artikel widerlegt die logischen und empirischen Grundlagen solcher Behauptung. Es wird eine Vergleichsanalyse vorgeschlagen, die alle potentiellen Ressourcen zur menschlichen Nutzung einbezieht, die Naturgefahren abschtzt und alternative Mglichkeiten zur Intensivierung der Land- und Weidewirtschaft vorschlgt. Dies ist im Widerspruch zur Theorie, da die Bergwelt dem Flachland gegenber minderwertig ist und lehnt somit die historische Erklrung vom Bevlkerungsfluchtraum ab. Dies erfordert vielmehr eine Analyse der Wechselwirkung Mensch-Umwelt unter dynamischen, kulturell-kologischen Perspektiven. Die Ressourcen der Berge sind beachtlich und mssen in gegenwrtigen Entwicklungsprozessen bercksichtigt werden.
3674605|The unique assemblages of flora and fauna in the Himalayan region make it one of the most important biodiversity hotspots on the Indian subcontinent. Seventy-five protected areas (PAs) encompassing 9.48% of the region have been created to conserve this biodiversity and the fragile Himalayan landscape (Figure 1). However, this has engendered conflicts between PA management and local communities that suffer from restrictions on access to biomass resources. When resource use in PAs is prohibited, the implications of the conflict are more severe for local women, who bear the burden of day-to-day survival. Initiatives to empower women are hampered by women's lack of education and skills and by low self-esteem resulting from their marginalization by sociocultural taboos. Incentives are needed to promote meaningful participation by women in biodiversity conservation initiatives.
10.2307/3673601|South of the high mountain axis of the Pyrenees the southern margin, known as the Prepyrenees, forms a distinctive, relatively homogeneous region. This paper provides an overview of the geomorphic processes affecting the montane belt (between 800 and 1,600 m a.s.l.) of the Prepyrenees. It is based principally on detailed fieldwork in two areas undertaken by researchers of the Institute Pirenaico de Ecologa, Jaca. An outline of the geology, climate, vegetation, and land use is provided as an essential base for discussion of the active geomorphic processes. Hillslope runoff processes include sheet and rill erosion, typical of gentle slopes where human disturbance has been most extensive, while gully erosion is most active in headwater areas least affected by human disturbance. Mass movements are common, especially where deep soils, high in montmorillonite, occur. Landslides, and other forms of rapid mass movement, respond to torrential rainstorms with long recurrence intervals. During the extreme rainfall event of November 1982, 342 mm of precipitation was recorded in 48 hours; this and its observed geomorphic effects serve as a valuable guide for landscape interpretation. /// Situe au sud de l'axe de hautes montagnes des Pyrnes, la marge sud, appele Pr-Pyrnes, constitue une rgion distincte et relativement homogne. Cet article donne un aperu des processus gomorphiques affectant l'tage montagnard (entre 800 et 1.600 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer) des Pr-Pyrnes. Il repose en grande partie sur des travaux de recherche dtaills qui ont t effectus sur le terrain par les chercheurs de l'Institute Pirenaico de Ecologa, Jaca. Une vue d'ensemble de la gologie, du climat, de la vgtation, et de l'utilisation des terres est fournie comme base indispensable pour les discussions portant sur les processus gomorphiques actifs. Les processus de ruissellement sur les versants comprennent l'rosion en couche et l'rosion en rigoles, caracristiques des pentes modres o les perturbations humaines ont t importantes, alors que l'rosion en ravine est plus frquente dans les zones proches des sources de cours d'eau, moins affectes par les perturbations humaines. Les mouvements de masse sont frquents, en particulier  l'emplacement de sols profonds riches en montmorillonite. Les glissements de terrain, et d'autres formes de mouvements de masse rapides, rpondent aux pluies torrentielles avec de longs intervalles de rcurrence. Pendant la chute de pluie exceptionnelle de novembre 1982, 342 mm d'eau sont tombs en 48 heures. Cet vnement et ses effets gomorphiques observs servent de guide prcieux pour l'interprtation du paysage. /// Sdlich der Pyrenen-Kammlinie prsentiert sich die sdliche Randzone-auch als Vorpyrenen bekannt-als ein relativ homogenes Gebiet mit charakteristischen Merkmalen. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt geomorphische Vorgnge in den Vor-Pyrenen, die den Hhengrtel zwischen 800m und 1600m .M. beeinflussen. Ein berblick wird gegeben, der sich hauptschlich auf detaillierte, praktische Untersuchungen in zwei Gebieten sttzt, die von Mitarbeitern des Institute Pirenaico de Ecologia, Jaca, durchgefhrt wurden. Den wesentlichen Ausgangspunkt zur Diskussion aktiver, geomorphischer Vorgnge bildet ein berblick ber die Geologie, das Klima, die Vegetation und die Landnutzung. Wasserablauf an Hanglagen fhrt zu Schicht-und Furchenerosion, ein typischer Vorgang an mig geneigten Hngen, die weitgehend kultiviert sind; whrend in Quellgebieten, wo geringer menschlicher Einflu herrscht, Gullyerosion den Vorrang hat. Erdbewegungen sind hufig, besonders bei tiefen, lehmhaltigen Bden. Erdrutsche und andere rapide Erdbewegungen reagieren auf wolkenbruchartige Regenflle, wobei eine Wiederholung oft lange Zeitabstnde erfordert. Whrend des starken Regens im Nov. 1982 wurden 342 mm Niederschlag in 48 Stunden gemessen. Diese Tatsache und die dabei beobachteten geomorphischen Auswirkungen liefern bei der Beurteilung des Landschaftsbildes wertvolle Hinweise. /// La franja de estribaciones pirenaicas desarrollada al sur del eje de la Cordillera, recibe la denominacin conjunta de Prepirineo. Constituye una regin montaosa que, si bien est perfectamente diferenciada, es, al mismo tiempo, relativamente homogenea. El presente artculo expone una revisin general de los procesos geomorfolgicos prepirenaicos, ms representativos entre 800 y 1.600 m. S/M. Dicha revisin se apoya principalmente, en previa labor detallada de campo, realizada por investigadores del Instituto Pirenaico de Ecologa en dos reas concretas. El esquema geolgico, el estudio del clima, la vegetacin y la utilizacin antrpica en el territorio, prestan el apoyo oportuno para interpretar los procesos geomrficos. La escorrenta superficial incluyendo erosin laminar y rigolas, aparecen tipicamente en pendientes suaves, donde la incidencia humana ha sido ms extensiva; en cambio, la erosin en crcavas es ms activa en reas de cabecera, mnimamente afectadas por la incidencia humana. Los movimientos en masa son frecuentes sobre todo, donde aparecen suelos profundos ricos en montmorillonita. Los deslizamientos del terreno y otras formas de movimientos sbitos en masa, se producen como inmediata secuela de tormentas acompaadas de verdaderos diluvios torrenciales, alternando con periodos intermitentes de acusada sequa. En el transcurso de una de las referidas tormentas, la de noviembre de 1982, se registraron 342 mm. en 48 horas: los datos indicados y sus efectos geomrficos, apoyan la interpretacin adecuada del paisaje.
mounresedeve.36.4.506|The 2009 Law On Pastures in Kyrgyzstan led to implementation of a community-based pasture management plan (CBPMP) as of 2010, aimed at strengthening pasture governance through improving current pasture use practices and controlling stocking rates at pastures. In the context of implementing CBPMP tools, this research explored farmers decision-making on herd sizes and land use. This contributes to addressing the theme Transformations Towards Sustainability of the Future Earth Strategic Research Agenda 2014, especially how environmental and socioeconomic changes affect individual and collective attitudes and behaviors. Questionnaire-based interviews were conducted with 127 pasture users who obtained pasture tickets (ie the right to use a certain pasture) from 5 Pasture Committees. We divided pasture users into large-herd owners and herders, based on livestock numbers owned and herding practices. In its first use of this type, we employed the Heckman 2-stage model to examine the likely impact of diverse factors on farmers decisions on herd size and land use change. We found that increases in livestock numbers were significantly associated with insecurity and economic factors, while decreases were related to environmental changes. Similarly, decisions on land use change were significantly influenced by farming-practice difficulties, changing condition of pastures, and increasing incidences of livestock disease due in part to the impact of climate change. We also found that some of the infrastructure provided by pasture committees appears to be ineffective and may even worsen the condition of pastures. As we found indications that large-herd owners in particular were interested in maintaining pasture quality (eg decreasing animal numbers if pastures were in poor condition), we suggest that CBPMPs should include different incentives for distinct groups of farmers to address the ecological and socioeconomic problems associated with land use changes.
mounresedeve.36.3.320|Swidden farmers are rapidly transitioning to other types of land use. This study was conducted in 2 villages (T village and P village) in southern Chin State, Myanmar. The number of swidden-cultivating households decreased by 50% in T village over 20032013, and varied over 20042013 in P village; 21% and 13% of the total population in T and P villages, respectively, have out-migrated for employment. In addition, the introduction of terrace farming, development of animal husbandry, marketing of non-timber forest products, and other activities that generate cash income have reduced dependency on swidden agriculture. Remittances from out-migrated family members also contribute significantly to household incomes. As a result, the area devoted to swidden agriculture has decreased. By establishing site-specific allometries and applying best-fit allometry coefficients, total aboveground biomass was estimated for both villages. Generally, the aboveground biomass increased with the age of the fallow. Out-migration, insufficient crop productivity, and the development of alternative income sources resulted in the decrease in swidden agriculture in the areas studied. Further biomass regrowth can be expected in both villages in the future.
10.2307/3673772|A vegetation analysis, using the Blaun-Blanquet method, and the results of a mapping project in the settlement area of the Callawaya and in the Ulla-Ulla highlands of Bolivia are described. The map, scale 1: 50,000, is enclosed and the map legend in English is included as Appendix 1. The research area is discussed within parameters relevant to the vegetation analysis: geology, geomorphology, climate, soils, and anthropogenic factors represented by land use. The plant communities of the Charazani mountain region and the adjacent area are detailed in Appendix 2. Vegetation types include scrub, forest, grassland, rock and boulder fields, wetlands, and agricultural and ruderal fields. The interrelationships between physical features and vegetation, on the one hand, and vegetation and human activities, on the other, are very striking. In areas settled by the Callawaya Indians, there is a strong relationship between vegetation types dependent on altitude and the different forms of agriculture; grazing by llama and alpaca has particularly affected vegetation. Special attention is paid to the occurrence of potential natural forest cover and to the former position of the original upper forest limit. In the Ulla-Ulla highlands pasture induced by grazing has replaced natural steppe vegetation so that the former must now be regarded as the natural cover type. /// Une analyse de la vgtation, utilisant la mthode de Blaun-Blanquet, et les rsultats d'un projet de cartographie dans les montagnes en Bolivie, sont dcrits dans cet article. La carte  l'chelle 1/50,000 est jointe et sa lgende en anglais est fournie dans l'annexe 1. La zone de recherche est examine du point de vue des paramtres pertinents  l'analyse de la vgtation: la gologie, la gomorphologie, le climat, les sols, et les facteurs anthropogniques reprsents par l'utilisation des terres. Les communauts vgtales de la rgion montagneuse de Charazani et de la zone adjacente sont prsentes en dtail dans l'annexe 2. Les types de vgtation examins couvrent les broussailles, la fort, la prairie, les champs de pierres et de roches, les terrains marcageux, et les terres arables et rudrales. Les relations entre les caractristiques physiques et la vgtation, d'une part, et entre la vgtation et les activits humaines, d'autre part, sont remarquables. Dans les zones habites par les Callawayas, une relation marque entre les types de vgtation lis  l'altitude et les diffrentes formes d'agriculture est apparente; le pacage des llamas et des alpacas a particulirement affect la vgtation. L'accent est mis sur l'apparition possible d'une couverture forestire naturelle et sur la position de la limite suprieure de la fort originale. Dans les montagnes Ulla-Ulla, les pturages induits par le pacage ont remplac la vgtation naturelle de steppe, de sorte que les pturages peuvent maintenant tre considrs comme le type naturel de couverture vgtale. /// Es werden eine Vegetationsanalyse nach der Methode von Braun- Blanquet und das Ergebnis einer Vegetationskartierung im Hochland von Bolivien beschrieben. Die Karte im Mastab 1:50000 ist beigefgt, und die Kartenlegende in Englisch ist im Appendix 1 enthalten. Das Untersuchungsgebiet wird nach den fr die Vegetationsanalyse wichtigen Parametern beschrieben: Geologie, Geomorphologie, Klima, Bden und anthropogene Faktoren, reprsentiert durch die Landnutzung. Die Pflanzengesellschaften des Charazani-Berglandes und des benachbarten Gebietes sind in Appendix 2 dargestellt. Die Vegetationseinheiten schlieen Gebsch, Wald, Grasland, Fels- und Blockfluren, Moore und andere Feuchtgesellschaften, ferner auch Ackerunkraut- und Ruderalfluren ein. Die Beziehungen zwischen den physikalischen Faktoren und der Vegetation einerseits und der Vegetation und den menschlichen Einwirkungen andererseits sind sehr eng. Im Wohngebiet der Kallawaya-Indianer gibt es eine strenge Beziehung zwischen den Vegetationstypen der verschiedenen Hhenlagen und den verschiedenen Arten der Landwirtschaft; die Weidewirtschaft mit Lamas und Alpakas hat teilweise die Vegetation grossflchig verndert. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit ist der Frage nach der potentiellen natrlichen Vegetation und damit auch nach der natrlichen Waldgrenze gewidmet. Im Hochland von Ulla-Ulla hat die Weidewirtschaft die natrliche Steppenvegetation so weit verndert, da man die fruher vorhandenen Steppen als die natrliche Pflanzendecke betrachten mu. /// Fue realisado una anlisis de la vegetacin segun el mtodo de Braun-Blanquet y describido el resultado de un mapeamento de la vegetacin en el altiplano de Bolivia. El mapa en la escala 1:50000 es agregado y la leyenda en ingls es contenido en el apndice 1. La regin investigada se describe segn de los parametros importantes para la anlisis de la vegetacin: geologa, geomorfologa, clima, suelos y adems los factores antropgenos observados en el uso de la tierra. Las asociaciones vegetales se presenta en el apndice 2. Las asociaciones vegetales incluyen matorrales, bosques, estepas y pastizales, vegetacin de roquedales y pedregales, vegetacin de pantanos y lugares hmedos, adems la vegetacin de malezas agrcolas y vegetacin ruderal. Las interrelaciones entre los factores fsicos y las vegetacin por un lado y entre la vegetacin y las influencias humanas son muy estrecho. En la regin de Kallawaya existe una relacin estrecha entre los pisos de la vegetacin y los del uso de la tierra. El pastoreo con llamas y alpacas cambi en grandes reas la vegetacin. Una atencin especial se dedica al problema de la vegetacin potencial natural y con eso tambin del lmite natural del bosque. El pastoreo en la pampa de Ulla-Ulla cambi la vegetacin tan mucho que se tiene que considerar las estepas antes existentes como la cobertura vegetal natural.
4540680|The long-term preservation of national park ecosystems requires scientific knowledge about land use/cover change (LUCC) that influences these ecosystems. LUCC in Mexican temperate mountain forests as depicted in satellite imagery was evaluated for 3 time intervals: 1970-1980, 1981-1990, and 1991-2000. Forest cover declined at an average rate of 0.35 ha per year due to timber extraction, cultivation, grazing (areas grazed by cattle), and urbanization processes. Historically, cultivation has resulted in such a high loss of plant communities in lowlands that regional diversity has been threatened. Currently, though, cultivation has been reduced due to a decline in the economic importance of corn and bean crops. By contrast, grazing has increased due to low labor costs and economic policies that provide incentives for cattle production in Mexico. The abandonment of cultivated land due to economic processes may have strong implications on the regeneration of plant communities in temperate forests. Highland temperate forest and subalpine grasslands remain relatively intact due to national park protection, which is essential to maintain species diversity at a regional scale.
mounresedeve.29.1.59|This study explores the social and ecological impacts of circulatory land tenure in the villages of Allahdand and Dheri, situated near one another in the lower Swat valley (upper part of Malakand Agency). Apart from communal hill slopes, agricultural land is divided into 3 categories: damani (rainfed), jewardara (irrigated but with no rice), and shoulgarey (irrigated, mainly used for rice). The people permanently own the rainfed land, while the irrigated land is under a tenure system known as garzinda wesh (circulatory tenure), with 10 years' tenure rotation allotted through khasanray (drawing lot). This type of land tenure system also exists partially in other villages of Upper Malakand such as Jolagaram, Khar, and Totakan. This system was introduced in the 16th century with the idea of sharing all types of landincluding irrigated land, fertile land, slope land, etcin equal shares and with the aim of enabling the landowner tribe to respond collectively if some other tribe or majority tenants tried to seize any portion of land. Due to social conflicts, this system can have negative impacts today, especially in the form of soil erosion leading to land degradation. We highlight the positive and negative environmental impacts of the system. To this purpose, a detailed survey was conducted using focus group interviews, participatory rural appraisals, mapping, and transit walks with timelines. The results show how social response to the suitability of the system for livelihoods and social integrity can vary. The impact on fuelwood consumption is negative, leading to deforestation and lack of soil conservation. Abolishment of garzinda wesh in the village is recommended.
3674344|Vietnamese agricultural policy has changed radically during the past 5 decades. Decollectivization in the 1980s and 1990s followed 2 decades of collective agriculture. This article examines the effects of agricultural policy on land use. It reports the results of remote image interpretation and socioeconomic field study in a Black Thai commune in Vietnam's northern mountains. It suggests that the landscape in the commune has been highly dynamic and that this dynamism was partly the result of the agricultural policy. Collectivization and decollectivization affected land use, but their influence was mediated by other factors, primarily changing technology and markets. In addition, the relationship between national policy and local land use is complicated by 2 factors: (1) changes in local institutions may predate national reforms, and (2) implementation of national policy and the resulting local institutions may differ from place to place.
3674558|This study focuses on the impacts of urbanization and resettlement on employment of rural inhabitants, based on a tracking investigation of migrants and host inhabitants in Lishu Village, and local inhabitants in other villages of Changling Town in the Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR) area. Urbanization in its initial stage, driven by non-conventional forces and resettlement, has triggered a shift of rural labor from agriculture to industry. This has worsened the labor surplus situation for both migrants and host inhabitants, especially women.
4540649| "I am more and more convinced that we shouldn't follow the examples of development of Europe and the United States," says Monseor Alvaro Ramazzini, Bishop of San Marcos and President of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of Guatemala. "It's true that they provide a certain degree of Well-being but we are seeing that in the long run this is at the expense of the environment and all that is natural-life is becoming increasingly artificial. Development in our mountain regions must be based on knowledge of and respect for the cultural values of the people who live there." When the bishop speaks of people's cultural values, he is referring to the Mayan culture, embedded in ancient Mayan spiritual traditions. The present article aims to show how a blend of Catholic and Mayan spirituality is the basis of the approach to development in the mountains adopted by the Pastoral Social of the Diocese of San Marcos. The vision is of a development model based on values of human dignity and solidarity-a model that does not mean abandoning life in rural communities nor the Mayan reverence for nature. 
mounresedeve.32.1.83|Due to the high altitude of over 4000 m, scattered inhabitation, and prevalent pastoral system, Tibet (Xizang Autonomous Region) is regarded as a unique geographic zone, possessing the most abundant solar energy resources in China. Due to the extensive use of conventional energy, significant ecological problems, including deforestation, soil erosion, land degradation, and desertification, have emerged and are becoming more severe; it is proposed that these issues can be mitigated by the utilization of solar energy. Consequently, studying the ecological effects of solar energy development in Tibet is of substantial significance. Accordingly, the resources, current situation, and potential of solar energy in Tibet were examined, and a framework for analysis to support appraisal of ecological effects was formulated. On the basis of this framework, the carbon effect, vegetation effect, and nitrogen effect were identified as the dominant ecological effects of developing solar energy in Tibet. The methodology to calculate and evaluate these ecological effects was then established and applied for our appraisal. The main conclusions are as follows: (1) based on the development scale of solar energy in 2008, the reduction of carbon emissions reached 539,100 tons, and the mitigation of carbon sink losses equaled 432,900 tons; (2) the large-scale utilization of solar energy can replace a large amount of conventional bioenergy sources such as fuelwood, dung, straw, and grass, resulting in reductions of forest destruction by 35.69 km
10.2307/3673805|Melt rates of the dead ice in front of "Imja Glacier Lake" varied between 0.1 and 2.7 m/yr during the period 1989-1994. A maximum in excess of 5.0 m/yr occurred where the ice surface had been submerged by lake water before 1994. The lake level fell from 5,022 m a.s.l. in 1984 to about 5,017 m in 1989, and to about 5,007 m in 1994. This decrease is attributed to melt of dead ice along the outflow; thus there is less danger of collapse of the lateral moraines. Instead, the rapid melting is expected to cause the lake to expand westward, that is towards the terminal moraine. "Imja Glacial Lake" was <tex-math>$0.69\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, with maximum dimensions of 1,450  600 m by the winter of 1992. This rapid expansion in area is due to melting of the glacier at the east (upper) end of the lake. Nevertheless, if the melt rate is sustained the western shoreline could migrate to the edge of the terminal moraine in little more than 7 years. Immediate action to lower the lake level below the level of the spillway is needed. /// Les vitesses de fonte de la glace stagnante  l'avant du lac du glacier Imja ont vari entre 0,1 et 2,7 m/an pendant la priode 1989-1994. Un maximum suprieur  5,0 m/an s'est produit l o la surface de la glace a t submerge par les eaux du lac avant 1994. Le niveau du lac est tomb de 5 022 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer en 1984  5 017 m en 1989, et  environ 5 007 m en 1994. Cette baisse est attribue  la fonte de la glace stagnante le long de la sortie; pour cette raison, le danger d'effondrement des moraines latrales est moindre. Par contre, on s'attent  ce que le lac s'tende vers l'ouest, c'est--dire vers la moraine terminale. Le lac du glacier Imja couvrait <tex-math>$0,69\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, avec des dimensions maximales de 1 450  600 m en hiver 1992. Cette expansion rapide est cause par la fonte du glacier  l'extrmit est (suprieure) du lac. Nanmoins, si les vitesses de fonte se maintiennent, la berge ouest risque de migrer jusqu' la moraine terminale en un peu plus de 7 ans. Une action immdiate visant  abaisser le niveau du lac au-dessous de celui de l'vacuateur est ncessaire /// Die Abschmelzraten von Alteis vor dem "Imja Gletschersee" variierten im Zeitraum von 1989 bis 1994 zwischen 0,1 und 2,7 m/Jahr. Vor 1994 wurden Maximalwerte von ber 5,0 m/Jahr dort beobachtet, wo die Eisoberflche unter Wasser lag. Die Hhenlage des Sees senkte sich von 5.022m .M. im Jahr 1984 auf ungefhr 5.017m .M. im Jahr 1989, und bis auf etwa 5.007m .M. im Jahr 1994. Diese Senkung ergab sich durch Eisschmelze entlang der Abflurinne; wobei sich auerdem die Einbruchsgefahr der Seitenmornen verringerte. Es ist zu erwarten, da das schnelle Abschmelzen den See nach Westen hin, d.h. in Richtung Endmorne, vergrert. Der "Imja Gletschersee" hatte eine Ausdehnung von <tex-math>$0,69\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, und erreichte im Winter 1992 eine Flche von <tex-math>$0,87\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> (1,450  600 m). Die rapide Flchenausdehnung ist Folge der Gletscherschmelze an der Ost- (oberen) seite des Sees. Wenn diese Schmelzrate anhlt, knnte sich in etwa 7 Jahren das westliche Ufer bis an den Kamm der Endmorne hin verlagern. Unverzgliche Manahmen zur Senkung des Wasserspiegels auf einen Stand unterhalb des berlaufniveaus sind notwendig.
10.2307/3673726|This paper reviews the methods developed for hazard mapping and classification of potential disastrous events stemming from mountain torrents, avalanches, and floods. This work, by the Austrian Forest Technical Service for Torrent and Avalanche Control, is legally based on the 1975 Forest Law. A formula is introduced that facilitates delimitation of the different degrees of risk on the torrent-threatened alluvial cones. This is followed by a discussion of the legal basis for implementation of these findings in terms of land-use planning and management. A preliminary torrent hazard classification for debris cones and details of the Torrent Index are included as an appendix. /// Cet article passe en revue les mthodes mises au point pour l'laboration de cartes de zones dangereuses de montagne et la classification d'vnements catastrophiques potentiels ds aux crues de torrents, aux avalanches et aux inondations. Ces travaux, effectus par le service technique autrichien des eaux et forts pour la prvention des avalanches et des crues de torrents, sont bass du point de vue juridique sur la Loi forestire de 1975. Une formule est propose pour faciliter la dlimitation des diffrents niveaux de danger pour les cnes alluviaux menacs par les torrents. Elle est suivie d'une discussion portant sur le fondement juridique de l'application de ces rsultats en termes de planification et de gestion de l'utilisation des terres. Une classification prliminaire des dangers prsents par les torrents pour les cnes de dbris, et une description dtaille de l'index des torrents sont fournis en annexe. /// Diese Verffentlichung berprft die Methoden, nach denen Gefahren, die sich aus Gebirgssturzbchen, Lawinen und berflutungen ergeben, kartiert und potentielle Katastrophen klassifiziert werden. Diese Aufgabe wird vom sterreichischen Technischen Forstdienst fr Lawinenund Wildbachkontrolle wahrgenommen und hat ihre rechtliche Grundlage im Forstgesetz von 1975. Eine Formel wird vorgeschlagen, die fr sturzbachgefhrdete, alluviale Kegel eine Abgrenzung unterschiedlicher Gefahrensgrade erleichtert. Es folgt eine Diskussion der rechtlichen Grundlagen, diese Ergebnisse bei der Landnutzungsplanung und beim Management anzuwenden. Eine vorlufige Klassifizierung der Sturzbachgefahren an Gesteinsschuttkegel und Einzelheiten eines Wildbach Index sind im Anhang beigefgt.
3674534|Water remains one of the major issues in the Middle Mountains of the Hindu Kush-Himalayas. This most populated region of Nepal depends mainly on rainwater supply, which is highly variable: around 85% of annual rainfall is expected during the monsoon, which lasts about 4 months from June to September. During this season, the major concern in many parts of the region is flooding and surface erosion due to too much water. During the remaining 8 months, water shortage for domestic and agricultural use is a persistent problem. This article discusses water availability considerations in 2 watersheds in the Middle Mountains of Nepal. A survey of the water need and supply situation was carried out in both watersheds. The survey revealed the most needy regions within the watersheds and local residents' major concerns. Their main apprehension is water availability for both agricultural and domestic purposes, and increasingly, water quality concerns are mentioned in villages. A comparison between the 2 watersheds is particularly interesting because of their location in relation to Kathmandu, a major market opportunity for vegetable farmers. This study concludes that with the increasing pressure on available water resources, new forms of water resources management at watershed scale have to be introduced. They must be based on the social background of the area and on the technical possibilities in terms of both locally available knowledge and scientific information.
10.2307/3673128|Soils are a major component of most geographical environments, and their characteristics should be considered in planning and managing those environments. The process of evaluating soil for recreational land use is illustrated for the White Mountains of New Hampshire. This paper describes the major soils as classified by the U.S. soil taxonomy system; this system is particularly useful in evaluating broad soil groups for specific land uses. For each soil group, restrictive features and ratings for selected recreational land uses are listed; the specific uses selected are low buildings without basements, septic-tank absorption fields, camping areas, picnic areas, and paths and trails. /// Puisque les sols reprsentent un des principaux lments constitutifs de la plupart des environnements gographiques, la prise en considration de leurs diffrentes caractristiques s'impose dans tout projet d'amnagement et de gestion de ces environnements. On dmontre pour les White Mountains, New Hampshire, les modes d'valuation des sols destins  l'utilisation rcrative. Cette tude situe les sols principaux dans le cadre de leur classification d'aprs le systme taxonomique tabli par les U.S.A. Ce systme s'est montr d'une efficacit particulire dans la dtermination de l'aptitude des grands groupes de sols  des utilisations prcises de terre. Pour chaque groupe de sols sont dnombres les constraintes et valuations correspondant aux diffrentes utilisations rcratives envisages, les utilisations retenues tant: les btiments  tage unique sans sous-sols, les champs d'absorption de fosses septiques, les terrains de camping, les aires de pique-nique, et les chemins de randonne. /// Die Bodenbeschaffenheit ist ein bedeutender Teil der geographischen Umwelt, und ihre Eigenartigkeit sollte bei Planung und Landschaftsnutzung bedacht werden. Die Beurteilung des Bodens fr Freizeitgebiete wird am Beispiel der White Mountains, New Hampshire, veranschaulicht. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt die wichtigen Bodenarten, wie sie vom U.S. Soil Taxonomy System klassifiziert werden. Dieses System ist besonders hilfreich bei der Bewertung der Bodenarten fr eine spezielle Nutzung. Fr jeden Bodentyp werden einschrnkende Merkmale und Beurteilungen im Hinblick auf ausgewhlte Freizeitnutzung aufgefhrt. Nutzungsbeschrnkungen erfordern niedrige Gebude ohne Unterkellerung, Klrgruben, Camping- und Picknickpltze, sowie Wege und Pfade.
3674204|People have long been attracted to the beauty and grandeur of the Rocky Mountains. Until very recently, however, the Rocky Mountain region was sparsely populated and its use mostly extractive. Commodities removed in massive quantities included first beaver, then precious metals, timber, energy, and finally water. There has been a fundamental change in migration patterns since the 1980s. Populations are expanding not only in urban areas; many rural areas are also growing faster. In an affluent and mobile society, Americans are moving to the West for aesthetic reasons, often based on perceptions that have little to do with regional roots, family ties, or economic opportunities. Wallace Stegner described the West into the 1980s as a colony for the rest of the nation. "It seems to be almost like a continuous repetitive act of God that the western resources should be mined..., that populations should rush in and have to rush out again, or trickle out again.... Get in, get rich, get out....Every boom and bust leaves the West physically a little poorer, a little worse damaged" (Stegner 1996). In an article about actor and director Robert Redford, writer Richard Raynor talks about unexpected side effects Redford's movies have had on American behavior. "A River Runs Through It dangerously swelled the banks of American rivers with novice fishermen. It seems likely that Redford's loving rendition of ranch life in The Horse Whisperer... will have a similar effect on western Montana, filling it with even more people in a nostalgic search for American rapture and simplicity" (1998).
25164162|The 68 global change scientists from 15 nations who met in Innsbruck at a 2-day meeting organized by the Mountain Research Initiative had in common a willingness to cross their disciplinary boundaries, share project ideas, and engage in international projects.
mounresedeve.36.1.91|Agropastoral systems in Kyrgyzstan have undergone dramatic change in recent decades. In large part, change has resulted from the introduction of legislation that devolves authority and responsibility for the management of common-pool agropastoral resources to community-level pasture users associations. By applying Ostrom's principles of common resource governance, this paper analyzes the institutions and norms that currently shape local management practices in rural areas of Naryn Province in Kyrgyzstan and the views of different actors on pasture governance, including points of disagreement. Our research and analysis reveal that the community-initiated and -owned systems of pasture governance that were expected to develop and mature under the new Pasture Law have not yet been entirely realized. Decentralization occurred without the participation or awareness of most local resource users. As a consequence, users are creating and reinforcing their own community-defined practices and internal rules, leaving official management plans largely ignored and unenforced. Resource users tend to perceive the government-sanctioned pasture users associations not as public or democratic organizations that represent their interests, but rather as agencies that aim primarily to control the use of resources, exclude some people from decision-making, or impose taxation. Sustainable management of pasturelands therefore may best be served when community perspectives are more suitably integratedfrom the planning phase through to collaborative governance and implementation of locally agreed upon management options.
10.2307/3673475|This paper is a synopsis of the macroclimate and vegetation characteristics of ibex (Capra ibex L.) habitat in the European Alps. The largest ibex populations are found in xeric inner alpine valleys that receive very little precipitation during the months of gestation (from December to June). Snowfall rates are also low and the duration of cover is limited. The insolation is high throughout the year. This sub-mediterranean climate is favourable for ibex, but too few populations are found here to assess population performance. Ibex prefer thermophile and xerophile vegetation in an open mountain landscape and they spend most of the year in the timberline ecotone and in the lower alpine belt. The timberline ecotone represents a siliceous substrate and a great abundance of dwarf shrub heaths with relatively high productivity. Other ibex habitats include xeric grasslands, ripicolous and scree communities, and vegetated areas in avalanche paths as well as open forests. A hypothesis is presented on the effects of deforestation on ibex habitat; the open landscape has been extended in a downslope direction where a wider variety of plant communities with higher productivity occurs. Because of the preference of the ibex for open landscape, deforestation may have extended the habitat, thus providing the animals access to an increased forage supply. /// Cet article traite du macroclimat et de la vgtation de l'habitat des bouquetins (Capra ibex L.) dans les Alpes d'Europe. On trouve les plus importantes populations de bouquetins dans les valles alpines sches. Ces valles reoivent des prcipitations trs peu importantes durant les mois de gestation (de dcembre  juin). La quantit de prcipitations et la couverture neigeuse sont limites. L'insolation est importante durant toute l'anne. Le climat sub-mditerranen prsente des caractristiques favorables  l'environnement du bouquetin, mais les populations existant dans ces rgions sont trop limites pour que puissent tre values leurs rsultats. Les bouquetins se nourrissent le plus souvent de vgtaux thermophiles et xrophiles dans les rgions montagneuses dcouvertes. Ils passent la majeure partie de l'anne en zone de vgtation arborescente et en zone alpine plus basse. Cet cotone de zone de vgtation arborescente se dveloppe sur un substrat siliceux favorable  un dveloppement relativement abondant de bruyres. En outre, les habitats les plus recherchs des bouquetins comprennent les prairies, les groupements vgtaux dans les cnes de djections et d'boulis, et les zones de vgtation qui se trouvent dans les couloirs d'avalanche et les forts clairsemes. L'auteur avance une hypothse quant aux effets du dboisement sur l'habitat des bouquetins. Ces dboisements ont accru les espaces dcouverts suivant des pentes diriges vers le bas; l se dveloppent des groupements vgtaux plus riches en espces, dont la productivit est plus haute. En raison de l'attrait des bouquetins pour les espaces libres, le dboisement a probablement largi leur habitat, alors qu'ils ont galement accs  des rserves de fourrage situes plus en altitude. /// Diese Verffentlichung fat Merkmale ber Makroklima und Vegetation in der natrlichen Umgebung des Steinbocks (Capra ibex L.) im europischen Alpenraum zusammen. Die grten Steinbockbestnde findet man in trockenen, abgelegenen Alpentlern, die besonders whrend der Zeitdauer der Trchtigkeit (Dez. bis Juni) wenig Niederschlag erhalten. Schneeflle sind selten, eine geschlossene Schneedecke ist zeitlich begrenzt. Die Sonneneinstrahlung whrend des ganzen Jahres ist intensiv. Solch sub-mediterranes Klima ist fr Steinbcke gnstig; bisher wurden aber zuwenig Tiere beobachtet, um ihre Lebensgewohnheiten zu beurteilen. Steinbcke bevorzugen warme und trockene Habitate in unbewaldeter Gebirgslandschaft und leben die meiste Zeit des Jahres in Gebieten an der Baumgrenze und in tiefergelegenen Zonen. Baumgrenzgebiete haben einen kieselhaltigen Untergrund und starken Bewuchs mit Zwergstruchern. Weitere Lebensrume des Steinbocks umfassen trockene Grasflchen, berwachsene Felsen, Gerllhalden und bewachsene Gebiete in Lawinenhngen, danebenauch Waldlichtungen. ber die Auswirkungen der Abholzung im Habitat des Steinbocks wird eine Hypothese aufgestellt. Baumfreie Flchen hangabwrts, an denen starker Pflanzenbewuchs anzutreffen ist, haben sich vergrert. Da Steinbcke offene Flchen bevorzugen, knnte die Abholzung ihre natrliche Umgebung vergrert haben und dadurch den Tieren eine bessere Futterversorgung sichern.
3674485|Since the colonial era, environmental degradation in Fouta Djalon has been systematically described and denounced as a direct consequence of agropastoral practices. An extremely pessimistic scenario involving extensive farming practices, population increase, environmental degradation, and emigration has gradually emerged, without solid grounding in reality. Although regularly forecasted, the catastrophe is still to come. Elaboration of this crisis scenario is based on received ideas. These ideas have warped the initial diagnosis, led to an erroneous perception of local economic and social dynamics and of their potential for evolution, and ultimately account for the sometimes fantastic character of representations and predicted evolution of environmental dynamics. This misperception of reality is one cause of the low global efficacy of rural development programs.
mounresedeve.34.4.336|The distinctive features of mountain pastoral families in the past, and their adaptations to environmental and economic constraints, have been the subject of many comparative studies. Less effort has been invested in exploring the role of the family in today's pastoral economy and identifying structural and cultural continuities within the dramatic changes of the last decades. Our ethnographic fieldwork in several valleys of the Italian Western Alps revealed that, contrary to some expectations, families do retain a central economic and productive role and are instrumental in keeping pastoral farming alive. Some present-day herders belong to families that have continuously engaged in pastoralism for a long time; in other cases, younger generations have returned to pastoral work their parents abandoned for jobs in industry or the service sector; in still other cases, new highlanders have turned to pastoralism and become the heirs of local pastoral knowledge. Family structures have changed considerably, and their size and composition as well as their entrepreneurial choices depend on a delicate balance between market demands, domestic strategies to keep or attain the right household size and composition, and the availability of local resources. Access to communal resources to which some pastoral families are entitled by their local origin may prove crucial to the success of their enterprises.
10.2307/3673016|The geology and petrography of the area between Kakani and Kathmandu, Nepal, was studied to provide a basis for mapping mountain hazards. The study showed a close relationship between rock type and structure, degree of weathering, and susceptibility to landsliding and gully erosion. In addition the soil mineralogy indicates rather immature soils. Five rock units were recognized: a two-mica gneiss series primarily affected by an upper amphibolite facies metamorphism and later over-printed by greenschist facies metamorphism; marble-, quartzite and phyllite-, biotite gneiss-, and schist series that were only affected by the later metamorphism; tourmaline-muscovite granites and associated pegmatites that have been intruded into the other rock units. It was concluded that geological mapping and petrographic investigations of the bedrock and its weathering products are essential aids to the preparation of mountain hazards maps. /// La gologie et la ptrographie de la rgion du Nepal situe entre Kakani et Katmandou, ont t tudies en vue d'tablir une base pour le reprage des risques naturels. L'tude a montr une relation proche entre le type et la structure des roches, le degr d'altration et la susceptibilit aux glissements de terrain et au ravinement. De plus, la minralogie indique une certaine immaturit des sols. Cinq groupes de roches ont t diffrencis: une srie gneissique  deux micas, principalement affecte par un mtamorphisme a facis amphibolite suprieur, avec surimposition subsquente d'un mtamorphisme  facis de schiste vert; une srie de marbres, de quartzites et phyllites, une srie de gneiss et de schiste  biotite qui ont t affectes seulement par le mtamorphisme le plus rcent; granites  tourmaline-muscovite et des pegmatites associes qui ont pntr dans les autres groupes de roches. Il en a t conclu que le lev gologique et les tudes ptrographiques de la roche de base et de ses produits d'altration sont indispensables pour la prparation des cartes indiquant les risques naturels. /// Geologie und Petrographie des Gebietes zwischen Kakani und Kathmandu, Nepal wurden untersucht, um eine Grundlage zur Kartierung von Berggefahren zu schaffen. Die Studie zeigt einen engen Zusammenhang zwischen Gesteinsart, -struktur und Grad der Verwitterung auf der einen Seite und Anflligkeit zu Erdrutschen und Auswaschungen auf der anderen. Ausserdem weist die Bodenmineralogie auf unreife Bodenbildung hin. Fnf Gesteinsarten wurden ausgeschieden: eine Zweiglimmergneisserie, die meist von einer Metamorphose in der oberen Amphibolitfazies erfasst und spter von einer Metamorphose in Grnschieferfazies berprgt wurde; eine Marmorserie; eine Quarzit - und Phyllitserie und eine Biotitgneis - und Biotitschieferserie, die ausschliesslich von der spteren Metamorphose erfasst wurde. Turmalin-Muskovit Granite und verwandte Pegmatite, die in die anderen Gesteinsarten eingedrungen sind, wurden als fnfte Gruppe ausgeschieden. Abschliessend wird geschlossen, dass geologische Kartierung und petrographische Untersuchungen des Untergrundes und seiner Verwitterungsprodukte notwendig sind bei der Vorbereitung von Gefahrenkarten.
3674077|Nepal is witnessing a transition from a predominantly agrarian economy to one where nonagricultural income opportunities are increasingly important. The significance of wage labor in (semi)industrial production and in the service sector is growing rapidly. Along with these changes, there is increasing labor migration as part of the population seeks work in labor markets in urban areas, both in Nepal and India or further abroad. Within the Nepalese urban labor market, carpet production evolved as one of the most prominent industries during the early 1990s, experiencing high annual growth rates. Yet this "gold rush" was followed by a dramatic decline in the mid and late 1990s that severely affected the industry and its workers. In order to analyze these processes, the author conducted an empirical study from 1996 through 1999 consisting of interviews with business people, workers, and officials from governmental and non-governmental organizations. The study showed that declining income opportunities have drastically affected savings and remittances. As a consequence, those (male) workers with access to more attractive labor markets sought new destinations, particularly in the Gulf states, whereas women workers have been left behind.
25164148|Humla District in Nepal is a very remote area, prone to food shortages and characterized by a harsh environment. The livelihoods of agropastoralists in this district became much more vulnerable during the recent Maoist insurgency, and this vulnerability was particularly acute in some areas. As a result, people in different villages responded quite differently to an externally funded holistic community development project-one of the only projects the Maoists allowed to proceed with in Humla during the height of the unrest. Villagers' responses to this health- and conservation-oriented development project seem to correlate most closely with socioeconomic status and ability to extract resources from the local environment, as well as with the nature of the relationship with the local Maoist cadres. Villagers' perceptions of the risks of becoming involved in the holistic community development projects in this area, and their ability or willingness to take part in them, are analyzed here, drawing on anthropological analyses of perceptions of risk and the diffusion of innovations. We conclude with brief recommendations based on this evidence and our experience in the field.
10.2307/3673738|Nepal is considered a leader among developing nations in the promotion of enlightened conservation legislation and practices. Since 1973, comprehensive legislation that addresses the protection of threatened species and important natural areas has been in place, and there have been many successes to date. This paper reviews what is known about the status of species within Nepal that appear in the Schedules of the National Park and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1973. Information for many species is very limited; however, in many cases, there is evidence that complete protection should be provided for some species that can still be legally harvested in Nepal, and there are other serious gaps in legislation and programs that hinder the conservation of broader aspects of biodiversity in the country and the region as a whole. There is need for a nationalized, systematic conservation strategy, and a list of four priorities to help this come about is proposed. The major priority is to develop and implement a comprehensive biological inventory and monitoring system within lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation and the Department of Forestry, followed by a review and re-assessment of all species that can be legally harvested. In addition, some important natural areas that are currently not included in the protected area system should be considered for protected status, and more protected species should be considered as candidates for reintroduction. Several new proposals are under consideration that form part of a Biodiversity Action Plan for Nepal, and they are analyzed in terms of the list of priorities. /// Le Npal est considr comme le leader parmi les pays en voie de dveloppement en ce qui concerne l'encouragement d'une lgislation et de pratiques claires envers la conservation. Depuis 1973, un systme de lgislation comprhensif a t mis sur pied pour assurer la protection d'espces menaces et de zones naturelles importantes; de nombreux succs ont dj t enregistrs. Cet article passe en revue la situation actuelle au Npal, en ce qui concerne les espces mentionnes dans les annexes de l'Acte de 1973 sur les parcs nationaux et la conservation de la faune. Les informations disponibles pour un grand nombre d'espces sont peu abondantes, mais dans certains cas, il semble qu'une protection totale est ncessaire pour les espces qui sont encore lgalement exploites au Npal. De srieuses lacunes existent dans la lgislation et les programmes visant  la conservation de certains grand domaines de la biodiversit, au Npal et dans la totalit de la rgion himalayenne. Une stratgie de conservation systmatique  l'chelle nationale est ncessaire. Quatre priorits sont proposes: la premire consiste  laborer un inventaire biologique comprhensif et un systme de surveillance pour les terres sous la jurisdiction du service des parcs nationaux et de la conservation de la faune, et du service des eaux et forts; la seconde consiste  passer en revue et  rvaluer toutes les espces qui peuvent tre lgalement exploites; la troisime consiste  tendre la protection  certaines zones naturelles importantes qui ne font pas encore partie du systme de zones protges; la quatrime consiste  considrer certaines espces protges comme candidates  la rintroduction. Plusieurs nouvelles propositions sont en cours d'examen et font partie du plan d'action pour la protection de la biodiversit au Npal; elles sont analyses en termes de la liste de priorits. /// Nepal ist unter den Entwicklungslndern fhrend bezglich fortschrittlicher Gesetzgebung zur Naturerhaltung und ihrer Durchfhrung. Umfangreiche Gesetzgebung zum Schutz bedrohter Arten und wichtiger Naturschutzgebiete gibt es seit 1973, und bis heute waren diese Bestrebungen sehr erfolgreich. Diese Verffentlichung gibt eine Bestandsaufnahme der Arten, die in den Schedules of the National Park and Wildlife Conservation Act von 1973 fr Nepal aufgefhrt sind. Der Informationsgehalt fr viele Arten ist nur sehr begrenzt; in einigen Fllen gibt es Anzeichen, da auch solche Arten geschtzt werden sollten, die noch legal ausgebeutet werden drfen. Die Gesetzgebung und die Programme zur Artenerhaltung sind in Nepal sowie im gesamten Himalayagebiet lckenhaft. Systematischer Artenschutz auf nationaler Ebene ist notwendig. Vier Prioritten werden vorgeschlagen: 1) Entwicklung und Durchfhrung einer umfassenden biologischen Bestandsaufnahme und eines berwachungssystems innerhalb der Gebiete, die der Zustndigkeit des Dept. of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation und des Ministeriums fr Forstwirtschaft unterstehen; 2) bersicht und Neu-Einschtzung aller der Arten, die noch legal ausgebeutet werden, 3) Sonderstatus fr Gebiete, die jetzt noch nicht unter Naturschutz stehen; und 4) berlegungen zur Neueinfhrung geschtzter Arten. Es gilt, verschiedene neue Vorschlge zu bercksichtigen, die Teil des Plans zur Erhaltung der biologischen Artenvielfalt von Nepal (Biodiversity Action Plan) sind, und die Rangfolge der Prioritten mu festgelegt werden.
10.2307/3673127|Ethnobotanical aspects of the utilization of Laretia acaulis, a cushion plant of the high Andes, as well as ecological consequences of its harvesting were analysed in Santiago, and in La Parva (to the east of Santiago, at 2,700 m a.s.l.), Chile, between 1979 and 1981. The plant is used mostly by the lower income group for the treatment of several diseases. Family tradition and lack of better jobs are determinant factors in the activity of herb-collectors and vendors. Although collectors are selective, in some places the amount harvested surpasses the regeneration capacity of L. acaulis. Considerable loss of soil and fragmentation of cushions are also detectable. Some conservation measures are suggested. /// Les aspects ethnobotaniques de l'utilisation de Laretia acaulis, une plante-coussinet des hautes Andes, ainsi que les consquences de sa rcolte ont t tudies  Santiago et  La Parva ( l'est de Santiago,  2700 m d'altitude), Chili, entre 1979 et 1981. Cette plante est principalement utilise par les couches les plus pauvres de la population pour le traitement de divers maladies. La tradition familiale et l'absence de meilleurs emplois sont les facteurs dterminants de la cueillette et de la vente des herbes. Bien que la cueillette soit slective, la quantit rcolte surpasse la capacit de rgnration de L. acaulis. Des pertes de sol considrables et une fragmentation des coussinets ont galement pu tre constates. Quelques mesures de conservation sont proposes. /// Von 1979-1981 wurden in Santiago und La Parva (stlich von Santiago auf 2700 m) Chile, ethnobotanische Aspekte der Nutzung von Laretia acaulis, einer Polsterpflanze der Hochanden und ihrer oekologischen Konsequenzen untersucht. Die Pflanze wird vor allem von der minderbemittelten Bevlkerungsschicht fr die Behandlung verschiedener Krankheiten genutzt. Familientradition und das Fehlen besserer Arbeit sind die ausschlaggebenden Faktoren fr die Ttigkeit des Krutersammlers und -verkufers. Obschon die Sammler selektiv vorgehen, bersteight die Erntemenge die Regenerationsfhigkeit der L. acaulis an einigen Stellen. Betrchtlicher Bodenverlust und die Zerstckelung der Polsterpflanzen sind nachgewiesen. Einige Konservierungsmassnahmen werden suggeriert.
10.2307/3673644|Local ('indigenous') knowledge and conventional ('modern') science are both limited in their abilities to mitigate soil erosion hazard in the Himalaya. While each system's terminology for erosion results from distinct perceptions of the environment, each responds differently to hazard. Local knowledge primarily responds over the long term and over areas beyond the actual site of soil loss. In a complementary manner, conventional science emphasizes erosion control in the short term and on-site. A case study from the Shivalik Hills in India is used to demonstrate these complementarities. The local dialect contains a detailed lexicon for landforms, soils, hydrology, and erosion, suggesting that environmental processes are understood. In the local approach to erosion, land use is altered to maintain biomass productivity. Thus, tenure and management issues are important. Conventional science seeks to reduce downstream sedimentation by controlling erosion through structural and vegetative techniques which are implemented for short-term results and are largely confined to the site of soil loss. In the Shivaliks, local approaches (intensification of agriculture through irrigation on stable lands and grazing control on erodible lands) are complemented by conventional techniques (sediment traps, earthen dams and planting trees and grasses). In the process, productivity has increased and sedimentation has been reduced. /// Les connaissances locales et les mthodes classiques de la science des sols sont toutes deux limites en ce qui concerne la matrise de l'rosion du sol dans l'Himalaya. Bien que la terminologie utilise par chaque approche dcoule d'une perception particulire de l'environnement, la rponse aux risques d'rosion est diffrente pour chacune d'entre elles. Les connaissances locales s'addressent plus particulirement aux risques  long terme pour des zones s'tendant au-del du site d'rosion particulier. Par contre, les mthodes classiques de la science des sols mettent plutt l'accent sur la matrise  court terme de l'rosion pour un site particulier. Une tude de cas effectue dans les Siwalik, chanes prhimalayennes de l'Inde, est utilise pour illustrer la complmentarit de ces deux approches. Le dialecte local contient un vocabulaire tendu se rapportant aux formes de terres, aux sols,  l'hydrologie et  l'rosion, indiquant une bonne comprhension des processus environnementaux. L'approche locale modifie le mode d'utilisation des terres en vue de maintenir la productivit de la biomasse et donc les questions de rgime foncier et de gestion sont importantes. Par contre, l'approche scientifique classique cherche  rduire la sdimentation en aval en matrisant l'rosion  l'aide de techniques structurelles et vgtatives visant  des rsultats  court terme en grande partie localiss au site d'erosion. Dans les Siwalik, les approches locales (intensification de l'agriculture par l'irrigation des terres stables et contrle du pturage sur les terres sujettes  l'rosion) sont compltes par les approches scientifiques classiques (piges  sdiments, barrages en terre et plantation d'arbres et d'herbes). Le rsultat en est une augmentation de la productivit et une rduction de la sdimentation. /// Lokale ("einheimische") Erfahrung und konventionelle ("moderne") Wissenschaft sind in ihren Mglichkeiten, Bodenerosionsgefahren im Himalaya zu bannen, begrenzt. Die Terminologie beider Methoden fr Erosionsvorgnge ergibt sich aus unterschiedlichen Blickpunkten auf die Umwelt, und jede reagiert anders auf Gefahren. Lokales Erfahrungsgut ist in erster Linie auf langfristige Lsungen ausgerichtet, und auf solche, die ber die eigentliche Stelle des Bodenverlustes hinausgehen. Die herkmmliche Wissenschaft konzentriert sich auf direkte Erosionskontrolle vor Ort. Eine Fallstudie aus den Shivalik Bergen Indiens zeigt, wie sich beide Methoden ergnzen. Aus dem detaillierten Wortschatz im lokalen Dialekt fr Landformen, Bden, Wasserkunde und Erosion, kann geschlossen werden, da Umweltvorgngen viel Beachtung geschenkt wird. Bei einheimischer Erosionskontrolle wird in erster Linie die Landnutzung so verndert, da die Produktion der Biomasse aufrechterhalten bleibt. Dadurch werden Fragen des Grundrechts und des Managements wichtig. Die konventionelle Wissenschaft dagegen versucht, die Sedimentation fluabwrts dadurch zu reduzieren, da Erosionsvorgange durch strukturelle oder vegetative Techniken eingedmmt werden. Diese Eingriffe werden als Sofortlsung ausgefhrt und beschrnken sich hauptschlich auf die unmittelbaren Stellen des Bodenverlustes. In den Shivalik Bergen ergnzen sich lokale Methoden (eine Intensivierung der Landwirtschaft durch Bewsserung stabiler Landflchen und kontrolliertes Weiden auf erosionsgefhrdetem Land) mit konventionellen Verfahren (Sediment-Auffangvorrichtungen, Erddmmen und durch Anbau von Bumen und Grsern). Als Folge dieser Manahmen ist die Produktivitt gestiegen und die Sedimentation zurckgegangen.
mounresedeve.34.3.223|The devastating eruptions of Mount Tungurahua in the Ecuadorian highlands in 1999 and 2006 left many communities struggling to rebuild their homes and others permanently displaced to settlements built by state and nongovernmental organizations. For several years afterward, households diversified their economic strategies to compensate for losses, communities organized to promote local development, and the state and nongovernmental organizations sponsored many economic recovery programs in the affected communities. Our study examined the ways in which gender and gender roles were associated with different levels and paths of access to scarce resources in these communities. Specifically, this article contrasts the experiences of men and women in accessing household necessities and project assistance through formal institutions and informal networks. We found that women and men used different types of informal social support networks, with men receiving significantly more material, emotional, and informational support than women. We also found that men and women experienced different challenges and advantages when pursuing support through local and extralocal institutions and that these institutions often coordinated in ways that reified their biases. We present a methodology that is replicable in a wide variety of disaster, resettlement, and development settings, and we advocate an inductive, evidence-based approach to policy, built upon an understanding of local gender, class, and ethnic dynamics affecting access to formal and informal resources. This evidence should be used to build more robust local institutions that can resist wider social and cultural pressures for male dominance and gendered exclusion.
10.2307/3673126|The paper examines the extent to which damages in earthquake disasters depend upon features of mountain land environments and human settlement of them. The damage zones of nine out of ten major disasters in recent decades involve mountainous areas. Destructive failure of steep slopes is one recurrent, globally significant indicator of the role of mountainous terrain. Weather and problems of access relating to mountain extremes and terrain are also frequent and serious problems for survival and relief in disaster. It was also found that many of the detailed problems stem from, or have been magnified by, recent ecological and societal changes in the mountains. However, it is the mountain foot and mountain fringe areas where the greatest extent and concentrations of damage occur. Patterns of damage in most earthquake disasters accord with patterns of mountain foot settlement, the complex environment of piedmont ecotones and land uses. Herein lies much of the explanation for geographical concentrations of the disasters in drier lands and coastal settings. Pressures of recent insensitive ecological and social change in these areas, where there are sharp and sudden contrasts in susceptibility to seismic shaking, seem to be a major factor in many of the damages recorded. /// Cet article met en lumire la responsabilit que peuvent avoir le profil du terrain et la prsence d'installations humaines  l'occasion d'un tremblement de terre catastrophique dans un environnement montagneux. Lors des dernires dcades, on a constate que 9 dsastres sur 10 ont eu lieu dans les zones montagneuses. Trs souvent, ce sont les pentes raides qui ne rsistent plus. Partout, on ralise a quel point le rle du terrain montagneux est capital. Lors du sauvetage et lorsque les secours sont organiss, il faut faire face aux plus grandes difficults. Ces dernires sont des aux conditions extrmes de la montagne-c'est--dire: -les intempries -la situation du terrain et les difficults d'accession. On trouve galement que ce sont les changements cologiques et les changements sociaux qui ont cre de nombreux problmes. Cependant, c'est aux pieds des montagnes et le long de ces dernires que les dommages arrivent-ceci  une chelle trs tendue et concentre. Un shma repetitif s'est tabli lorsqu'il y a des installations aux pieds des montagnes-soit qu'il s'agisse de l'environnement complexe des cotomes du piedmont soit de la terre utilise. Ainsi, s'explique la raison pour laquelle la concentration gographique des dsastres a lieu dans les terrains secs et sur les terres de long des ctes. Dans les endroits aux contrasts violents et soudains qui se prtent  un sisme, ce sont les pressions de changements criminelles ( la fois cologiques et sociales) qui sont le facteur numro 1 d'un grand nombre de dommages. /// Es wird untersucht, in welchem Ausma Schden bei Erdbebenkatastrophen von der Beschaffenheit der Bergumwelt und deren Besiedelung abhngen. Whrend der vergangenen Jahrzehnte fand man, da bei 9 von 10 greren Katastrophen die Schadenszonen auch gebirgige Gegenden miteinbezogen. Das schadenverursachende Nachgeben steiler Hnge ist ein weltweites, hufig wiederkehrendes Zeichen fr die Anflligkeit von gebirgigem Gelnde. Das Wetter und die Unzugnglichkeit extremer Berggebiete verursachen oftmals ernste Schwierigkeiten, wenn es in Katastrophenfllen um Hilfe und berleben geht. Man fand auerdem, da viele dieser Probleme von neueren kologischen und gesellschaftlichen Vernderungen in den Berggebieten herrhren oder zumindest durch sie verschlimmert werden. Die wichtigste Folgerung dieser Studie ist, da im Falle eines Erdbebens gewisse Merkmale jeder Bergumwelt gemeinsam sind und besonders schwierige Probleme aufwerfen; d.h. die schwersten und hufigsten Schden treten in den Vorbergen und Randgebieten auf. In vielen Fllen geht bei Erdbeben die Schadensverteilung in den Vorbergen mit der Besiedelung Hand in Hand, wobei dieses Gebiet beraus komplex in seiner kologie und Landschaftsnutzung ist. Hierin liegt der Hauptgrund fr geographische Hufungen von Katastrophen in trockenen Land-und Kstensiedlungsgebieten, wo sich die dichteste Besiedelung auf die Vorberge konzentriert. In Gebieten, die gegenber seismischen Strungen besonders empfindlich sind, scheinen Belastungen durch neuerliche, unvernnftige kologische und gesellschaftliche Vernderungen die wesentliche Ursache bei den registrierten Schadensfllen zu sein.
10.2307/3673255|Eighteen forest stands dominated by oak (Quercus) species at elevations from 1,200 to 2,400 m in the Kumaun Himalaya were analysed for community organization, size class distribution, and regeneration status. The total basal area of trees in some of the forests was comparable with the highest values recorded from elsewhere in the temperate zone. Quercus floribunda showed preference for more mesic aspects than Q. leucotrichophora. Of the two high-altitude oak species, Q. semecarpifolia preferred the hill tops and Q. lanuginosa the hill slopes. The shrub density was inversely related to the density of conifer species. Arundinaria falcata was the most dominant shrub under the undisturbed oak forests. The index of diversity was greatest in the lower part of altitudinal transect, in the chir pine-banj oak forest. Severe biotic disturbance and the resultant harsh physical environment has inhibited the regeneration of Q. leucotrichophora. Q. floribunda produces seedlings and saplings in abundance even where density is low. In the highest stands, while Q. lanuginosa regenerated frequently, the regeneration of Q. semecarpifolia was poor. /// Dix huit peuplements forestiers, domins par l'espce de chne Quercus et situs entre 1.200 et 2.400 m dans le Kumaun en Himalaya, ont t analyss du point de vue de l'organisation communautaire, la rpartition en catgories de taille, et l'tat de rgnration. La surface terrire totale des arbres dans certaines des forts est comparable aux plus hautes valeurs enregistres autre part dans la zone tempre. L'espce Quercus floribunda montre une prfrence pour des aspects plus msiques que l'espce Q. leucotrichophora. Des deux espces de chne  haute altitude, l'espce Q. semecarpifolia prfre les sommets de collines, alors que l'espce Q. lanuginosa prfre les flancs de coteaux. La densit des buissons est inversement lie  la densit des espces de conifres. L'espce Arundinaria falcata est le buisson dominant dans les forts de chne laisses  l'tat sauvage. L'indice de diversit est plus lev dans les basses sections altitudinaires, dans la fort de chne chir pine-banj. Des perturbations biotiques srieuses et le rude environnement physique qui en a rsult ont inhib la rgnration de l'espce Q. leucotrichophora. L'espce Q. floribunda produit des jeunes arbres en abondance, mme l o la densit est faible. Dans les peuplements les plus levs, la rgnration de l'espce Q. semecarpifolia est faible alors que celle de l'espce Q. lanuginosa est forte. /// Es wurden 18 Waldbestnde, hauptschlich Eichenarten (Quercus) in Hhen von 1.200 m bis auf 2.400 m im Kumaun Himalaya nach Artengliederung, Grenverteilung und Regenerationszustand analysiert. Der Gesamtbaumbestand der Wlder war mit den hchsten Bestandswerten in anderen Gegenden der gemigten Zone vergleichbar. Quercus floribunda bevorzugte einen feuchteren Standort als Quercus leucotrichoflora. Von den beiden Eichensorten, die in hheren Lagen wachsen, zog Q. semecarpifolia die Berggipfel vor, whrend Q. lanuginosa an den Hngen wuchs. Die Laubbaumdichte stand im umgekehrten Verhltnis zur Dichte der Nadelbume. Arundinaria falcata war das hufigste Unterholz in den naturbelassenen Eichenwldern. Die Vielfalt war am grten im unteren Teil des Hhengrtels, im chir pine-banj Eichenwald. Einschneidende biotische Strungen und daraus folgende Verschlechterung der physischen Umwelt haben die Regeneration der Q. leucotrichophora behindert. Q. floribunda erzeugt auch an Stellen mit geringer Baumdichte Samen und Schlinge im berschu. Q. lanuginosa regenerierte sich auch in den hchsten Lagen gut, dagegen war die Regeneration der Q. semecarpifolia nicht gut.
mounresedeve.36.2.153|This study explored farmers' perceptions of a biosphere reserve in the Austrian Alps with the goal of promoting better understanding among different stakeholders involved in the agricultural sector in a biosphere reserve. Biosphere reserves have a variety of functions and serve as models of sustainable regional development and involve stakeholders in decision-making on and development of protected areas. In the Alpine biosphere reserve selected for this study, the conservation of cultural landscapes plays a major role; therefore, farmers feature prominently, and this study focuses on their points of view. Farmers rely heavily on natural resources, but structural changes in agriculture determine their work to a large degree, and they often refuse to support protected area management. This situation calls for a closer integration of social-scientific knowledge in regional development programs. Qualitative research methods based on grounded theory can help identify sources of conflict and social strengths. The study found substantial support for the reserve but also a noticeable lessening of the original excitement about it, pointing to the need for further outreach and to the importance, when establishing future reserves, of handling the start-up phase with heightened sensitivity.
mounresedeve.36.4.537|The Perth conferences, held every 5 years in Perth, Scotland, bring together people who identify as mountain researchers and who are interested in issues related to global change in mountain social-ecological systems. These conferences provide an opportunity to evaluate the evolution of research directions within the mountain research community, as well as to identify research priorities. The Future Earth Strategic Research Agenda provides a useful framework for evaluating the mountain research communitys progress toward addressing global change and sustainability challenges. Using a process originally set up to analyze contributions to the 2010 conference, the abstracts accepted for the 2015 conference in the context of the Future Earth framework were analyzed. This revealed a continued geographic underrepresentation in mountain research of Africa, Latin America, and South and Southeast Asia but a more even treatment of biophysical and social science themes than in 2010. It also showed that the Perth conference research community strongly focused on understanding system processes (the Dynamic Planet theme of the Future Earth research agenda). Despite the continued bias of conference contributions toward traditional observation- and conservation-oriented research, survey results indicate that conference participants clearly believe that transdisciplinary, transformative research is relevant to mountains. Of the 8 Future Earth focal challenges, those related to safeguarding natural assets, promoting sustainable land use, increasing resilience and understanding the water-energy-food nexus received considerable attention. The challenges related to sustainable consumption, decarbonizing socioeconomic systems, cities, and health were considerably less well represented, despite their relevance to mountain socioeconomic systems. Based on these findings, we outline a proposal for the future directions of mountain research.
10.2307/3673257|Forestry is very generally regarded as "good" in ecological and rural development terms, and as something to be promoted. This paper reviews a case study of one area where forestry may not be entirely positive in its effects and may produce conflicts with other land uses, as well as with ecological and employment aims. The latter part of the study points out some modifications which could be made to the afforestation programme which would make it more compatible with other land uses; this includes the introduction of agro-forestry or conservational afforestation. /// La sylviculture est en gnral considre avantageuse du point de vue de l'cologie et du dveloppement rural, et donc mrite d'tre encourage. Cette tude examine le cas d'une rgion pour laquelle la sylviculture n'est peut-tre pas entirement dsirable et peut mme engendrer des conflits avec d'autres modes d'exploitation des terres, et avec les objectifs lis  l'cologie et  l'emploi. La second partie de l'tude suggre quelques modifications  apporter au programme d'afforestation pour le rendre plus compatible avec les autres modes d'exploitation des terres, y-compris l'introduction de l'agro-foresterie et de l'afforestation conservatoire. /// Forstwirtschaft wird in der kologie im allgemeinen als "gut" und frderungswrdig angesehen. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt als Fallstudie ein Gebiet, in dem Forstwirtschaft nicht nur positive Auswirkungen htte, sondern mit anderen Landnutzungsarten sowie mit kologischen Zielen und der Arbeitsmarktsituation in Konflikt gert. Der zweite Teil der Studie befat sich mit Modifikationen im Aufforstungsprogramm, die es mit anderen Landnutzungsformen besser vereinbar machen wrde, und das schliet die Einfhrung von Agrar-Forstwirtschaft oder traditioneller Aufforstung ein. /// Se considera en general a la forestacin como algo bueno trminos de ecologa y desarrollo rural, y como algo que hay que promover. Este artculo resea un estudio de un area en donde la forestacin puede no ser enteramente positiva en sus efectos, y puede producir conflictos con otros usos de la tierra, asi tambin como con metas ecolgicas y de empleo. La ltima parte del estudio indica algunas modificaciones que se podran hacer al programa de forestacin, que lo haran mas compatible con otros usos de la tierra; estas incluyen la introduccin de la agro-forestacin o la forestacin conservacional.
10.2307/3673947|Geography and the flow of history have served to separate the Sherpa populations of Junbesi Khola and the Bhote Kosi valley for close to fifteen generations, giving rise to a group allied by language, livelihood, and long-term bonds of marriage and trade, yet distinguished by an array of differences explicit in the cultural landscape of each place. This example of internal variability within a group that calls itself by a single name illuminates the processes of cultural adaptation and differentiation so strikingly apparent among many peoples of the Nepal Himalaya. Differences in local history and the consequent political, economic, and social alignments of each Sherpa community to different central states help to explain regional variations. In particular, contrasts in resource tenure and livestock management appear to be influenced by continuing ties to the Tibetan cultural world for Bhote Kosi Sherpa, and to the greater importance of Kathmandu in the lives and history of the people of Junbesi. Communal control of grazing resources exercised through a variety of mechanisms and institutions helps to mitigate the negative impacts of grazing in the area linked more closely to Tibet; privatization of resources and owner-driven decision making allow for rangeland damage in the lower area, which has long been more closely controlled by the Nepalese state. /// La gographie et le courant de l'histoire ont contribu  la sparation des peuples Sherpa du Junbesi Khola et de la valle du Bhote Kosi pendant presque quinze gnrations, donnant naissance  un groupe uni par la langue, les moyens d'existence et les liens  long terme du mariage et du commerce, mais cependant diversifi par suite de diffrences explicites du paysage culturel de chaque endroit. Cet exemple de variabilit interne dans un groupe qui s'appelle par un seul nom illustre les processus d'adaptation culturelle et de diffrentiation trs apparents parmi les nombreux peuples de l'Himalaya npalais. Les diffrences d'histoire locale,  la base des alignements politiques, conomiques et sociaux de chaque communaut Sherpa avec diffrents Etats centraux aident  expliquer les variations rgionales. En particulier, les contrastes en termes de rgime foncier et de gestion du btail semblent tre influencs par les liens constants avec le monde culturel tibtain pour les Sherpas du Bhote Kosi, et par la plus grande importance de Kathmandu dans la vie et l'histoire des peuples du Junbesi. La gestion collective des ressources de pacage, effectue  l'aide d'un certain nombre de mcanismes et d'institutions, aide  rduire les impacts ngatifs du pacage dans la zone plus troitement lie au Tibet; la privatisation des ressources et la prise de dcision influence par les propritaires a entran un endommagement des grand pturages libres dans la zone plus basse qui a depuis longtemps t rgie plus troitement par l'Etat du Npal. /// Geografie und geschichtliche Entwicklung trugen dazu bei, da sich die Sherpa Bevlkerung von Junbesi Khola und die im Bhote Kosi Tal ber beinahe 15 Generationen auseinander gelebt haben. Beide Gruppen sind durch Sprache, Lebensgewohnheiten, weit zurckgehende Familien- und Handelsverflechtungen eng verbunden; daneben gibt es aber deutliche Unterschiede, die Folge des jeweilig vorherrschenden kulturellen Einflusses sind. Dies Beispiel von unterschiedlichen Lebensgewohnheiten innerhalb einer Bevlkerungsgruppe, die den gleichen Namen trgt, unterstreicht die Prozesse der kulturellen Anpassung und Differenzierung, die allgemein bei den Einheimischen des Himalaya in Nepal zu beobachten sind. Der Verlauf der lokalen Geschichte jeder Sherpa Gemeinde und daraus folgende politische, konomische und soziale Ausrichtungen an verschiedene Regierungszentralen erklren die regionalen Unterschiede. Besonders deutlich wird der Unterschied im Besitzstand der Ressourcen und im Management der Viehhaltung, wobei die Bhote Kosi Sherpas ihre Verflechtung mit dem tibetanischen Kulturkreis zur Geltung bringen, whrend bei den Junbesi geschichtliche und kulturelle Entwicklungen mehr unter Kathmandu's Einflu stehen. Im Gebiet, das an Tibet grenzt, helfen kommunale Weidekontrollen, die von lokalen Stellen und Institutionen ausgebt werden, die negativen Folgen des berweidens zu mildern; andererseits lt die Regierung von Nepal seit langem fr das tiefer gelegene Weideland eine Privatisierung der Ressourcen zu, und zur Schadenskontrolle werden von Besitzern getroffene Entscheidungen akzeptiert.
mounresedeve.35.2.161|With the increasing emergence of renewable energy sites in Switzerland, new impacts on the landscape can be observed. Above the Alpine village of Bellwald, a pilot project testing avalanche barriers as a possible site for photovoltaic installations was inaugurated in 2012. This study focused on social aspects of the project and asked questions about local residents' and tourists' perceptions of and attitudes toward the installations. Its findings reveal that the new elements are not perceived as a drastic intrusion into the landscape, because the view was already affected by the avalanche barriers, which are accepted because of their vital protective function. No significant difference was found between residents' and tourists' evaluation of the new photovoltaic installations. However, different factors influenced the perceptions of these 2 groups. In both groups, conceptions related to place played an important role in the evaluation of possible photovoltaic sites.
3674336|Traditional male dominance in the realm of forestry limits the degree to which forest departments around the world are able to take up gender equity agendas. The experience of one project in the hills of Nepal demonstrates a successful strategy for changing the attitudes of forestry professionals, at the same time creating conditions under which rural women can demand respect and inclusion by building synergies at various levels. This requires a focus on developing the skills of change agents within communities and agencies.
10.2307/3673573|During the spring of 1988, an unusual epidemic of respiratory disease and six concurrent deaths of mountain gorillas (Gorilla gorilla beringei) occurred in the Parc National des Volcans, Ruhengeri Prefecture, Rwanda. Available climatological data were examined in an attempt to determine possible causal linkages between disease and local weather patterns. The data indicate that March through May of 1988 was indeed wetter than average for the two stations reviewed, and most likely cooler. However, it was concluded that climatic factors were probably secondary to those of age, previous exposure to the infectious agent, and individual susceptibility. Seasonal climatic effects on disease susceptibility are nevertheless reflected in the higher incidence of gorilla mortality during the March-May period, based upon a 23-year record. /// Au cours de l't 1988, une pidmie rare d'une maladie respiratoire et la mort de six gorilles de montagne (Gorilla gorilla beringei) sont arrives dans le Parc National des Volcans, Prfecture de Ruhengeri, Rwanda. Les donnes climatologiques disponibles ont t examines dans le but de dterminer les relations possibles de cause  effet entre la maladie et le rgime climatique local. Les donnes indiquent qu'entre mars et mai 1988, le temps tait effectivement plus humide pour les deux stations mtorologiques considres, et probablement plus froid. Nanmoins, l'tude conclut que les facteurs climatiques taient probablement secondaires vis--vis d'autres facteurs tels que l'ge, une exposition antrieure  l'agent infectieux, et la prdisposition particulire de chaque gorille  celui-ci. Les effets climatiques saisonniers sur la prdisposition aux maladies se manifestent nanmoins dans l'accroissement de la mortalit des gorilles pendant la priode de mars  mai, sur la base d'observations portant sur 23 ans. /// Whrend des Frhjahrs 1988 brach in Gebiet des Parc National des Volcans im Verwaltungsbezirk Ruhengeri, Rwanda, eine auergewhnliche, epidemische Erkrankung der Atmungsorgane unter den Berggorillas (Gorilla gorilla beringei) aus, an der sechs Tiere starben. Vorliegende klimatische Daten wurden untersucht, um mgliche Kausalzusammenhnge zwischen der Erkrankung und den lokalen Wetterverhltnissen zu bestimmen. Die Daten deuten darauf hin, da in der Tat an zwei ausgewhlten Beobachtungsstationen der Zeitraum von Mrz bis Mai 1988 feuchter und wahrscheinlich auch khler als normal war. Es wird jedoch gefolgert, da klimatische Faktoren nur eine sekundre Rolle spielten verglichen mit dem Tieralter, einer mglichen frheren Ansteckung mit dem Krankheitserreger und der individuellen Anflligkeit. In Aufzeichnungen ber 23 Jahre spiegelt sich dennoch eine klimabedingte Anflligkeit gegen Erkrankung wider, die fr die Monate Mrz bis Mai zu erhhter Sterblichkeit der Gorillas fhrt.
3674181|A great deal has been written about the relationship between landsliding and land use change, especially deforestation, in the Himalaya. But few detailed quantitative studies have examined this relationship. The present article reports the results of a 3-year study of landsliding in 4 subcatchments of the Likhu Khola drainage basin in the Middle Hills, Nepal. During the years of study (1991-1993), 381 landslides were noted, the vast majority of which were small failures on the risers of irrigated terraces (khet-land). Although significant in terms of labor input, these failures were insignificant with respect to land degradation and overall denudation. Most significant were larger failures on abandoned terraces and degraded forest. It was estimated that the average annual soil losses from the main land uses were 0.48 ton/ha for irrigated terraces, 3.65 ton/ha for rainfed terraces, 1.86 ton/ha for grassland, 0.80 ton/ha for forested land, and 23.95 ton/ha for forest scrub and abandoned land. The combined average erosion rate was 5.55 ton/ha. Thus, deforestation does not necessarily lead to large soil losses from landsliding; much depends on how the land is managed after deforestation.
3674269|Ethnobiology has a rich tradition of understanding and documenting ecological knowledge of traditional peoples living in montane environments. These peoples and their environments currently face great threats to their continued existence. The Highland region of Chiapas, Mexico (Figure 1), in particular, is an area of interest to both ethnobiologists and development practitioners. The montane forests of this region are considered one of Conservation International's priority megadiversity hot spots. Over the last few decades, poverty, population pressure, environmental degradation, and political conflict have intensified in Chiapas. Widespread political unrest and violence continue despite a "cease-fire" between the Mexican government and supporters of the Zapatista movement that first appeared in 1994. Despite these odds, projects aiming to support traditional indigenous health care while exploring ways of conserving local biodiversity are being continued in Highland Chiapas.
10.2307/3673717|This paper presents some of the first estimates of surface energy budgets for various alpine tundra surfaces of Niwot Ridge, Colorado, for the summers of 1982 and 1984. The estimates are reviewed along with other such measurements which have been made over the last two decades. The surfaces are dry meadow, dry fellfield, moist shrub tundra, moist meadow, and wet meadow. High temporal and spatial variation in heat energy balance values occurs. The differences result from changes in precipitation amounts from year to year. These differences may be similar in size to differences in energy budget values resulting from soil moisture availability at the various vegetation sites. Spot measurements show a high temporal variability in values of surface temperature and albedo. The advection of cold, dry air across the tundra surface is an important characteristic of the energy budget climatology and probably leads to a lowering of surface temperatures and an increase of the latent heat flux. Of the six surfaces examined, four (wet meadow, moist meadow, dry meadow, and fellfield) fall into a continuum of environments with increasing soil moisture with concomitant effects on their surface energy budgets. Two other surfaces (snowbed and moist shrub tundra) are special exceptions for different reasons. It is possible to model latent heat flux for the dry surface but the degree of accuracy is not yet high enough to be of use for all purposes. /// Cet article prsente une partie des premires estimations de bilans nergtiques pour diffrentes surfaces de la toundra alpine sur la Niwot Ridge, Colorado, pour les ts de 1982 et 1984. Ces estimations sont passes en revue avec d'autres mesures similaires qui ont t effectues au cours des deux dernires dcennies. Les surfaces sont la prairie sche, le terrain rocailleux sec, la toundra arbustive humide, la prairie humide et la prairie mouille. De grandes variations dans l'espace et le temps des bilans thermiques se produisent. Les diffrences proviennent des changements affectant les prcipitations d'une anne  l'autre. La valeur de ces diffrences peut tre similaire aux diffrences de bilans nergtiques dues  la disponibilit de l'humidit du sol aux diffrents sites de vgtation. Des mesures  diffrents points indiquent une grande variabilit dans le temps de la temprature et de l'albdo des surfaces. L'advection de l'air froid et sec  la surface de la toundra est une caractristique importante de la climatologie des bilans nergtiques et mne probablement  une diminution de la temprature des surfaces et une augmentation du flux thermique latent. Sur les six surfaces examines, quatre (prairie mouille, prairie humide, prairie sche et terrain rocailleux) se placent sur un continuum d'environnements avec humidit du sol croissante et effects concomitants sur leurs bilans nergtiques. Deux autres surfaces (couche de neige et toundra arbustive humide) font exception, pour diffrentes raisons. Il est possible d'laborer un modle du flux thermique latent pour la surface sche, mais le niveau de prcision n'est pas encore suffisant pour l'appliquer dans tous les cas. /// Dieser Bericht gibt erstmals fr die Sommermonate 1982 und 1984 einige Abschtzungen von Energiehaushalten verschiedener alpiner Tundraflchen der Niwot Ridge, Colorado. Diese Abschtzungen werden mit geeigneten Messungen, die ber die vergangenen zwei Jahrzehnte gemacht wurden, berprft. Trockene Wiesen, trockene gemhte Felder, feuchte Buschtundra, feuchte Wiesen und nasse Wiesen bestimmten die Oberflchenbeschaffenheit. Groe zeitliche und rumliche Unterschiede treten im Gleichgewicht der Wrmeenergie auf. Diese Unterschiede ergeben sich aus den von Jahr zu Jahr unterschiedlichen Niederschlagsmengen, die von hnlicher Grenordnung sein knnen wie die Variabilitt im Energiehaushalt, der sich aus der unterschiedlichen Bodenfeuchtigkeit der untersuchten Vegetationslagen ergibt. Stichproben zeigen eine groe zeitliche Vernderlichkeit bei den Mewerten von Oberflchentemperatur und Albedo. Die Advektion kalter, trockener Luft ber die Tundraflche ist ein wichtiges Merkmal der Klimatologie des Energiehaushalts und fhrt mglicherweise zur Senkung der Oberflchentemperatur und zu einem Anstieg des latenten Wrmeflusses. Von den sechs untersuchten Flchenarten fallen vier (nasse Wiese, feuchte Wiese, trockene Wiese und gemhte Flche) in solche Umweltklassen, bei denen zunehmende Bodenfeuchte gleichzeitig auch den Flchenenergiehaushalt beeinflut. Zwei weitere Flchenarten (Schnee bedeckt und feuchte Buschtundra) bilden aus anderen Grnden eine Ausnahme. Es ist mglich, den latenten Wrmeflu fr die trockene Flche modellmig darzustellen, aber bisher ist die erreichte Genauigkeit fr eine allgemeine Anwendung noch nicht ausreichend.
mounresedeve.35.4.401|The Himalaya range encompasses enormous variation in elevation, precipitation, biodiversity, and patterns of human livelihoods. These mountains modify the regional climate in complex ways; the ecosystem services they provide influence the lives of almost 1 billion people in 8 countries. However, our understanding of these ecosystems remains rudimentary. The 2007 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report that erroneously predicted a date for widespread glacier loss exposed how little was known of Himalayan glaciers. Recent research shows how variably glaciers respond to climate change in different Himalayan regions. Alarmist theories are not new. In the 1980s, the Theory of Himalayan Degradation warned of complete forest loss and devastation of downstream areas, an eventuality that never occurred. More recently, the debate on hydroelectric construction appears driven by passions rather than science. Poor data, hasty conclusions, and bad science plague Himalayan research. Rigorous sampling, involvement of civil society in data collection, and long-term collaborative research involving institutions from across the Himalaya are essential to improve knowledge of this region.
mounresedeve.36.2.173|This research explored how transhumant pastoralism has been sustained and promoted in the context of socioeconomic and climate change in the mountain regions of Nepal. Based on case study research conducted in Nepal's western mountains, the status, opportunities, and constraints of transhumant pastoralism in the changing context were analyzed. We found that indigenous and traditional knowledge, feelings of cultural identity, collective ownership, income, and mutual benefits have acted as motivating factors in sustaining transhumant pastoralism for generations. The continuation of this practice is threatened by the following challenges: the impacts of climate change on mountain ecosystems, socioeconomic changes, market influence on livelihood decisions, youth migration and labor shortage, low motivation of local people to engage in livestock rearing, and conflicts between herder and nonherder communities and institutions, as well as inadequate policy support and institutional arrangements. We conclude that unless there are positive policy and institutional arrangements to support transhumant pastoralism, the age-old practice will disappear.
3674648|One of the most important reasons for the degradation of biodiversity, in mountain areas and elsewhere, is that the people who make land use decisions often receive few or no benefits from biodiversity conservation. Understandably, therefore, they generally ignore potential biodiversity benefits when choosing land use practices. The end result is that biodiversity is often lost, as are many other off-site benefits such as the regulation of hydrological flows. Efforts to enhance biodiversity conservation need to take account of the constraints faced by individual land users, who decide what practices to adopt on their land. Over the years, a variety of efforts have been made to boost the profitability of biodiversity-friendly practices for land users, with mixed results. A further approach, which has received increasing attention in recent years, is to provide direct payments for the provision of environmental services such as biodiversity conservation. The simple logic of Payments for Environmental Services (PES) is that compensating land users for the environmental services a given land use provides, makes them more likely to choose that land use rather than another. The Regional Integrated Silvopastoral Ecosystem Management Project, which is being implemented by the World Bank with financing from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), is piloting the use of PES as a means of generating biodiversity conservation and carbon sequestration services in watersheds at three sites in Colombia, Costa Rica, and Nicaragua.
4096459|Significant changes in land use and land cover have occurred in Menglun Township, Xishuangbanna Autonomous Prefecture, southwest China. This is a region of high agro-ecological diversity representative of the general biophysical and socioeconomic conditions of Xishuangbanna. An analysis of satellite images showed that from 1988 to 2003, rubber plantations increased by 324%; this expansion generally occurred at the expense of forests and shifting agriculture. Most rubber expansion was in the lowland areas, where suitable microclimates and proximity to roads favored the development of the rubber industry. Economically, all the villages showed an improved living standard; from 1988 to 2003, the total net income of the township increased from CNY 4 million (US$ 0.49 million) to CNY 44 million (US$ 5.49 million). The increasing population and rising living standard of the area will put greater pressure on the environment and available land resources. Although the government considers rubber and other plantations such as tea and sugar to be 'green industries,' the loss of tropical rainforest and agricultural lands (including diverse shifting agriculture) suggests that the potential impacts of policies to promote green industries should be considered carefully. Communities such as those in northern Laos, where the rubber industry is now expanding rapidly, are likely to experience a similar scenario.
4096461|Nested scenarios at 2 spatial levels were constructed to explore key uncertainties about how livelihoods and landscapes in upper tributary watersheds of montane mainland Southeast Asia might unfold in the coming decades. At the regional level the scenarios highlight the implications of different forms of market and political integration. At the upper tributary level the scenarios highlight changing dependencies on local natural resources and the extent of empowerment of local stakeholders in their management. The scenarios are intended as a starting point for discussions among stakeholders, as a framework for designing and interpreting land use and land cover change simulation studies, and as a tool to help identify resilient livelihood and regional development strategies. The multi-level approach to scenario building introduced here shows considerable promise for mountain regions, as it encourages analyses to be cognizant of broader-scale economic and social changes as well as the uncertainties specific to these upland environments.
mounresedeve.29.2.135|Leaves and twigs of indigenous woody plant species are used as a source of supplemental animal feed in the mountainous landscapes of central Ethiopia. A study was carried out from 2004 to 2006 to assess the nutritional value of 3 indigenous and 1 exotic species, based on the chemical composition, tannin contents, in vitro dry matter digestibility, and digestible energy. The species studied were
10.2307/3673990|Rural land in the U.S. Rocky Mountains is being subdivided and developed for residential and commercial use at an unprecedented rate. In the East River Valley, Colorado, land ownership parcel size began to decline sometime during the last two decades after increasing for over a century-since the first European settlement. Roughly 20% of the private land in the valley has been divided into parcels smaller than about 45 acres (18 ha), parcels that cannot economically support agriculture. Development in the valley has caused significant land-cover fragmentation, especially in aspen, meadow, mixed conifer, and sagebrush cover types. Increased rates of house construction, from 3% per year during 1964-1990 to 8% per year from 1990 to 1994, and the conspicuousness of new roads and houses on the valley slopes, have enhanced local perception of rapid landscape change. Residents' concern over land use especially focuses on the creation of "ranchettes"-large-lot residential areas carved out of former cattle ranches-and on the community changes associated with population growth, absentee home ownership, and class distinctions between recent immigrants and long-time residents. This paper documents these changes in the ecological and social landscape of this rapidly developing mountain valley using landscape metrics and interviews of key residents. /// Les terres rurales des Montagnes Rocheuses des Etats-Unis sont en train d'tre subdivises et amnages  des fins rsidentielles et commerciales  une vitesse sans prcdent. Dans l'East River Valley, la taille des parcelles des propritaires fonciers a commenc  dcliner au cours des deux dernires dcennies aprs avoir augment pendant plus d'un sicle, c'est--dire depuis le premier tablissement europen. Environ 20 pour cent des terres prives de la valle ont t diviss en parcelles de moins de 18 hectares incapables conomiquement de soutenir l'agriculture. Les amnagements dans la valle ont entran une fragmentation importante de la couverture vgtale, en particulier les peupliers, les prs, les conifres mls et l'armoise. Le taux accru de construction des maisons, de 3% par an entre 1964 et 1990  8% par an entre 1990 et 1994, et la prsence vidente de nouvelles routes et maisons sur les versants de la valle, ont renforc la perception locale d'un changement rapide du paysage. La proccupation des rsidents concernant l'utilisation des terres s'oriente principalement sur la cration de "ranchettes", c'est--dire des lots de grande superficie dcoups dans ce qui tait des ranches d'levage bovin, et sur les changements de la communaut associs  la croissance dmographique,  l'absentisme des propritaires et aux diffrences de classe entre les immigrants rcents et les rsidents de longue dure. Cet article documente les changements du paysage conomique et social de cette valle de montagne  amnagement rapide, sur la base de mesures du paysage et d'interviews avec des rsidents cls. /// In den Rocky Mountains der U.S.A. werden lndliche Gebiete zur Besiedelung und kommerziellen Nutzung in beispiellosem Ausma parzelliert und erschlossen. In den letzten 20 Jahren sind im East River Tal von Colorado die Grundstcksgren zurckgegangen, whrend vorher ber ein Jahrhundert lang-seit der ersten europischen Besiedelung- der Trend zur Vergrerung vorlag. Ungefhr 20% des privaten Landbesitzes im Tal verteilt sich auf Grundstcke mit Flchen von 45 acres (18 ha) oder kleiner; eine Gre, die landwirtschaftliche Nutzung unkonomisch macht. Daneben zerstckelte die Erschlieung des Tals die natrliche Bewachsung, wobei insbesondere die Bestnde mit Espen, Wiesen, Misch-Nadelwald und Steppenbewuchs betroffen wurden. Steigende Wachstumsraten als Folge der Besiedelung-von 3% pro Jahr whrend des Zeitraums 1964-1990, bis auf 8% pro Jahr fr die Periode von 1990 bis 1994-und nicht zu bersehende neue Straen und Bebauungen an den Talhngen sind die Merkmale von drastischen nderungen im Landschaftsbild. Die Formung von "ranchettes" (groflchige Siedlungseinheiten, die ehemalige Rinderfarmen absorbieren) und die vernderte Struktur der Gemeinde durch den starken Zuwachs der Bevlkerung verursachen Probleme fr die Einwohner. Gebietsfremde Hauseigentmer und die Unterscheidung zwischen Zugereisten und Ortsansssigen haben die Situation polarisiert. Die vorliegende Verffentlichung dokumentiert auf der Grundlage von Bebauungsplnen und Interviews mit magebenden Einwohnern die Vernderungen im kologischen und sozialen Gefge dieses sich schnell entwickelnden Gebirgstals.
10.2307/3673270|Footpath trampling results in the deterioration of the physical and structural properties of a track surface. The effects of regular trampling by members of a large expedition in an area of arctic heath were assessed over a six-week period and again the following summer. Characteristic visual changes included the reduction in vegetation cover, and an increase in the width, depth, and extent of lateral erosion. Trampling increased soil compaction and bulk density which in turn influenced levels of soil moisture and porosity. Levels of compaction increased with recreational intensity and partial stripping of the surface organic horizon led to a reduction in organic soil material. The study highlights the importance of interactive forces such as surface roughness, drainage, and natural obstacles. An assessment of the recovery of damaged sites nearly a year later has led to recommendations for more awareness of the potential degradation and fragility of this environment under continued heavy recreational pressure by visitors. /// Le pitinement cause l'altration des proprits physiques et structurelles de la surface des sentiers. L'effet du passage rpt des membres d'une grande expdition dans une zone de bruyre arctique a t valu au cours d'une priode de six semaines et de nouveau l't suivant. Les changements caractristiques apparents se sont manifests par une rduction de la couverture vgtale, et une augmentation de la largeur, la profondeur et l'tendue de l'rosion latrale. Le pitinement a augment le tassement du sol et la densit apparente, affectant ainsi le niveau d'humidit et la porosit. Le compactage a augment avec la croissance des activits de loisir et une disparition partielle de l'horizon organique superficiel a entran une rduction des substances organiques du sol. Cette tude met en vidence l'importance des facteurs mis en jeu, tels que l'tat de surface, le drainage et les obstacles naturels. Une valuation du niveau de rtablissement des endroits endommags, environ une anne plus tard, a men  des recommandations prconisant une plus grande conscience de la dgradation possible et de la fragilit de cet environnement continuellement soumis  un usage abusif d aux activits de loisir. /// Anhaltendes Zertreten verschlechtert die physischen und strukturellen Eigenarten einer Wegoberflche. Die Beeintrchtigungen von regelmigem Begehen eines arktischen Heidegebietes durch Mitglieder einer groen Expedition wurden ber eine Zeitspanne von sechs Wochen und nochmals im darauffolgenden Sommer bewertet. Zu typischen, augenflligen Vernderungen gehrte der Rckgang der Vegetationsdecke und ein Austreten des Pfades in Breite, Tiefe und durch laterale Erosion. Das regelmige Zertreten steigerte die Bodenverdichtung und die spezifische Dichte, was seinerseits den Grad der Bodenfeuchte und -porositt beeinflute. Der Grad der Bodenverdichtung steigerte sich mit der Intensitt der Freizeitnutzung und teilweises Freilegen der Oberflche fhrte zu Verlust von organischem Bodenmaterial. Die Studie unterstreicht die Bedeutung wechselwirkender Krfte wie Unebenheiten in der Oberflche, Drnung und natrliche Hindernisse. Ein Beurteilen der Regeneration von geschdigten Stellen nach einem Jahr, fhrte zu der Empfehlung, da die potentielle Verschlechterung und die Fragilitt dieser Umwelt unter anhaltender, starker Freizeitbelastung durch Besucher einer besonderen Beachtung bedarf.
25164206|Alpine regions provide diverse ecosystem goods and services (ES) to human society. Yet as many of these ES are not bought or sold, their value must be estimated using a surrogate for observable behavior witnessed in the marketplace. The present article reviews ES valuation studies conducted in the European Alps. In addition, we present the results of a case study where we integrated the value of selected ES (avalanche protection, scenic beauty values, C-sequestration, habitats of capercaillie [Tetrao urogallus]) into the planning of new settlement areas in the tourism resort of Davos (Swiss Alps). Benefit estimates derived from the economic valuation studies tend to be specific to a particular method, ecosystem, and socioeconomic circumstance. The case study shows, however, that consideration of ES values can help identify the most beneficial locations for new development if appropriate selection of ES is made, and if these ES can be valued in a spatially explicit form. The achievements of research to date indicate that accounting for the value of multiple ES in an Alpine region will increasingly make important information available to planners.
25163990|This article explores the possibility of developing a method for assessing and mapping natural hazards for use in planning at the regional level. This involves medium-scale mapping and does not apply to the site-specific local level. Furthermore, the emphasis is on mountain areas that are not easily accessible but for which air photographs are available. The preliminary solution presented here is based upon experience and mapping experiments in the Colorado Front Range. One of the main objectives was to produce accurate and highly objective results within a reasonable amount of time. The hazard mapping was completed in two steps. "Recording maps," each of a single hazard, such as rockfall, debris flows, landslides, and mountain torrents and floods, were produced. The hazard assessment was undertaken almost exclusively through interpretation of stereographic imagery using a set of criteria defined in Tables 1, 2, 3, and 5. Three categories, confirmed, inferred, and potential, were differentiated to indicate whether the assessment was based on fact or conjecture. The series of "recording maps" then provided the basis for the second step: production of the so-called "combined-hazards map." /// Cet article envisage la possibilit et les mthodes de l'valuation et de la cartographie des dangers naturels pour la planification au niveau rgional (et non strictement local) dans les rgions de montagnes difficilement accessibles mais documentes par des photographies ariennes. Une solution possible, qui rpond aux postulats d'exactitude scientifique, de reproduction des rsultats et d'investissement de temps raisonable, est discute sur la base de recherches et de travaux cartographiques dans les Colorado Rocky Mountains. La cartographie des dangers s'effectue en deux phases. Dans la premire phase, des cartes sont tablies pour chaque danger particulier (carte d'un particulier: carte des boulements rocheux et des chutes de pierres, carte des glissements de terrain et des coules boueuses, carte des dangers hydrologiques). Dans la pratique, l'valuation des dangers se base uniquement sur l'interprtation de photographies ariennes stroscopiques et sur l'utilisation de critres dfinis par des tables (Tables 1, 2, 3 et 5). L'indication du degr d'vidence: danger prouv, danger prvisible, danger potentiel permet de voir si la dlimitation des zones de danger se base sur des indices certains, sur des dductions ou des suppositions. Les cartes de dangers particuliers ainsi tablies servent de base et de vrification pour la carte des types de dangers tablie dans la seconde phase des travaux. /// Dieser Artikel befasst sich mit der Frage nach der Mglichkeit und Methodik von Gefahrenbeurteilungen und -kartierungen fr planerische Anwendung auf regionaler, nicht eng lokaler Ebene in schlecht erschlossenen, aber durch das Luftbild erfassten Gebirgsregionen. Ein Lsungssatz, welcher die Postulate nach sachlicher Richtigkeit, guter Nachvollziehbarkeit und vernnftigem Zeitaufwand erfllen soll, wird aufgrund von Erfahrungen und Kartierungsexperimenten in den Colorado Rocky Mountains diskutiert. Die Gefahrenkartierung umfasst 2 Schritte. Im ersten Schritt werden Einzelgefahrenkarten (Felssturz-/Steinschlagskarte, Karte der Muren und Rutsche, Karte der Gewssergefahren) erstellt. Die Gefahrenbeurteilung erfolgt praktisch auschliesslich durch Interpretation von Stereoluftbildern und Anwendung von tabellarisch festgehaltenen Kriterien (Tab. 1, 2, 3 und 5). Durch Angabe der Evidenzstufen "erwiesen," "abgeleitet" oder "potentiell" wird festgehalten, ob die Ausscheidung der Gefahrenzonen auf Grund von eindeutigen Indizien oder nur auf Grund von Annahmen oder Vermutungen erfolgt ist. Die Einzelgefahrenkarten sollen Grundlage und Beleg fr die im zweiten Schritt zu erstellende Gefahrenartenkarte sein.
mounresedeve.29.2.128|Northern Peru is the center of the so-called Andean health axis, where the continuous use of more than 500 medicinal plants has been documented. Local healers as well as patients purchase a large portion of their plants at local markets. While scientific studies of medicinal plants are under way, concern has arisen over the preservation of both the large diversity of medicinal plants and the traditional knowledge of healing methods that accompanies them. To promote further conservation work, this study attempted to document the sources of the most popular and rarest medicinal plants sold at the markets of Trujillo (Mayorista and Hermelinda) and Chiclayo (Modelo and Moshoqueque), as well as to create an inventory of the plants sold in these markets. The present paper reports on the complete market flow from collection to middlemen to vendor from the perspective of an herb collector/vendor. Although prior studies have indicated that at least some plants, mostly introduced species, are grown in home gardens on the coast, this study shows that increasing plant demand in the large coastal markets has not led to significant cultivation of medicinal plants in home gardens. The vast bulk of the plant material sold in the markets of northern Peru consists of plants collected in the wild. Both collection of plants and their transport to the coastal markets require long-distance travel. Low profit margins indicate that the herb trade is very fragile, since collectors might decide to engage in activities that offer higher income or higher turnover. This, coupled with the fact that most plant material is wild-crafted, could easily lead to overharvesting of rare medicinal species in the region.
mounresedeve.35.1.78|The Tibetan Plateau is of fundamental ecological significance to China, Asia, and the world. In recent years, Tibetan grasslands have suffered from severe degradation due to climate change and anthropogenic disturbance. In this study, nitrogen (N) and phosphate were applied to a moderately degraded Kobresia pygmaea meadow and Stipa purpurea steppe in the arid alpine northern Tibetan Plateau. The results showed that with increasing nitrogenous fertilizer, the height, coverage, biomass, and importance value of the K. pygmaea population decreased whereas the population of S. purpurea exhibited the opposite trend. Application of a mixed fertilizer with the same amount of N and phosphorus (P) (5 g each per m
10.2307/3673374|While Pidurutalagala is a gneiss complex of Precambrian origin and situated 7 north of the equator, Pangrango-Gede are twin volcanoes, almost 7 south. Altitudes and climate are similar (monsoons, high precipitation, mist above 1,500 m, and frost occurrence). Both islands were governed partly or entirely by European powers during the last century and have well-known botanical gardens. The floras are related, though many genera are lacking in Ceylon. This is due to the cul-de-sac location of Ceylon in contrast to Java which constitutes a bridge between Asia and Australia. The zonation of vegetation is somewhat different: montane rainforest with high trees extends to 2,000 m in Java, while in Ceylon the lower montane forest (hill-dipterocarps) ends at 1,500 m a.s.l. Above 2,000 m and 1,500 m, respectively, mossy forest covers the slopes. The fauna of both mountains has many similarities; big herbivores were once represented by the elephant in Ceylon and rhinoceros in Java. The forests around Pidurutalagala are not protected, while those of Pangrango-Gede are conserved in a national park. /// Le Pidurutalagala est un massif de gneiss d'origine prcambrienne situ  7 au nord de l'quateur, alors que le Pangrango-Gede est constitu de deux volcans jumeaux situs  7 au sud de celui-ci. L'altitude et le climat sont similaires (moussons, prcipitations abondantes, brouillard au-dessus de 1.500 m et gele). Ces deux les furent partiellement ou totalement gouvernes par les puissances europennes au cours du sicle dernier, et possdent des jardins botaniques rputs. Les flores sont voisines bien que quelques genres n'existent pas  Ceylan,  cause de la position en cul-de-sac de Ceylan par rapport  Java qui forme un pont entre l'Asie et l'Australie. La zonation vgtale est tant soit peu diffrente: la fort humide  grands arbres de l'tage montagnard atteint 2.000 m  Java, alors qu' Ceylan la fort de l'tage montagnard infrieur (genre dipterocarpus) se termine  1.500 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer. Au-dessus de 2.000 m et 1.500 m respectivement, les pentes sont couvertes de forts moussues. Les faunes de ces deux montagnes prsentent de nombreuses similarits: les grands herbivores taient  une poque reprsents par l'lphant  Ceylan et le rhinoceros  Java. Les forts du Pidurutalagala ne sont pas protges par le gouvernement, alors que celles du Pangrango-Gede le sont en tant que parc national. /// Pidurutalagala ist ein Massiv aus prkambrischen Gneisen und liegt 7 nrdlich des quators, whrend Pangrango-Gede, 2 zusammenhngende Vulkankegel, fast 7 sdlich des quators aufragen. Hhe und Klima sind hnlich (Monsune, hohe Niederschlge, hufige Nebel oberhalb 1500 m und gelegentliche Nachtfrste). Beide Inseln blicken auf eine koloniale Vergangenheit zurck und beherbergen berhmte botanische Grten gleichen Alters. Die Floren sind verwandt, obwohl viele Genera auf Ceylon fehlen (z.B. alle Coniferen und Fagaceen). Diese Tatsache ergibt sich aus der isolierten Lage Ceylons im Gegensatz zu Java, das eine Brcke zwischen Asien und Australien ist. Die Zonierung der Vegetation ist etwas unterschiedlich: Hoher Bergregenwald reicht am Pangrango-Gede bis 2000 m - in Ceylon nur bis 1500 m. Oberhalb schliet jeweils niedriger und moosreicher Nebelwald an. Die Fauna beider Berge weist viele hnlichkeiten auf. Frher durchzogen Elefanten die Wlder des Pidurutalagala und Java-Nashrner die des Pangrango-Gede. Die Wlder am Pidurutalagala sind nicht als Schutzgebiet ausgewiesen, whrend die am Pangrango-Gede den Status eines Nationalparks genieen.
mounresedeve.29.2.121|The livelihoods of most Ugandans intimately depend on the environment, both as a source of subsistence and as a basis for production. Environmental degradation in the countrywhich includes wetland encroachment and contamination of water resourcesis critical: based on estimates, degradation costs represent an environmental debt of about US$ 14 billion today. Although the country's water resources are rich, severe water scarcity is predicted for the near future, particularly in more populated areas and in the more fragile arid and semiarid pastoral areas. The Ugandan government has formulated a number of policies to regulate land use and impacts on the environment. However, the alarming rate at which natural resources are being depleted shows that these laws and policies are not enforced effectively. Using both qualitative and quantitative research methods, the study presented here focused on water resources, assessing their status in 4 mountainous districts of Uganda and evaluating the effectiveness of government policies with regard to restoration and conservation of water catchments. The study revealed a glaring gap between the existence of laws and policies on the one hand, and the reality of implementation on the ground on the otherthere is rapid depletion of water resources, and water scarcity has already led to conflicts. The paper calls for effective implementation of existing policies and laws without fear or favor and for increased budgetary allocations from the current 25.6 billion shillings (20062007) to 34.45 billion or more, to accommodate funding for the execution of policies and laws. It also calls for meticulous review of the existing environmental policy regime with a view to tailoring, customizing, and localizing it for practical purposes.
3674073|Kyrgyzstan, officially called the Kyrgyz Republic, is a small and highly mountainous former Soviet republic situated in northeast Central Asia (Figure 1). It is surrounded by the Pamir-Alay Mountains to the southwest and the Tien-Shan range to the northeast; the Tien-Shan ridge predominates. Ninety-four percent of the land area is located above 1000 m; 40% is above 3000 m, with large glaciers and permanent snow. The average altitude is 2750 m. Since gaining independence in 1991, the Kyrgyz Republic has undergone a difficult transition from a command and supply economy to a market-oriented one, embracing a democratic system of governance. The government has strongly promoted decentralized local governance and community development through the formation of local self-governing bodies and emphasis on intensive mobilization of human resources and local capital at the grassroots level. In reaction to the government's commitment to promote a high degree of local governance for community development, the UNDP-supported Decentralization Program began to help mobilize mountain communities in the Kyrgyz Republic to initiate community development efforts that would meet the needs of villages in Kyrgyzstan.
10.2307/3673396|Two large rockfall avalanches have occurred within the last 100 years in Glacier National Park, Montana, both associated with the eastern edge of the Lewis Overthrust Fault. Historical documents, maps, and photographs provide bracketing dates of 1902-1914 and 1936-1966 for the two events while tree-ring data indicate that the older rockfall avalanche occurred in 1910, and the younger one in 1954. The 1910 rockfall avalanche occurred after a local cloudburst, but the immediate cause of the 1954 event has not been determined. Until recently, all naturally-occurring, high-magnitude rockfall-avalanche deposits in the Rocky Mountains were thought to be of considerable age. The recent age of the rockfall avalanches reported here, combined with the speed and the terrain susceptible to mass movements, suggests that proposed developments in the area must be critically examined in light of the potential for similar catastrophic slope failure. /// Deux avalanches de pierres importantes se sont produites au cours des 100 dernires annes dans le Parc National Glacier, Etat du Montana, et toutes les deux sont associes au bord est de la faille de chevauchement Lewis. Les documents historiques, cartes et photographies disponibles fournissent les fourchettes 1902-1914 et 1936-1966 pour ces deux vnements, alors que l'vidence fournie par les couches annuelles des arbres indique que la premire avalanche s'est produite en 1910 et la seconde en 1954. La premire a t dclenche par une trombe d'eau locale, mais la cause immdiate de la seconde n'a pas t dtermine. Jusqu' prsent, il semblait que dans les Montagnes Rocheuses les boulis naturels en provenance d'importantes avalanches de pierres taient trs vieux. La jeunesse et la vitesse des avalanches examines dans cet article, ainsi que la susceptibilit du terrain aux mouvements massifs, suggrent que les amnagements prvus dans la rgion doivent tre soigneusement valus en fonction des risques d'vnements catastrophiques similaires. /// Innerhalb der vergangenen 100 Jahre ereigneten sich im Glacier National Park zwei groe Gesteinslawinen, und zwar beide am stlichen Rand des Lewis Overthrust Grabens. Geschichtliche Unterlagen, Landkarten und Fotografien liefern Daten, die fr beide Ereignisse Zeitrume von 1902 bis 1914 und von 1936 bis 1966 festlegen, whrend Baumringdaten fr die ltere Lawine das Jahr 1910 und fr die jngere das Jahr 1954 bestimmen. Die Gesteinslawine von 1910 ereignete sich nach einem lokalen Wolkenbruch; die unmittelbare Ursache der Lawine von 1954 konnte nicht bestimmt werden. Bis vor kurzem nahm man an, da Ablagerungen von allen natrlich ausgelsten, groen Gerllawinen in den Rocky Mountains viel lter sind. Das niedrige Alter der hier erwhnten Gesteinsverlagerungen, verbunden mit der Geschwindigkeit solcher Vorgnge und einem Gelnde, das Erdverschiebungen zult, empfiehlt, da alle geplanten Erschlieungen in diesem Gebiet kritisch berprft werden, ob hnlich katastrophale Schwchen in der Hangstruktur vorliegen.
10.2307/3673492|In 1968 Starkel observed the geomorphic effects of an extreme rainfall event in the Darjeeling Himalaya. Detailed investigations were carried out subsequently (1984-1988) on slope and channel processes. The slope and channel subsystems demonstrate various threshold values for slope processes, such as washing, sliding, and flowing, and for fluvial processes which include initiation of increases in bedload and changes in channel geometry. Short-distance overland flow and slope wash were initiated in the tea gardens with rainfall events of 50 mm or more and intensities in excess of <tex-math>$0.5\ {\rm mm}/{\rm min}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Shallow slides and slumps on steep slope segments occur when 24-hour rainfall totals reach 130-150 mm, or with continuous three-day totals of 180-200 mm. Transformation of debris flows along the entire slope profile occur once in about thirty years. In streams of first and second order the normal annual floods entrain bedload up to 30 cm diameter, while precipitation events of between 500 and 1,000 mm will effect total changes in stream channel geometry. Only the alluvial fans experience simultaneous transformation during every flood. In the main valleys of the Tista and Rangit rivers, downcutting or aggradation on the original slope occurs annually prior to an extreme event. The extreme events, such as occurred in 1968, produce simultaneous disturbance of both the slopes and the channel equilibrium on a regional scale. The Darjeeling Himalaya are proposed as a good example of a region where slope and channel subsystems rapidly attain thresholds; these conditions are representative of a monsoon climate, intensive uplift, and forest clearance. /// En 1968, Starkel a observ les effets gomorphologiques d'une trombe d'eau qui s'est produite dans les montagnes himalayennes du Darjeeling. Des recherches dtailles ont t effectues par la suite (1984-1988), sur les processus de versants de montagnes et de lits de rivires. Les sous-systmes versants et lits montrent que des seuils existent pour les processus de versants, tels que l'entranement, le glissement et l'coulement, et pour les processus fluviaux qui comprennent l'initiation des augmentations de charge et des changements de la forme des lits. Un coulement de surface sur une courte distance et un entranement de versant se sont produits dans les jardins de th avec des pluies de 50 mm ou plus et des intensits suprieures  0,5 mm/min. Des glissements peu profonds et des effondrements sur des segments de versants abrupts se produisent quand les pluies atteignent 130-150 mm sur 24 heures, ou 180-200 mm sur trois jours de pluies continues. La transformation d'coulements de dbris le long du profil entier du versant se produit une fois tous les trente ans environ. Dans les rivires de premier et de second ordre, les crues annuelles normales entranent une charge pouvant atteindre 30 centimtres de diamtre, alors que des prcipitations de 500  1000 mm provoquent des changements globaux de la forme des lits de rivires. Seuls les ventails alluviaux font l'objet d'une transformation simultane pendant chaque crue. Dans les valles principales des rivires Tista et Rangit, une perte de matriaux ou un alluvionnement du versant original se produit avant une trombe d'eau, annuellement. Les trombes d'eau, telles que celle de 1968, produisent des perturbations simultanes des versants et de l'quilibre des lits de rivires  l'chelle rgionale. Les montagnes himalayennes du Darjeeling sont proposes comme exemple de rgion o les sous-systmes de versants et de lits atteignent rapidement des seuils. Ces conditions sont reprsentatives d'un climat de mousson, de soulvement intensif et de dforestation. /// Im Jahre 1968 beobachtete Starkel im Darjeeling Himalaya geomorphische Einflsse, die von ungewhnlich starken Regengssen verursacht wurden. Spter (1984-88) wurden dann detaillierte Untersuchungen der Folgevorgnge an Hngen und Flulufen durchgefhrt. Beide Systeme, Hnge sowohl wie Flulufe, haben unterschiedliche nderungsgrenzwerte: Hnge verndern sich durch Auswaschung, Abrutschen und Gesteinsverschiebung; Flulufe werden durch den Transport von Gerlle und durch rtliche nderungen des Flubettes beeinflut. Bei Regengssen ber 50 mm, wobei Intensittswerte von 0.5 mm pro Minute erreicht wurden, traten in Teegrten begrenzte Landberflutungen und Hangauswaschungen auf. Bei Niederschlagsmengen von 130-150 mm innerhalb von 24 Stunden oder bei ununterbrochenem 3-Tages Regen mit 180 bis 200 mm Gesamtmenge gab es Erdbewegung an der Oberflche und an steilen Hngen, Steinschlag. nderungen im Gesteinsflu entlang des gesamten Hangprofils ereigneten sich nur einmal in 30 Jahren. Flsse 1. und 2. Ordnung fhren whrend der normalen, jhrlichen Flutperiode Gerlle bis zu 30 cm Durchmesser; Niederschlge von 500-1000 mm, andererseits, verursachen gravierende Vernderungen in der Flulaufgeometrie. Anschwemmungen von losem Material werden dagegen whrend jeder berflutung beeinflut. Auch ohne extreme Niederschlge verndert sich in den Haupttlern der Tista und Rangit Flsse durch Abholzung oder Erdrutsche die natrliche Hangneigung von Jahr zu Jahr. Auergewhnliche Vorgnge, wie die im Jahre 1968, bringen auf regionaler Ebene gleichzeitige Strungen des Gleichgewichts sowohl der Hnge wie der Flulufe. Das Darjeeling Himalaya Gebiet kann als gutes Beispiel dienen, ein Gebiet zu beschreiben, in dem Hang- und Flulaufsysteme schnell nderungsgrenzwerte erreichen. Solche Bedingungen sind typisch fr das Monsunklima sowie bei intensiven Landhebung und bei Abholzung.
10.2307/3673583|This study reflects the author's concerns for a group of women who live in the Karakoram Himalaya in the Northern Areas of Pakistan. It focuses on Hopar, a group of five settlements in Nagyr, which is a district of Gilgit Agency. Hopar is situated on an extensive terrace, or ablation valley, between the morainic ridge of the Bualtar glacier and steep slopes of the Minapin Range. It is an arid mountain environment. The morainic ridge overlooking the glacier is prone to landslides. In spite of the difficulties and problems created by the location, climate, and physical features, it was found that the villagers have, by their ingenuity and hard work, formed a well-balanced society whose activities are largely organized on the basis of gender. Broadly, the women of Hopar are concerned with crop-growing and the men are the livestock herders. It is suggested that the kinds of awareness developed in this paper could enable institutions of government and development agencies to exercise their roles with less damaging social and environmental consequences. Currently much insensitive "development" serves to reduce the role of women, thereby putting the integrity of a mountain society unnecessarily at risk. /// Cette tude reflte l'intrt que l'auteur porte sur un groupe de femmes vivant dans le Karakoram, une rgion himalayenne du Pakistan septentrional. L'tude se concentre sur Hopar, un groupe de cinq petits villages dans le Nagyr, un district de l'agence Gilgit. Hopar est situ sur une terrace tendue, ou valle d'ablation, entre l'arte morainique du glacier Bualtar et les fortes pentes de la chane Minapin. Cette zone constitue un environnement montagnard aride. L'arte morainique qui domine le glacier est sujette  des glissements de terrain. L'tude a montr qu'en dpit des difficults et des problmes poss par le lieu gographique, le climat et les caractristiques du milieu physique, les habitants ont, grce  leur ingniosit et leur capacit de travail, cr une socit bien quilibre dont les activits sont en grande partie organises selon le sexe. En gnral, les femmes s'occupent de la culture et les hommes de l'levage. Cet article suggre que les connaissances acquises au cours de l'tude pourraient aider les organismes gouvernementaux et les agences de dveloppement  jouer leur rle tout en rduisant les prsent, les efforts de "dveloppement" tendent  rduire le rle des femmes, menaant sans raison valable l'intgrit de cette socit montagnarde. /// In dieser Studie spiegeln sich die Sorgen des Authors um eine Frauengruppe wider, die im Karakorum Himalaya, nrdliches Pakistan, lebt. Der Ort ist Hopar, eine Ansammlung von 5 Siedlungen in Nagyr, das ein Bezirk von Gilgit Agency ist. Hopar liegt auf einer weitausgedehnten Terrasse, in einem durch Erosion geformten Tal, das zwischen dem Mornenrcken des Bualtar Gletschers und steilen Hngen der Minapin Kette liegt. Dies ist eine nicht besonders fruchtbare Gebirgsumwelt. Der Mornenrcken, der den Gletscher berschaut, neigt zu Erdrutschen. Trotz der Schwierigkeiten und Probleme, die sich aus der Lage, dem Klima und dem Umweltcharakter ergeben, findet man, da die Dorfbewohner durch ihren Einfallsreichtum und harte Arbeit eine harmonische Gemeinschaft bilden, deren Aktivitten grtenteils nach Geschlecht organisiert sind. Im allgemeinen kmmern sich die Frauen von Hopar um den Ackerbau und die Mnner um die Viehzucht. Es wird gehofft, da die Erkenntnisse, die aus dieser Studie folgen, es Regierungen und Entwicklungsbehrden ermglichen, ihre Aufgaben ohne nachteilige soziale und Umweltfolgen zu erfllen. Derzeit ist "intensive Entwicklung" hauptschlich dazu geeignet, die Stellung der Frau zu schwchen und dadurch unntig die Integritt einer Bergemeinschaft zu gefhrden.
mounresedeve.30.4.365|Forest management plans in Bhutan are implemented under the premise that species diversity is not significantly altered while providing forest products and services to local communities. This study examines the impact on local communities of government-management logging operations in national forests near their villages and the impact of the single-tree selection system on species diversity in 4 forest management units with mixed conifer forests in western Bhutan. Household interviews were conducted using semistructured questionnaires to assess the availability of forest products and the accessibility of forests for grazing and identifying constraints and opportunities. Moreover, singletree selection forests and old-growth uncut forests were sampled for comparing species diversity. Forest product availability and accessibility of forests to rural communities for grazing varies between forest management units (FMUs). Currently, at Chamgang and Gidakom FMUs, lesser quantities of timber and other wood products such as beams, planks, scaffoldings, poles, fuelwood, and leaf litter were available to rural communities compared with 10 years before the implementation of logging operations. At Chamgang and Gidakom FMUs, logging followed by plantation and fencing and retention of coarse woody debris constituted barriers to cattle herding. Notwithstanding, forest roads provided access to forest resources. The government-managed national forests, however, provide limited accessibility to rural communities for extracting timber and other wood products. The single-tree selection system did not alter species composition and was not detrimental to forest species diversity in national forests.
10.2307/3673341|A review of research completed in several disciplines, including ecology and anthropology, in the Spanish Pyrenees shows that the traditional society formed an open system, with wide cultural and economic interactions with the surrounding lowlands. The management of three main resources, forests, grain crops, and meadows, and their space allocation in the mountain landscape show that rural life depended upon a close interrelationship of cereal production and sheep breeding and was strongly controlled by local environmental features. The traditional structure has been disrupted by the impact of urban culture; its preservation must be considered as one of the main challenges in present-day management issues of temperate mountain regions. /// Une revue des travaux de recherche excuts dans le cadre de plusieurs disciplines, y compris l'cologie et l'anthropologie, montre que la socit traditionnelle des Pyrnes espagnoles fonctionne comme un systme ouvert ayant d'importantes interactions avec les plaines avoisinantes. L'exploitation des trois ressources principales, forts, culture de crales, et prairies, ainsi que la distribution parmi elles de l'espace disponible, montrent que l'existence rurale s'appuie sur une relation troite entre la production de crales et l'levage ovin, et qu'elle est fortement influence par les caractristiques locales de l'environnement. La structure traditionnelle a t affecte par l'impact de la culture urbaine et sa sauvegarde doit tre considre comme un objectif majeur dans le contexte de l'exploitation prsente des rgions montagneuses tempres. /// Eine bersicht der Forschung in mehreren Wissenschaftszweigen, einschlielich kologie und Anthropologie zeigt, da in den spanischen Pyrenen die traditionelle Gesellschaftsstruktur ein offenes System von starker kultureller und konomischer Verflechtung mit den umliegenden Tieflanden war. Das Management der drei Hauptressourcen: Wlder, Getreideanbau und Wiesenflchen und deren Flchenverteilung im Bergland zeigt, da geprgt von rtlichen Umweltbesonderheiten, lndliches Leben stark von einer engen Wechselbeziehung zwischen Getreideproduktion und Schafzucht abhing. Einwirkungen der stdtischen Kultur haben traditionelle Gesellschaftsformen stark gestrt, und ihre Erhaltung sollte mit ein Hauptanliegen des heutigen Managements sein, wenn es um die Verwaltung von Berggebieten in der gemigten Zone geht.
10.2307/3673645|The sustainability of Himalayan fir (Abies spectabilis) timber production in Nepalese village forests was analyzed by focusing on the availability of fir timber at village level. The availability was determined by the natural processes of change and by current utilization and management practices. Analysis of the natural processes of change started with an assessment of the internal dynamics of the fir forest. It revealed that regeneration was inhibited by the fir litter and this resulted in even-aged patches. Furthermore, large-scale rare destructive events were shown to have an important role in synchronizing regeneration. A combination of these natural processes results in periodic changes whereby a phase dominated by mature forest without regeneration is followed by complete destruction and fir regeneration. Thus, under natural conditions the flow of fir timber is not sustainable during all phases of this cycle. This natural unsustainability is increased by several forest utilization practices: the oldest firs are selectively logged for shingle production; the young firs are harvested for pole production; fir regeneration is prevented by the accumulation of the litter layer, by grazing, and/or by the lopping of rhododendrons for fuelwood. All these practices, by their impact on fir regeneration, contribute to a decrease of the already naturally restricted possibilities for a sustainable flow of timber from the forest to the village society. To improve this sustainability alternative management options (based on ecological aspects only) have been proposed. /// La stabilit de la production de bois de sapin himalayien (Abies spectabilis) dans les forts npalaises a t tudie en examinant la disponibilit au niveau des villages, dtermine par les processus naturels de changement et par les pratiques actuelles d'exploitation et de gestion. L'analyse des processus naturels de changement a commenc par une tude de la dynamique interne de la fort de sapin. Celle-ci a montr que la rgnration tait inhibe par les dbris et produisait des parcelles dont l'ge 'tait uniforme. De plus, de rares vnements destructifs  grande chelle ont jou un rle important dans la synchronisation de la rgnration. La combinaison des processus naturels a engendr des changements priodiques par lesquels une phase domine par la fort de haute futaie sans rgnration est suivie d'une destruction complte et d'une rgnration de la fort de sapins. Donc, dans les conditions normales, le niveau de production de bois de sapin n'est pas stable pendant toutes les phases du cycle. Ce manque naturel de stabilit est renforc par certains modes d'exploitation de la fort: les vieux sapins sont abattus d'une manire slective pour la production de bardeaux et les jeunes sapins pour la production de poteaux; la regnration est inhibe par l'accumulation de dbris, par le pturage et/ou par la coupe de rhododendrons pour le bois de chauffage. En vertu de leur impact sur la rgnration de la fort de sapins, toutes ces pratiques contribuent au dclin du potentiel de production soutenue de bois de sapin, dj limit par les facteurs naturels. D'autres options de gestion, uniquements bases sur les aspects cologiques, ont t proposes de manire  augmenter la stabilit de la production. /// Die himalayische Fichtenholzproduktion (Abies spectabilis) auf nepalesischen Dorfwaldflchen wird untersucht, wobei die Verfgbarkeit des Fichtenholzes fr die Dorfbewohner im Mittelpunkt steht. Sie wird durch natrliche Vernderungsprozesse und derzeitige Nutzungs- und Managementmethoden bestimmt. Eine Analyse der natrlichen Vernderungen begann mit der Beurteilung der internen Dynamik des Fichtenwaldes. Es ergab sich, da die Regeneration durch umherliegende Fichtenspreu gehindert wurde, was wiederum zu Stellen mit gleichaltrigem Baumwuchs fhrte. Auerdem zeigte sich, da groflchige, destruktive Ereignisse eine wichtige Rolle im Regenerationszyklus spielen. Eine Kombination dieser natrlichen Vorgnge hat periodische Vernderungen zur Folge, wobei auf eine Phase alten Baumbestandes ohne Regeneration eine vollkommene Destruktion und erst danach eine Regeneration des Baumbestandes folgt. Daraus ergibt sich, da der Fichtenholzertrag unter natrlichen Bedingungen nicht whrend aller Phasen dieses Kreislaufs aufrechterhalten werden kann. Diese natrliche Ertragsbegrenzung wird noch durch verschiedene Waldnutzungsmethoden verstrkt: Die ltesten Bume werden fr die Dachschindelproduktion ausgesucht, und die jungen Bume werden fr die Pfahlherstellung gefllt. Die Baumregeneration wird auerdem durch eine Spreuschicht, durch das Weiden und/oder durch das Abschlagen des Rhododendrons zwecks Feuerholzgewinnung verhindert. Alle diese Tatsachen tragen durch ihre Einwirkungen auf die Fichtenregeneration dazu bei, die fr die Dorfgemeinschaft bereits natrlich begrenzten Mglichkeiten der Holzbeschaffung weiterhin zu schmlern. Alternative Managementmglichkeiten unter Bercksichtigung rein kologischer Aspekte, die den Holzertrag verbessern knnten, werden vorgeschlagen.
mounresedeve.33.3.215|Scientists and policymakers increasingly recognize the critical dependence of urban and agricultural economies and livelihoods on mountain systems. Mountain systems feed critical watersheds, provide diverse commodities, enable recreation, and host competing settlement uses that also affect downstream water quality and quantity in aquifers, lakes, and streams. Many scientists from diverse disciplines are focused on the problem of how to govern common water systems that are subject to diverseoften competingproperty regimes, organizational/agency interests, and national, local, state, and indigenous jurisdictions. Given the political obstacles to creation of nested organizational authorities, the current literature suggests that organizational actors may collaborate based on water's shared importance and build voluntary systems of networked governance that produce beneficial institutional relations and political regimes. Barriers to this ideal of collaboration include competing legal rights, identity politics, and state or national boundaries at larger scales. A key question arises: How can staff of relevant agencies, who are concerned about the threats to environmental goods, work toward cooperative governance when certain barriers impede collaboration between their organizations? We explore this question based on the case example of a complex aquifer and related river system in northern Idaho and eastern Washington that are transected by competing state, tribal, and local jurisdictions and are impacted by historic mining pollution, deforestation, and recent amenity-driven urbanization. Exploratory interviews with agency actors, document analysis, and observation of collaborative meetings confirm that individual employees can be key actors in developing transboundary governance, despite legal and organizational impediments to collaboration between their organizations. The case supports recent literature on scalar politics that shifts the emphasis away from ideal structures and focuses instead on better understanding of the ways in which creative actors may build collaborative institutions within existing structures.
10.2307/3673461|The macro-economic and environmental features of Bhutan are highly unusual, and have important implications for technology choice in that country. The labour intensive technologies appropriate for most developing economies are, in fact, inappropriate for Bhutan. Labour saving technologies which are economical in their use of capital and relatively intensive in their use of land, and which help generate government revenue, are best suited to Bhutan's needs. A sector-by-sector examination of the Bhutanese economy considers Bhutan's problems and prospects in the field of technology choice. /// Les structures macro-conomiques et cologiques du Bhoutan sont trs diffrentes de celles des autres pays en voie de dveloppement; ces diffrences ont une norme importance quant au choix de technologies appropries  ce pays. Les technologies appropries  la plupart des pays du tiers monde, c'est--dire celles qui emploient intensivement la main d'oeuvre, sont inappropries au Bhoutan. Celles qui emploient peu de main d'oeuvre, qui profitent de la riche base de ressources naturelles bhoutanaise, et qui garantissent une augmentation des revenus du gouvernement conviennent mieux aux besoins de ce pays. Cet article discute des obstacles auxquels le Bhoutan doit faire face et aussi des possibilits qui lui sont offertes dans les secteurs conomiques majeurs. /// Die gesamtwirtschaftlichen und kologischen Strukturen Bhutans sind sehr ungewhnlich; diese strukturellen Unterschiede im Vergleich mit anderen Entwicklungslndern sind wichtig bei der Technologiewahl in dem Land. Die normale angemessene Technologie, d.h. arbeitsintensive Technologie, passt nicht zu Bhutan. Arbeitssparende Technologien, die landintensiv sind, und die bei der Vergrsserung des Staatseinkommens helfen knnen, sind fr Bhutan angemessen. ber die Probleme und die Gelegenheiten der Technologiewahl in jedem der grossen Sektoren der bhutanischen Wirtschaft wird diskutiert.
10.2307/3673510|This paper introduces the New Guinea highland environment, settlement history, and agriculture. The conditions conducive to frost formation in the high valleys are then analysed, both in regard to the meteorological environment, and to the terrain and ground cover. Due to the normal presence of convectional conditions, the highlands remain free of frost most of the time up to altitudes above those in other tropical regions. From time to time, however, subsidence becomes established, creating the conditions for both drought and frost. There follows a brief review of the El Nio/Southern Oscillation phenomenon, as a major force in creating the conditions for periodic severe frost of wide extent in the mountains. Finally, the hazards of frost and drought are put in perspective with that of excessive rain. /// Cet article prsente l'environnement, l'historique du peuplement et l'agriculture des hautes terres de la Nouvelle-Guine. Il analyse ensuite les conditions favorisant l'apparition de la gele dans les hautes valles, en rapport avec l'environnement mtorologique, et aussi avec le terrain et la couverture vgtale. A cause de la prsence normale de conditions de convection, les hautes terres ne sont en gnral pas affectes par la gele, et ceci jusqu' des altitudes suprieures  celles d'autres rgions tropicales. Nanmoins, il arrive que la subsidence s'tablisse, crant des conditions propices  la scheresse aussi bien qu' la gele. L'article explique brivement le phnomne de El Nio/Oscillation Sud qui joue un rle primordial dans la cration des conditions menant  de fortes geles priodiques affectant une grande partie des montagnes. Finalement, les prils de la gele et de la scheresse sont compars  ceux des pluies trop abondantes. /// Diese Studie ist eine Einfhrung in die Umwelt des Hochlandes von Neu-Guinea, sowie in seine Siedlungsgeschichte und Landwirtschaft. Die Bedingungen, die Frost in den Hochtlern frdern, werden bezglich der meteorologischen Verhltnisse, des Gelndes und des Bewuchses untersucht. Wegen natrlich vorhandener Mglichkeiten zur Erwrmung, bleiben die Hochlnder die meiste Zeit ber frostfrei, selbst in Hhen oberhalb derer von anderen tropischen Gebieten. Nur gelegentlich bilden sich Senken, die Vorraussetzungen fr Trockenheit und Frost schaffen. Es folgt eine kurze Beschreibung des El Nio/Southern Oscillation Phnomens, das zeitlich begrenzten strengen Frost in weiten Berggebieten begnstigt. Abschlieend werden die Gefahren der Drre und Klte im Vergleich mit denen von starkem Regenfall abgewogen.
3674438|Since the extremely dry and hot summer of 2003, the question of what effects ongoing climate change will have on hydropower in Switzerland-mainly on the amount of electricity that will be produced, but also on the safety of hydropower plants-has often arisen. Even though predictions of the potential impacts of climate change on hydropower generation are characterized by uncertainty, it can be assumed that within the next 25 to 30 years no significant adaptation of the infrastructure for hydropower generation will be urgently needed in Switzerland. Therefore, there are no major institutional challenges to be faced in this context. On the other hand, extending hydropower generation units to further reduce the emission of greenhouse gases will constitute a challenge to existing institutional arrangements, in Switzerland and elsewhere. In the case of Switzerland, interest in protecting waterways and landscapes will conflict with future efforts to mitigate climate change. Current legislation is based on sectoral considerations and not on a holistic vision of sustainable development. Thus this framework has some shortcomings in terms of constructive negotiation of processes leading towards long-term sustainable development.
mounresedeve.32.3.368|This paper synthesizes research findings on contemporary mountain pastoralism in Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, based on a longer review characterizing mountain agropastoralism in Central Asia. We focus here on the principal issues that have been emphasized over the past two decades in policy, programs, and projects regarding pastoralism in Central Asia's mountains. We conclude that this emphasis has largely been driven by two unproven orthodoxies about
10.2307/3673065|This paper describes the relationships between temperature inversions during winter months and vegetation distribution in Xishuangbanna, southwestern Yunnan Province. Temperature inversions are differentiated according to scale. Thus, macro-inversions of several hundred metres, especially on north-facing slopes, produce a pronounced inversion of "normal" mountain vegetational belts. Micro-inversions, restricted to 40 cm above the ground surface, cause significant damage to agricultural plants. Climatic and vegetation data are compared and the winter synoptic climatology of South China and Yunnan is discussed. /// Cet article dcrit les relations entre les inversions de temprature pendant les mois d'hiver et la rpartition de la vgtation du Xishuangbanna, dans la province du Yunnan du sud-ouest. Les inversions de temprature sont diffrenties par leur chelle. Ainsi, des macro-inversions de plusieurs centaines de mtres, en particulier sur les pentes exposes au nord, produisent une inversion marques des tages "normaux" de la vgtation montagnarde. Les micro-inversions, de moins de 40 cm au-dessus de la surface du sol, peuvent srieusement endommager les rcoltes. Une comparaison des donnes de climat et de vgtation est effectue, suivie d'une discussion de la climatologie synoptique hivernale de la Chine mriodionale et du Yunnan. /// Dieser Artikel beschreibt die Beziehung zwischen Temperaturinversionen whrend der Wintermonate und Vegetationsverteilung in Xishuangbanna, im Sdwesten der Provinz Yunnan. Temperaturinversionen werden nach Grssenordnung unterschieden. So erzeugen Makroinversionen von mehreren hundert Metern, besonders an Nordhngen, eine deutliche Inversion "normaler" Gebirgsvegetationsgrtel. Mikroinversionen, auf 40 cm ber Bodenoberflche beschrnkt, verursachen bedeutende Schden an landwirtschaflichen Nutzpflanzen. Klima- und Vegetationsdaten werden verglichen, und die Klimatologie von Sdchina und Yunnan im Winter wird errtert.
10.2307/3673063|The vegetation on the eastern side of the island of Honshu, Japan, differs greatly from that on the Sea of Japan side where the prevailing northwest winds in winter bring much heavier snowfall. The vegetation on Mount Iide on the windward side was studied in detail. The Fagus crenata forest, the climatic climax forest of the montane belt, is restricted to level areas, moderate slopes, and wide ridges. Steep slopes facing southeast on the leeside are exposed to frequent avalanches and are not forested; scrub vegetation which can withstand avalanching is characteristic. The montane vegetation of Mount Iide can be differentiated into several plant communities related to topography. In the subalpine area there are no coniferous forests except for a few small stands of Tsuga diversifolia. Above the upper limit of the Fagus crenata forest, deciduous broadleaf scrubs and including Acer tsconoskii, Sorbus commixta, Quercus mongolica var. undulatifolia, and Sasa kurilensis scrub; several types of snow-patch meadows are common in nivation hollows. In Japan the subalpine belt with scrub vegetation with no conspicuous coniferous forest has been called the "pseudo-subalpine zone." /// La vgtation du ct oriental de l'le de Honshu au Japon, est trs diffrente de celle du ct de la Mer du Japon o. en hiver, les vents dominants du nord-ouest engendrent des chutes de neige plus abondantes. La vgtation du mont Iide sur le ct au vent est tudie en dtail: La fort de Fagus crenata, la fort de formation climatique de l'tage "montagnard," se limite  des zones plates,  des pentes modres, et  des larges crtes. Les fortes pentes face au sud-est et sous le vent sont sujettes aux avalanches et dpourvues de fort; une vgtation d'arbustes capable de rsister aux avalanches y est typique. La vgtation "montagnarde" du mont Iide peut tre divise en plusieurs familles vgtales lies  la topographie. La zone subalpine ne contient pas de fort de conifres  part quelques petites enclaves de Tsuga diversifolia. Au-dessus de la limite suprieure de la fort de Fagus crenata, les arbustes  larges feuilles caduques prdominent, dont l'Acer tsconoskii, Sorbus commixta, le Quercus mongolica var. undulatifolia, et le Sasa kurilensis; on retrouve plusieurs types de prairies dans le creux de nivation. Au Japon, l'tage subalpin  vgtation arbustive sans apparente fort est appel "zone pseudosubalpine." /// Die Vegetation auf der stlichen Seite der Insel Honshu, Japan, unterscheidet sich sehr von der dem japanischen Meer zugewandten Seite, wo die vorherrschenden Nordwestwinde im Winter strkere Schneeflle verursachen. Die Vegetation des Berges Iide auf der dem Wind zugekehrten Seite wurde in Einzelheiten untersucht. Den Fagus crenata Wald, der im Gebirgsgrtel normalerweise am strksten ausgeprgt ist, gibt es hier nur auf ebenen Flchen, in hgeligem Gelnde und auf breiten Kmmen. Steile Sdosthnge auf der Leeseite sind unbewaldet und hufig Lawinen ausgesetzt; Buschvegetation, die den Lawinen standhalten kann, ist typisch. Die Vegetation des Iide kann dem Gelnde ensprechend in verschiedene Pflanzengruppen unterteilt werden. In der subalpinen Region gibt es keine Nadelwlder, auer ein paar kleinen Tsuga diversifolia Bestnden. Oberhalb der Fagus crenata Waldgrenze berwiegen breitblttrige Laubbume wie z.B. Acer tsconoskii, Sorbus commixta, Quercus mongolica oder undulatifolia und Sasa kurilensis Bsche; in Mulden mit Schnee kommen auf schneefreien Flchen, Wiesen verschiedener Art vor. Man nennt den subalpinen Grtel mit Buschvegetation ohne ausgeprgte Nadelwlder in Japan auch die "pseudo- subalpine Zone."
10.2307/3673655|The ecology of human, animal, and plant mutualism is examined as it occurs in an Andean herding system. Highly favored forage species, especially species of the genus Chenopodium, exist in unusually high concentrations in corrals. Herd animals transport these forage species to pastoral campsites where the plants thrive in the organic corral soils. This creates a mutually beneficial relationship where certain plant species become camp followers of pastoral campsites. The mutualism involving Chenopodium may serve as a model for the domestication of quinua (C. quinoa) in the Andes. Prehistoric pastoralism may have led to camp following by wild Chenopodium that in turn led to the domestication of this plant. The dynamic relationship between herd animals and forage species has further implications for understanding the role of pastoralism in forming present-day Andean landscapes as well as future changes Andean environments may experience. The ability of modern herding to alter plant communities indicates the fragile nature of montane environments. /// L'ecologie du mutualisme entre la population, les animaux et les plantes est examine dans le cadre d'un systme d'levage andin. Les espces fourragres prfres, en particulier les espces du genre Chnopodium, sont prsentes dans les corrals  des concentrations exceptionnelles. Les animaux grgaires amnent ces espces fourragres aux sites de pturage o les plantes poussent facilement dans les sols organiques de corral. Ceci cre une relation mutuellement profitable, par laquelle certaines espces vgtales suivent les dplacements des sites de pturage. Le mutualisme mettant en jeu le Chnopodium peut servir de modle pour la domestication du quinoa (C. quinoa) dans les Andes. Il est possible que le pastoralisme prhistorique ait fait en sorte que le Chnopodium sauvage suive les dplacements des sites de pturage, menant ainsi  la domestication de cette plante. La relation dynamique entre les animaux grgaires et les espces fourragres a galement des implications en ce qui concerne la comprhension du rle du pastoralisme dans la formation des paysages andins actuels et l'volution future des environnements andins. Le pouvoir que possde l'levage moderne d'altrer les communauts vgtales est un signe de la fragilite des environnements montagnards. /// Die kologie des Mutualismus zwischen Mensch, Tier und Pflanzen, wird am Beispiel der andischen Viehhaltung untersucht. Das begehrteste Viehfutter, besonders Arten der Chenopodium Familie, wchst in Korlen ganz besonders gut. Herdentiere verbreiten dann diese Arten zu anderen Weidepltzen, wo die Pflanzen auf den organischen Bden bestens gedeihen. Daraus entsteht eine ntzliche Wechselbeziehung, in der bestimmte Pflanzenarten auf natrliche Weise an alle Weidepltze verpflanzt werden. Der Mutualismus, der Chenopodium einbezieht, kann als Modell fr die Kultivierung von quinua (C. quinoa) in den Anden dienen. Prhistorische Weidewirtschaft knnte zur Verbreitung des wilden Chenopodium gefhrt haben, was dann zur Kultivierung dieser Pflanze fhrte. Die dynamische Wechselbeziehung zwischen Herdentieren und Viehfutterarten hat auerdem Konsequenzen beim Verstndnis der Weidewirtschaft, bei der Entstehung des heutigen Landschaftsbildes der Anden, sowie bei zuknftigen Umweltnderungen in den Anden. Die Mglichkeit, da neue Viehhaltungsmethoden ganze Pflanzengruppen verndern knnen, zeigt, wie empfindlich die gebirgige Umwelt auf nderungen reagiert.
10.2307/3673121|Following the trend of the three preceding papers an attempt is made here to outline a broad programme of applied research for the Andes. Each of the three Andean subregions, Northern, Central, and Southern, has unique and varied characteristics and identifiable man-environment problems which require study. In the humid Northern Andes research should focus on interdisciplinary study and management of catchment areas and the special problems of shifting cultivation over a wide range of elevations. Recommendations for the high plateau region of the Central Andes are that research should be directed toward problems of human exploitation of marked altitudinal gradients involving movement and trade, and the more permanent movement of human migration with its biosocial and ecological consequences. In the less densely populated and relatively undisturbed Southern Andes, research should be principally concerned with the impacts of mining, tourism, and other human activities on the ecosystem. These research problems should be viewed as priorities only. In this way they would become the starting points for an integrated Man and the Biosphere Programme in the Andes. Inventory, survey, and mapping of natural resources should be carried out to provide vital information for planners and decision makers of the Andean region and, at the same time, basic data for research. Much information is already available, but very often it derives from assessment of a single resource at one point in time. Therefore, survey and mapping programmes should include longer-term assessment of larger areas. Subjects for inventory include: vegetation, land use, communications and transport, relief, structural geology, soils, hydrology, seasonal snow and glacier distribution, natural hazards, and special environmental features. Remote sensing is one appropriate means for natural resources survey. In addition to inventory, basic information is needed on the structure, function, and adaptive processes operating in a variety of Andean ecosystems. Information on the diversity of plant and animal species is frequently unavailable, and little work has been done on primary productivity. Important data can also be provided by surveys of the distribution, composition, and characteristics of human populations throughout the region. While numerous studies of small populations have been undertaken to determine their health and well-being, the information is incomplete for most Andean areas. /// Suivant la direction prise par les trois communications prcdentes, nous allons tracer ici les grandes lignes d'un vaste programme de recherche applique couvrant la rgion des Andes. Chacune des sous-rgions, au Nord, au Centre, et au Sud, prsente des particularits uniques et varies, ainsi que des problmes distincts d'interaction entre l'Homme et son environnement qui mritent d'tre tudis. La recherche concernant les Andes du Nord, humides, devrait porter sur l'tude interdisciplinaire et la gestion des zones de captation, ainsi que sur les problmes particuliers de la culture en volution sur une gamme tendue d'altitudes. Pour la rgion de hauts plateaux des Andes Centrales, il est recommand que la recherche soit oriente vers les problmes d'exploitation humaine des gradients altitudinaires marqus qui mettent en jeu le dplacement et le commerce, ainsi que le dplacement plus permanent cr par les migrations humaines, avec toutes leurs consquences biosociales et conomiques. Dans les Andes du Sud,  moindre densit dmographique et relativement non-perturbes, la recherche devrait principalement s'intresser  l'impact de l'exploitation minire, du tourisme, et d'autres activits humaines sur l'cosystme. Ces problmes pour la recherche ne doivent tre considrs qu'en tant que priorits. De cette manire, ils formeraient les points de dpart d'un Programme intgr sur l'Homme et la Biosphre dans les Andes. L'inventaire des ressources naturelles, les relevs de terrain et la cartographie doivent tre entrepris afin de procurer des informations vitales pour les planificateurs et les administrateurs de la rgion des Andes, et aussi des donnes de base pour la recherche. Des informations substantielles sont dj disponibles, mais bien souvent elles sont drives de l'valuation d'une ressource donne  une certaine priode. Donc, les programmes de relevs de terrain et de cartographie doivent comporter une valuation  long terme des zones les plus tendues. L'inventaire comporte les lments suivants: vgtation, utilisation des terres, communications et transports, relief, gologie structurelle, sols, hydrologie, rpartition saisonnire des neiges et glaciers, prils naturels, et particularits de l'environnement. La tldtection est un des moyens appropris pour effectuer le relev des ressources naturelles. En plus de l'inventaire, des informations de base sont ncessaires sur la structure, la fonction, et les processus d'adaptation qui entrent en jeu dans les cosystmes varis des Andes. Des informations sur les diverses espces vgtales et animales sont rarement disponibles, et peu de travail a t effectu sur la productivit primaire. Des donnes importantes peuvent aussi tre fournies par des relevs de la rpartition, composition, et caractristiques des populations humaines sur l'ensemble de la rgion. Bien qu'un nombre d'tudes de petites populations aient t effectues pour dterminer leur niveau de sant et de bien-tre, l'information est incomplte pour la plupart des zones andines. /// Es wird versucht, im Sinne von drei frher erschienenen Verffentlichungen, ein umfassendes Programm fr angewandte Forschung in den Anden zu entwerfen. Eine Untersuchung der spezifischen und unterschiedlichen Merkmale und der erkennbaren Mensch- Umwelt Probleme ist fr alle drei Gebiete erforderlich: Fr die nrdlichen, Zentral- und die sdlichen Anden. In den feuchten nrdlichen Anden sollte sich die Forschung auf interdisziplinre Studien und das Management von Wasserreservoiren konzentrieren, sowie auf die besonderen Probleme der wechselnden Landbestellung ber einen groen Hhenbereich. Fr das Gebiet der Hochebene der Zentralanden wird empfohlen, da sich die Forschung mit den Fragen der Ausbeutung von zugeteilten Bodenflchen in verschiedenen Hhen durch den Menschen unter Einbezug von Verkehr und Handel befat, sowie mit den sozialen und kologischen Konsequenzen einer dauerhaften Umsiedlung. In den dunner besiedelten und relativ unberhrten sdlichen Anden sollten hauptsachlich die Auswirkungen des Bergbaus, des Fremdenverkehrs und weiterer menschlicher Einflunahme auf die Umwelt konzentriert untersucht werden. Wenn diese Forschungsprobleme als vorrangig erkannt werden, knnen sie zum Ausgangspunkt fr integrierte Programme werden, die sich mit dem Menschen und der Biosphre in den Anden befassen. Wichtige Informationen fr Planer und Manager in den Andengebieten sollten sich aus der Bestandaufnahme, Vermessung und Kartographierung der Bodenschtze ergeben, die gleichzeitig als Ansatz fr weitere Untersuchungen dienen. Viele Angaben stehen bereits zur Verfgung, aber hufig wurden sie irgend wann einmal aus den Daten eines einzelnen Vorkommens abgeleitet. Deshalb sollten Vermessungs- und Kartographierungsstudien langfristigere Erfassung grerer Gebiete einschlieen. Eine Bestandaufnahme sollte Angaben ber: Vegetation, Landnutzung, Kommunikation und Transport, Relief, geologische Struktur, Bodenbeschaffenheit, Gewsserkunde, saisonbedingte Schnee- und Gletscherverteilung, Naturgefahren und besondere Umwelteigenschaften enthalten. Fernerkundung (remote sensing) wre ein geeignetes Mittel, die Bodenvorkommen abzuschtzen. Zustzlich werden grundlegende Daten ber Struktur, Funktion und Anpassungsprozesse, die in den verschiedenen kosystemen vor sich gehen, bentigt. Oft sind auch Angaben ber die Vielgestaltigkeit der Pflanzen- und Tierarten nicht vorhanden, und die primre Ertragsfhigkeit ist bisher kaum untersucht worden. /// Siguiendo la direccin de los tres ensayos precedentes, se intenta presentar aqu el plan general de un amplio programa de investigacin aplicada para los Andes. Cada una de las tres subregiones andinas - septentrional central y meridional - tienen caractersticas nicas y variadas y problemas identificables del hombre y su medio ambiente, que deben ser estudiados. En los hmedos Andes Septentrionales la investigacin debe enfocarse en el estudio interdisciplinario, la administracin de las zonas de captacin y en los problemas especiales de los cultivos migratorios a travs de una amplia diversidad de alturas. Para la regin de altas mesetas de los Anges Centrales, se recomienda que la investigacin se dirija hacia los problemas de explotacin humana de las zonas de marcado desnivel en las que existen movimiento y comercio adems de migraciones humanas ms permanentes con sus consecuencias biosociales y ecolgicas. En los Andes Meridionales, con poblacin menos densa y relativamente tranquila, la investigacin debe ocuparse, principalmente, del impacto de la minera, del turismo y de otras actividades humanas sobre el sistema ecolgico. Estos problemas de investigacin deben mirarse solamente como prioridades. De esta forma, podran convertirse en los puntos de partida para un Programa Coordinado sobre el Hombre y la Biosfera en los Andes. El inventario y la representacin grfica de los recursos naturales deben emprenderse para proveer informacin vital para los que planean y toman decisiones en la regin andina, y al mismo tiempo, proveer datos bsicos para las investigaciones. Existe ya mucha informacin disponible; pero frecuentemente proviene de las evaluaciones de solamente un recurso realizadas en un momento determinado. En consecuencia, un programa de inventario y represendtacin grfica de recursos debe incluir una evaluacin a largo plazo en las reas ms extensas. Las materias a inventariar incluyen: vegetacin, aprovechamiento de las tierras, comunicaciones y transporte, relieve, estructura geolgica, suelos, hidrologa, distribucin estacional de nieve y glaciares, peligros naturale10.2307/3673019|Landslides related to clearcut logging are a significant source of erosion in the mountains of northwestern California. Forest managers, therefore, frequently must include assessments of landslide risk in their land-use plans. A quantitative method is needed to predict such risk over large areas of rugged mountainous terrain. From air photographs, data were collected of conditions associated with a sample of logging-related slides and randomly located stable sites. Discriminant analyses were used to develop an equation that distinguishes the two types of sites - slide and non-slide - with 81 percent accuracy. The equation can be used to provide an assessment of risk for undisturbed terrain. Results showed that post-logging failure is most likely to occur near actively scouring streams, just below major convex breaks of slope and within drainage depressions. /// Les glissements de terre lis  la coupe  blanc constituent une source importante de l'rosion dans les montagnes de la Californie du nord-ouest. L'amnagement des terres doit donc frquemment inclure une valuation du danger de glissements. L'laboration d'une mthode quantitative s'impose si l'on veut aboutir  des prvisions de risques propres aux terrains raboteux. A l'aide de la photographie arienne, on a mesur les conditions associes  un chantillon de glissements se rapportant  l'exploitation forestire et aux sites stables situs  proximit et prlevs au hasard. On s'est servi d'analyses discriminantes pour dvelopper une quation qui distingue entre les deux sortes de sites avec une exactitude de 81%. On peut utiliser cette mthode pour mesurer le danger des terrains non affects. Selon les rsultats il existe une plus forte probabilit que les glissements qui suivent la coupe de bois se produiront prs des ruisseaux activement rosifs, juste au-dessous des grandes interruptions de pente convexes et  l'intrieur des dpressions de drainage. /// Erdrutsche, die mit Kahlschlag in Verbindung gebracht werden, sind eine wichtige Erosionsursache in den Bergen von Nordwestkalifornien. Aus diesem Grund mu in Landnutzungsstudien das Erdrutschrisiko bercksichtigt werden. Um dieses Risiko fr ein ausgedehntes, zerklftetes, gebirgiges Gelnde vorherzusagen, bedarf es einer quantitativen Methode. Durch Luftaufnahmen wurden Daten von Gebieten gesammelt, deren Erdrutsche mit Kahlschlag verbunden waren und ebenso Daten von willkrlich ausgewhlten, stabilen Gebieten. Aus dem Vergleich beider Daten wurde eine Gleichung abgeleitet, die es erlaubt, die beiden Gelndearten (stabil und instabil) mit 81% Genauigkeit zu unterscheiden. Diese Methode ist ntzlich, um das Erdrutschrisiko in unberhrtem Terrain abzuschtzen. Man findet Erdrutsche hufiger in der Nhe von auswaschenden Bchen, unterhalb konvex gewlbter Hnge und in Einzugsbereichen.
10.2307/3673446|Kenya's landscape is of great topographic diversity, rising from sea level to 5,199 m a.s.l. at the summit of Mount Kenya. Climate, geology, and relief have created different agro-climatic zones with highly variable soil developments. These are discussed with reference to the highland areas above 1,500 m. Of the fourteen major soil types, the dominant ones are Ferralsols, Acrisols, Phaeozems, and Nitosols. Deforestation, agricultural use of slopes, and overgrazing have significantly degraded most soils in the highlands, although they have good structure and relative resistance to soil erosion. A number of conservation measures were introduced in the late 1920s and again after 1972. Since 1980, the government has also heavily encouraged afforestation to control erosion. /// Le terrain du Kenya prsente une grande diversit topographique, s'levant du niveau de la mer jusqu' 5.199 m au sommet du mont Kenya. Le climat, la gologie et le relief ont cr diffrentes zones agro-climatiques avec des dveloppements de sol trs varis. Ceux-ci sont passs en revue en faisant rfrence aux rgions de hautes terres au-dessus de 1.500 m. Parmi les quatorze principaux types de sol prsents, les plus importants sont les Ferralsols, Acrisols, Phaeozems et Nitosols. La dforestation, l'utilisation des pentes pour l'agriculture, et le surpturage ont sensiblement dgrad la plupart des sols dans les hautes terres, bien que ces sols aient une bonne structure et relativement une bonne rsistance  l'rosion. Un certain nombre de mesures de conservation des sols ont t prises  la fin des annes 20 et de nouveau aprs 1972. De plus, le gouvernement a depuis 1980 fortement encourag l'afforestation pour lutter contre l'rosion. /// Kenya's Landschaft weist grosse topographische Variationen auf und erstreckt sich vom Meeresspiegel bis zum Gipfel des Mount Kenya (5199 m .M.). Klima, Geologie und Relief haben die Entwicklung verschiedener agro-klimatischer Zonen mit sehr unterschiedlicher Bodenbildung bewirkt. Im vorliegenden Artikel werden die Boden typen fr das Hochland oberhalb 1500 m .M. diskutiert. Von 14 Hauptbodentypen sind Ferralsol, Acrisol, Phaeozem und Nitosol die wichtigsten. Entwaldung, landwirtschaftliche Nutzung der Hnge und Ueberweidung haben die meisten Bden im Hochland degradiert, obwohl sie eine gute Struktur aufweisen und resistent gegen Erosion sind. Eine Reihe von Konservierungsmassnahmen wurde in den 1920er Jahren und wiederum nach 1972 eingefhrt. Seit 1980 wurde auch die Aufforstung durch die Regierung stark gefrdert.
25164067|In July 2002, MRD International Editorial Advisory Board Member Yuri P. Badenkov interviewed Vladimir Sabin, a member of the Telengit ethnic group who has held various public positions in the Kosh-Agach District of the Altai Republic and also served as the Republic's Minister of Ecology. Dr Badenkov first provides some background on current conditions in the Altai Mountains before posing direct questions to Vladimir Sabin. Ed.
10.2307/3674250|The bisses are a traditional mountain irrigation system constructed in response to periodic water deficit during the summer months in the Valais canton of Switzerland. The origins of the bisse system can be traced back to the 11th century AD, but may be as old as the Iron Age. The system expanded rapidly in the fifteenth century because of economic incentives to intensify meadow production. The design principles, governance, and organization and water management strategies changed little from this period up to the end of the <tex-math>$19^{{\rm th}}$</tex-math> century, despite periods of demographic and climatic change. Since this time the bisse system has been modernized and rationalized in line with wider structural changes to the economy and technological advancement. This paper describes some of the fundamental changes to design principles which have occurred to the bisse system during the <tex-math>$20^{{\rm th}}$</tex-math> century and assesses the likely impacts these may have on the long term sustainability of bisses. These findings are then discussed in relation to other mountain irrigation systems. The wider relevance of these findings to irrigation planners of the future is also discussed.
3674507|Traditionally, highlands in Turkey have been used mainly for transhumance, a pastoral system based on seasonal transfer of live-stock herds to and from uplands. The back-to-nature trend in the 1990s led to a rediscovery of the highlands by non-rural populations, a trend that is threatening to destroy both natural and cultural resources in mountains. The Ministry of Tourism, inspired by the concept of ecotourism, announced in the 1990s that it would open the highlands of the East Black Sea region to development, as this region's share of overall tourism income was negligible, and classified various highlands located there and in other regions as "tourism centers." Infrastructure investments which the Government tried to introduce in the highlands, combined with uncontrolled demand, has led to unplanned development with negative impacts. The factors that threaten both the highlands and transhumance in the Mediterranean, Central Anatolian and Black Sea regions can be divided into 4 categories: unplanned infrastructure investments, mass tourism-oriented development, construction of second homes, and traditional festivals that are losing their substance.
10.2307/3673017|The thesis of this paper is that the primary cause of deforestation in Nepal is the clearing of forests to increase land for agriculture and fodder, and not, as generally assumed, the need for fuelwood. To successfully counteract deforestation and the resulting ecological damage, it is necessary to consider the full range of needs of the rural people: food, fodder, building materials, and fuel. This paper first examines the history of government concerns in Nepal from the eighteenth century to 1950. At that time, the peasants were conditioned into a life of subsistence while deforestation enriched the elites, who ignored scientific farm and forestry management. The second part of the paper focuses on post-1950 government policies designed to conserve forest resources. It documents the influence of the global energy crisis on proposed solutions to Nepal's deforestation problem, especially in the area of international assistance. In 1957, the government attempted to alleviate the deforestation problem by nationalizing the forests. Because this policy ignored the customs and needs of the local rural people, it was not effective in meeting its objective. The 1976 Forest Plan recognizes in principle the need for local participation in forest conservation, but this concept has yet to be successfully implemented. /// La thse de cette tude est que la cause principale du dboisement au Npal est le dfrichement des forts en vue d'augmenter la superficie disponible pour l'agriculture et l'affouragement, et non pas, comme on pourrait le supposer, pour procurer du bois de chauffage. Pour contrecarrer efficacement le dboisement et la dtrioration cologique resultante, il faut considrer l'ensemble des besoins de la population rurale: alimentation, fourrage, matriaux de construction, et bois de chauffage. Cette tude examine d'abord l'historique de l'intervention du gouvernement au Npal, du dix-huitime sicle jusqu' 1950. Durant cette priode, les paysans taient vous  un rgime d'autoconsommation, alors que le dboisement enrichissait les classes suprieures qui ignoraient les mthodes scientifiques de gestion des terres arables et des forts. La seconde partie de l'tude concerne les mesures prises par le gouvernement aprs 1950, en vue de conserver le patrimoine forestier. Elle documente l'effet de la crise nergtique mondiale sur les solutions proposes au problme du deboisement au Npal, en particulier du point de vue de l'aide internationale. En 1957, le gouvernement a essay d'attaquer le problme en nationalisant les forts. Du fait que cette politique ignorait les coutumes et les besoins de la population rurale locale, les objectifs viss n'ont pas t atteints. Le Plan Forestier de 1976 reconnat en principe le besoin d'une participation locale  la conservation forestire, mais ce concept n'a pas encore t vraiement bien mis en pratique. /// Die Verffentlichung zeigt, dass in Nepal der Hauptgrund fr Rodungen die Vergrsserung der Nutzflche fr Landwirtschaft und Futtergewinnung ist, und nicht - wie allgemein angenommen wird - die Gewinnung von Brennstoff. Um Rodungen und den sich daraus ergebenden kologischen Schden erfolgreich entgegenzuwirken, muss man die Bedrfnisse der lndlichen Bevlkerung bercksichtigen: Nahrungs- und Futtermittel, Baumaterialien und Brennstoff. Die vorliegende Verffentlichung untersucht zuerst die geschichtlichen Hintergrnde in Nepal vom 18. Jahrhundert bis 1950. In dieser Zeitspanne waren die Bauern gewohnt, sich selbst zu versorgen, whrend die Oberschicht sich unter Missachtung wissenschaftlicher Gesichtspunkte von Farm- und Forstwirtschaft an der Abholzung bereicherte. Der zweite Teil der Verffentlichung beschftigt sich mit den Regierungsmassnahmen, die nach 1950 zur Erhaltung des Waldbestandes getroffen wurden. Der Einfluss der weltweiten Energiekrise und internationaler Hilfsmassnahmen auf mgliche Lsungen der Abholzung in Nepal werden aufgezeigt. Im Jahre 1957 versuchte die Regierung das Abholzungsproblem durch Verstaatlichung der Waldgebiete in den Griff zu bekommen. Diese Massnahme war unwirksam, da Bruche und Bedrfnisse der ortsansssigen Landbevlkerung ignoriert wurden. Die Waldplanung von 1976 erkennt grundstzlich die Notwendigkeit lokaler Mitwirkung bei der Erhaltung des Waldbestandes an, muss jedoch dieses Konzept noch erfolgreich durchsetzen.
3674078|In order to better understand the state of mountain agriculture, this article analyzes trends for 3 integral components of mountain farming systems-production of foodgrain crops, horticultural and cash crops, and livestock-using time series data published by national governments in 5 Hindu Kush-Himalayan (HKH) countries. Results show that, although the area under foodgrain crops has not increased, their yields have not declined as much as is often perceived. In some cases, crop productivity has increased. This evidently implies that mountain farmers are maintaining productivity of foodgrain crops for food security reasons. Results also suggest increasing trends in crop diversification toward horticultural and cash crops. Present trends in rapid expansion of areas under these crops indicate the growing importance of horticultural and cash crops in mountain farming systems and the household economy across the Hindu Kush-Himalaya. These trends have positive implications for the future development of mountain agriculture in terms of harnessing mountain niches and comparative advantages. In the livestock sector, there is a general decline in the cattle population across the HKH. Trends indicate the possibility of greater development of smallholder dairies with improved buffaloes in the Himalayan subtropics. The number of stall-fed buffaloes and goats is rising with increased use of external inputs and purchased feed, thus contributing positively to food security and nutrition in mountain households.
3674415|Many studies have focused on desertification processes in northern China in an attempt to understand desertification-related ecological problems. Desertification on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau has received little attention, even though desertification resulting from overgrazing is a widespread phenomenon there. This study focuses on the Gonghe Basin in the upper reaches of the Yellow River, located on the northeast Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, to shed light on desertification processes and associated environmental impacts during a 10-year period from 1987 to 1996. We first used 2 thematic mapper images to classify land cover for 2 summers (1987 and 1996) into 9 land cover types related to desertification. To assess the severity of desertification and to calculate the total soil carbon emission caused by desertification, we first defined severity by comparing land cover differences between 1987 and 1996 and then determined the differences in organic carbon content of the soil in grasslands during different stages of desertification between 1987 and 1996. The results showed that about <tex-math>$240\ km^{2}$</tex-math> of grasslands was lost to agricultural encroachment and about <tex-math>$190\ km^{2}$</tex-math> became sand-covered area between 1987 and 1996. During the same period, desertification affected <tex-math>$569.6\ km^{2}$</tex-math> of grasslands, with desertification assessed as very severe for 41.8%, severe for 15.1%, and moderate for 43.1% of the area. The results also show that carbon emissions from grassland deterioration caused by desertification amounted to <tex-math>$2.06\times 10^{6}\ tC$</tex-math> during the 10-year period, the average annual emission rate being <tex-math>$0.206\times 10^{6}\ tC$</tex-math>.
4540678|The present article examines the relationship between community forest management policies on the one hand, and income and unemployment in rural areas of Nepal on the other, by modeling the effect of forest management constraints on community forest use. Current government policy dictates the use of all community forestland for environmental conservation and limited timber production, and provides little scope for fodder and firewood production. Based on data from 259 households in 6 community forest user groups in 3 hilly districts (Dolakha, Kavre, and Nuwakot), the results show that the resources available from private lands and community forests under current policies are inadequate to fully utilize the family labor force of many rural households, and are insufficient to generate a bare subsistence income for the poorest households. The study shows that a policy change to community forest management using a more flexible agroforestry model could overcome rural unemployment problems and increase incomes while ensuring sustainable resource use from the forests.
4540675|Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) has become an important approach to restructuring social relations and governance and to promoting livelihoods and natural resource management practices in many parts of the world. Many people believe CBNRM has, in fact, successfully curtailed state-centered, top-down resource management practices and illegal extraction of resources. However, some people think the approach has supported neo-liberalization and de-concentration processes, and created another layer of elite dominance at the local level. In the context of emerging local institutions, the growing concerns of civil society, and weak national and local governance mechanisms in managing natural resources, it was essential to undertake a study to explore the strengths and weaknesses of community-based groups and networks in the management of natural resources, linking policies and local-level practices.
3674387|Turkey's Millennium Development Goals Report was published in 2005. In this report, Turkey's commitments and goals for achieving the MDGs are explicitly presented, and activities carried out since the year 2000 and their concrete results are also included. Turkey takes the MDGs as a national challenge. Providing primary education to the entire country is one of the country's Millennium Goals, since 1 million Turkish children of primary school age do not go to school. This figure contains a larger number of girls than boys, with a gender gap of 7%. More than 50% of these 1 million children between the ages of 6 and 14 live in the remote and mountainous eastern and southeastern provinces. For this reason, a campaign known as "Off to School, Girls!" ("Haydi Kizlar Okula!") was initiated in 2003 by the Ministry of National Education (MONE) with the support of UNICEF, in order to eliminate the enrolment gap between boys and girls and increase enrolment and the attendance rate of girls in these regions. Turkey carried out studies on primary education parallel to the campaign. These focused on increasing the number of school buildings and classrooms and the capacities of primary boarding schools, broadening the bussing education system, meeting the school requirements of poor students, and providing tools and materials for schools.
3674647|The success of participatory conservation projects depends greatly on the interest shown by the local population and on the strategies used to incorporate all stakeholders from the initial stages. In the highly diverse region of the tropical Andean pramos, threats to ecosystem integrity come mainly from agriculture and cattle grazing. Approaches to biodiversity conservation have often been based on top-down regulations imposed by government agencies. The implementation of an alternative approach, incorporating local communities in the design of action plans for conservation, was the central objective during the design phase of the Andean Pramo Project. These plans will be executed in a network of key pilot sites along the South American pramos. Here we report on experience at the two Venezuelan sites, where the design process involved a series of participatory workshops. The multidisciplinary nature of the facilitation team was essential in addressing the complex links between biodiversity conservation, land use strategies, and human welfare. The success of the approach was associated with the local population's great interest in and detailed knowledge of the ecosystem, as well as with our emphasis on empowerment through incorporating local knowledge and views as the basis for planning.
3674151|Watersheds are an attractive unit for development in mountainous landscapes. However, watershed analysis usually requires significantly more time, data and funds, and must include more actors. Also, results may be disappointing. Many off-site effects are very difficult to modify without major changes in land use systems. Frequently, these land use changes (eg more pasture or reforestation) pit soil conservation against rural employment. In other cases, sediment may not be originating on-farm, but primarily in other parts of the landscape, implying civil engineering rather than on-farm solutions. On the other hand, we have found that good maps and valid models are of growing interest to municipal authorities as they consider alternative development plans.
10.2307/3673288|In a Third World mountain area does the joint planning of wildlife conservation and rural development inevitably lead to conflicts? Can ecological research and mountain mapping contribute to integrated mountain development? In the Simen mountains of northern Ethiopia the preparation of a management plan for a national park and the surrounding rural area sought to resolve these questions. The main finding is that conservation without development will fail; therefore the focus must be more on the area surrounding the national park than on the park itself. Around the core conservation area a buffer zone must be developed as an ecologically stable and socially secure place for the rural inhabitants, so that they are not dependent on the natural resources of the park area intended for protection. /// La planification combine de la conservation de la faune et du dveloppement rural dans les rgrions montagneuses du tiers monde mne-t'elle invitablement  des conflits? Les recherches cologiques et les levs topographiques peuvent-ils contribuer  un dveloppement intgr des montagnes? Dans le massif du Semien en Ethiopie du nord, la prparation d'un plan d'exploitation pour un parc national et la rgion rurale avoisinante a tent de rsoudre ces problmes. La conclusion principale est que la conservation sans le dveloppement ne peut pas russir, et donc les efforts doivent plutt porter sur la rgion avoisinante que sur le parc national lui-mme. Une zone tampon doit tre dveloppe autour de la zone centrale de conservation, pour crr un environnement cologiquement stable et socialement sr pour les paysans, et assurer ainsi qu'ils ne dpendent pas des ressources naturelles du parc  protger. /// Fhrt in einem Drittweltland das gemeinsame Planen von Naturschutz und lndlicher Entwicklung zu unweigerlichen Konflikten? Kann kologisch orientierte Forschung und Gebirgskartierung zu einer integrierten Entwicklungsplanung beitragen? Im Fallbeispiel des Semien-Gebirges in Nordthiopien wurden die genannten Hilfsmittel fr die gemeinsame Planung eines Nationalparks und seines Umfelds eingesetzt (WLCO, 1986). Die Hauptfolgerung, dass Konservierung ohne Entwicklung versagen muss, fhrte zu einer schwerpunktsmssigen Ausrichtung des Planes auf lndliche Entwicklung. Eine Pufferzone um den Park herum muss in ein kologisch stabiles und sozial sicheres Gebiet verwandelt werden, damit seine Einwohner nicht auf die letzten natrlichen Ressourcen im Park angewiesen sind.
90001378|Vulnerability to and perceptions of climate change may be significantly affected by gender. However, in China, gender is rarely addressed in climate adaption or resource management strategies. This paper demonstrates the relevance of gender in responses to climate change in the mountainous province of Yunnan in southwest China. Based on surveys undertaken during a record-breaking drought, the paper explores how women and men in a village in Baoshan Prefecture differ in their perceptions of and responses to drought, and how the changing roles of women and men in the home and the community are influencing water management at the village level. Our results show that despite the increasingly active role of women in managing water during the drought, they are excluded from community-level decision-making about water. The paper argues that given the importance of gender differences in perceptions of and responses to drought, the lack of a gender perspective in Chinese policy may undermine efforts to support local resource management and climate adaptation.
3674127|Hydropower is a renewable source of energy of which ecological benefits include very low average greenhouse gas emissions. As a result of dams, however, more than 20% of all freshwater fish species are now considered threatened or endangered. Such negative ecological impacts are a focus of broad public concern in Alpine regions where hydropower production is most intense. The liberalization of electricity markets now provides an economic rationale for selling hydropower as green energy. This offers an opportunity to improve the ecological performance of hydropower plants. The lessons learned from this large-scale economic and ecological experiment in the industrialized world might be important in other mountain regions where hydropower production is being developed or needs ecological upgrading. As a step in this direction, the present paper gives an overview of recent developments in Europe concerned with the ecolabeling of hydropower. Different initiatives for green hydropower in liberalized electricity markets are discussed, followed by analysis of the shortcomings of simplistic ecolabels. Finally, a new method for ecological assessment of green hydropower plants is outlined. This is currently being implemented in Switzerland along with ecolabeling.
10.2307/3673018|The Agrarian Reforms of 1953 in Bolivia and 1969 in Peru had negative impacts upon the arid land pastoral sector. The two countries employed different economic approaches in the development strategies for pastoralism, but both involved high technology solutions and ignored the small and medium size producers. The analysis here focuses primarily upon the reasons for the lack of success of the agrarian reform programmes for livestock development. Alternative strategies which might be implemented in the future include a development focus upon animals more efficient than sheep as high cellulose grass metabolizers, the improvement of appropriate acclimatized forage species, strategies oriented toward less capital-intensive and more labour-intensive approaches, and programmes particularly oriented to the small producers who make up the majority of the agricultural sector. /// Les rformes agraires de 1953 en Bolivie et de 1969 au Prou ont eu de mauvaises rpercussions sur le secteur pastoral des terres arides. Bien que diffrentes, les stratgies adoptes par ces deux pays pour dvelopper le pastoralisme dpendaient toutes de moyens technologiques avancs et ngligeaient les petits et moyens producteurs. Cette analyse s'intresse plus particulirement aux causes de l'chec des programmes de rforme agraire portant sur le btail. Les autres stratgies qui pourraient tre appliques  l'avenir comprennent le dveloppement du cheptel d'animaux mtabolisant mieux l'herbe riche en cellulose que le mouton, l'amlioration d'espces approrpies de fourrage acclimatis, la revalorisation de la main-d'oeuvre par rapport au capital, et la rorientation des programmes vers les petits producteurs qui constituent la majorit du secteur agraire. /// Die Agrarreformen von 1953 in Bolivien und 1969 in Peru hatten negative Auswirkungen auf die Weidewirtschaft in niederschlagsarmen Landgebieten. Beide Lnder verwendeten unterschiedliche wirtschaftliche Methoden in der Entwicklungsstrategie fr Weidewirtschaft. In beiden Fllen wurde hochentwickelter Technologie der Vorrang gegeben, whrend kleine und mittlere Erzeuger unbeachtet blieben. Die vorliegende Analyse beschftigt sich hauptschlich mit den Grnden des Mierfolges dieser Agrarreformprogramme bezglich der Entwicklung des Viehbestandes. Alternativen, die zuknftig bercksichtigt werden knnten erfordern zum einen Tiere, die als Zelluloseverwerter Gras mit besserem Wirkungsgrad umsetzen als Schafe und zum anderen Verbesserung von klima-angepaten Futtersorten. Auerdem sollten weniger kapitalintensive und dafr mehr arbeitsintensive Methoden und Programme konzipiert werden, die sich besonders an den Kleinerzeugern orientieren, die auf dem Agrarsektor die Mehrheit ausmachen.
10.2307/3673552|This study aims to assess the magnitude of the need for piped water on the Akwapim Ridge of Ghana and the extent to which the present delivery system satisfies this need. Data collected from documentary sources, interviews with district officials of the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, and a sample survey of residents of the Ridge are analysed. The need for piped water is about 1.47 million litres per day and the current supply is between 2.14 and 2.87 million litres. However, between 40 and 46 percent of the water processed for distribution is lost through leakage. The supply of piped water was found to be unreliable and the standpipes (water taps) are not easily accessible on account of the frequent power failures, the rugged and rocky terrain, as well as the apparently skewed distribution of standpipes in most settlements. Recommendations include the monitoring of leakage in the system, repairing broken pipes, and routine maintenance. Research should be carried out to determine criteria for locating water standpipes in the settlements and to develop alternative sources of water for this mountainous region of Ghana. /// Cet article a pour but d'valuer les besoins en eau des collines Akwapim du Ghana et la manire dont le systme de distribution actuel satisfait  ces besoins. Les donnes recueillies  partir de sources documentaires, d'interviews avec des agents du Service des eaux du Ghana et d'une enqute mene parmi les habitants des collines, ont t analyses. Les besoins en eau distribue par canalisations sont d'environ 1,47 millions de litres par jour, alors que le volume disponible se situe entre 2,14 et 2,87 millions de litres. Nanmoins, de 40  46 pour cent de l'eau traite pour la distribution sont perdus  cause des fuites dans le systme. Les tudes montrent que l'alimentation en eau par canalisations n'est pas fiable et que les prises d'eau ne sont pas facilement utilisables  cause des frquentes pannes de courant, du terrain rocailleux et difficile, ainsi que de la rpartition peu rationnelle des prises d'eau dans la plupart des villages. Les recommandations faites concernent la dtection des fuites dans le systme, la rparation des canalisations endommages et l'entretien normal. Des travaux de recherche doivent tre effectus pour dterminer les critres  utiliser en vue de placer rationnellement les prises d'eau dans les villages et de dvelopper d'autres sources d'alimentation en eau dans cette rgion montagneuse du Ghana. /// Die Studie untersucht das Ausma der Notwendigkeit, zustzlich Wasser auf den Akwapim Bergrcken in Ghana ber Rhren herbeizuleiten oder ob das derzeitige Versorgungssystem allen Bedrfnissen gerecht wird. Daten, die aus dokumentierten Quellen, Interviews mit Beamten des Distriktbros der "Ghana Water And Sewage Corporation" und aus einer Umfrage der Bewohner dieses Berggebiets stammen, werden analysiert. Der Wasserbedarf betrgt ungefhr 1.47 Millionen Liter pro Tag; es knnten gegenwrtig zwischen 2.14 und 2.87 Millionen Liter geliefert werden. Bei der Verteilung gehen jedoch 40-60% des Wassers durch Lecks verloren. Die Versorgung durch die Wasserleitung gilt als unzuverlssig, und die Zapfstellen sind wegen hufigen Stromausfalls, zerklfteten und felsigen Terrains und schlechter Verteilung in den Siedlungsgebieten, oft nur schwer erreichbar. Es wird empfohlen, lecke Stellen im System zu finden, gebrochene Leitungen zu reparieren und eine regelmige Wartung zu organisieren. Ein Forschungsprogramm soll Kriterien zur Erstellung von Zapfstellen innerhalb der Siedlungsgebiete bestimmen und ob alternative Wasserquellen fr diese Bergregion Ghanas erschlossen werden knnen.
10.2307/3673287|A project of the German Research Council (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft) in co-operation with the MAB 6-Gesamtvorhaben Obergurgl study is described. The objective was a comprehensive evaluation of snow depletion in the Gurgl valley and its documentation by air photogrammetry. In addition, qualitative studies of the snow cover were undertaken. The first published sheet out of 13 sheets at a scale of 1:5,000, Obergurgl Sd, shows snow depletion during 1977 in six characteristic stages based on photographic flights over an area of 55 km<sup>2</sup>. These are representative for comparison with other years. This, and the possibility of obtaining such comparisons at significantly lower cost, has been proved by terrestrial photogrammetric surveys of there test areas during comparable periods in 1980 and 1981. The considerable ecological significance of the snow-depletion maps is shown in two map sections by comparative investigation of surface temperature and vegetation distribution. /// Cette article dcrit un projet du Conseil allemand de la recherche (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft) excut en collaboration avec l'tude MAB 6-Gesamtvorhaben Obergurgl. L'objectif de ce projet tait d'valuer systmatiquement la diminution de l'enneigement dans la valle du Gurgl et de la documenter au moyen de photogrammetrie ariennes. De plus, des tudes qualitatives de la couverture de neige ont t entreprises. La premire des 13 cartes au <tex-math>$1/5.000^{{\rm e}}$</tex-math> dj dites, "Obergurgl Sd", montre une diminution de l'enneigement depuis 1977 au cours de six tapes caractristiques, sur la base de vols de reconnaissance photographique couvrant une zone de 55 km<sup>2</sup>. Les donnes sont suffisamment reprsentatives pour permettre des comparaisons avec d'autres annes. Ceci, ainsi que la possibilit d'effecteur de telles comparaisons beaucoup plus conomiquement, a t prouv par des levs photogrammtriques terrestres de trois zones test, pour des priodes comparables en 1980 et 1981. L'importance cologique considrable des cartes de diminution de l'enneigement est illustre dans deux sections de cartes au moyen d'une tude comparative de la temprature  la surface et de la rpartition de la vgtation. /// Es wird ein Projekt der Deutschen Forschungsgemeinschaft vorgestellt, in dem in enger Zusammenarbeit mit dem MaB-6-Projekt "Gesamtvorhaben Obergurgl" die Ausaperung der Schneedecke 1976/77 im Gurgler Tal erfat und mit Hilfe der Aerophotogrammetrie dokumentiert wurde. Daneben wurde die Schneedecke auch qualitativ untersucht. Von den 13 Kartenblttern 1:5000, deren photogrammetrische Bearbeitung abgeschlossen ist, liegt das erste verffentlichte Blatt "Obergurgl Sd" bei. Die Ausaperung 1977 ist in sechs charakteristischen Stadien durch Mebildflge fr ein Gebier von 55 km<sup>2</sup> festgehalten. Diese Ausaperungsstadien von 1977 sind reprsentativ fr Vergleiche in anderen Jahren. Dies und die Mglichkeit solcher Vergleiche mit weit geringerem Aufwand wurde durch terrestrisch-photogrammetrische Aufnahmen dreier Testflchen zu je drei vergleichbaren Terminen 1980 und 1981 bewiesen. Der hohe kologische Aussagewert der Ausaperungskarten wird in zwei Kartenausschnitten durch vergleichende Untersuchungen der Bodenoberflchen-Temperaturen und der Vegetationsverteilung dargestellt.
3674124|An adequate and reliable supply of energy is a prerequisite for development. In Nepal, forests and water are the two major indigenous energy resources. Forests are being overexploited in many parts of the country, mainly for fuelwood, whereas water resources are underutilized with regard to their capacity to generate hydroelectricity. Nepal might be able to control forest degradation by adopting a differentiated approach to hydropower development. The prospects and the risks of such development are discussed here, and three scenarios that have received increasing attention in recent years are presented for implementation in a wider South Asian context.
25164033|Trees, crops, and livestock are integral parts of the complex farming systems on Nepalese hillsides. Any strategy for soil fertility improvement will take account of the interactions between these components, both on private farmland and common property and in public access forest and grazing areas. This requires a less restricted definition of the scope of agro-forestry than has often been applied previously. Agro-forestry can contribute to soil fertility improvement through increasing the quality and quantity of fodder and hence livestock manure, providing biomass for composting and slowing the loss of nutrients through runoff. Socioeconomic contextual factors that influence the introduction of agro-forestry innovations include the distribution and fragmentation of landholding, the relative importance of agriculture in household livelihoods, and the gender division of labor and management responsibilities within households. Studies of socioeconomic processes relating to the generation of local knowledge and its distribution, and of socially differentiated communication patterns within and between rural communities, can enable researchers to better focus their efforts. Examples from Nepal are presented and their implications for research design, method, and process, and for dissemination are explored.
10.2307/3673895|Eleven months of radiation budget measurements from an alpine tundra site in southern British Columbia encapsulated a wide range of atmospheric and surface conditions and provide insights into the controlling factors affecting energy and mass exchanges in the high mountain environment. The seasonal snow cover exerts a strong surface control on energy exchange, the high albedo suppressing solar radiation absorption and the cold surface temperatures limiting net longwave radiation losses. Turbulent energy fluxes during winter were very small and driven by the negative net radiation. The very thin snowpack that persisted throughout the winter meant that energy storage changes within the snow were negligible and the snowmelt period was very brief. When the tundra is snow-free, cloud cover is the most important determinant of the radiation budget through its influence on atmospheric transmissivity and longwave radiation fluxes. Local orographic cloud development provided an important negative feedback which countered the large solar irradiances that would otherwise be expected in high mountains during the summer. Both energy- and moisture-limiting evapotranspiration regimes occurred during both field seasons, governed largely by the frequency, rather than the magnitude, of precipitation events. In the absence of precipitation, the tundra desiccated rapidly due to the efficient drainage, limited soil moisture storage capacity, and the presence of quick-drying rock surfaces. Surface resistance measurements demonstrated the lack of efficiency in the transfer of subsurface moisture to the atmosphere during dry periods, and show that the change from a wet-surface evaporative regime to a dry-surface one is achieved very quickly. /// Onze mois de mesures de bilan radiatif, sur un site de toundra alpine en Colombie Britannique mridionale, ont couvert une gamme tendue de conditions atmosphriques et terrestres, et ont fourni des claircissements sur les facteurs dterminants qui affectent les changes d'nergie et de masse dans les environnements de haute montagne. La couverture neigeuse saisonnire exerce une forte influence sur l'change d'nergie, l'albdo lev rduisant l'absorption du rayonnement solaire et les basses tempratures de surface limitant les pertes nettes de rayonnement  grande longueur d'onde. Les flux d'nergie turbulente au cours de l'hiver taient trs faibles et dtermins par le rayonnement ngatif net. La couverture neigeuse trs mince qui a persist pendant tout l'hiver signifie que les variations de stockage d'nergie au sein de la neige taient ngligeables et que la priode de fonte des neiges n'a pas dur longtemps. Lorsque la toundra n'est pas recouverte de neige, la couverture nuageuse constitue le facteur dterminatif le plus important du bilan radiatif,  cause de son influence sur la transmissibilit atmosphrique et les flux de rayonnement  grande longueur d'onde. Le dveloppement local des nuages orographiques a engendr une rtroaction ngative importante qui a contrecarr les importants clairements nergtiques du soleil auxquels on peut s'attendre en haute montagne pendant l't. Les deux rgimes d'vapotranspiration qui limitent l'nergie et l'humidit, se sont produits au cours des deux saisons sur le terrain et ont t largement dtermins par la frquence plutt que par l'importance des vnements de prcipitation. Le manque de prcipitations a rapidement dessch la toundra, par suite d'un drainage efficace, d'une capacit limite de stockage de l'humidit du sol, et la prsence de surfaces rocheuses  schage rapide. Les mesures de rsistance de surface ont dmontr le manque d'efficacit du transfert de l'humidit sous-jacente  l'atmosphre pendant les priodes sches, et ont montr que le passage d'un rgime vaporatoire de surface humide  un rgime de surface sche s'est produit trs rapidement. /// Messungen des Strahlungshaushalts wurden ber einen Zeitraum von elf Monaten fr alpine Tundra im sdlichen Teil von Britisch Columbia durchgefhrt. Die Messungen erfaten vielfltige Atmosphren- und Oberflchenbedingungen und erlaubten Schlsse auf die Faktoren, die beim Energie- und Massenaustausch einer Hochgebirgs-Umwelt wirksam sind. Die saisonbedingte Schneedecke beeinflut den Energieaustausch in starkem Mae; hohe Albedowerte unterdrcken die Absorption der Sonnenstrahlung, und niedrige Oberflchentemperaturen begrenzen die netto Verluste durch langwellige Strahlung. Im Winter waren die turbulenten Energieflsse unbedeutend, da sie nur von der negativen netto Strahlung gespeist werden. Whrend des gesamten Winters lag eine sehr dnne Schneedecke, die nur geringe nderungen der Energiespeicherung im Schnee zulie, und auerdem fr eine schnelle Schneeschmelze sorgte. Fr die schneefreie Tundra ist die Wolkendecke, die atmosphrische Transmission und langwellige Strahlungsflsse festlegt, die wichtigste Bestimmungsgre im Strahlungshaushalt. rtliche und orographische Wolkenbildung fhren zu einer starken negativen Rckkopplung, die die intensive Sonneneinstrahlung, die sonst whrend des Sommers im Hochgebirge zu erwarten ist, reduziert. In beiden Jahreszeiten beschrnkten verfgbare Energie und Feuchtigkeit die Verdunstung entscheidend, die hauptschlich von der Hufigkeit aber nicht vom Ausma der Niederschlge bestimmt wurde. Wenn Niederschlge ausblieben, trocknete die Tundra schnell aus. Guter Abflu, begrenzte Speicherungskapazitt der Bodenfeuchte und rasch trocknende Felsoberflchen begnstigten diesen Vorgang. Messungen des Oberflchenwiderstandes ergaben whrend der Trockenzeiten einen schlechten Wirkungsgrad fr den Transfer von Bodenfeuchte in die Atmosphre. Sie zeigten auerdem, da das Verdunstungssystem einen sehr schnellen bergang von nasser zu trockener Oberflche frdert.
3674133|The Yaluzangbu River, the largest river on the Tibetan Plateau, becomes the Brahmaputra when it flows into India. New fieldwork and map analysis show that the fluvial landforms and landform evolution of the river are controlled by the tectonic structures of the southern plateau. The history of the Yaluzangbu River since the Eocene is established here based on geomorphological and tectonic studies. It includes the formation of the main course along the suture before the Miocene and establishment of downstream course and major tributaries along strike-slip faulting in the Miocene. Also noted are the formation of alternations of wide sections and gorges, gentle and steep hydraulic gradient intervals, and deposition and erosion channel stretches along the river by normal faulting and grabens since the Pliocene.
10.2307/3673930|The effects of different land uses on soil conservation and sediment yield were studied by means of experimental plots and other direct and indirect evidence in the Central Spanish Pyrenees. The purpose was to compare the traditional land uses with the present ones, in order to explain some of the landscape characteristics and, especially, the state of soil conservation. The work attempts to identify the land uses that contribute more to the sustainability of a mountain area affected by significant and generalized land-use changes in recent decades. The results obtained suggest that the traditional cereal agriculture greatly contributes to soil erosion and responds rapidly to precipitation. This probably accounts for the state of damage of many soils used for cereal cultivation over many centuries. Meadows yield much water and few sediments, and dense shrub cover yields very little water and very few sediments. The burning of the dense shrub cover produces a sudden increase in runoff and erosion, although a few months later sediment yield reverts back to rates similar to those prevailing before the fire. Now, the reduction of the area of cultivated land, the abandonment of shifting agriculture, the replacement of cereals by meadows, and the expansion of bushes in the former cultivated fields will cause a decrease in sediment yield. ///  l'aide de parcelles exprimentales et d'autres constations directes et indirectes, on a etudi le fonctionnement hydromorphologique de diffrentes utilisations du sol dans les Pyrnes centrales espagnoles. Le but est de comparer les utilisations traditionnelles du sol et les utilisations actuelles, afin d'expliquer quelques caractristiques du paysage et, plus spcialement, l'tat de conservation des sols. Ces travaux visent galement  identifier les utilisations du sol qui contribuent  la viabilit d'une zone de montagne affecte par des changements d'utilisation importants et gnraliss pendant les dernires dcennies. Les rsultats obtenus suggrent que l'agriculture cralire traditionnelle contribue beaucoup  l'rosion du sol et rpond rapidement aux prcipitations. Ceci est probablement la raison de l'tat de dtrioration de plusieurs sols utiliss pour la culture de crales durant des sicles. Les prs produisent beaucoup d'eau et peu de sdiments et le matorral dense produit trs peu d'eau et trs peu de sdiments. L'incendie du matorral dense est responsable d'une brusque augmentation du ruissellement et de l'rosion, jusqu' ce que, quelques mois plus tard, la production de sdiments est rduite jusqu' des taux gaux  ceux qu'elle avait avant l'incendie. Actuellement, la rduction de l'espace cultiv, la disparition de l'agriculture nomade, la substitution des crales par les prs et l'expansion du matorral dans les anciens champs cultivs doit donner lieu  une diminution de la production de sdiments. /// Die Auswirkungen unterschiedlicher Formen der Landnutzung auf Bodenstabilitt und Sedimentertrag wurden in den Spanischen Pyrenen auf Testflchen und unter Anwendung weiterer direkter und indirekter Methoden untersucht. Mit diesen Experimenten wurde ein Vergleich traditioneller und gegenwrtiger Landnutzung sowie die Bewertung bestimmter Oberflcheneigenschaften und der Bodenstabilitt angestrebt. Die Untersuchungen zielen darauf ab, in Hochgebirgen unter den in den letzten Jahrzehnten vorgenommenen bedeutenden und allgemein verbreiteten Vernderungen der Landnutzung diejenigen Formen zu identifizieren, die unter der Prmisse der Nachhaltigkeit als angepat erscheinen. Auf Grundlage der Testergebnisse ist der traditionelle Getreide-Ackerbau vornehmlich in hohem Mae fr Bodenerosion verantwortlich zu machen, wobei Niederschlge unmittelbare Auslser darstellen. Diese Zusammenhnge erklren die Ursachen fr den Zerstrungszustand vieler Bden, auf denen seit Jahrhunderten Getreidebau betrieben wird. Im Gegensatz dazu lassen Weiden hohe Wasserabflsse und geringe Sedimentmengen zu, whrend dichte Buschvegetation sowohl geringe Wasser- als auch Sedimentbetrge aufweist. Das Abbrennen dichten Gebsches fhrt kurzfristig zu gesteigerten Abflumengen und Erosion; dennoch erniedrigen sich die Sedimentationswerte im Laufe weniger Monate zu denjenigen des Ausgangszustandes vor dem Brand. Eine Abnahme der Sedimentmengen ist an Entwicklungen gekoppelt, die mit der Abnahme des Kulturlandareals, der Aufgabe von Schwendbau, der Nutzungsnderung von Ackerbau zu Weidewirtschaft und der Verbuschung vormaligen Kulturlandes verknpft sind. /// Por medio de parcelas experimentales y otras evidencias directas e indirectas se estudia el funcionamiento hidromorfolgico de diferentes usos del suelo en el Pirineo Central espaol. El propsito es comparar los usos del suelo tradicionales con los actuales, con el fin de explicar algunas de las caractersticas del paisaje y, especialmente, del estado de conservacin de los suelos. Igualmente se pretende identificar los usos del suelo que contribuyen a la sustentabilidad de un rea de montaa afectada por importantes y generalizados cambios de usos en las ltimas dcadas. Los resultados obtenidos sugieren que la agricultura cerealista tradicional contribuye intensamente a la erosin del suelo y tiene respuestas rpidas frente a la precipitacin. Probablemente sta es la razn del estado de deterioro de muchos suelos cultivados con cereales durante siglos. Los prados producen mucha agua y pocos sedimentos, y el matorral denso produce muy poca agua y muy pocos sedimentos. El incendio del matorral denso es responsable de un brusco incremento de la escorrenta y la erosin, hasta que, pocos meses despus, la produccin de sedimentos se reduce hasta tasas parecidas a las anteriores al incendio. En la actualidad la contraccin del espacio cultivado, la desaparicin de la agricultura nmada, la sustitucin de cereles por prados y la expansin del matorral en los antiguos campos de cultivo debe dar lugar a una disminucin de la produccin de sedimentos.
10.2307/3673192|An overview of the theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation is introduced based upon a synthesis of the earlier research and conservationist literature and development policy formulation. It is presented as an eight-point scenario that leads to a prediction of environmental and socio-economic collapse by AD 2000. The theory is shown to be a complex of interrelated, yet separate, components that are linked by a series of assumptions; these are identified and briefly examined. A focus is thereby provided for the critical assessments that occupied the working sessions of the Mohonk Mountain Conference. It is proposed that the theory is overly simplistic and its assumptions are either untenable or not supported by rigorous analysis of reliable data. This invalidation of the theory notwithstanding, it is postulated that the Himalayan region is facign a rapidly evolving crisis. The theory on which development planning and implementation has been based confuses cause and effect and ignores the great complexity of the region and its peoples. Thus, a much fuller understanding of the dynamics of the Himalayan-Ganges Problem and an entirely new perspective are urgently needed to help formulate an effective response to the crisis. The uncertainty and confusion induced by the theory have become a significant part of the problem. /// La thorie de la dgradation de l'environnement himalayen est examine en faisant une synthse de la bibliographie existante sur les travaux de recherche et de conservation, et de la prsente politique de dveloppement. La thorie est prsente sous la forme d'un scnario  huit points qui prdit un effondrement de l'environnement et de l'conomie sociale avant l'an 2000. Il est montr que la thorie est constitue d'un complexe d'lments relis entre eux, mais nanmoins distincts, qui sont connects par une srie d'hypothses; celles-ci sont identifies et brivement examines. Un point de convergence est donc fourni pour les analyses critiques qui ont fait l'objet des sances de travail de la Confrence de Mohonk. Il est dmontr que la thorie est trop simpliste et que ses hypothses sont soit sans fondement soit dnues du support d'une analyse rigoureuse de donnes fiables. Malgr cette remise en question de la thorie, il est nanmoins tabli que la rgion himalayenne fait face  une crise en pleine volution. La thorie sur laquelle sont bases la planification et la mise en oeuvre ou dveloppement mlange la cause et l'effet et ignore la complexit de la rgion et de ses habitants. Pour cette raison, une meilleure comprhension de la dynamique du problme de l'Himalaya-Gange et une perspective compltement nouvelle sont absolument ncessaires pour s'opposer  la crise d'une manire efficace. L'incertitude et la confusion issues de la thorie elle-mme reprsentent une part importante du problme. /// Ein berblick zur Theorie der Umweltverschlechterung im Himalaya wird geliefert, die sich auf die Synthese von vorhandener Literatur ber Forschung und Erhaltung sowie auf die Formulierung von Entwicklungspolitik sttzt. Ein Acht-Punkte Szenario wird angenommen, aus dessen Entwicklung sich ein Umwelt- und sozio-konomischer Zusammenbruch fr das Jahr 2000 vorraussagen lt. Die Theorie besteht aus einer Anzahl von verflochtenen und dennoch einzelstndigen Komponenten, die durch eine Reihe von Annahmen verbunden sind. Diese Annahmen werden identifiziert und kurz untersucht. Die kritischen Beobachtungen, mit denen sich die Arbeitsgruppen der Mohonk Mountain Konferenz beschftigten, rcken dadurch in den Mittelpunkt. Es wird unterstrichen, da die Theorie stark vereinfacht ist und ihre Annahmen zum Teil unhaltbar sind oder zumindest nicht von zuverlssigen Daten untersttzt einer wachsenden Krise gegenbersteht. Der Plan, auf den sich Entwicklungsplanung und -durchfhrung sttzen, verwechselt Ursache und Wirkung und lt die Vielgestaltigkeit des Gebietes und seiner Bevlkerung unbeachtet. Daher ist ein greres Verstndnis um die Vorgnge des Himalaya-Ganges Problems und eine vllig neue Perspektive dringend ntig, um eine wirksame Lsung dieser Krise zu formulieren. Die Ungewiheit und Verwirrung, die durch die Theorie hervorgerufen wurden, sind ein wesentlicher Teil des Problems selbst geworden.
3674125|Honduras is predominantly mountainous; its highest peaks are close to 2800 m. The country has a population of approximately 6 million and an area of <tex-math>$112,000\ km^{2}$</tex-math>. In a bid to solve its energy problems and achieve greater self-sufficiency in energy production, Honduras turned to its abundant water resources. El Cajon Reservoir, the largest civil engineering project ever undertaken in the country, was a result of this approach. At the same time, Honduras is very prone to hurricanes. The present article describes the effects of Hurricane Mitch (1998) on El Cajon dam and examines the extent to which the reservoir was able to mitigate the hurricane's impact in downstream areas. It concludes with a series of recommendations for preventive action in the event of future hurricanes.
3674370|The aim of this study was to develop a comprehensive index system based on remote sensing (RS) and geographic information system (GIS) techniques to evaluate the status quo of ecological security in the farming-pastoral zone of northern China, for the purpose of facilitating sustainable development in ecotone regions. Taking a typical transitional piedmont region with farming-pastoral production mode as a case study area, the region's present ecological security situation was evaluated by constructing an index system with 3 types of indicators. These indicators were: 1) vegetation growth, measured by the decadal difference in the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI); 2) change in landscape patterns, measured by the deviation of present from potential landscapes; and 3) severity of soil erosion, measured by organic matter content in topsoil. Data for the indicators, derived from RS images, historical maps, field surveys, and archival materials, were all mapped with the aid of a digital elevation model (DEM), according to their conjugation relationships. The results were obtained by classifying different combinations of elements in an index matrix of 3 indicators by means of mapping. The final results show that nearly the entire study area was in a condition ranging from somewhat insecure (SIN) to insecure (INS), with an average score of 3.46 in a 5-grade range, indicating declining ecological security. The situation was better in the farming-pastoral district. The whole region needs to adjust its production modes to learn from practices in the farming-pastoral district, in order to alleviate deterioration and improve ecological security in the region.
10.2307/3673015|This paper discusses natural and cultural aspects of the Kathmandu-Kakani area. It is sixty square kilometres in extent and includes part of the Kolpu Khola watershed which flows into the Trisuli River, parts of the Kathmandu Valley, and surrounding forested hills. The Kolpu Khola watershed, with relatively dense population, intense agricultural use, and severe mountain hazards problems, is representative of many parts of the Nepalese Middle Mountain belt. The first part of the paper describes and comments upon a multi-coloured land-use map of the area (scale 1:10,000). About fifty percent of the area is cultivated either with rice and wheat on irrigated terraces, or with corn, millet, and buck-wheat on non-irrigated terraces. In many areas these terraces are situated on steep slopes. Forests, except in the northern part of the protected Royal Forest (Rani Ban), have been very extensively degraded and replaced by large areas of shrubland. Comparisons between the area in 1964 and in 1971, interpreted from air-photographs, and the actual state of present land use show an increase in cultivated land at the expense of pastures and forests. The second part includes an interpretation of a map of geomorphic damages (scale 1:10,000). For representative elements of the legend, formal, genetic, and dynamic aspects are examined. The distributions of destructive forms and processes are discussed and suggestions are made concerning practical measures for damage reduction. The most striking feature is the heavy concentration of geomorphic damages in the steep, cultivated Hill Zone of the field area. In comparison, the erosive processes in the forested areas and on the plain of the Kathmandu Basin are of minor importance. Gullies, badlands, and landslides account for more than 90 percent of the actual losses of cultural land. The two maps provide an important basis for hazards assessment and compilation of maps of mountain hazards and slope stability which are currently in preparation. They will also constitute a benchmark against which to assess future landscape changes. /// Les fondements du projet de cartographie des rgions menaces par l'erosion dans les montagnes du Npal ont t exposs par J. Ives et B. Messerli (1981). En introduction, cet article prsente quelques aspects gnraux de l'environnement naturel et culturel de la rgion de Kathmandu-Kakani. Cette rgion de 60 km<sup>2</sup> comprend trois lments: une partie de la valle de Kathmandu, des moyennes montagnes boises, mais surtout le bassin-versant de la Kolpu Khola, qui appartient au systme hydrographique de la Trisuli. Ce bassin-versant, avec sa population dense, son agriculture intensive et ses problmes d'erosion des sols, est tout  fait reprsentatif de la majeure partie des Moyens Pays npalais. La premire partie de cet article dcrit et commente la carte en couleur de l'utilisation des sols (ci-jointe). Environ 50% de la surface est cultive en riz et en bl (terrasses irrigues) et en mas, millet et sarrazin (terrasses non irrigues). Les terrasses sont principalement situes sur des pentes raides. Les forts,  l'exception de la partie nord de la fort royale protge, sont trs souvent dgrades; elles portent des fourrs sur une grande surface. La comparaison entre la situation de 1964 et 1971 ( partir de l'interprtation de photos ariennes) et l'tat actuel de l'utilisation des sols montre un accroissement des surfaces cultives et une diminution des pturages et des forts. La deuxime partie de cet article commente la carte des dgts gomorphologiques (ci-jointe). Les lments figurs en lgende concernent les formes, leur gense et leur dynamique. A partir de la rpartition de ces dgts sont suggres des mesures de protection possibles. Dans la rgion etudie, le fait le plus frappant est la forte concentration des phnomnes d'erosion sur les pentes raides et cultives de la zone des collines. Par comparaison, les processus d'erosion affectant les surfaces boises et la plaine du bassin de Kathmandu sont d'importance mineure. Les formes d'erosion les plus importantes, qui dterminent plus de 90% des pertes de terrains cultivs, sont les ravins, les "bad-lands" et les glissements de terrain. Ces deux cartes servent de point de dpart pour estimer l'importance des secteurs menacs et tablir la cartographie de ces secteurs ainsi que celle de la stabilit des pentes. En outre, les cartes, grce  leur description dtaille de l'utilisation du sol et leur constat d l'erosion des sols en 1979/80, permettront l'establissement, dans le futur, d'un inventaire de ces aspects de la dynamique du paysage. /// ber die Hintergrnde und den Rahmen des Mountain Hazards (MHM) Projektes in Nepal wurde von Ives and Messerli (1981) bereits berichtet. Im vorliegenden Aufsatz werden zuerst einige Aspekte der Natur- und Kulturlandschaft des Kathmandu-Kakani-Gebietes dargestellt. Das ca. 60 km<sup>2</sup> grosse Untersuchungsgebiet umfasst den nordwestlichsten Teil des Kathmandubeckens, einen Ausschnitt der bewaldeten Gebirgsumrandung des Beckens und vor allem einen Teil des Einzugsgebietes des Kolpu Khola, welcher zum Trisuli-Flussystem gehrt. Mit seiner dichten Bevlkerung, der intensiven Landnutzung und den Erosionsproblemen drfte der letztgenannte Teil des Untersuchungsgebietes fr viele Regionen des nepalischen Hgellandes reprsentativ sein. Im ersten Hauptteil des Aufsatzes wird die beiliegende Landnutzungskarte beschrieben und kommentiert. Ungefhr die Hlfte des Untersuchungsgebietes wird ackerbaulich genutzt. Wegen des steilen Reliefs sind die Felder terrassiert. Auf den irrigierbaren Terrassen werden Reis und Weizen und auf den nicht irrigierten Terrassen Mais, Hirse, Buchweizen, und Nebenprodukte angebaut. Mit Ausnahme des Nordabhanges im geschtzten "Royal Forest" sind die Wlder oft degradiert und bestehen ber grosse Flchen nur als Buschland. Vergleiche der gegenwrtigen Landnutzung mit der Situation von 1964 und 1971 (durch Luftbildinterpretation) zeigen eine Zunahme der Ackerbauflche auf Kosten der Weiden und Wlder. Im zweiten Hauptteil des Aufsatzes wird die ebenfalls beiliegende geomorphologische Schadenkarte kommentiert. Die wichtigsten kartierten Elemente werden bezglich ihrer Erscheinung und Verbreitung, der Entstehungsprozesse, der damit verbundenen Schadenwirkungen und mglicher Gegenmassnahmen diskutiert. Auffllig ist die Konzentration der Schden im mehrheitlich unbewaldeten hgeligen Einzugsgebiet des Kolpu Khola, whrend in den bewaldeten Gebieten und im Kathmandubecken weniger sichtbare Erosions-schden festzustellen sind. "Gully- und Badlandbildung" sowie Erdrutsche sind fr mehr als 90 Prozent des Kulturlandverlustes verantwortlich, sofern dieser auf geomorphologische Prozesse zurckzufhren ist. Beide Karten dienen als Grundlage fr die Beurteilung der Naturgefahren und Hangstabilitt, sowie fr die Erstellung der 1984 zu publizierenden Gefahrenkarte. Beide Karten knnen zudem als Grundlage fr die Erfassung der knftigen Landschaftsentwicklung dienen, weil sie detailliert die Landnutzungs- und Schadensituation von 1979/80 zeigen.
25578191|High elevation pramo (wetland) ecosystems in the Andes are important water sources for local communities and downstream agricultural and urban users. These headwater catchments, however, are often impacted by human activities (eg agricultural production) that affect both stream water quality and flow. Knowledge about water availability, quality, and use is essential for effective management but is often lacking, particularly in smaller mountain communities. Studies of natural resources in mountains, conducted jointly with local actors and with the participation of youth, are a way for rural communities to learn about their resources, appropriate this knowledge, and improve their quality of life. Research projects that involve youth in remote rural zones, where education is not of the same quality as in urban centers, represent an important opportunity for youth to acquire skills and relevant knowledge for their personal development and for participation in development processes. The present article presents a process and the results of a project that studied water resources in Bolivia and Colombia with local youth and water users. The research themes in the 2 countries were different, responding to the concerns of their respective communities, but the results had a similar major impact on the lives of young researchers, on the communities' perception of the state of their natural resources-in particular water-and on the role of knowledge in generating creative options for improving resource management and the quality of life in mountain communities.
10.2307/3673047|Shifting cultivation was practised in the mountain areas of southwestern Japan for over 2,000 years, until a few centuries ago when it was gradually replaced by terraced agriculture and timber production. On the islands of Oki-no-shima a shifting cultivation system, Maki-hata, is still practised. This refined system of ley farming, in which pasture and grain cultivation rotate, is described. The main reason for the change from shifting agriculture in Japan is economic and highland people now generate forest products for sale to the increasing population of the lowlands. Commercial forestry has replaced former agro-forestry and agricultural systems. /// La divagation des cultures s'est pratique dans les rgions montagneuses du sud-ouest du Japon pendant plus de 2.000 ans. Nanmoins, depuis plusieurs sicles elle a t progressivement remplace par l'agriculture en terrasses et la production de bois. Un systme de divagation des cultures, dnomm Maki-hata, est encore pratiqu dans les les Oki-no-shima. Ce systme amelior de cultures en assolement, caracteris par une rotation du pturage et de la craliculture, est dcrit dans cette tude. La raison principale de cet abandon progressif de la divagation des cultures au Japon est d'ordre conomique, et les habitants des rgions montagneuses fournissent maintenant des produits forestiers pour satisfaire aux besoins d'une population croissante dans les plaines. La sylviculture commerciale a remplac les systmes prcdents d'agro-foresterie et d'agriculture. /// ber 2000 Jahre lang wurde in den Berggegenden des sd-westlichen Japans Wanderhackbau betrieben. Vor ein paar Jahrhunderten wurde diese Anbauform jedoch durch terrassierte Landwirtschaft allmhlich ersetzt. Auf der Oki-no-shima Inselgruppe wird Wanderhackbau, Maki-hata, immer noch betrieben. Diese weiterentwickelte Art laienhafter Landwirtschaft (ley farming), bei der Weideland und Getreideflchen sich abwechseln, wird beschrieben. Der Hauptgrund fr ein Aufgeben des Wanderhackbaus in Japan ist konomischer Art, denn die Bewohner des Hochlandes erzeugen jetzt Holzprodukte zum Verkauf an die wachsende Flachlandbevlkerung. Frher bliche Agro-Forstwirtschaft und landwirtschaftliche Nutzung wurden durch kommerzielle Forstwirtschaft ersetzt.
mounresedeve.30.2.157|This study presents satellite data and in situ measurements to estimate the concentration of suspended solids in highaltitude and remote lakes of the Himalayas. Suspended particulate matter (SPM) concentrations measured in 13 lakes to the south of Mount Everest (Nepal) in October 2008 and reflectance values of the Advanced Visible and Near Infrared Radiometer type 2 (AVNIR- 2) onboard ALOS, acquired a few days after the fieldwork activities concluded, were combined to build a relationship (
mounresedeve.35.3.299|As many of the world's poor and food-insecure people live in mountain regions, sustainable mountain development is an important part of the work of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations (UN). Over the years, FAO has played the leading role in sustainable mountain development within the UN system; it was appointed task manager for chapter 13 of agenda 21 in 1992 and acted as the lead agency for the International Year of Mountains in 2002. From 2003 onward, FAO was also mandated by the UN General Assembly to lead the annual observance of International Mountain Day on 11 December. Every 2 years, FAO prepares the secretary general's report to the UN General Assembly, which describes the status and progress of sustainable mountain development at the national and international levels and provides suggestions for consideration by the Assembly. FAO is a member of the Mountain Partnership and hosts its secretariat.This review of the latest actions of FAO's program on sustainable mountain development, watershed management, and forest hydrologywhich includes normative work, field activities, and support to international processesupdates our previous statement (Manuelli et al, 2014) and summarizes the latest achievements of the Mountain Partnership.
10.2307/3673518|The influence of extremes of soil moisture on Ipomoea batatas (sweet potato) tuber yield in the Papua New Guinea highlands is examined first through time-of-planting trials and secondly by comparing soil moisture extremes with reported shortfalls in subsistence food supply. Extended wet periods which result in a water surplus reduce Ipomoea yield and are frequently associated with food shortages. Only the most prolonged droughts result in insufficient food supplies, unless the drought is preceded some months earlier by an extended wet period. The combined effect of a long wet period during the tuber initiation phase and a drought during the tuber bulking phase depresses yield sufficiently for a shortage to arise. /// Cet article examine l'influences des extrmes d'humidit du sol sur la production d'Ipomoea batatas (patate douce) dans les hautes terres de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine, d'abord au moyen d'essais portant sur la priode de plantation et ensuite en comparant les extrmes d'humidit du sol avec les pnuries de denres d'autoconsommation. Les priodes humides de longue dure, produisant un surplus d'eau, rduisent la production d'Ipomoea et sont frquemment associes avec la disette. Seules les scheresses les plus longues aboutissent  un manque de nourriture,  moins que la scheresse ne suive une longue priode humide quelques mois avant. L'effet combin d'une longue priode humide au cours de la phase d'initiation du tubercule et d'une scheresse au cours de la phase de croissance rduit la production suffisamment pour qu'une disette s'ensuive. /// Nach zwei Gesichtspunkten wird untersucht, wie Extremwerte in der Bodenfeuchtigkeit den Ertrag der Ipomoea batatas (Skartoffel) in den Hochlndern von Papua Neu-Guinea beeinflussen. Der erste betrifft Versuche mit der Steckzeit; der zweite vergleicht die Extremwerte der Bodenfeuchtigkeit mit berichteten Engpssen in der Lebensmittelversorgung. Langanhaltende, nasse Zeiten haben Wasserberschu zur Folge, was den Ertrag der Ipomoea mindert und somit oft zu einer Nahrungsmittelknappheit fhrt. Beim anderen Extrem, der Drre, gab es nur nach langen Trockenperioden Versorgungsmngel, insbesondere wenn einige Monate vorher der Drre eine langanhaltende, nasse Periode vorangegangen war. Die Kombinaton von anhaltender Feuchtigkeit whrend der Keimphase und einer Trockenperiode whrend der Knollenbildung verhindert ausreichende Ertrge, und es kann zu Knappheit kommen.
3674050|The economic behavior of campesions has long been a prominent issue in development debates. Models used to explain economic behavior have generally been based on the theoretical assumptions of specific (Western) schools of thought. Consequently, economics is determined by the theory that informs a particular study without considering the meaning that campesinos impart to the economy as actors in a social context. For example, barter, reciprocity, and transformation are far more relevant forms of economic activity than production for market. An actor-oriented approach that is not based on preconceived, nonlocal concepts can therefore be helpful in reconstructing "internal" concepts that allow new inputs for reflection, thereby contributing to innovative economic approaches and activities in development programs.
mounresedeve.34.1.4|The globalization of environmental issues is characterized by representations and initiatives at the global level, but it is also present in the processes of institutionalization of new local and regional scales of action. Over the past decade, and following the promotion of mountains as a global common good, growing attention has been paid to the mountain regions of South East Europe. A large number of international organizations with differing mandates embarked on a variety of initiatives using mountains for their cooperative region-building efforts. The process by which these actors identify scales of action and construct relevant regions has been studied by some scholars, but rarely for South East Europe. The first objective of this article is to follow the emergence of mountains as a growing reference for the regionalization of environmental initiatives and underline the major role played by international organizations. The second objective is to present the mountain initiatives and understand how, in relation to South East Europe, regions for environmental governance are being defined in a broader context (scaling), and for what kinds of issues (framing). Furthermore, this article shows the extent to which these initiatives refer to similar or different scaling and framing processes.
mounresedeve.34.2.139|Oak (Quercus spp.) is an important commercially harvested firewood resource in Bhutan. An oak firewood shortage began in 20002009, when demand, spurred by urban domestic and institutional use, began to exceed supply, resulting in overcutting of oak-dominant forest, which affected tree species diversity. This study solicited urban and rural perceptions on oak firewood availability, alternative firewood sources, and whether harvest is consistent with oak conservation, and conducted an assessment of the consequences of commercial oak firewood harvest for species diversity and regeneration. Semistructured interviews and focus group discussions were conducted, and regeneration was sampled on unharvested and commercially harvested oak firewood stands. Urban and rural respondents reported that the oak firewood supply was diminishing. Rural respondents said that oak firewood, leaf litter, fodder, and wood for handles for agricultural implements were abundantly available in the past but that, with the increase in population, these products have become less available, a trend that is likely to continue in the future. Urban respondents overwhelmingly chose electricity as an oak firewood substitute because it was associated with clean energy, improved sanitation, and forest conservation. Electricity should be promoted as an oak firewood substitute in urban homes. Oak as a source of firewood, leaf litter, fodder, and handles for agricultural implements is indispensable for sustaining rural livelihoods, and harvest consistent with conservation needs to be practiced. Tree species diversity and regeneration were not significantly higher in unharvested stands compared to harvested stands, indicating that oak firewood harvest may not have impacted species diversity. The findings support banning commercial harvesting of green oak trees for firewood and promoting electricity as an alternative energy source as the most important oak conservation measures.
10.2307/3673794|The aim of this study is to explore the conditions that are conducive to the current glaciation at low latitudes in Central Asia. Various climatic conditions are examined as well as the nature of the monsoon and atmospheric circulation. It was established that the area is located in the zone influenced by both tropical monsoons and extropical cyclones. The quantitative development of the components of mass-energy exchange of the mountain environment and the Gongga Shan glacial system of western Sichuan is based upon fieldwork undertaken between 25 September and 22 November 1990. The glaciers exist mainly because of the climatic features associated with the monsoon circulation regime. Solar radiation intensity during the summer-autumn monsoon for the ablation area is one sixth of that theoretically possible for these latitudes. The major patterns of the glacial regime controlled by monsoons have been identified. At 5,000 m the impact of the summer monsoon on temperature distribution is reduced. Glacial melt in the study area takes place mainly from advection; this process of melting during the summer monsoon occurs both day and night. Precipitation increases with altitude up to 3,000-3,600 m. The area of current glaciation in the Gongga Shan massif is about 90 km<sup>2</sup>. At the present time the mass balance trend is negative; for the period 1989/90 it equaled <tex-math>$-12\ {\rm g}\ {\rm cm}^{-2}$</tex-math>. /// Le but de cette tude consiste  explorer les conditions favorisant la glaciation aux latitudes subtropicales en Asie Centrale. Un certain nombre de conditions climatiques sont examines, ainsi que la nature de la mousson et de la circulation atmosphrique. L'tude a tabli que cette partie du monde est situe dans la zone influence  la fois par les moussons tropicales et les cyclones extropicaux. Le dveloppement quantitatif des composantes de l'change de masse-nergie de l'environnement montagnard et du systme glaciaire du Gongga Shan, dans le Sichuan occidental, est bas sur les travaux effectus sur le terrain du 25 septembre au 22 novembre 1990. Les glaciers existent principalement du fait des particularits climatiques associes au rgime de circulation des moussons. L'intensit du rayonnement solaire au cours de la mousson d't-automne pour la zone d'ablation est gal  un sixime des valeurs thoriques possibles pour ces latitudes. Les configurations principales du rgime glaciaire rgi par les moussons ont t identifies. A 5 000 m, l'impact de la mousson d't sur la distribution de la temprature est rduit. La fusion des glaciers dans la zone tudie est surtout cause par l'advection; ce processus de fonte au cours de la mousson d't se produit jour et nuit. Les prcipitations augmentent avec l'altitude jusqu' 3 000-3 600 m. La zone de glaciation actuelle dans le massif du Gongga Shan est d'environ 90 km<sup>2</sup>. A prsent, la tendance du bilan de masse est ngative; pour la priode 1989-90, elle est gale  <tex-math>$-12\ {\rm g}\ {\rm cm}^{-2}$</tex-math>. /// Das Ziel dieser Verffentlichung ist es, die Bedingungen zu untersuchen, die in niederen Breiten Zentralasiens die gegenwrtige Vergletscherung begnstigen. Verschiedene klimatische Bedingungen, u.a. der Monsun und der atmosphrische Kreislauf, werden untersucht. Das Gebiet liegt in einer Zone, die von tropischen Monsunen und von auertropischen Zyklonen beeinflut wird. Die quantitative Bestimmung der Austauschkomponenten zwischen Masse und Energie dieser Gebirgsumwelt und des Gongga Shan Gletschersystems des westlichen Sichuan basiert auf Untersuchungen, die zwischen dem 25.9. und 22.11.1990 vor Ort ausgefhrt wurden. Die Vergletscherung basiert hauptschlich auf klimatischen Eigenschaften, die sich aus dem Monsunkreislauf ergeben. Die Intensitt der Sonnenstrahlung whrend der Sommer-Herbst Monsune ist fr das Ablationsgebiet 1/6 der fr diese Breiten theoretisch mglichen. Die Hauptmerkmale des durch Monsunwinde bestimmten glazialen Ausmaes wurden gekennzeichnet. In Hhen von 5.000 m geht der Einflu des Sommermonsuns auf die Temperaturverteilung zurck. Das Abschmelzen der Gletscher im Untersuchungsgebiet erfolgt hauptschlich durch Advektion; dieser Abschmelzungsvorgang whrend des Sommermonsuns tritt sowohl tags- wie auch nachtsber ein. Die Niederschlagsmenge nimmt bis zu Hhen von 3.000-3.600 m zu. Das Gebiet der derzeitigen Vergletscherung im Gongga Shan Massiv umfat ungefhr 90 km<sup>2</sup>. Gegenwrtig ist der Trend des Massengleichgewichts negativ; fr den Zeitraum von 1989/90 betrug der Schwund <tex-math>$-12\ {\rm g}\ {\rm cm}^{-2}$</tex-math>.
10.2307/3672947|The need for an effective combined hazards map legend for mid-latitude mountainous terrain has become increasingly urgent as two-season tourism has developed at an accelerating pace. This paper describes the process and outlines the justification of producing such a legend for mapping at a reconnaissance scale of 1:24,000. The area chosen for mapping is a section of the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains as represented on the United States Geological Survey sheet, Monarch Lake. The derivation of the map itself is discussed and the practical steps taken in its production are explained. The map is included as a fold-in; its limitations and possible applications are reviewed. /// Le besoin d'une lgende pratique pour les cartes de dangers combins des terrains montagneux  la latitude moyenne est devenu de plus en plus urgent au fur et  mesure que le tourisme de deux saisons s'est dvelopp  une rapidit croissante. Cette tude dcrit l'laboration d'une telle lgende pour la cartographie  l'chelle de reconnaissance au 1:24,000, et en bauche la justification. La zone choisie pour la cartographie est une portion des contreforts des Montagnes Rocheuses du Colorado telle qu'elle est reprsente sur la carte de l'"United States Geological Survey" intitule Monarch Lake. L'laboration de la carte elle-mme est discute et les diffrentes tapes entrant dans sa production sont expliques. La carte est jointe sous forme de dpliant; ses limitations et ses applications possibles sont passes en revue. /// Die Notwendigkeit wirkungsvoller, detaillierter Erluterungen fr eine Gefahrenkarte in gebirgigem Gelnde mittlerer Breiten ist dringlicher geworden, da der Fremdenverkehr whrend aller Jahreszeiten schnell zunimmt. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt den Entstehungsprozess und legt die Grnde dar fr die Formulierung von Texterluterungen fr Landkarten im Darstellungsmastab 1:24,000. Das kartographisch erfate Gebiet ist Teil der Vorberge der Colorado Rocky Mountains, wie sie auf dem Blatt Monarch Lake vom U.S. Geological Survey dargestellt sind. Der Ursprung der Karte selbst wird diskutiert und ihr Herstellungswerdegang erklrt. Die Karte liegt als Anlage bei. Die mglichen Anwendungsbereiche und deren Grenzen werden berprft.
10.2307/3674252|An attempt has been made to predict the life of Lake Nainital, a natural lake located in the Kumaun Himalaya with a fairly large human settlement around it. Sediment accumulation rates estimated by dating the lake sediment cores employing <sup>210</sup> Pb and <sup>137</sup> Cs dating techniques have been used for the purpose. The sediment accumulation rates estimated by radioisotope techniques are comparable to the rates obtained by the sediment balance method using suspended sediment data. The estimated useful life of the lake is about 2,200 years, which is much higher than the results obtained by earlier investigators who used short-term bathymetric data. In the present study, long-term (46 years) annual lake sounding data have also been analysed. Large bi-directional variations in the annual bathymetry imply that major errors are associated with the lake sounding data that led to the under-estimation of the life span of Lake Nainital by earlier investigators.
mounresedeve.34.4.410|The University of Central Asia's (UCA's) Mountain Societies Research Institute (MSRI) is an interdisciplinary research institute dedicated to addressing the challenges and opportunities within Central Asian mountain communities and environments. MSRI's goal is to support and enhance the resilience and quality of life of mountain societies through the generation and application of sound research. MSRI has 5 objectives: to generate new knowledge on mountain societies through academic research; to enhance Central Asian capacity to conduct research relevant to mountain societies; to serve as a knowledge hub for scholars, development practitioners, and decision-makers; to inform policy and practice through research; and to contribute to the development of UCA academic programs relevant to mountain societies. MSRI and its partners work to transfer knowledge to policy and practice aimed at improving the quality of life for people of the mountain areas of Central Asia.
3674508|There is a common belief that underdeveloped regions with major accessibility problems have insufficient resources for development. However, social and economic development in these regions can be realized through proper planning and resource management. A rural development project (RDP) focusing on social and economic development through protection of biodiversity in northern Turkey is a good example. Breeding of Caucasian queen bees (Apis mellifera caucasica), ecotourism, and ecoagriculture have been successful in this respect. The project received the "World Summit Business Award for Sustainable Development Partnership" from the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) at the World Summit on Sustainable Development 2002 in Johannesburg.
mounresedeve.35.4.318|The action research project reported in this article used a participatory approach to select trees for sloping-land agroforestry as a key strategy for forest ecosystem restoration and local livelihood development. It was the first such project in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) to use a participatory approach, empowering local user groups to develop their preferences for agroforestry species. Local knowledge of the multiple functions of agroforestry species ensured that the tree selection criteria included the value of timber, fruit, fodder, oil, medicines, fuelwood, and erosion control. Involving 67 farmers from 3 counties, this participatory selection process resulted in
10.2307/3673477|The broken topography of mountainous regions creates a complex mosaic of topoclimates. Spatial analyses of many climatic elements on a horizontal planar projection of such topography are almost meaningless. Therefore, in this study of potential evapotranspiration (PET) in Nepal, the vertical dimension (elevation) was chosen as the basis for spatial analysis. A form of the Penman method is used to estimate monthly PET for 11 stations, and an empirical method, developed from Penman values, is used for 13 additional stations. The PET values for each month regressed against elevation (which ranged from 100 to 3,700 m) give quite consistent, good correlations ( r<sup>2</sup> ranging from 0.61 to 0.89). The seasonal variation of PET and its elevational gradient is systematic and consistent with the seasonal and elevational patterns of related climate parameters. The resulting equations permit interpolation and hence integration over the vertical dimension of a cropping region or watershed, facilitating the application of PET data to irrigation timing, stream-flow estimation, crop condition monitoring, and agro-climatic classification in the mountainous terrain of Nepal. /// La topographie fracture des rgions montagneuses engendre une mosaque complexe de topoclimats. L'analyse spatiale des lments climatiques  partir de projections horizontales planes d'une telle topographie ne signifie pas grand chose. Pour cette raison, cette tude de l'vapotranspiration potentielle (ETP) au Npal utilise la dimension verticale (altitude) comme base de l'analyse spatiale. Une variante de la mthode de Penman est utilise pour estimer l'ETP mensuelle pour 11 stations, et une mthode empirique, drive des valeurs de Penman, est utilise pour 13 stations additionnelles. La rgression des valeurs de l'ETP par rapport  l'altitude (100-3.700 m) fournit de bonnes corrlations relativement cohrentes ( r<sup>2</sup> entre 0,61 et 0,89). La variation saisonnire de l'ETP et son gradient altitudinal sont systmatiques et conformes aux configurations saisonnires et altitudinales des paramtres climatiques associs. Les quations rsultantes permettent d'interpoler et donc d'intgrer sur la dimension verticale d'une rgion d'agriculture ou d'un bassin hydrographique, facilitant l'application des donnes d'ETP  la planification dans le temps de l'irrigation, l'estimation du dbit des ruisseaux, la surveillance de l'tat des cultures, et la classification agro-climatique dans les rgions montagneuses du Npal. /// Die zerklftete Topographie von Bergregionen erzeugt ein kompliziertes Mosaik von Topoklimata. Rumliche Analysen von so vielen klimatischen Elementen mittels einer horizontalen Flchenprojektion der Topographie sind ziemlich bedeutungslos. Deshalb whlt diese Untersuchung der potentiellen Evaporation (PET) in Nepal als Grundlage zur rumlichen Analyse die Hhe als vertikale Dimension. Ein Modell der Penman Methode wird benutzt, um fr 11 Stationen monatliche PET Werte abzuschtzen, und eine empirische - von den Penman Werten abgeleitet - Methode wird fr weitere 13 Stationen angewendet. Die monatlichen PET Werte, aufgetragen als Funktion der Hhe (der Bereich liegt zwischen 700 und 3700 m), zeigen gleichfrmige, gute Korrelation ( r<sup>2</sup> variiert von 0,61 bis 0,89). Die jahreszeitliche Vernderung von PET und zugehrigem Hhengradient sind systematisch und stimmen mit dem jahreszeitlichen und hhenabhngigen Verhalten von verwandten klimatischen Parametern berein. Die gefundenen Gleichungen knnen interpoliert werden, womit eine Integration ber die vertikale Dimension eines Erntegebietes oder einer Wasserscheide mglich ist. Dadurch erleichtert die Anwendung von PET Daten eine zeitliche Abstimmung bei der Bewsserung, ein Abschtzen der Wassermenge in Bchen, das berwachen der Ernte sowie agroklimatische Klassifikation im Berggebiet von Nepal.
10.2307/3673195|Popular and policy-influencing hypotheses concerning historical, post-1950, and current landscape degradation within the Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) National Park, Khumbu, Nepal, were tested through a number of complementary measures. Historical perspectives were provided by the assessment of soil profiles, pollen analysis of stratified soil samples, and the identification and <sup>14</sup> C dating of charcoal samples found at various soil depths. Repeat photography, combined with ground-truth verification, enabled an assessment of existing claims that large-scale vegetation and geomorphic change had occurred in the Park during the past 29-34 years. Soil-loss study plots were installed on a stratified and replicated basis throughout the Imja Khola valley and monitored on a weekly basis between 6 April and 1 November 1984. Results suggested that man may have been frequenting and modifying the Khumbu landscape for considerably longer than the 400-year period generally assumed, and that substantial climatic change has occurred during the past 4,000 years. Since the 1950s, far less forest removal and geomorphic damage has occurred in the Khumbu than has been hitherto assumed; most shrub/grassland and forested slopes below 4,000 m are surficially stable, but high soil loss occurs in certain degraded alpine summer settlement areas because of continued shrub harvesting for fuelwood, grazing pressures, and natural freeze-thaw processes. Project results suggest that previous claims of serious landscape degradation in the Khumbu have been overstated. Similar misunderstandings are likely to exist for other regions of Nepal and contain the potential for adversely affecting development and land management policies there. Long-term, region-specific, and quantitative research is suggested to facilitate the better understanding, and thus better management, of the diverse environments characteristic of Nepal, the Himalaya, and the mountain world in general. /// Les hypothses populaires et semi-officielles concernant la dgradation du terrain dans le parc national de Sagarmatha (Mont Everest), Khumbu, Npal, dans la pass, aprs 1950 et  prsent, ont t testes en utilisant plusieurs techniques complmentaires. Une perspective historique  t obtenue par l'valuation de profils de sols, l'application de techniques de la palynologie  des chantillons de sols stratifis, et l'identification et la datation par la mthode du carbonne 14 d'chantillons de charbon de bois prlevs  diffrentes profondeurs. Des photographies ariennes prises  intervalles rguliers, combines avec une vrification directe sur le terrain, ont permis d'valuer les prsentes hypothses que des changements de vgtation et de gomorphologie se sont produits sur une grande chelle dans le parc national au cours des 29-34 dernires annes. Des parcelles d'tude des pertes de sol ont t implantes sur une base stratigraphique et reproductible dans l'ensemble de la valle de l'Imja Khola et examines une fois par semaine entre le 6 avril et le ler novembre 1984. Les rsultats indiquent que des tres humains ont sjourn dans le Khumbu et ont modifi le terrain pendant une priode beaucoup plus longue que les 400 ans gnralement mentionns, et que des changements climatiques importants se sont produits au cours des 4.000 dernires annes. Depuis les annes 1950, la dforestation et les dgts gomorphologiques dans le Khumbu ont t beaucoup moindres que l'on croyait; la plus grande partie des arbrisseaux/prairies et des pentes couvertes de forts au-dessous de 4.000 m est stable en surface, mais des pertes importantes de sol se produisent dans certaines zones alpines dgrades de sjour estival, des  la coupe continuelle des arbrisseaux comme bois de chauffrage, le broutage excessif et les processus naturels de gel-dgel. Les rsultats du projet indiquent que les opinions prcdentes concernant la soit-disant srieuse dgradation du terrain dans le Khumbu sont exagres. Des distortions similaires existent probablement pour d'autres rgions du Npal et peuvent srieusement affecter les politiques de dveloppement et de gestion des terres. Des recherches quantitatives  long terme, spcifiques  chaque rgion, sont prconises pour mieux comprendre, et donc mieux grer, les diffrents environnements qui caractrisent le Npal, l'Himalaya et les rgions montagneuses en gnral. /// Populre und die Politik beeinflussende Hypothesen bezglich historischer, nach 1950 geschehener und gegenwrtiger Landschaftsschdigungen im Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) National Park, Khumbu, Nepal, wurden mittels einer Reihe sich ergnzender Aussagen berprft. Die Auswertung von Bodenprofilen, von Pollenanalysen aus geschichteten Erdproben, von Kenn-und C<sup>14</sup> Datierungsdaten fr Holzkohleproben aus verschiedenen Bodentiefen, ergaben den historischen Rckblick. Zeitraffer-Photografie zusammen mit Echtheitsnachweisen am Boden ermglichten eine Beurteilung der bestehenden Behauptung, da im Park whrend der vergangenen 29-34 Jahre geomorphische und Vegetationsvernderungen in groem Ausma stattgefunden haben. Landstcke wurden zur berprfung des Bodenverlustes im gesamten Imja Khola Tal unter reproduzierten, stratifizierten Bedingungen angelegt und allwchentlich zwischen dem 6. April und dem 1. November 1984 kontrolliert. Die Resultate lassen erkennen, da Menschen die Khumbu Landschaft aufgesucht und verndert haben und das weit ber den bisher angenommenen Zeitraum von 400 Jahren, und da whrend der vergangenen 4000 Jahre ein bedeutender Klimawechsel stattgefunden hat. Seit den 50er Jahren war die Entwaldung und die geomorphische Schdigung des Khumbu geringer als angenommen. Der grte Teil des Busch-Weidelands und die bewachsenen Hnge unterhalb der 4000 m Grenze sind an der Oberflche stabil, nur an bestimmten ramponierten, alpinen Stellen mit Sommerbetrieb tritt hoher Bodenverlust ein. Die Ursachen sind das fortgesetzte Abschlagen der Bsche fr Feuerholz, Weidezwnge und der natrliche Zyklus des Tauens und berfrierens. Die Resultate dieser Untersuchung lassen darauf schlieen, da die bisherigen Behauptungen von gravierenden Landschaftsverschlechterungen im Khumbu bertrieben sind. Wahrscheinlich existieren hnliche Miverstndnisse fr andere Gebiete in Nepal und knnten damit die Entwicklung und Landmanagementpolitik dort nachteilig beeinflussen. Langfristige, regional-spezifische und quantitative Forschung wird vorgeschlagen, um ein besseres Verstndnis und dadurch besseres Management der unterschiedlichen Umweltscharakteristika von Nepal, dem Himalaya und der Gebirgswelt generell, zu ermglichen.
10.2307/3672938|The final paper in this second Andean state-of-knowledge volume provides a perspective and integration of views expressed and questions raised in the foregoing papers and in the first volume. It is based upon the awareness that many attempts to stimulate economic development in under-developed countries by applying experience and technology from industrialized countries have been partial or total failures. Such failures are related to the degree of contrast in geographical characteristics between the temperate zone industrial mode and the receiving country. They also tend to occur when attempts are concentrated on efforts to increase the productivity of renewable natural resources. In the case of the Central Andes these problems are exacerbated by the enormous range of environments and the overriding impact of high altitude. The problems of economic development potential are reviewed on the basis of environmental diversity and inherited and modified cultural systems. Four major questions, currently unanswerable, are posed: 1) to what extent are improved-yield plants and animals from other areas transferable to the Central Andes? 2) how can natively-adpated species be improved? 3) how can ecological diversity be preserved for the future while achieving the best possible utilization for present human needs? and 4) to what extent can people be transferred amongst contrasting ecological belts? The problems of environmental stress are reviewed in light of the new material presented and the synthesis of earlier knowledge. Some broad conclusions of critical importance to development are posed. Development will require improved communication systems. This will produce an increase in the number of people undergoing rapid and frequent changes in altitude. Much larger numbers will change their altitude of residence to seek improved employment. Yet the work capacity of lowlanders moving to the altiplano, for instance, will be reduced by about 25 percent. It will likely never recover to the original lowland capacity even after several years' residence at high altitude. From a technological point of view the effect of altitude on the efficiency of the internal combustion engine, on manufacturing using liquids susceptible to lowered vaporization levels, on low levels of air pollution, are a few of the problems that need attention. The paper concludes with a statement on the need for vastly expanded research. It is suggested that the success of a given development plan will be proportionate to how well the planners recognize the effects that the specific physical environments have on living organisms, including humans. There is a pressing need for more adequate information. /// Cette article en conclusion au second volume sur l'tat des connaissances des Andes met en perspective et intgre les opinions exprimes et les questions souleves dans les tudes ci-devant et celles du premier volume. Elle repose sur la constatation qu'un grand nombre de tentatives visant  stimuler le dveloppement conomique des pays sous-dvelopps par l'application de l'exprience et de la technologie des pays industrialiss ont partiellement ou totalement chou. Ces ches sont lis  l'ampleur du contraste entre les caractristiques gographiques du monde industriel  climat tempr et celles du pays concern. Ils tendent aussi  se produire lorsque l'effort est mis sur l'augmentation de la productivit des ressources renouvelables. Dans les Andes Centrales, ces problmes sont empirs par la gamme tendue des environnements diffrents et par l'impact prononc de la haute altitude. Les problmes affectant les possibilits de dveloppement conomique sont passs en revue en regard de la diversit des environnements et les systmes culturels hrits ou modifis. Quatre questions importantes et jusqu' prsent restes sans rponse sont poses: 1) dans quelle mesure les plantes  rendement amlior et les animaux d'autres rgions peuvent-ils tre transplants dans les Andes Centrales? 2) comment les espces indignes bien adaptes peuvent-elles tre amliores? 3) comment la diversit cologique peut-elle tre prserve pour l'avenir tout en assurant une utilisation maximale pour les besoins humains actuels?, et 4) dans quelle mesure les populations peuvent-elles tre transplantes  travers les tages cologiques fortement contrasts? Les problmes du stress par l'environnement sont passs en revue  la lumire des nouvelles donnes prsentes et de la synthse des connaissances dj acquises. Des conclusions gnrales d'importance majeure pour le dveloppement sont tires. Le dveloppement ncessitera l'amlioration des moyens de communication; ceci aura pour effet d'augmenter le nombre de personnes devant supporter des changements d'altitude frquents et rapides. Encore plus nombreux seront ceux qui changeront l'altitude de leur rsidence pour chercher de meilleures conditions d'emploi. Pourtant, la capacit de travail des rsidants des basses terres sera rduite de 25% lorsqu'ils se trouveront sur l'altiplano, par exemple. Ils ne retrouveront probablement jamais leur capacit originale mme aprs plusieurs annes de sjour en haute altitude. Du point de vue technologique, les effets de l'altitude sur le rendement des moteurs  combustion interne, sur les procds de fabrication utilisant des liquides dont le point de vaporisation sera abaiss, sur le niveau de pollution de l'air, sont quelques uns des problmes qui devront faire l'objet d'une attention particulire. L'tude se termine par l'expression du besoin d'expansion de la recherche. Il est suggr que le succs d'un plan de dveloppement particulier dpendra directement de la manire dont ses auteurs auront tenu compte des effets des environnements physiques spcifiques sur les organismes vivants, y-compris les tres humains. Un besoin urgent d'un complment d'information adquate se fait nettement sentir. /// Die abschlieende Verffentlichung in dieser zweiten bersicht ber den heutigen Wissensstand der Anden vermittelt eine Zusammenfassung geuerter Ansichten und Fragen, die in frheren Verffentlichungen aufgeworfen wurden. Sie geht von der Erkenntnis aus, da viele Versuche, die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung in unterentwickelten Lndern dadurch zu beleben, da man Erfahrungen und Technologie von industrialisierten Lndern anwendet, teilweise oder vollstndig fehlgeschlagen sind. Solche Fehlschlge stehen im Zusammenhang mit den geographischen Unterschieden zwischen dem Anwendungsland und der Wirtschaftsweise gemigter Zonen. Sie treten hufig auch dann auf, wenn die Produktivitt von erneuerbaren Naturschtzen gesteigert werden soll. In den Zentralanden werden diese Probleme durch die vielgestaltige Umwelt und den dominierenden Einflu der Hhenlage verschlimmert. Die Probleme der Entwicklung eines wirtschaftlichen Potentials werden auf der Grundlage der Verschiedenartigkeit der Umwelt und der berlieferten und vernderten Kultursysteme berprft. Vier wichtige Fragen-bisher unbeantwortet-werden gestellet: 1) In welchem Ausma lassen sich ertragreichere Pflanzen und Tiere aus anderen Gebieten in den Zentralanden ansiedeln? 2) Wie knnen heimische Arten verbessert werden? 3) Wie kann die mannigfaltige Umwelt fr die Zukunft erhalten werden und zugleich die beste Nutzung fr jetzige menschliche Bedrfnisse erzielt werden? und 4) In welchem Umfang knnen Menschen innerhalb unterschiedlicher kologischer Gebiete umgesiedelt werden? Die Probleme des Stress durch die Umwelt werden unter besonderer Bercksichtigung neuer Erkenntnisse und der Synthese frheren Wissens berprft. Man kommt zu einigen allgemeinen Schlssen, die fr die Entwicklung besonders wichtig sind: Entwicklung wird ein verbessertes Kommunikationssystem verlangen. Dadurch wird die Zahl der Menschen, die schnell und oft einem Hhenwechsel ausgesetzt sind, ansteigen. Viele werden die Hhenlage ihres Wohnortes ndern, um bessere Arbeitsmglichkeiten zu suchen. Die Leistungsfhigkeit der Tieflandbewohner, die ins Hochland umsiedeln, wird mindestens um 25% herabgesetzt, und sie werden wahrscheinlich auch nach mehreren Jahren Hhenaufenthalt nicht wieder ihr Tiefland-Potential erreichen. Vom technischen Gesichtspunkt her gibt es zahlreiche Hhenprobleme, die Aufmerksamkeit verlangen, wie z.B. der verminderte Wirkungsgrad von Verbrennungsmotoren, oder der reduzierte Siedepunkt von Flssigkeiten, die in Herstellungsprozessen benutzt werden, oder die Erhaltung eines geringeren Grades an Luftverschmutzung. Die Verffentlichung schliet mit einer Befrwortung von Forschungsanstrengungen in groem Umfang. Es wird gefolgert, da das Gelingen jedes Entwicklungsplanes direkt davon abhngt, wie gut die Planer die Einwirkungen erkennen, die die natrliche Umwelt auf lebende Organismen, einschlielich den Menschen, hat. Besser fundierte Informationen werden dringend gebraucht. /// La ltima monografa de este segundo volumen de los estudios ms recientes sobre los Andes ofrece una perspectiva e integracin de los puntos de vista expresados y las preguntas formuladas en los trabajos precedentes as como en el primer volumen. Se basa en el conocimiento de que muchos intentos para estimular el desarrollo econmico en los pases subdesarrollados, aplicando la experiencia y la tecnologa de los pases industrializados, han sido un fracaso parcial o total. Tales fracasos estn relacionados con el grado de contraste entre las caractersticas geogrficas de la zona templada industrial y el pas receptor. Tambin tienden a ocurrir cuando los intentos se concentran en los esfuerzos por aumentar la productividad de los recursos naturales renovables. En el caso de los Andes Centrales estos problemas se ven exacerbados por la enorme variedad de medio-ambientes y el predominante impacto de la altura. Los problemas del potencial desarrollo econmico son analizados basndose en la diversidad de medio-ambientes y los sistemas culturales heredados y modificados. Se plantean cuatro grandes interrogantes, imposibles de contestar por el momento: 1) Haste qu punto pueden transferirse a los Andes Centales, plantas y animales de alto rendi10.2307/3673877|The variation of soils and the distribution of two species of Andean rosettes were examined along a slope toposequence in a Venezuelan paramo. The slope was divided into three units: an active talus at the top, a basically stable mid-slope, and a footslope affected by solifluction. Coespeletia timotensis Cuatr. was found in all areas, but grew more densely on the mid-slope. Espeletia schultzii Wedd. was confined to the basal slope, which had deep, dark, fine Aeric Humic cryaquepts and Typic cryosaprists with high organic content, low acidity and bulk density, and high cation-exchange capacity (CEC) and available nutrients. Soils on the mid-slope were similar, thinner Entic or Lithic cryumbrepts with higher acidity and bulk density, and a somewhat lower content of nutrients. Talus soils were light Typic cryorthents with mostly shallow, simple AC/C profiles, a coarse texture, low organic matter and pH, and high bulk density; CEC, N, and exchangeable bases were low. A sharp gradient of soil moisture existed along the slope in the dry season. Water content was highest in basal slope soils, which were above field capacity (FC), with a mean available moisture to rosettes of 55.2%. Mid-slope and talus soils had a very dry surface, but mid-slope soils were still above FC at depth and had an average usable moisture of 9.8%. Talus soils were dry and near the permanent wilting point; they contained only 2.8% available water. Several pedologic properties influenced rosette distribution, but soil moisture was probably paramount in this respect. /// La variation des sols et la distribution de deux espces de rosettes andines ont t examines le long d'une toposquence de versant situe dans un paramo vnzuelien. Le versant a t divis en trois lments: un talus actif au sommet, un versant moyen fondamentalement stable, et un pied de versant affect par la solifluxion. L'espce Coespeletia timotensis Cuatr. se trouve partout, mais elle est plus dense sur le versant moyen. L'espce Espeletia schultzii Wedd. est confine au versant colluvial qui comporte des "Aeric Humic cryaquepts" profonds, noirs et fins, et des "Typic cryosaprists" avec une teneur leve en matires organiques, une acidit et une densit apparente basses, et une haute capacit d'change cationique (CEC) et des substances nutritiives disponibles. Les sols sur le versant moyen sont des "Entic or Lithic cryumbrepts" similaires et plus minces, avec une acidit et une densit apparentes plus leves, et une teneur un peu moins leve en substances nutritives. Les sols du talus sont des "Typic cryorthents" lgers avec de simples profils AC/C, la plupart peu profonds, une texture grossire, une basse teneur en matires organiques, un bas pH, et une haute densit apparente; CEC, N et les bases changeables sont basses. Un gradient marqu d'humidit du sol apparat le long du versant au cours de la saison sche. La teneur en eau est la plus leve dans les sols du versant colluvial, qui se situent au-dessus de la capacit de rtention, avec une humidit moyenne de 55,2% disponible pour les rosettes. Les sols du versant moyen et du talus ont une surface trs sche, mais les sols du versant moyen se situent encore au-dessus de la capacit de rtention en profondeur, et possdent une humidit moyenne utilisable de 9,8%. Les sols du talus sont secs et proches du point de fltrissure permanent; ils ne contiennent que 2,8% d'eau disponible. Plusieurs proprits pdologiques influencent la distribution des rosettes, mais l'humidit du sol est probablement primordiale  cet gard. /// Es wurden die Abweichungen in der Bodenzusammensetzung und die Verteilung von zwei fr die Anden typischen Rosettengewchsen entlang einer Hangkette des Hochlandes von Venezuela (paramo) untersucht. Der Hang wurde in drei Gebiete aufgeteilt: Ein aktiver Gerllboden im oberen Drittel, ein an sich stabiler Teil in der Mitte und eine Basis, die Erdverschiebungen ausgesetzt ist. Coespeletia timotensis Cuatr. wuchs in allen drei Lagen; auf der Hangmitte besonders dicht. Espeletia schultzii Wedd. wuchs nur auf dem unteren Teil, der folgende Eigenschaften zeigte: Tiefe, dunkle und feine Aeric Humic cryaquepts und Typic cryoaprists mit hohem organischem Anteil, kleinem Suregehalt und niedriger Dichte, einer hohen catio-exchange Kapazitt (CEC) und viel Nhrsubstanz. Die Bodenzusammensetzung der mittleren Hanglage war hnlich, dnnere Entic oder Lithic cryumrepts mit grerem Suregehalt und hoher Dichte, aber mit etwas geringerer Nhrsubstanz. Die Gerllbden waren leichte Typic cryorthents mit berwiegend flachen, einfachen AC/C Profilen, von grober Beschaffenheit, mit niedrigem organischem- und pH-Anteil und hoher Dichte: CEC, N und austauschbare Laugen waren gering. Whrend der Trockenzeit gab es einen sehr deutlichen Gradienten in der Bodenfeuchtigkeit entlang des gesamten Hanges. Am Fu des Hanges war der Wassergehalt in den Bden, die ber "field capacity" (FC) waren, am grten; eine durchschnittliche Feuchtigkeit von 55,2% stand den Rosettengewchsen zur Verfgung. Bden der mittleren und oberen Hanglage hatten eine sehr trockene Oberflche, aber Bden im mittleren Hang waren in der Tiefe immer noch ber FC und hatten einen durchschnittlichen nutzbaren Feuchtigkeitsgehalt von 9,8%. Die Gerllbden waren trocken, enthielten nur 2,8% Feuchtigkeit und lieen kein Wachstum zu. Die Verteilung der Rosettengewchse wurde von mehreren pedologischen Eigenschaften beeinflut, wobei die Bodenfeuchtigkeit wahrscheinlich die wichtigste ausmachte. /// Se examin la variacin de los suelos y la distribucin de dos especies de rosetas andinas a lo largo de una toposecuencia en un pramo de Venezuela. La pendiente fue dividida en tres unidades: el segmento superior es un talo activo, la pendiente media es bsicamente estable, y la zona basal es afectada por solifluccin. Aunque crece ms densamente en la pendiente media, Coespeletia timotensis Cuatr. est en todas las reas. Espeletia schultzii Wedd. est restringida a la pendiente basal, que tiene suelos profundos, oscuros, y finos de Cryaquepts aricos hmicos y Cryosaprists tpicos con alto contenido orgnico, baja acidez y densidad, y alto porcentaje de nutrientes y capacidad de intercambio catinico (CIC). Los suelos de la pendiente media son Cryumbrepts nticos o lticos similares, con mayor densidad y acidez y un contenido de nutrientes algo menor. Los suelos del talo son Cryorthents tpicos claros, generalmente poco profundos, con perfiles sencillos de tipo AC/C, textura gruesa, bajo nivel de materia orgnica y pH, y alta densidad; la CIC y la mayora de los nutrientes son bajos. A lo largo de la pendiente hubo un gradiente hdrico muy pronunciado durante la poca seca. Los suelos de la base eran los ms hmedos: sobrepasaban la capacidad de campo (CC) y tenan un promedio de agua asequible a las rosetas de 55.2%. La pendiente media y alta tenan una superficie muy seca, pero el subsuelo en la primera estaba an por arriba de la CC y tena una media de 9.8% de agua usable. Los suelos en el talo estaban muy secos y cerca del punto de marchitamiento permanente; solo contenan 2.8% de agua utilizable. La distribucin de las rosetas fue influenciada por varias propiedades de los suelos, pero la humedad tuvo probablemente una importancia primordial en este respecto.
3674056|The regional land use system in northern Pakistan is based on irrigated crop cultivation on valley floors, combined with animal husbandry and forest utilization in the upper altitudinal belts. Local communities subsist on this agropastoral economy to a considerable extent. Environmental conditions and the ecological risks of resource utilization are intimately linked in this high mountain region. Rapid population growth, a corresponding increase in pressure on natural resources, and the consequent danger of environmental degradation raise questions about sustainable resource management in relation to contemporary land use and land cover change. The present study investigates vegetation changes and the development of land use patterns in the Nanga Parbat region (Northwest Himalaya) using matched pairs of photographs. A comprehensive collection of historical landscape photographs, taken by members of the German Himalaya expeditions of 1934 and 1937, forms a valuable baseline data set for the area. Recent fieldwork made it possible to reproduce a number of these photographs from viewpoints identical to the earlier ones. Direct comparisons illustrate change and persistence in the cultural landscape over a span of 60 years. The development of the cultural landscape is characterized by the enlargement of settlements and the expansion of cultivated areas in most valleys. On a local scale, intensified irrigation has led to an increase of groundwater-dependent thickets along the water channels and below the cultivated terraces. The montane coniferous forests are characterized by gradual decline, though change is drastic in some places due to local overexploitation. The submontane Pinus gerardiana and Juniperus semiglobosa forests in the vicinity of the villages and near the lower timberline have been seriously degraded.
10.2307/3673932|Considerable development has taken place in the Australian Alps, particularly over the last 10-15 years, to provide accommodation and recreational facilities for an increasing number of visitors to the mountains. This development has not been without some impacts on the natural environment but to date these have not been quantified in the context of ecologically sustainable development. Ecotourism in the high mountain environments is also being actively promoted and this will increase the demand for accommodation and infrastructure, which may lead to further impacts in the very sensitive and significant Alps catchments. Several examples of environmental impacts are discussed and a "catchment model" approach to determining ecologically sustainable development is presented. This model provides a mechanism to quantify the carrying capacities of the ecosystems and the levels of acceptable impacts which proposed developments and recreational use may impose on the ecosystems of alpine catchments. /// Un amnagement considrable a t effectu dans les Alpes australiennes, en particulier au cours des 10  15 dernires annes, afin de fournir des logements et des installations de loisir  un nombre croissant de visiteurs. Cet amnagement ne s'est pas produit sans impacts sur l'environnment naturel, impacts qui jusqu' prsent n'ont pas t quantifis dans le contexte d'un dveloppement cologiquement soutenable. La publicit axe vers l'cotourisme dans les environnements de haute montagne est galement trs pousse, ce qui finira par augmenter la demande pour des logements et une infrastructure adquate, entranant ainsi des impacts additionnels sur les bassins versant alpins trs fragiles et importants. Plusieurs exemples d'impacts environnementaux sont examins et une approche du type "modle de bassin versant" visant  caractriser un dveloppement cologiquement soutenable est prsent. Ce modle fournit un mcanisme de quantification des capacits limites des cosystmes, et des niveaux d'impact acceptables que les amnagements proposs et l'utilisation pour les loisirs peuvent imposer aux cosystmes des bassins versants alpins. /// Whrend der letzten 15 Jahre wurden umfangreiche Entwicklungsmanahmen bezglich der Unterbringung und Bereitstellung von Erholungsangeboten fr eine wachsende Zahl von Gebirgstouristen in den Australischen Alpen durchgefhrt. Diese Vernderungen blieben nicht ohne Auswirkungen auf den Naturraum. Bislang liegen jedoch noch keine quantitativen Daten fr die Bewertung nachhaltiger Entwicklungsmanahmen unter Einbeziehung von Umweltaspekten vor. Da kologisch ausgerichteter Hochgebirgstourismus hohe Wachstumsraten verzeichnet, wird der Bedarf an Unterkunftsmglichkeiten und dazugehriger Infrastruktur ebenfalls steigen. Eine weitergehende Gefhrdung der bedeutenden und auf jegliche Eingriffe sensitiv reagierenden Hochgebirgsumwelt des alpinen Einzugsgebietes ist zu befrchten. kologische Schden werden in mehreren Fallbeispielen exemplifiziert. Aus dieser Diskussion wird ein Ansatz fr ein "Einzugsgebiets-Modell" abgeleitet, das nachhaltige Entwicklung unter Einbeziehung der Umweltschonung propagiert. Darber hinaus stellt dieser Ansatz ein Instrumentarium zur Verfgung, das es erlaubt, die kologische Tragfhigkeit und Grenzbedingungen fr die Toleranz von Aueneinflssen im Hochgebirgstourismus der alpinen Einzugsbereiche zu bestimmen.
10.2307/3672934|Widespread migration and population redistribution in the Central Andes during recent decades have provoked serious concern over the social, environmental, and biological consequences. The massive sanitary and public health measures introduced in the 1920s led to a reduced death rate but an unchanged and high birth rate. The resulting rapid increase in population, accelerating after 1950 and combining with industrialization, has imposed a new and much more extensive pattern of migration upon the traditional processes of Andean population movements. While problems associated with this large-scale migration have similarities to migrations elsewhere in the world, there are also uniquely Andean characteristics. These relate to the fact that migration occurs within the context of a vertically-orientated distribution of population and resources. This paper examines available data on the following components of Andean migration: 1) volume; 2) flows and patterns; 3) causes; and 4) characteristics of the migrants themselves. Social and economic consequences are large and intractable. The impacts of out-migration on the donor communities are examined as are those of in-migration on the receiving communities. Migration from rural to urban areas dominates as indicated by the situation of Lima which grew from 600,000 in 1940 to 4 million in 1970. Similarly, 9.9 percent of Lima's 1956 population was contained in pueblos jovenes (squatter suburbs), and this figure had risen to 76 percent in 1976. The special importance of movement from highland rural areas to lowland urban areas is identified. The need to understand all phases of the migration process is underlined. It affects many aspects of social and economic planning and has major repercussions in relation to environmental stability and sustained yield from the use and management of natural resources. The paper concludes by identifying current gaps in knowledge and recommending steps that must be taken to fill them as a basis for effective resource use and economic and social planning. /// La migration  grande chelle qui s'est produite dans les Andes Centrales au cours des dernires dcades, ainsi que les changements de rpartition de la population, font l'objet d'inquitudes srieuses quant aux consquences sur les plans social, biologique, et de l'environnement. Les mesures d'hygine et de sant publique appliques  grande chelle entre 1920 et 1930 ont rduit le taux de mortalit alors que le taux lev des naissances est rest le mme. L'accroissement rapide de la population qui s'ensuivit, acclr aprs 1950 et combin avec l'industrialisation, a impos un mode de migration nouveau et beaucoup plus vaste aux processus traditionnels de mouvement des populations andines. Bien que les problmes associs  cette migration  grande chelle soient similaires  ceux rencontrs autre part dans le monde, ils prsentent nanmoins des caractristiques typiquement andines. Cela s'explique du fait que la migration s'effectue au sein d'une rpartition verticale de la population et des ressources. Cette tude passe en revue les donnes disponibles sur les lments suivants de la migration andine: 1) volume; 2) flux et configurations; 3) causes; et 4) caractristiques des migrants. Les consquences sociales et conomiques sont importantes et difficiles  matriser. Les effets de l'migration sur les communauts perdantes et de l'immigration sur les communauts gagnantes sont examins. La migration des zones rurales vers les zones urbaines prdomine, comme l'indique la dmographie de Lima dont la population est passe de 600.000 en 1940  4 millions en 1970. C'est ainsi que 9,9% de la population de Lima se trouvait dans les pueblos jovenes (bidonvilles) en 1956, et 76% en 1976. L'importance particulire des mouvements de population des hautes rgions rurales vers les basses rgions urbaines est reconnue, et le besoin de comprendre toutes les phases du processus de migration est soulign. Ce processus affecte diffrents aspects de la planification conomique et sociale, et a des rpercussions majeures sur la stabilit de l'environnement et le maintien de la production provenant de l'exploitation et de la gestion des ressources naturelles. L'tude conclut en identifiant les lacunes existantes dans les connaissances et recommande certaines mesures  prendre pour les combler. De cette manire, une base solide pourra tre tablie pour assurer une exploitation efficace des ressources et une planification conomique et sociale adquate. /// In den vergangenen Jahrzehnten haben weitverbreitete Abwanderung und Bevlkerungsverschiebung in den Zentralanden ernste Bedenken ber die sozialen, umweltbezogenen und biologischen Folgen hervorgerufen. Die umfangreichen Manahmen im sanitren- und Gesundheitsbereich, die in den 20er Jahren eingefhrt wurden, brachten einen Rckgang der Sterblichkeit und hielten die Geburtenzahlen unverndert hoch. Als Folge ergab sich ein schnelles Anwachsen der Bevlkerung, das in den 50er Jahren noch erheblich zunahm, und zusammen mit der Industrialisierung eine neue und weitreichende Umschichtung der traditionellen Abwanderungsvorgnge in den Anden erzwang. Obwohl die Probleme, die mit einer groen Bevlkerungsverschiebung zusammenhngen, in anderen Teilen der Erde hnlich sind, gibt es Probleme, die fr das Andengebiet besonders charakteristisch sind. Diese Besonderheiten ergeben sich aus der vertikal orientierten Verteilung von Bevlkerung und Naturschtzen. Die folgenden Merkmale der Abwanderung im Andengebiet werden in dieser Verffentlichung untersucht: 1) Umfang; 2) Art und Weise; 3) Hintergrnde und 4) Besonderheiten der abwandernden Bevlkerung. Die sozialen und wirtschaftlichen Folgen sind schwerwiegend und unkontrollierbar. Es werden die Auswirkungen der Abwanderung aus den Ursprungsgemeinschaften sowie die der Einwanderung in die neuen Gemeinden untersucht. Lima, das von 600,000 Einwohnern im Jahre 1940 auf 4 Mill. im Jahre 1970 wuchs, ist ein Beispiel fr die vorherrschende Abwanderung aus lndlichen Gebieten in stdtische. Im Jahre 1956 lebten 9.9% der Bevlkerung Limas in den pueblos jovenes (Illegale Vorortsiedler), diese Zahl stieg auf 76% fr das Jahr 1976. Die besondere Bedeutung der Abwanderung vom lndlichen Hochland ins stdtische Tiefland wird erkannt. Es wird unterstrichen, wie wichtig es ist, alle Phasen dieses Abwanderungsprozesses zu verstehen. Er betrifft alle sozialen und wirtschaftlichen Planungsbereiche und hat groe Auswirkungen auf die Stabilitt der Umwelt und auf das Erhalten der Ertrge, die sich aus der Nutzung und dem Management der Naturschtze ergeben. Die Verffentlichung zeigt abschlieend derzeitige Wissenslcken auf und empfiehlt Schritte, die als Grundlage zur wirksamen Nutzung der Naturschtze und wirtschaftlichen und sozialen Planung dienen knnten. /// La migracin generalizada y la redistribucin de la poblacin en los Andes Centrales durante las ltimas dcadas, han provocado serias preocupaciones sobre sus consecuencias sociales, biolgicas y ambientales Las medidas de sanidad y salud pblica masivas introducidas en los aos veinte produjeron una reduccin en el ndice de mortalidad mientras que el ya alto ndice de nacimientos se mantuvo igual. El rpido aumento de la poblacin resultante, acelerado a partir de 1950 y combinado con la industrializacin, ha impuesto una forma de migracin nueva y mucho ms extensa, sobre los procesos tradicionales de movimiento de la poblacin andina. Mientras que los problemas asociados con esta migracin en larga escala son semejantes a los de otras migraciones en el mundo, esta migracin andina tiene caractersticas nicas. Estas se relacionan con el hecho de que la migracin ocurre dentro del contexto de una distribucin de la poblacin y de los recursos orientada verticalmente. Esta monografa examina la informacin disponible sobre los siguientes componentes de la migracin andina: 1) volumen; 2) movimientos y tendencias; 3) causas; 4) caractersticas de los emigrantes. Las consecuencias sociales y econmicas son grandes e intratables. Se estudia el impacto de la salida de los emigrantes de su regin o pueblo de origen as como el impacto de la llegada de los inmigrantes a la regin o pueblo que los recibe. La migracin de las reas rurales a las urbanas es altamente dominante como lo indica la situacin de Lima que creci de 600.000 en 1940 a 4 millones en 1970. Similarmente, en 1956, el 9.9% de la poblacin de Lima viva en los "pueblos jvenes"; esta proporcin ha subido al 76% en 1976. Se hace notar la especial importancia del movimiento de las reas rurales de tierras altas a las urbanas de tierras bajas. Se subraya la necesidad de entender todas las fases del proceso migratorio. Este afecta muchos aspectos sociales y econmicos de la planificacin y tiene fuertes repercusiones sobre la estabilidad ambiental y el mantenimiento de una produccin constante como resultado del uso y administracin de los recursos naturales. El trabajo concluye con la identificacin de los vacos de conocimiento actual y recomienda las medidas que deben tomarse como base para el uso efectivo de los recursos y la planificacin econmica y social.
10.2307/3673951|Predicting heavy mountain snowfall, which is critical for avalanche hazard forecasting, is difficult due to complex interactions between rugged topography and atmospheric circulation. In this study the relationship between atmospheric circulation patterns and extreme snowfall events is examined at Bridger Bowl, Montana, U.S.A. which has a 26-year winter record of daily snowfall. Five hundred millibar composite and anomaly maps were constructed for days of heavy snowfall (greater than 32.8 cm). These maps show that during and prior to heavy snowfall, Bridger Bowl is located beneath the back side of a upper-level trough, with predominant winds and storms coming from the northwest. This atmospheric circulation pattern differs from those for other high-elevation sites in the North American interior due to the surrounding regional topography. High mountain ranges to the southwest and west often block incoming moisture, while relatively lower topography to the northwest allows Pacific moisture to reach Bridger Bowl. The results of this study can be used to complement operational forecasting models for predicting heavy snowfall at Bridger Bowl, thereby facilitating snow avalanche forecasting in the region. /// La prdiction des grosses chutes de neige en montagne, indispensable pour la prdiction des dangers d'avalanche, est difficile du fait des interactions complexes entre la topographie accidente et la circulation atmosphrique. Cette tude examine la relation entre les configurations de la circulation atmosphrique et les chutes de neige extrmes  Bridger Bowl au Montana, Etats-Unis, l o un registre des chutes de neige quotidiennes a t tenu au cours des 26 dernires annes. Des cartes d'anomalies et des cartes combines  l'chelle 500 millibars ont t compiles pour les jours de grosses chutes de neige (suprieures  32,8 cm). Ces cartes indiquent qu'avant et pendant les grosses chutes de neige, Bridger Bowl est situ au-dessous de l'arrire d'un creux baromtrique en altitude, avec des temptes et des vents prominents en provenance du nord-ouest. Cette configuration de la circulation atmosphrique diffre de celles d'autres sites  haute altitude de l'intrieur de l'Amrique du Nord,  cause de la topographie rgionale environnante. Les chanes de hautes montagnes du sud-ouest et de l'ouest bloquent souvent l'arrive d'humidit, alors que la topographie relativement basse du nord-ouest permet  l'humidit en provenance du Pacifique d'atteindre Bridger Bowl. Les rsultats de cette tude peuvent tre utiliss en tant que supplment aux modles oprationnels de prdiction des grosses chutes de neige  Bridger Bowl, facilitant ainsi la prdiction des avalanches de neige dans la rgion. /// Starke Schneeflle im Gebirge fhren zu erhhter Lawinengefahr, deren Vorhersage durch komplexe Wechselwirkungen zwischen der zerklfteten Topografie und der atmosphrischen Zirkulation, erschwert wird. Diese Arbeit untersucht fr das Bridger Bowl Gebiet in Montana, U.S.A., die Beziehungen zwischen Luftstrmungen und starkem Schneefall anhand tglicher Aufzeichnungen, fr die eine 26-jhrige Datenbasis zur Verfgung steht. Fr hohe Tages-Schneefallwerte (mehr als 32,8 cm) wurden barographische Karten der Mittelwerte und Tendenzen bei 500 mb erstellt; und es zeigte sich, da whrend starkem Schneefalls-und kurz davor-das Bridger Bowl Gebiet auf der Rckseite einer hochgelagerten Tiefdruckzone lag und die vorherrschenden Winde aus nordwestlicher Richtung kamen. Die lokale Topografie hat einen entscheidenden Einflu auf das atmosphrische Strmungsverhalten; und diese unterscheidet sich in starkem Mae von anderen Gebirgsregionen in Nordamerika. Hohe Gebirgszge im Sden und Westen blockieren den Zuflu feuchter Luft, die, von den niedrigen Gipfelhhen der Randberge begnstigt, aus Nordwesten vom Pazifik her in das Bridger Bowl Gebiet einstrmt. Ergebnisse dieser Arbeit knnen bestehende Schneefall-Vorhersagen fr das Bridger Bowl Gebiet ergnzen und Warnungen ber Lawinengefahren zuverlssiger machen.
3674391|The present article uses historical, archival, and photographic evidence to examine the process of deforestation in the central highlands of Eritrea since the late 19th century. It finds that the extent of deterioration has been far less than generally believed by both policy-makers and rural people themselves, and by no means uniform in time and space. Furthermore, the factors that are assumed to have contributed to deforestation in this region have largely been exaggerated, while rural communities have been more adept at handling scarce wood resources than generally believed. The case of Eritrea provides evidence in support of a growing body of literature that seeks to challenge prevailing orthodoxies about the scale and pattern of deforestation in Africa and popular policies of large-scale tree planting that have been devised as a response to such perceptions.
90009009|As a valuable entomophagus fungus species, caterpillar fungus (
3674343|Experiences with a participatory seed improvement initiative as a strategy for combating food deficits in a remote community in eastern Nepal are outlined. On the basis of participatory methods of problem assessment, food deficits were attributed to several factors, such as limited arable land, poor soils, and lack of access to improved seeds and other agricultural services arising partly from the low-land and gender biases of national planners. Additionally, an increase in the number of households headed by women and the greater agricultural burden placed on women as a result of male out-migration have contributed to the problem of food deficits. During times of scarcity, women's preferences for nutritional value and easy postharvest preparation are subsumed by the more immediate need for higher yields. Most of the crop varieties preferred by women are land-races; hence, it is proposed that these crop varieties become the focus of future crop improvement initiatives to sustain crop diversity while addressing the needs of women. A strategy to develop capacity among women and men engaged in farming through a local community development organization was devised in consultation with the community, on the basis of criteria for participation by innovators and in recognition of gender-differentiated knowledge and the respective roles of women and men. The outcomes of the initiative were the development of a seed bank and plans for more advanced technical training to enhance local breeding practices, with an awareness of the gendered aspects of crop selection.
mounresedeve.31.1.35|This study examines the practice of lopping of
90001390|Effective landscape restoration practices require scientific knowledge about ecosystem functions, land use history, and institutional arrangements. In close collaboration with local partners, the Consortium for the Sustainable Development of the Andean Ecoregion (CONDESAN) is working to develop and assess restoration practices in Andean ecosystems. The approach combines various tools at the landscape scale, emphasizing the need to integrate restoration actions into land use planning and the importance of monitoring restoration practices. The sustainability of restoration practices remains a challenge, but the work underway will allow CONDESAN to generate sound alternatives for Andean landscapes.
3674412|The Mountain and Plains Spatio-Temporal Database Informatics Initiative (MaPSTeDI) is a collaborative effort between the University of Colorado Museum, Denver Museum of Nature and Science, and Denver Botanic Gardens to convert their separate collections into one distributed biodiversity database and research toolkit using online mapping applications. The 3 participating museums are all located just east of the Rocky Mountains in the United States and have extensive natural history collections data covering the southern and central Rockies and adjacent plains. MaPSTeDI's efforts will result in an online mapping application with access to over 200,000 georeferenced specimens. Once this application is in production, MaPSTeDI will provide access to valuable data that can be used by researchers for biodiversity analyses and land use planning over a 6-state region that includes Colorado, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming.
25164103|The present article examines the causes of deforestation in southwest China on the basis of listening to peasants' own descriptions of their role in illegal timber cutting. It finds that a sense of "relative deprivation" amongst China's rural poor has encouraged poor environmental management. Peasants justify illegal tree cutting by pointing to China's rapidly increasing inequalities, their lack of economic opportunity, and the absence of economic support from the (corrupt) government. These issues, combined with continuing institutional problems with forest management after decollectivization, convince peasants that ignoring environmental conservation edicts and cashing in on their trees is a good choice. This study identifies relative poverty and social discontent as major factors driving deforestation.
10.2307/3673224|In a 400-year encounter with Quechua- and Aymara-speaking peoples, Euro-American thought has, until recently, achieved ever-deepening ignorance about the Andean majority populations. But certain conjunctures in politics and inter-ethnic relations have, at identifiable moments, motivated research forays through the barriers cordoning off living highland peoples (as opposed to prehistoric Incas) from intellectual respectability. The recent and probably decisive flourishing of Andean ethnology is the greatest such movement since the 1570s; it can be traced both to highland movements of regional self-assertion after 1900, and to the separate rediscoveries of native America by the anthropologists of France, Germany, and the U.S.A. Current work reflects the condition of national states coping uncertainly with cultural plurality, and the tendency to develop anthropological theories for their critical as much as their analytical potential. /// Aprs 400 ans de contact avec les peuples parlant le quechua et l'aymara, la pense euro-amricaine a, jusqu' rcemment, dmontr une ignorance profonde des groupements majeurs habitant les Andes. Nanmoins, certaines conjonctures en politique et en relations inter-ethniques ont,  des moments bien prcis, entran la chute des barrires dniant  l'tude des peuples andins actuels (compars aux Incas prhistoriques) toute respectabilit acadmique. L'panouissement rcent et probablement dcisif de l'ethnologie andine constitue l'vnement le plus important depuis 1570. Il remonte  la fois aux mouvements d'affirmation rgionale aprs 1900 et  la rdcouverte simultane des peuples aborignes de l'Amrique par les anthropologues franais, allemands, et amricains. La recherche actuelle reflte la condition des Etats nationaux qui font face d'une faon incertaine  la pluralit culturelle, et la tendance  laborer des thories anthropologiques pour leur potentiel critique aussi bien qu'analytique. /// Obwohl man seit 400 Jahren Quechua- und Aymara sprechende Bevlkerungsgruppen antrifft, hatte bis vor kurzem die euro-amerikanische Denkweise zu einer stndig wachsenden Ignoranz ber den Groteil der Andenvlker gefhrt. Nur gewisse politische Umstnde und ethnische Wechselbeziehungen haben zu bestimmbaren Zeitpunkten Forschungsstreifzge zugelassen, die Barrieren sprengten, welche den heutigen Hochlandvlkern (im Gegensatz zu den prhistorischen Inkas) die intellektuelle Anerkennung versagt hatten. Die neuere und wahrscheinlich bedeutendste Blte in der Anden-Ethnologie lieferte den wichtigsten Beitrag seit 1570, und sie kann sowohl auf die Bewegung der Bergvlker seit 1900 zu regionaler Selbstbestimmung wie auch auf die unabhngige Wiederentdeckung eines Ur-Amerikas durch Anthropologen aus Frankreich, Deutschland und den USA zurckgefhrt werden. Gegenwrtige Arbeiten spiegeln einen Zustand, in dem Nationalstaaten unsicher ihre kulturelle Vielfalt bewltigen, und Tendenzen, anthropologische Theorien fr ihr kritisches und besonders fr ihr analytisches Potential zu entwickeln. /// En los 400 aos de contacto con los pueblos quechua y aymara, el pensamiento occidental ha mantenido un desconocimiento de la realidad de los grupos andinos mayoritarios. Pero ciertas conyunturas polticas han motivado investigaciones que pasan las barreras que excluyen estos pueblos (en contraste con los incas prehistricos) del respeto intelectual. El reciente florecimiento de la etnologa andina es el paso mas importante en este campo desde los aos 1570. Se puede encontrar sus races tanto en los movimientos regionalistas de este siglo como en el descubrimiento de una America indgena por los antroplogos franceses, alemanes y norteamericanos. Investigaciones actuales reflejan tanto la problemtica de naciones que enfrentan la pluralidad cultural como la tendencia de desarrollar teoras antropolgicas para fines crticos mas que analticos.
mounresedeve.33.2.132|A field study in the western Himalayan foothill region of Uttarakhand found widespread resistance to livestock vaccinations and medications based on a number of misconceptions, including that they would cause miscarriages, reduction in milk yield, reduction in feed consumption, weakness, fibroid formation, or fever. Over a 3-year period, 150 farmers received, free of cost, livestock vaccinations and antiparasite medications along with advice on sanitation and feeding, delivered by using 3 different communication methods. Group 1 received individualized training by a veterinary professional and a youth volunteer, group 2 received small-group training at a central location, and group 3 was exposed to wall posters that advertised a distribution of free medications at a veterinary outreach event where they could also interact with animal health personnel. The intervention that had the greatest impact was the one with the group that received personalized training, which resulted in a 96% vaccination rate at the end of the third year.
10.2307/3673527|The species of Colorado's forests are well adapted to perpetuating themselves in locations which experience frequent fires. Before mid-nineteenth century European settlement, fire was the primary force of change in these forests. Subsequently, three regimes of use and management can be recognized: extractive, custodial, and recreational. These are described mainly in relation to Pikes Peak and Summit County. In the extractive era, lasting to the close of the nineteenth century, much forest cover was removed by logging and burning. During the custodial era (about 1900-1950), the U.S. Forest Service managed the forests according to the sustained-yield doctrine, emphasizing protection of forests from fire. Subsequent forest management has been oriented toward recreation, and also to the provision of water. Wood production is relatively unimportant, as demands are low and costs are high. To provide the desired outputs, the forests require management, particularly because of their increasingly unstable structure. Logging is not always the best form of management; prescribed burning should be more widely used. This requires a new concept of sustained-yield forestry that ensures the provision of all outputs desired by present and future generations, using optimal management tools. Considerable changes in the attitudes of citizens, foresters, and policy-makers will be required. /// Les espces prsentes dans les forts du Colorado sont bien adaptes pour ce qui est de se perptuer dans des zones sujettes  de frquents feux de forts. Avant le peuplement par les Europens au milieu du dix-neuvime sicle, le feu tait le facteur de changement le plus important pour ces forts. Par la suite, trois priodes d'utilisation et de gestion des forts ont t identifis: exploitation, prservation et loisirs. Ces priodes sont dcrites principalement en rapport avec Pikes Peak et Summit County. Pendant la priode d'exploitation qui a dur jusqu' la fin du dix-neuvime sicle, une grande partie des forts a disparu par suite de l'abattage et du brlage. Pendant la priode de prservation (de 1900  1950 environ), le service des eaux et forts amricain a gr les forts selon une doctrine de production soutenue, mettant l'accent sur la protection contre le feu. Ensuite, la gestion des forts s'est oriente vers les loisirs, et aussi vers l'approvisionnement en eau. La production de bois n'est gure importante du fait que la demande est basse et les frais sont lvs. Les forts ncessitent une gestion rationnelle pour obtenir les rsultats escompts, en particulier  cause de leur structure de plus en plus instable. L'abattage des arbres n'est pas toujours la meilleure mthode de gestion; le brlage contrl devrait tre plus utilis qu'il ne l'est. Cela ncessite un nouveau concept de sylviculture  production soutenue qui permette d'obtenir les rsultats escompts pour les gnrations prsentes et futures, utilisant des outils de gestion optimaux. Des changements d'attitude importants de la part des habitants, des forestiers et des politiciens sont ncessaires. /// Die Baumarten, die auf Colorado's Waldflchen wachsen, haben sich gut angepat, um an Standorten zu berleben, die fter von Waldbrnden betroffen sind. In der Zeit vor der europischen Besiedelung, bis etwa Mitte des 19. Jahrhunderts, war Feuer der Hauptgrund fr Vernderungen in diesen Wldern. Aus der historischen Entwicklung knnen drei Systeme der Nutzung und des Managements des Waldes benannt werden: Ein extraktives, ein auf Erhaltung ausgerichtetes und eines zur Freizeitnutzung. Diese Systeme werden hauptschlich fr die Pikes Peak und Summit Landkreise beschrieben. Whrend der extraktiven Periode, die bis zum Ende des 19. Jahrhunderts dauerte, wurde ein groer Teil der Wldflchen fr Holzwirtschaft und als Brennmaterial genutzt. Whrend der Erhaltungsra (etwa 1900 bis 1950) verwaltete der U.S. Forest Service die Waldflchen nach dem Prinzip von Nachhaltigkeit und betonte den Feuerschutz. In der Folge hat sich das Management mehr an den Begriffen Freizeitnutzung und Wasserergiebigkeit orientiert, wobei wegen geringer Nachfrage und hoher Kosten die Holzproduktion nebenschlich blieb. Um erwnschte Resultate zu erzielen, mssen die Waldflchen wegen ihrer zunehmend unstabilen Struktur verwaltet werden. Abholzung ist nicht immer die beste Managementart-kontrolliertes Abbrennen sollte hufiger angewendet werden. Dies wiederum erfordert, unter Anwendung optimaler Managementverfahren, ein neues Konzept fr das Nachhaltigkeitsverhltnis in der Waldwirtschaft zu finden, das alle Erwartungen erfllt, die gegenwrtige und zuknftige Generationen haben knnten.
10.2307/3673536|The roles of traditional environmental knowledge and local conservation efforts in slopeland management and village resource development are examined in Phalabang panchayat in western Nepal's Middle Mountains region. The incentives for indigenous conservation development in Phalabang incorporate the following factors: village territory spatial organization, land use, environmental perception, social organization, and land tenure. Two contrasting examples, Nigane Ridge and Kalikathan Slope, are discussed in order to identify important motivations for villager involvement in resource conservation. In Phalabang, household level conservation efforts on private lands are generally more effective than community efforts. The scale of conservation development, social organizational modes, and land tenure issues remain problematic in the design of resource development on degraded lands. /// Les rles respectifs des connaissances traditionnelles de l'environnement et des efforts locaux de conservation en ce qui concerne la gestion des terres situes sur les pentes et le dveloppement des ressources du village sont examines dans le cas du panchayat de Phalabang dans les montagnes centrales du Npal occidental. Les efforts de conservation de la population de Phalabang sont encourags par les facteurs suivants: organisation spatiale du territoire du village, utilisation des terres, perception de l'environnement comme ressource essentielle, organisation sociale et rgime foncier. Deux cas particuliers, la crte de Nigane et la pente de Kalikathan, sont compars afin d'identifier les raisons les plus importantes pour lesquelles les habitants contribuent  la conservation des ressources. A Phalabang, les efforts de conservation au niveau de la famille sont en gnral plus effectifs qu'au niveau de la communaut. L'chelle de la conservation comme base du dveloppement, les modes d'organisation sociale, et les questions de rgime foncier restent problmatiques du point de vue de la conception du dveloppement des ressources sur des terres dgrades. /// Fr die Phalabang Gemeinde (panchayat) im Gebiet der Middle Hills im westl. Nepal wird untersucht, welche Rolle traditionelle Umweltkenntnisse und lokale Erhaltungsbemhungen beim Management der Hangflchen und bei der Entwicklung der drflichen Ressourcen spielen. Der zur Frage stehende Hintergrund fr ortsgebundene Umweltentwicklung in Phalabang schliet folgende Faktoren mit ein: Rumliche Gliederung des Dorfgebietes, Landnutzung, Umweltbewutsein, soziale Organisation und Landbesitzstand. Nigane Ridge und Kalikathan Slope liefern zwei kontrastierende Beispiele, die die Hauptmotive der Dorfbevlkerung zur Beteiligung an der Ressourcenerhaltung aufzeigen. In Phalabang sind die Bemhungen zur Umwelterhaltung, die von Einzelhaushalten ausgehen, wesentlich effektiver als die von der Gemeinde kommenden. Bei der Planung von Ressourcenentwicklung bleiben der Grad der Umwelterhaltung sowie Fragen der sozialen Organisation und des Landbesitzes problematisch.
3674442|Space-borne satellite imagery is increasingly used for classifying and characterizing forest cover in mountain environments. Using medium resolution satelite imagery, acquired over an industrial mountain area near the city of Naeba, in the central part of Honshu, Japan, this study attempts to characterize forest cover types situated in an area affected by prolonged anthropogenic land use and land cover change (LUCC) processes. The image was topographically corrected, and training sites selected and assessed for their spectral separability between forest classes. Using the ground truthed training sites and a supervised spectral angle mapper (SAM) classifier, dominant forest cover types were classified. Post-classification forest cover classification accuracies range between 77-89%. Results highlight how an assessment of the spectral separability of forest cover types prior to image classification, combined with ground validation that focuses on documenting and noting areas affected by human modifications to the forest, can aid in refining the forest classification training areas, which in turn can lead to improved image classification accuracies. Through refinement of the training areas used in the classification via ground truthing, it is possible to account for localized land use and land cover disturbances (ie forest harvesting, thinning) that create non-representative training areas. It is then possible to select additional training areas that are more representative of a forest spectral class and not a localized anomaly created via human disturbance.
mounresedeve.33.1.95|Destructive debris flows occur frequently on glacierized Mount Nyenchen Tanglha, Bomi, Tibet. Since 1953, hundreds of such flows have occurred in the Guxiang valley during periods of atypically hot or rainy weather in summer or early autumn. From 1964 to 1965, 95 debris flows were documented at a temporary debris flow observation station; 25 of these debris flows with a peak discharge
10.2307/3672996|The forest-alpine tundra ecotone of the Colorado Front Range is defined as the transition belt extending from the upper timberline (upper limit of closely-spaced, symmetrical trees) to the treeline (upper limit of tree species). Its dynamics and natural history are outlined. It is postulated that treeline and the upper part of the ecotone were established several thousand years ago under climatic conditions much more favourable to seedling establishment than those of today. Because the tree forms of the ecotone are able to maintain themselves over long periods by layering, the ecotone is extremely stable despite significant climatic fluctuation. This same characteristic renders it highly vulnerable to human impacts. In the last decade a change has begun from natural long-term stability to progressive short-term instability. The implications of this for wilderness area management are discussed. /// On dfinit l'cotone entre la fort et la toundra alpestre comme la ceinture de transition qui s'tend de la limite suprieure des forts ( savoir: la limite suprieure des arbres disposs de faon dense et symmtrique)  la limite suprieure des arbres (la limite suprieure des espces arborescentes). Les grandes lignes de la dynamique de l'cotone ainsi que son histoire naturelle sont esquisses. On part du principe que la partie suprieure de l'cotone et la limite des arbres se sont tablies il y a plusieurs millnaires dans des conditions beaucoup plus propices  la survivance des sauvageons que les conditions actuelles. C'est parce que cette vgtation arborescente s'est avre capable de se maintenir  travers de longues priodes par marcottage que s'est produite une cotone d'une extrme stabilit en dpit de fluctuations climatiques importantes. Cette mme caractristique la rend minment vulnrable  l'impact humain. Cette dernire dcennie a vu les dbuts d'un changement progressif de la stabilit naturelle  long-terme vers une instabilit ralise  court-terme. On tudie les implications de ce changement en ce qui concerne la gestion des zones sauvages. /// Fr Colorado Bergketten (Front Range) wird das Gebiet von bewaldeter Zone bis zur alpinen Tundra als bergangsgrtel zwischen der Waldgrenze (obere Grenze dicht stehender, symetrisch gewachsener Bume) und der Baumgrenze (obere Grenze aller Baumarten) definiert. Dynamik und Entstehungsgeschichte dieses Gebietes werden skizziert. Es wird angenommen, da die Baumgrenze und der obere Teil des bergangsgebietes vor einigen 1000 Jahren unter klimatischen Bedingungen entstanden sind, die zur Ansamung wesentlich gnstiger waren als die heutigen. Da die Baumarten des Grtels sich ber lange Zeit hinweg durch Ableger vermehren knnen, gilt das Gebiet als recht stabil trotz betrchtlicher, klimatischer Schwankungen. Andererseits ist es aber gegenber menschlichen Eingriffen besonders gefhrdet. Whrend der letzten 10 Jahre ist ein Wechsel von natrlicher, langfristiger Stabilitt zu progressiver Instabilitt eingetreten. Die daraus folgenden Konsequenzen fr die Verwaltung dieses Naturschutzgebietes werden diskutiert.
10.2307/3673371|The abandonment of agricultural land is a serious problem in mountainous regions. Most common is the belief that abandoned land is a visible expression of depopulation. This paper emphasizes another explanation: the problem is caused mainly by the fact that groups of the local population resist a change of traditional structures to meet the needs of a modern farming society. First, research investigations in the Swiss Alps show that there is little evidence of land abandonment in those regions where this resistance to an appropriate use of land resources is either non-existent or already broken. Land abandonment is a transitional phenomenon. Secondly, a dialectical analysis explains that this resistance has the most powerful impact on discussions about changes in the land-use system and that it comes from those people who are either content with the traditional rural structure or who have lost interest in farming. The persistent maintenance of tradition leads to the abandonment of much of the cultivated area. This analysis concludes that resistance to change is based on logical motives which must be taken seriously; these are an orientation towards traditional values as well as an unwillingness to lose control over land ownership. It is suggested that planning policies should take into account the motives behind the resistance to change and integrate them into the resource management process. /// L'abandon des terres cultives prsente un problme srieux dans les rgions montagneuses. L'opinion gnrale est que les terres  l'abandon refltent le dpeuplement. Cet article prsente une nouvelle thorie: le problme provient surtout du fait que certains groupes parmi la population locale refusent de modifier les structures traditionnelles pour s'adapter aux besoins d'une socit agraire moderne. D'abord, les travaux de recherche mens dans les Alpes suisses indiquent que l'abandon des terres cultives est minime dans les rgions o la rsistance  une utilisation rationnelle des ressources est soit non-existante soit dj limine. L'abandon des terres est un phnomne de transition. Ensuite, une analyse dialectique explique que cette rsistance influence profondment les dcisions concernant la modernisation du systme agricole, et qu'elle provient soit de ceux qui sont satisfaits de la structure rurale traditionnelle soit de ceux qui ont perdu le got de l'agriculture. Cette insistance  maintenir les traditions entrane l'abandon d'une grande partie des terres cultives. Cette analyse conduit  la conclusion que cette rsistance  la modernisation est base sur des raisons logiques qui doivent tre prises en compte, en particulier le respect des valeurs traditionnelles et la peur de perdre les droits de proprit agraire. Il est donc recommand de considrer srieusement les motifs derrire cette rsistance au changement et de les intgrer dans le processus de gestion des ressources. /// Die Brachlandentwicklung ist vor allem in Gebirgsregionen ein raumplanerisches Problem. Nach verbreiteter Ansicht ist das Auflassen von landwirtschaftlichem Kulturland ein sichtbarer Ausdruck der Abwanderung der landwirtschaftlich ttigen Bevlkerung. In diesem Artikel wird, gesttzt auf umfassende Studein im Schweizer Berggebiet, ein neuer Erklrungsansatz vertreten: Das unkontrollierte Auftreten von Brachland, selbst auf gut geeigneten Flchen, ist darauf zurckzufhren, dass sich Teile der lndlichen Bevlkerung einer Anpassung traditioneller Agrarstrukturen an moderne Wertvorstellungen widersetzen. In einem ersten Abschnitt kann empirisch belegt werden, dass das Brachlandproblem in all jenen Gebieten, in denen dieser Widerstand nicht existent oder gebrochen ist, gelst wird. Brachland ist eine bergangserscheinung. In einem zweiten Schritt wird aus einer Gegenberstellung von Struktur und Wertsystem gezeigt, dass Widerstand gegen einen Strukturwandel im Landnutzungssystem vor allem in Realteilungsgebieten ernst zu nehmen ist. Vor allem jene Gruppen, die zufrieden sind mit der traditionellen Agrarstruktur, haben keinerlei Grund, in eine Modernisierung des Bodennutzungssystems und der Durchsetzung einer standortgerechten Flchennutzung einzuwilligen. Anstze zur Verhinderung der Brachlegung werden so im Keime erstickt. Zentrale Ursachen sind ein Desinteresse an Innovationen im Strukturbereich und ein Festhalten an traditionellen Bewirtschaftungsformen. Diese Erkenntnisse knnen in handlungsorientierte berlegungen umgesetzt werden. Der Artikel schliesst mit der Empfehlung, dass den Motiven dieses Widerstandes und den hintergrndigen Dimensionen dieses Landnutzungsproblems in der raumplanerischen Praxis vermehrt Beachtung geschenkt werden sollte.
mounresedeve.33.3.234|Increasing pressure on mountain water resources is making it necessary to address water governance issues in a transdisciplinary way. This entails drawing on different disciplinary perspectives, different types of knowledge, and different interests to answer complex governance questions. This study identifies strategies for addressing specific challenges to transdisciplinary knowledge production aiming at sustainable and reflective water governance. The study draws on the experiences of 5 large transdisciplinary water governance research projects conducted in Austria and Switzerland (Alp-Water-Scarce, MontanAqua, Drought-CH, Sustainable Water Infrastructure Planning, and an integrative river management project in the Kamp Valley). Experiences were discussed and systematically analyzed in a workshop and subsequent interviews. These discussions identified 4 important challenges to interactions between scientists and stakeholdersensuring stakeholder legitimacy, encouraging participation, managing expectations, and preventing misuse of data and research resultsand explored strategies used by the projects to meet them. Strategies ranged from key points to be considered in stakeholder selection to measures that enhance trustful relationships and create commitment.
mounresedeve.36.3.332|This study quantified the effect of environmental variables on plant species composition in the Peochar Valley, located in the Hindu Raj mountains of the Hindu Kush. A mixture of quadrat and transect methods were used. Quadrat sizes were 10  10 m, 2  5 m, and 1 m
10.2307/3673776|This is a comparative account of the grain and fodder yields of two modern high yielding wheat varieties and one local, traditional wheat variety when cultivated by farmers using their traditional practices in a mountain village in the Kumaun Himalaya. Results indicate that high yielding varieties produce more grain in irrigated cropfields when compared to low yielding ones, but in the rainfed cropfields they do not perform better, especially in terms of straw yield which is often more important than grain to the mountain people. Results are discussed in terms of the limited irrigation opportunities, small landholdings, and heavy dependence on forests for fodder. The conclusion emphasizes that cultivation of high yielding varieties is feasible only in irrigated fields and explains why hill people prefer older, more reliable varieties for the production of food, fodder, and fuel. /// Cet article prsente une comparaison des productions de crales et de fourrage, pour deux varits de bl  haut rendement, et une varit locale cultive par des fermiers utilisant les pratiques traditionnelles d'un village de montagne situ dans l'Himalaya du Kumaun. Les rsultats indiquent que, compares aux varits  bas rendement, les varits  haut rendement produisent plus de crales dans les terres irrigues, mais non dans les terres non irrigues, surtout en ce qui concerne la production de paille, plus importante pour les habitants des montagnes que la production de crales. Les rsultats sont examins dans la perspective des possibilits limites d'irrigation, de la petite taille des proprits foncires, et de la dpendance norme sur les forts pour le fourrage. La conclusion met l'accent sur le fait que la culture de varits  haut rendement n'est possible que dans les terres irrigues, et explique pourquoi les habitants des montagnes prfrent les varits traditionnelles, plus fiables pour la production de nourriture, de fourrage et de combustible. /// Getreide- und Futterertrag von zwei neuen Weizenarten mit hohem Ertrag werden mit einer lokalen, traditionellen Weizenart verglichen, die mit althergebrachten buerlichen Methoden angebaut wird. Die Studie wurde in einem Gebirgsdorf im Kumaun Himalaya durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da im Vergleich mit der traditionellen Weizenart, die ertragsreichen Sorten auf knstlich bewsserten Feldern hhere Ertrge bringen. Auf natrlich bewsserten Feldern sind die Ertrge nicht hher, besonders im Hinblick auf die Strohmenge, die fr die Bergbauern wichtiger als der Getreideertrag ist. Eingeschrnkte Bewsserungsmglichkeiten, begrenzte Ackerflchen und eine starke Abhngigkeit, Futter aus dem Waldbestand zu decken, gehen mit in die Diskussion der Ergebnisse ein. In der Schlufolgerung wird betont, da die Kultivierung von ertragsreichen Arten nur auf knstlich bewsserten Feldern sinnvoll ist. Darin liegt die Erklrung, warum die Bergbauern die lteren, zuverlssigen Arten fr die Produktion von Nahrung, Viehfutter und Brennmaterial weiterhin bevorzugen.
10.2307/3673716|Farmers in the Middle Hills of Nepal have a heavy dependence on tree products to sustain their agricultural systems. They manipulate tree cover on their privately-owned agricultural land - generally on terrace edges and on non-cultivated patches within the agricultural complex. Trees also occur on non-private (common) land surrounding villages, and these trees are also controlled by the farmers, even if the land is under the legal authority of the Forest Department. This paper examines changes in tree cover which are taking place on the various classes of land in a 14,000-ha catchment near Kathmandu. Comparisons were made using air photographs flown in 1972 and 1989. The area of each land-use category was determined for eight sample sites and the percentage of tree crown cover was calculated for each category. The results indicated that there was no significant shift from common land (forest/grass) to agricultural land between the two dates. The percentage of tree crown cover on the major agricultural land-use category (upland terraces) and the common land showed a significant increase between 1972 and 1989. As these two categories make up 86 percent of the sample sites, there are strong indications that the overall landscape is undergoing a steady afforestation process at the hands of the farmers. /// Les fermiers des collines moyennes du Npal dpendent normment des produits des arbres pour sustenter leurs systmes agricoles. Ils manipulent le couvert vgtal sur les terres agricoles qui leur appartiennent, en gnral sur les bordures de terrasses et les parcelles non-cultives au sein du complexe agricole. Les arbres se trouvent galement sur les terres publiques autour des villages, et leur utilisation est galement gre par les fermiers mme si les terres sont sous l'autorit juridique du service des eaux et forts. Cet article examine les changements du couvert vgtal qui se sont produits sur les diffrents types de terres dans un bassin hydrographique de 14.000 hectares situ prs de Kathmandou. Les comparaisons ont t effectues  l'aide de photographies ariennes prises en 1972 et 1989. La superficie de chaque catgorie d'utilisation des terres a t dtermine pour huit sites d'tude et le pourcentage du couvert vgtal a t calcul pour chaque catgorie. Les rsultats indiquent qu'il n'y a pas eu de transformation des terres publiques (forts et pturages) en terres agricoles entre ces deux dates. Le pourcentage de couvert vgtal sur la catgorie principale d'utilisation des terres agricoles (terrasses sur les collines) et sur les terres publiques a beaucoup augment entre les deux dates. Comme ces deux catgories constituent 86 pourcent des sites d'tude, il semblerait que l'ensemble du paysage ait fait l'objet d'une afforestation continue qui peut tre attribue aux fermiers. /// Die Bauern der Middle Hills, Nepal, hngen zur Erhaltung ihrer Landwirtschaft in starkem Mae von Holzprodukten ab. Sie bewahren bewut den Baumbestand auf ihren privaten, landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen, hauptschlich an den Rndern von terrassiertem Land und auf brachliegenden Flchen innerhalb des landwirtschaftlichen Komplexes. Man findet Baumbestand auch auf Gemeindeland, das die Drfer umgibt. Diese Flchen unterliegen ebenfalls der Kontrolle der Bauern, selbst wenn sie rechtlich dem Forest Department unterstehen. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht die Vernderungen im Baumbestand fr verschiedene Landkategorien innerhalb eines 14.000 ha groen Einzugsgebiets bei Kathmandu. Anhand von Luftaufnahmen aus den Jahren 1972 und 1989 wurden Vergleiche angestellt. Innerhalb jeder Landnutzungskategorie wurde die Flche von acht Testgebieten ausgewertet, und der Prozentsatz des Baumbestandes fr jede Kategorie berechnet. Die Ergebnisse fr den Zeitraum von 17 Jahren zeigten, da es keine wesentliche nderung im Verhltnis von gemeinschaftlich (Wald/Gras) zu landwirtschaftlich genutztem Land gab. Der Prozentsatz des Baumbestandes in den hauptschlich landwirtschaftlich genutzten Kategorien (Hochlandterrassen) und fr Gemeindeland zeigte jedoch einen bedeutenden Zuwachs ber den genannten Zeitraum. Da diese beiden Kategorien 86% der Testgebiete ausmachen, kann angenommen werden, da das gesamte Gebiet dank der Arbeit der Bauern einem stndigen Aufforstungsprozess unterliegt.
10.2307/3673323|The people of the Andes have domesticated numerous nutritious grain and tuber crops. This article discusses four under-exploited tubers and roots endemic to the highlands of South America. These crops exhibit great potential for utilization in the mountainous regions of Africa and Asia. The distribution, habitats, cultivation, utilization, nutritional value, and germplasm sources for experimentation are presented for Lepidium meyenii, Ullucus tuberosus, Oxalis tuberosa, and Tropaeolum tuberosum. These tubers and other nutritious grains are part of a larger Andean crop complex that provides a high percentage of the food needs of Andean people. Increased utilization and development of the crops in this complex can lead to increased food self-sufficiency for countries within and outside the Andean zone. /// Les peuples andins ont acclimat de nombreux tubercules et grains nutritifs. Cette article passe en revue quatre tubercules et racines alimentaires endmiques des rgions montagneuses de l'Amrique du sud. Ces cultures prsentent un potentiel important pour l'exploitation des rgions montagneuses de l'Afrique et de l'Asie. La rpartition, les biotopes, la culture, l'utilisation, la valeur nutritive, et les sources de plasma germinatif pour l'exprimentation sont prsent pour Lepidium meyenii, Ullucus tuberosus, Oxalis tuberosa, et Tropaeolum tuberosum. Ces tubercules et autres grains nutritifs font partie d'un complexe de cultures qui satisfait une grande partie des besoins alimentaires des peuples andins. Une plus grande utilisation et un dveloppement des cultures de ce complexe peut amliorer l'autosuffisance alimentaire de certains pays dans la zone andine et autre part. /// Die Andenbevlkerung hat zahlreiche nahrhafte Getreide- und Knollengewchsarten kultiviert. Dieser Beitrag diskutiert vier bisher nicht voll ausgenutzte Knollen- und Wurzelgewchse, die in den Anden heimisch sind. Diese Feldfrchte sind potentiell bestens zum Anbau in den bergigen Regionen Afrikas und Asiens geeignet. Zur versuchsweisen Einfhrung werden fr Lepidium meyenii, Ullucus tuberosus, Oxalis tuberosa, und Tropaeolum tuberosum Verteilung, Standort, Kultivierung, Verwendung, Nhrwert, und Keimfhigkeit angegeben. Diese Knollengewchse sowie andere nahrhafte Getreidearten sind in den Anden Teil einer greren Anbaugruppe, die einen hohen Prozentsatz des Nahrungsbedarfs der Andenbewohner deckt. Verstrkte Nutzung und Entwicklung dieser Feldfrchte kann Lndern im Andengebiet und darber hinaus zu verbesserter Nahrungsmittelunabhngigkeit verhelfen. /// La gente de la zona Andina ha domesticado various granos y tubrculos. Este articulo se trata de cuatro ejemplos de tubrculos endmicos que son poco utilizados fuera de la sierra de los Andes. Estos cultivos muestran un gran potencial para utilizacin en las sierras de Africa y Asia. La distribucin, ambiente, ciclo agrcola, utilizacin, valor nutritivo y fuentes de germoplasma para experimentacin estan presentados para Lepidium meyenii, Ullucus tuberosus, Oxalis tuberosa y Tropaeolum tuberosum. Estos tubrculos y otros granos muy nutritivos forman parte de un complejo de cultivos Andinos que representa un gran porcentaje de la comida consumida por la gente Andina. El desarrollo y aumento de la utilizacin de este grupo de cultivos podri mejorar la autosuficiencia alimentaria de los paises Andinos y otros.
mounresedeve.35.2.152|Family farming plays a vital role in mountain areas. Its survival is related to multiple factors, including intrafamily farm succession. This study examined data on apple-producing family farms in an Italian Alpine valley, trying to identify which factors foster or discourage intrafamily succession and to what extent they do this, both at the farm level and from the potential successor's viewpoint. To do so, various farm, farmer, and individual characteristics were analyzed using probabilistic regression. We found that intrafamily succession was more likely when the farm was managed by a woman (+20%) with a high school diploma (+13%) who had at least 1 child with specialized education in agriculture (+27%) and when farm sales had increased in recent years (+25%).Wealso found that a child's willingness to take over the family farm decreases as the number of farm children increases and when the child is a female with a high school diploma; however, the likelihood that children will take over the family business rises as farmer education level and work experience increase. These findings, while mixed, suggest that women play a key role in keeping family farming alive in mountain areas, along with education of family members, improved marketability of agricultural products, and in general, competitiveness and profitability of the family farm.
10.2307/3673478|The high mountain region of southern Sinai is an "ecological island" surrounded by desert. The elevation and rock formations create a variety of habitats, each with a characteristic water regime, microclimate, and vegetation. The local Bedouin, members of the Jebaliyah tribe, practise goat and sheep husbandry as part of their subsistence. This paper discusses the system of livestock production and management typical to the Mt. Sinai region, including the environmental, economic, cultural, and political factors. Special attention is given to the migration movements, both horizontal and vertical, which are an essential component of the Bedouin's adaptation to the specific environmental conditions of this arid mountainous area. Southern Sinai is part of a larger area that has undergone drastic political changes in the recent past. The replacing of Egyptian control over the Sinai by the Israeli government in 1967 produced far-reaching effects. This paper presents an analysis of the dramatic changes in Bedouin livestock husbandry during the Israeli rule as compared with the Egyptian era and attempts to point out the principal underlying factors behind these changes. An epilogue outlines the further changes that followed the return of the Mt. Sinai region to Egyptian rule in 1979. /// La rgion de hautes montagnes du Sina mridional constitue une "le cologique" entoure de dserts. L'altitude et les formations rocheuses ont donn naissance  une grande varit d'habitats, chacun avec ses propres rgime des eaux, microclimat et vgtation. Les bdouins locaux, membres de la tribu Jebaliyah, pratiquent l'levage des moutons et des chvres pour assurer une partie de leur subsistance. Cet article dcrit le systme de production et de gestion du btail caractristique de la rgion du Mont Sina, y compris les facteurs lis  environnement, l'conomie, la culture et la politique. Un intrt particulier est port aux migrations, horizontales et verticales, qui constituent un lment essentiel de cette rgion montagneuse aride. Le Sina mridional fait partie d'une zone plus tendue qui a subi des changements politiques extrmes au cours du pass rcent. Le remplacement de l'autorit de l'Egypte sur le Sina par celle de l'Isral en 1967 a produit des effets  grande porte. Cet article prsente une analyse des changements importants qui ont pris place au cours de l'occupation isralienne en ce qui concerne l'levage du btail par les bdouins, et essaie de mettre en vidence les facteurs qui sont intervenus. Un pilogue donne un aperu des changements qui ont suivi le retour de la rgion du Mont Sina  l'autorit de l'Egypte en 1979. /// Das gebirgige Gebiet der sdlichen Sinaihalbinsel ist eine von Wste umgebene "kologische Insel", Hhenlage und Felsformationen gestalten vielfltige Lebensrume, jeder mit eigenem Wasserhaushalt, Mikroklima und besonderer Vegetation. Die ansssigen Beduinen, Angehrige des Jebaliyah Stammes, betreiben zum Lebensunterhalt Ziegen- und Schafzucht. Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert Formen der Viehhaltung und zugehriges Management, sowie Umwelt-, Wirtschafts-, kulturelle und politische Faktoren, die fr das Gebiet um den Berg Sinai typisch sind. Besondere Beachtung finden Migrationsprozesse - in horizontaler und vertikaler Richtung - die eine wichtige Rolle in dieser trockenen Gebirgsgegend spielen. Sdsinai ist Teil eines greren Gebietes, das in jngster Vergangenheit gravierende politische Vernderungen erfahren hat. Der Wechsel von gyptischer Zugehrigkeit des Sinai zu israelischer Verwaltung 1967 verursachte eingreifende Vernderungen. Diese Studie analysiert die Folgen solch drastischer nderungen in der Viehhaltung der Beduinen unter israelischer Regierungshoheit und versucht, die Hauptgrnde dieser nderungen aufzuzeigen. Ein Nachwort umreit weitere Vernderungen, die seit 1979 nach der Rckgabe des Sinai Gebietes an gypten erfolgten.
10.2307/3673234|Photogrammetry has played a major role in the recent progress of high-mountain cartography. Air photographs (central projection) can be used to produce orthophotographs (parallel projection). These orthophotographs not only display true distances, like maps, but they can be published directly as orthophoto maps (see the enclosed glacier map of the Vernagtferner). They can also be used as stereopairs and this provides additional information on the relief of the area represented. This paper illustrates the various qualities of orthophotographs with examples from the Eastern Alps. /// Grce  la photogrammtrie, la cartographie des hautes montagnes a fait des grands progrs. Aujourd'hui, il est possible de transformer les photographies ariennes (projection centrale) en orthophotos (projection parallle). Les orthophotos peuvent tre utilises comme cartes topographiques. Une exemple est donne en annexe par la carte de Vernagtferner. /// Durch die Photogrammetrie konnte die Hochgebirgskartographie einen groen Aufschwung beginnen. Heute ist es mglich, Luftbilder (Zentralprojektion) zu Orthophotos (Parallelprojektion) zu entzerren, so da sie wie Karten ausmebar werden und zu Orthophotokarten ausgestaltet werden knnen (vgl. die Karte des Vernagtferners in der Anlage). Zustzlich knnen Orthophotos bei gengender berdeckung stereoskopisch betrachtet werden, wodurch zustzliche Reliefinformationen gewonnen werden knnen.
10.2307/3673048|The most widely practised agro-forestry system in the intensively cultivated area of South China is the interplanting of trees and crops. The intimate relationship between farming and forestry is, on the one hand, bilaterally profitable: farming makes available labour and food for forestry, while forestry provides capital for farm development; on the other hand, farming and forestry conflict in the allocation of land, labour, manure, and time. To alleviate the problem integrated planning is needed. Various types of interplanting - such as forest-grain, forest-oil yielding shrubs, forest-green manure, forest-tropical crop combinations-are suggested and their practices and benefits are discussed. However, the organic interrelationships between tree and crop growth have yet to be analysed. /// Le systme agro-forestier le plus rpandu dans la zone de culture intensive du sud de la Chine est la plantation intercalaire d'arbres et de plantes cultives. D'un ct, la relation troite entre l'agriculture et la sylviculture est mutuellement bnficiaire puisque l'agriculture fournit la main-d'oeuvre et la nourriture ncessaires  la sylviculture, alors que cette dernire fournit le capital ncessaire au dveloppement du fermage; d'un autre ct, l'agriculture et la sylviculture se disputent les terres, la main-d'oeuvre, l'engrais, et le temps disponibles. Pour remdier  ces problmes, une planification intgre doit tre utilise. Diffrents types de plantations intercalaires, tels que fort-crales, fort-arbustes olifres, fort-engrais vert, fort-combinaisons de plantes tropicales sont suggrs dans cette tude. La pratique de ces diffrents types de plantation et leurs avantages respectifs sont passs en revue. Nanmoins, la relation organique entre la croissance des arbres et des plantes cultives a besoin d'tre analyse. /// Das agro-forstwirtschaftliche System des Wechselanbaus von Bumen und Feldfrchten wird im intensiven Anbaugebiet Sdchinas am hufigsten betrieben. Die enge Beziehung zwischen Land- und Forstwirtschaft ist von einem Blickpunkt doppelt eintrglich: Die Landwirtschaft stellt Arbeitspltze und Nahrungsmittel fr die Forstwirtschaft, die wiederum das Kapital zur landwirtschaftlichen Entwicklung erwirtschaftet. Andererseits aber konkurrieren Agrar- und Forstwirtschaft bei der Verteilung von Land, Arbeitskrften, Dngemitteln und Arbeitszeit. Um das Konkurrenzproblem zu mildern, ist eine einheitliche Planung notwendig. Es werden verschiedene Arten des Wechselanbaus vorgeschlagen, wie z.B. folgende Kombinationen: Wald-Getreide, Wald-Buschwerk, das l liefert, Waldtropische Feldfrchte und Wald-Pflanzen, die den Boden verbessern (natrlicher Dnger). Vorteile und Anwendungen werden diskutiert, whrend die organischen Wechselbeziehungen zwischen Baum- und Feldfruchtanbau erst noch analysiert werden mssen.
10.2307/3672991|The paper analyses the analogies and differences of the economic-ecological dynamics of development of highland-lowland interactions in Switzerland and Nepal. Using these examples - one in a highly "developed" Alpine region and the other in an "underdeveloped" Himalayan region - the methodological questions are critically addressed: "Is policy making really as much hampered by that lack of scientific data as it is usually assumed or implied? What exactly are the ecosystem questions for which policy makers need better answers before they can decide on, and implement more effective action?" The paper argues that in most cases many more data are available than are actually evaluated and transformed into decision-making information useful to, and comprehensible for, policy makers; and that much more scientifically based decision-making information is available than political decision makers rationally take into account when making their decisions or non-decisions. /// Dans cet article on tudie les analogies et les diffrences qui existent dans les rapports entre les hautes et les basses regions en Suisse et Npal en ce qui concerne la dynamique conomico-cologique de leurs dveloppements. C'est  partir de ces cas - d'un ct la rgion alpine "dveloppe," et de l'autre ct la rgion himalayenne "sous-dveloppe" - que sont poses des questions critiques portant sur la mthodologie. Les dcisions politiques se trouve-t-elle vraiment bloque par un manque de donnes scientifiques comme on a tendance  le supposer? Quelles sont les questions prcises se rapportant  l'cosystme pour lesquelles les responsables de la politique exigent de meilleures rsponses avant de pouvoir procder  des dcisions (et de les mettre en pratique) menant  des actions plus efficaces?" Dans cet article on maintient que dans la plupart des cas, les responsables politiques ont  leur disposition de loin plus de donnes qu'ils n'en utilisent, une bonne partie de celles-ci ne figurant pas dans leurs prises-de-dcisions. Il existe beaucoup d'informations procures de faon scientifique et obtenues en vue de la prise de dcision dont il n'est pas tenu compte au moment o la dcision vise (ou le manque de celle-ci) est prise. /// Die Verffentlichung analysiert fr Gebiete in der Schweiz und in Nepal hnlichkeiten und Unterschiede im konomischkologischen Krftespiel der Wechselwirkung zwischen Hoch- und Flachland. Anhand von Beispielen - eins das 'hochentwickelte' Alpenland, das andere eine 'unterentwickelte' Himalaya Region - werden Probleme der Methodik kritisch abgehandelt: "Wird Planung wirklich durch das Fehlen wissenschaftlicher Daten behindert, wie bisher angenommen wurde? Was sind die besonderen, kologischen Fragen, fr deren Antwort Planer bessere Information brauchen, bevor sie wirksamere Schritte entscheiden und durchfhren knnen?" Die Verffentlichung argumentiert, da in vielen Fllen weit mehr Daten vorhanden sind als dann ausgewertet und verstanden werden, um als Informationsquelle fr den Gesetzgeber bei Entscheidungen eine Rolle zu spielen; daneben steht auch viel mehr wissenschaftlich-fundierte Information zur Verggung als je von Politikern rational bei Entscheidungen oder Vertagungen angewandt wird.
10.2307/3673528|Three mountain communities in the Hindukush, Himalaya, and Trans-Himalaya mountains are examined for systemic relations between society and habitat. Within the context of the Blaikie/Brookfield regional political economy model one finds quite different systems of resource management in these Muslim, Hindu, and Buddhist communities. The bio-physical environment has not been the constricting factor for optimal use. Instead, the land and water use has been manipulated through the local societal practices of resource management. /// Trois communauts situes dans les montagnes de l'Hindou-Kouch, Himalaya, et les montagnes trans-himalayennes sont examines en vue d'identifier les relations systmiques entre la socit et l'habitat. Dans le context du modle d'conomie politique rgionale de Blaikie/Brookfield, on trouve des systmes de gestion des ressources trs varis parmi ces communauts musulmane, hindoue et boudhiste. L'environnement biophysique ne semble pas constituer le facteur empchant une utilisation optimale. Au contraire, l'utilisation des terres et de l'eau a t manipule au moyen des pratiques de gestion des ressources de la socit locale. /// Es werden drei Gebirgsgemeinden im Hindukusch, Himalaya und im Trans-Himalaya auf systematische Abhngigkeiten zwischen der Gemeinschaft und ihrem Lebensraum untersucht. Mit Hilfe des Blaikie/Brookfield Modells der regionalen, politischen konomie findet man unterschiedliche Methoden beim Ressourcenmanagement in diesen Moslem-, Hindu- und Buddhistgemeinden. Die bio-physikalische Umwelt war fr die optimale Nutzung kein einschrnkender Faktor; stattdessen wurde die Land- und Wassernutzung durch lokalbliche Praktiken im Ressourcenmanagement geregelt.
10.2307/3673200|Institutional problems often lie at the heart of failures to implement satisfactorily a wide range of development activities. Here various components of "institutions", broadly defined, are discussed along with some problems which are important in a practical sense. /// Des problmes lis aux institutions empchent souvent la mise en oeuvre satisfaisante d'une grand nombre d'activits de dveloppement. Diffrents lments des institutions dfinies dans le sens large sont passs en revue ainsi que certains problmes importants en pratique. /// Behrdliche Probleme sind oft der Ausgangspunkt, an dem zufriedenstellende Durchfhrung vieler Entwicklungsaktivitten scheitert. Verschiedene, grob skizzierte "Behrdenstrukturen" werden zusammen mit einigen Problemen, die mehr praktischer Art sind, diskutiert.
25164204|Landscape is an important resource for mountain regions, particularly for tourism. Guiding future landscape development is necessary to meet the expectations of mountain inhabitants, tourists, and the general public outside mountain areas. The studies presented here show how different societal groups perceive past and future landscape changes in the Alps. The results reveal that it is not landscape change per se that is assessed as good or bad, it is the (related) change in the meaning of the landscape elements that leads to positive or negative assessments. There is a surprisingly broad consensus among different social groups regarding major landscape developments. However, there are also significant and relevant differences between these groups, eg between people living inside and outside the Alps, and between lay people and experts. Both conflicting and compatible views about landscape change are key elements in landscape planning.
mounresedeve.32.2.197|Mountain areas are of great importance to biodiversity conservation. Also, they have long been reputed as the last remnants of virgin, unspoiled nature. In this paper, we assess the degree of human impact on mountain ecosystems through the Human Influence Index (HII), using it as a proxy to estimate the degree of threat to mountain biodiversity. We also measured how well the least human-influenced mountain areas are protected (HII  10). Our results show that still-large proportions of mountain areas are under low or moderate human influence, as assessed by the HII. However, these results should be considered carefully, because the HII does not include some important human-made influences affecting mountain ecosystems globally, such as climate change. Finally, 34.7% of the mountain area under low human influence (HII  10) is currently covered by nationally designated protected areas.
3674052|Biosphere reserve models around the world are becoming increasingly people-oriented and conservation-conscious in achieving their objectives. However, reserves established in developing countries, such as the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve in India, are facing management versus people conflicts due to the insensitivity of management to both genuine and irrational demands coming from people who are motivated by potential economic benefits. The present case study focuses on the issue of crop and livestock depredation by wildlife as a major source of conflict. Feasible solutions in the given socioeconomic context are outlined here; some of these are being tested by the authors in the study area. The results are expected to provide more sustainable livelihood measures and stimulate greater participation in conservation programs.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r124|     :  , ,        .                ,      ,     -    .          ,           ,           .      ,        ,   ,       :
3674134|Since the 1950s, the Spanish Mediterranean mountains have become a marginal territory, with few inhabitants and limited economic activity. As a consequence, significant land use changes (farmland abandonment, development of extensive cattle rearing, and reforestation) have taken place, resulting in landscape degradation and new hydromorphological processes. In this article, the process and impact of farmland abandonment in the Camero Viejo (northwestern Iberian System) are described. The authors also studied the geomorphological evolution of terraced fields after cultivation was given up. Runoff rates and sediment yield in abandoned and grazed terraces were measured using a rainfall simulator. Results show that the speed and intensity of the hydrological and erosional response increased if plots were grazed intensively. The study demonstrates that new land management systems in the Camero Viejo, in particular extensive cattle grazing, have generated additional source areas of sediments.
10.2307/3673473|For the Hindus of Asia, Muktinath, situated in the high Himalaya of north central Nepal near Tibet, is a holy site dedicated to Lord Vishnu. This paper is the first of two studies based on anthropological-geographical research that examines nine attributes of the "sacred field" of Muktinath and vicinity. These are: its dedication to universal and supernatural concepts, association with natural elements, historic tradition, staged development, structured approach, physical ascent (as a high mountain site), peripheral location, secular associations, and its overall distinctiveness when compared with other such shrines in the Himalaya. The analysis of one attribute, the association with natural elements (water, fire, and ammonite fossil stones), is especially revealing of the sanctity and mysteriousness of the place. /// Pour les hindous asiatiques, Muktinath, situ dans les hautes montagnes de l'Himalaya au centre nord du Npal, prs du Tibet, est un lieu sacr vou au Dieu Vishnou. Cet article concerne la premire de deux tudes bases sur une recherche anthropologique et gographique qui examine neuf attributs du "lieu sacr" de Muktinath et des environs. Ces attributs sont les suivants: sa vocation  des concepts universels et supernaturels, son association avec les lments naturels, sa tradition historique, son volution progressive, son approche structure, son accs difficile (site de haute montagne), son emplacement priphrique, son association sculaire, et son caractre distinct compar aux autres lieux sacrs de l'Himalaya. L'analyse de l'un de ces attributs, l'association avec les lments naturels (eau, feu, et pierres fossiles d'ammonite), rvle clairement le caractre sacr et mystrieux du site. /// Muktinath, hoch im Himalaya des nrdlichen Zentralnepal nahe der tibetanischen Grenze gelegen, ist fr die Hindus in Asien ein heiliger Ort, der dem Andenken des Lord Vishnu gewidmet ist. Dies ist die erste von zwei Studien, die anhand anthropologischer und geographischer Forschungen neun Merkmale des heiligen Ortes Muktinath und seiner Umgebung untersucht. Diese sind: Bezugnahme auf universale und bernatrliche Konzepte, Assoziation mit Naturelementen, geschichtliche Tradition, wirksam in Szene gesetzte Erschlieung durchdachte Planung, physischer Anstieg zum Hochgebirgsort, periphere Lage, nichtreligise Vereinigungen, und im Vergleich mit anderen, hnlichen Schreinen im Himalaya, die Besonderheit dieses Ortes. Ein Merkmal, das das Rtselhafte und die Heiligkeit dieses Ortes unterstreicht, ist seine Assoziation mit Naturelementen (wie Wasser, Feuer, und Ammonit Fossilien).
10.2307/3673491|Bhutan, a mountainous kingdom in the Himalaya, has limited resources for economic development, except for the potential of hydroelectricity. The current domestic market for hydropower is small and will not change dramatically in the future. India has large electricity markets in the states of Bihar, Orissa, and West Bengal, and there is a developing one in Bangladesh. Therefore, Bhutan must now take strategic steps for hydropower development if it is to capture a significant share of the export markets on a long-term basis. The hydro development plans, however, should not be considered as isolated projects; instead, they must become hubs of development activities that encourage growth also in other economic spheres in the river basins of Bhutan. /// Le Bouthan, un royaume situ dans l'Himalaya, ne possde que peu de ressources pour le dveloppement  part son potentiel de production d'nergie hydrolectrique. Pour le moment, le march interne pour cette forme d'nergie n'est pas important et ne changera gure dans le futur. Par contre, une grosse demande existe en Inde dans les tats de Bihar, Orissa et Bengal occidental, et une demande se dveloppe dans Bangladesh. Pour cette raison, le Bouthan doit maintenant prendre des mesures srieuses en ce qui concerne le dveloppement de sa production d'nergie hydrolectrique s'il a l'intention de capturer une part importante des marchs d'exportation  long terme. Nanmoins, les plans de dveloppement hydrolectrique ne doivent pas tre considrs comme des projets isols, mais au contraire comme des centres d'activits de dveloppement visant  encourager la croissance d'autres sphres conomiques dans les bassins des rivires du Bouthan. /// Das gebirgige Knigreich Bhutan im Himalaya hat begrenzte Ressourcen zur wirtschaftlichen Entwicklung, ausgenommen das Potential der Wasserkraft. Der derzeitige Eigenbedarf an Wasserkraft ist klein und wird sich in absehbarer Zukunft kaum drastisch ndern. Indien hat in den Staaten Bihar, Orissa und West Bengalen groe Elektrizittswerke und in Bangladesh befindet sich eins im Bau. Wenn Bhutan sich einen bedeutenden Exportmarktanteil langzeitig sichern will, mu es jetzt gezielte Schritte bei der Entwicklung von Wasserkraft unternehmen. Diese Entwicklungsplne sollten jedoch nicht als isolierte Projekte gesehen werden, sondern mssen Mittelpunkt aller Entwicklungsaktivitten werden, die Wachstum auch in anderen Wirtschaftszweigen in den Tlern von Bhutan frdern.
10.2307/3673909|A financial cost-benefit analysis has been carried out on differentsoil conservation practices that have been studied on experimental plots in northern Thailand since 1989. Only one system, intercropping coffee with rice, has given a positive net present value (NPV) when a 26% discount rate was used, reflecting the annual interest charged on loans within villages. A sensitivity analysis shows that another system, hillside ditches with coffee trees, and rice as a main crop, can also give a positive NPV, but only when a 0% discount rate is used. It is argued that, in the context of agricultural sustainability, parameters other than the NPV should also be considered when selecting soil conservation practices for extension programs. When all the practices are compared, using criteria such as productivity, production risk, environmental protection, economic viability, and social acceptability, the intercropping system compares favorably with the others. These results are in accordance with field observations which showed that intercropping perennial crops with annual crops is, for the moment, one of the few adaptations that farmers in the study area are willing to make to their land and crop management systems. /// Une analyse des avantages-cots a port sur diffrentes pratiques de prservation du sol qui ont t tudies sur des parcelles exprimentales en Thalande du Nord depuis 1989. Un seul systme, la culture intercalaire du caf et du riz, a donn une valeur actuelle nette (VAN) positive quand on a utilis un taux d'escompte de 26% refltant le taux d'intrt annuel des prts dans les villages. Une tude de sensibilit indique qu'un autre systme, les fosss  flanc de coteau avec cafiers et le riz comme culture principale, peut galement donner une VAN positive, mais seulement si l'on utilise un taux d'escompte de 0%. Cet article suggre que dans le contexte de la prennit agricole, des paramtres autres que la VAN doivent aussi tre considrs pour la slection des pratiques de prservation du sol dans le cadre des programmes de vulgarisation agricole. Quand on compare toutes les pratiques  l'aide de critres tels que la productivit, les risques de production, la protection de l'environnement, la viabilit conomique et l'acceptabilit sociale, le systme de culture intercalaire est suprieur aux autres. Ces rsultats sont comparables aux observations sur le terrain qui indiquent que la culture intercalaire de plantes perennes et de plantes annuelles est, pour l'instant, l'une des rares adaptations que les fermiers de la zone d'tude accepteraient pour leurs systmes de gestion des terres et des cultures. /// Kosten-Nutzen Analyse von Bodenerhaltung-spraktiken in Nordthailand. Fr verschiedene Praktiken zur Bodenerhaltung wurde eine Kosten-Nutzen Finanzanalyse durchgefhrt. Die Bezugswerte kamen von Versuchsflchen in Nordthailand, die seit 1989 unterhalten werden. Nur ein System, nmlich gemischte Bepflanzung (intercropping) von Kaffee und Reis erbrachte einen positiven "Net Present Value" (NPV) Wert unter Annahme einer Rabattrate von 26%, die den jhrlichen Zinssatz reflektiert, der bei Krediten innerhalb der Drfer blich ist. Ein weiteres System bestehend aus Kaffeestruchern in Grben entlang der Berghnge und Reis als Hauptfeldfrucht, zeigt in einer relativen Ertragsanalyse, da ein positiver NPV mglich ist, aber nur, wenn eine Rabattrate von 0% zugrunde gelegt wird. Im Zusammenhang mit der Wirtschaftlichkeit von Agrarunternehmen wird dafr pldiert, da andere Parameter als NPV in betracht gezogen werden, wenn es darum geht, in Folgeprogrammen geeignetere Methoden zur Bodenerhaltung auszusuchen. Gegenber anderen Praktiken zur Bodenerhaltung hat die gemischte Bepflanzung viele Vorteile, wenn Kriterien wie Produktivitt, Herstellungsrisiko, Umweltschutz, Wirtschaftlichkeit, und soziale Akzeptanz mit in Rechnung gestellt werden. Diese Ergebnisse beruhen auf Feldstudien, die zeigten, da die Mischung von einjhrigen und mehrjhrigen Pflanzen zur Zeit eine der wenigen nderungen in der Bestellungsmethode ist, die von den Bauern akzeptiert wird.
3674371|Dramatic changes are taking place in the glacier-covered high mountains of Africa. The glacial area on Mt Kilimanjaro is now only half as large as it was in the 1970s. The Tyndall Glacier on Mt Kenya, which retreated at approximately 3 m/yr from 1958 to 1997, retreated at about 10 m/yr from 1997 to 2002. Pioneer species such as Senecio keniophytum, Arabis alpina, mosses, lichen, and Agrostis trachyphylla have advanced over areas formerly covered by the glacier. The rate at which this vegetation migrated up the former bed of the glacier (2.1-4.6 m/yr from 1958 to 1997) is similar to the rate of glacial retreat (2.9 m/yr). In the interval from 1997 to 2002, pioneer species advanced at a rapid rate of 6.4-12.2 m/yr, while the glacier retreated at 9.8 m/yr. Rapid glacial retreat has been accompanied by rapid colonization by plants. Pioneer species improve soil conditions and make habitat suitable for other plants. If warming continues, alpine plant cover may extend all the way to mountain summits, and then eventually diminish as trees colonize the areas formerly occupied by alpine plants. Larger woody plants such as Senecio keniodendron and Lobelia telekii, which showed no obvious advance prior to 1997, have advanced quickly since that year.
10.2307/3673119|A synopsis is provided of Andean geoecology, including formation and structure, relief, climate, soils, water resources, and vegetation characteristics. As suggested at the First Unesco Andean Regional MAB Meeting in La Paz in 1974, three segments of the Andes are defined: the Northern Andes, to extend from coastal Venezuela to the latitude of Cajamarca, Peru; the Central Andes, to extend from Cajamarca to a line connecting Antofagasta, Chile, and Catamarca, Argentina; the Southern Andes, extending from Antofagasta/Catamarca to a line connecting Valdivia, Chile, and Neuquen, Argentina. The southern limit is arbitrary for research purposes since, by definition, the Andes extend to the tip of South America. These three subregions are described in some detail to provide a physical foundation upon which MAB Project 6 applied research can be developed. The Northern Andes, constituting mountain and adjacent lands in Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador, is characterized as equatorial, moist, symmetrical in vegetation belts in east-west cross-section, and with minimal climatic seasonality. It is this subregion of the Andes that has the greatest natural ecosystem plant productivity, as well as the greatest potential for domestic plant productivity. However, because of high rainfall and low temperatures, the upper limit of practical agriculture is only about 3,200 m to 3,400 m above sea level. The Central Andes is the subregion of Peru, Bolivia, and northern Chile and Argentina. Here, there is asymmetry of rainfall and temperature, with the Pacific slopes both drier and cooler than the eastern slopes; a well-developed pattern of highland rainfall seasonality; a southward trend to true arid conditions beginning along the coast and culminating in the Atacama Desert and high plateau of the south-central area; and the formation of very high plateau lands, particularly the Peru-Bolivia altiplano. Puna grasslands at elevations up to 4,800 m are ideal pastures for native camelids and sheep. The Southern Andes of Chile and Argentina are less massive than either the Northern or Central Andes and have no high plateaus, although there are many high peaks. The heavily dissected cordillera gradually declines in elevation to about the latitude of the Island of Chiloe off the Pacific coast, where it breaks up into a series of isolated uplands of 1,000 m or less. The climate is cool and dry in the north, seasonally dry in the central area, and very wet in the south. Hence, arid vegetation zones in the north grade into wet forests in the south. /// Une synopsis de la gocologie des Andes est prsente, y-compris les particularits de formation et de structure, de relief, de climat, de sols, de ressources en eau, et de vgtation. Comme suggr au cours de la Premire Runion Rgionale Andine du Programme MAB de l'Unesco, tenue  La Paz en 1974, trois tranches des Andes sont dfinies: les Andes du Nord qui s'tendent de la cte du Vnzuela jusqu' la latitude de Cajamarca au Prou; les Andes Centrales, qui s'tendent de Cajamarca jusqu' la ligne reliant Antofagasta au Chili et Catamarca en Argentine; les Andes du Sud qui s'tendent de Antofagasta/Catamarca jusqu' la ligne reliant Valdivia au Chili et Neuquen en Argentine. La limite mridionale a t choisie arbitrairement pour les besoins de la recherche, puisque par dfinition les Andes se prolongent jusqu' l'extrmit du continent sud-amricain. Ces trois sous-rgions sont dcrites en dtail pour donner une fondation physique  la recherche applique du Projet 6 au sein du Programme MAB. Les Andes du Nord, constitues des montagnes et des terres adjacentes aux Vnzuela, Colombie et Equateur, sont caracterises comme tant du type quatorial humide, avec un coupe est-ouest symtrique en termes de bandes de vgtation, et avec un minimum de variations climatiques saisonnires. Cette sous-rgion des Andes possde un cosystme naturel avec la plus grande productivit vgtale, et aussi le plus grand potentiel de productivit vgtale domestique. Nanmoins, les prcipitations abondantes et les basses tempratures limitent la culture pratique aux altitudes comprises entre 3.200 m et 3.400 m au dessus du niveau de la mer. Les Andes Centrales sont la sous-rgion constitue du Prou, de la Bolivie, du Chili du Nord, et de l'Argentine. Il existe ici une asymtrie de la prcipitation et de la temprature, les pentes orientes vers le Pacifique tant plus sches et plus fraches que les pentes vers l'Est; un caractre saisonnier bien dfini des prcipitations sur les hautes terres; une volution mridionale vers des conditions vritablement arides, commenant le long de la cte et culminant au Dsert de l'Atacama et au haut-plateau de la zone Sud-Centrale; et la formation de terres de trs hauts plateaux, en particulier l'altiplan Prou-Bolivie. Les herbages du Puna qui s'tendent jusqu'aux altitudes de 4.800 m constituent des pturages idaux pour les camlids et les moutons originaires de la rgion. Les Andes du Sud au Chili et en Argentine sont oins massives que les Andes du Nord et Centrales et n'ont pas de hauts plateaux, bien qu'elles possdent de nombreux pics. La cordillre trs dcoupe descend progressivement en altitude jusqu' la latitude de l'le de Chiloe au large de la cte du Pacifique, o elle se dsagrge en une suite d'lvations isoles de 1.000 m ou moins. Le climat est frais et sec au Nord, sec en saison au Centre, et trs humide au Sud. De ce fait, les zones de vgtation aride du Nord font place graduellement  des forts humides au Sud. /// Eine bersicht der Geokologie der Anden, die Formation und Struktur, Relief, Klima, Bodenbeschaffenheit, Wasservorrte und Vegetationsmerkmale umfat, wird gegeben. Die Anden werden in drei Teile gegliedert (vorgeschlagen auf der 1. Unesco Andean Regional MAB Tagung in La Paz 1974): Die Nord-Anden, die sich von der Kste Venezuelas bis zur Breite von Cajamarca, Peru erstrecken. Die Zentral-Anden von Cajamarca bis zu einer Linie, die Antofagasta, Chile und Catamarca, Argentinien verbindet. Die Sd-Anden von Antofagasta/Catamarca bis zu einer Linie, die Valdivia/Chile und Neuquen/Argentinien verbindet. Die sdliche Abgrenzung, die sich definitionsgem bis zum Sdzipfel Sdamerikas erstreckt, ist willkrlich fr Zwecke dieser Studie gezogen. Die drei Untergruppen werden in Einzelheiten beschrieben, um eine naturkundliche Fundierung zu liefern, mit deren Hilfe angewandte Forschung des MAB Projekt 6 projektiert werden kann. Die Nord-Anden, die die Berge und das sich daran anschlieende Land in Venezuela, Columbien und Equador einschlieen, sind als quatorial-feucht mit symmetrischem Ost-Westquerschnitt der Vegetationsgrtel und mit geringen klimatischen, saisonbedingten Vernderungen charakterisiert. Dieses Gebiet der Anden zeigt den grten natrlichen Pflanzenwuchs und hat zugleich die besten Vorraussetzungen fr Landwirtschaft. Wegen hoher Niederschlge und niedriger Temperaturen liegt die obere Grenze fr Landwirtschaft bei ungefhr 3200 m-3400 m .M. Die Zentral-Anden schlieen das Gebiet von Peru, Bolivien und dem Norden von Chile und Argentinien ein. Hier herrschen ungleichmige Niederschlge und Temperaturen, wobei die dem Pazifik zugekehrten Hnge trockner und khler sind als die stlichen. Jahreszeitliche Regenflle zeigen ein ausgeprgtes Schema. Die Trockenheit entlang der Kste nimmt nach Sden hin zun und ist in der Atacama Wste und der Hochebene des zentralen Sdens am grten. Hier liegen die groen Hochebenen von Peru und Bolivien. Das Puno Grasland in Hhen bis zu 4800 m ist ideales Wiedeland fr die einheimischen Lamas und Schafe. Die Sd-Anden von Chile und Argentinien sind weniger massiv als die Nord- oder Zentral-Anden und haben keine Hochebenen, jedoch gibt es viele einzelne hohe Erhebungen. Die stark zerklftete Bergkette nimmt allmhlich an Hhe ab bis auf die Breite der Insel Chiloe an der Pazifikkste, wo sie sich in eine Reihe einzelner Hochflchen unterhalb 1000 m Hhe auflst. Die trockenen Vegetationszonen im Norden gehen weiter sdlich in Regenwald ber, da das Klima sich von khl und trocken im Norden, saisonbedingt trocken im zentralen Teil bis sehr feucht im Sden verndert. /// Se provee una sinopsis de la geoecologa andina que incluye formacin y estructura, relieve, clima, suelos, recursos hidrulicos y caractersticas de la vegetacin. Como se sugiri en la Primera Reunin Regional Andina de UNESCO y MAB en La Paz, en 1974, se definen tres segmentos en los Andes: los Andes Septentrionales, que se extienden desde la costa de Venezuela hasta la latitud de Cajamarca, en Per; los Andes Centrales, que se extienden desde Cajamarca hasta una lnea que conecta Antofagasta en Chile con Catamarca en Argentina; los Andes Maridionales, que se extienden desde la lnea Antofagasta-Catamarca hasta una lnea que conecta Valdivia en Chile con Neuqun en Argentina. El lmite meridional es arbitrario para fines de investigacin, dado que, por definicin, los Andes se extienden hasta el extremo sur de Sudamrica. Estas tres subregiones se describen con cierto detalle para dar una base fsica sobre la cual pueda desarrollarse la investigacin aplicada del Proyecto 6 de MAB. Los Andes Septentrionales que comprenden las montaas y las tierras adyacentes en Venezuela, Colombia y Ecuador estn caracterizados como ecuatoriales, hmedos, con zonas de vegetacin simtricas en los cortes transversales de este a oeste y con mnimas variaciones climticas estacionales. Esta es la subregin andina de mayor productividad vegetal por su sistema ecolgico natural y de mayor potencial para la productividad de plantas indgenas. Sin embargo, a causa de la alta precipitacin pluvial y las bajas temperaturas, el lmite de altura para la agricultura prctica oscila entre los 3.200 m y los 3.400 m sobre el nivel del mar. Los Andes Centrales es la subregin de Per, Bolivia y el norte de Chile y Argentina. Aqu hay asimetra entre la precipitacin pluvial y la temperatura, con las laderas del Pacfico ms secas y frescas que las laderas del este; con una norma bien marcada en la precipitacin pluvial estacional de las tierras al10.2307/3673036|Agro-forestry uses trees in combination with non-tree crops to intensify land use in forested areas. Optimal use of agro-forestry in a development programme requires a thorough knowledge of traditional land ownership and use if the area's inhabitants are to be integrated successfully into the plan. The Karen people, the largest highland minority group in Thailand, have traditionally used a conservative short cultivation-long fallow swidden system. Land resources are loosely held by the community, which depends heavily on reciprocal exchange labour to cultivate family farms, and volunteer labour for the communal tasks necessary to protect village lands from fire and other hazards. The swidden system resembles agro-forestry in that the farmers encourage forest regeneration by allowing regrowth from stumps and coppiced trees in cultivated fields, and by controlling fire in fallow swiddens. Trees are used for construction and domestic fuel, and to bring nutrients where they can be used (as ash) to fertilize rice and a wide variety of non-tree crops. Swiddens are cultivated with minimal disturbance to the soil. With low population density the system sustained a subsistence economy for hundreds of years without major environmental deterioration. In recent years the system has been destabilized. Most development projects have not been integrated into existing land-use systems. Agro-forestry techniques have not generally been applied to increase swidden productivity. Extensive reforestation projects in swidden land areas have reduced the amount of land available to Karens at the same time as population has grown due to decline in mortality and migration into the hills. Commercialization of the subsistence economy has led to a decline in the availability of reciprocal exchange labour. Increased demand for forest resources has led to decrease in security of tenure for swiddens and other communally held land. Karens are now placing greater emphasis on irrigated fields, while the swidden system has tended to deteriorate, with more frequent cultivation and shorter fallow, and less adequate control of fire. /// L'agro-foresterie considre les arbres comme une ressource au mme titre que d'autres plantes cultives, pour permettre d'intensifier l'exploitation du sol dans les rgions forestires. L'utilisation optimale de l'agro-foresteire dans le cadre d'un programme de dveloppement ncssite une connaissance profonde des modes traditionnels affectant la proprit et l'utilisation des terres, si l'on veut intgrer avec succs les habitants de la rgion dans le plan gnral. Les Karens constituent le groupement minoritaire le plus important dans les rgions montagneuses de la Thalande. Par tradition, ils utilisent un systme conservatif de culture sur brlis caracteris par de courtes priodes de culture et de longues priodes en friche. Les ressources agraires appartiennent plus ou moins  la collectivit qui compte beaucoup sur l'change rciproque de la main-d'oeuvre pour cultiver les terres familiales, et sur la main-d'oeuvre volontaire pour effectuer les tches ncessaires  la protection du village et des terres avoisinantes contre le feu et autres dangers. Le systme de culture sur brlis ressemble  l'agro-foresterie du fait que les fermiers encouragent la rgnration de la fort, en permettant aux souches et aux taillis de repousser dans les champs cultivs, et en utilisant judicieusement le feu dans les brlis en friche. Les arbres sont utiliss pour la construction et pour le chauffage domestique, et sous forme de cendres pour fertilizer les champs de riz et d'autres plantes cultives. Les brlis sont cultivs de manire  minimiser les perturbations du sols. Combin  une faible densit dmographique, ce systme a pu supporter un rgime d'auto-consommation pendant des centaines d'annes, sans dtrioration majeure de l'environnement. Ce systme s'est dstabilis au cours des dernires annes, du fait que la plupart des projets de dveloppement ne se sont pas integrs dans les systmes existants d'utilisation des terres. En gnral, les techniques agro-forestires n'ont pas t appliques pour augmenter la productivit des brlis. Des projets intensifs de reboisement dans les zones de brlis ont rduit la superficie des terres disponibles aux Karens, alors que leur population s'est accrue du fait d'un moindre taux de mortalit et d'une migration vers les rgions montagneuses. La commercialisation de leur rgime d'autoconsommation a men  un declin de la main-d'oeuvre disponible pour les changes rciproques. Une demande plus importante pour les produits forestiers a diminu la stabilit de la structure agraire en ce qui concerne les brlis et autres terres rgies par la collectivit. Les Karens accordent maintenant plus d'importance aux terres irrigues, alors que la culture sur brlis tend  se dgrader (priodes de culture plus longues compares aux priodes en friche, et utilisation moins judicieuse du feu). /// Agro-Forstwirtschaft verwendet um die Landnutzung bewaldeter Flchen zu intensivieren, Bume zusammen mit Feldfrchten. Durch ein Entwicklungsprogramm optimierte Agro-Forstwirtschaft erfordert genaue Kenntnis der herkmmlichen Landnutzung und Besitzverhltnisse, will man die Einwohner erfolgreich in die Planung einbeziehen. Die Karen Bevlkerung, die grsste Minderheit der Hochlandbewohner Thailands, hat seit jeher ein System benutzt, bei dem nach einer kurzen Anbauzeit eine lange Brachperiode mit Roden und Brennen folgt. Landressourcen werden mehr oder weniger von der Gemeinde verwaltet, die, um Familienbesitzungen zu bestellen, stark von gegenseitigem Arbeitskrfteaustausch abhngt. Daneben ist freiwillige Arbeit fr Gemeindeaufgaben notwendig, um das kommunale Land vor Feuer und anderen Gefahren zu schtzen. Das System des Rodens und Brennens hnelt der Agro-Forstwirtschaft darin, dass die Bauern auf bebauten Feldern neuen Baumwuchs aus Stmpfen und Unterholz zulassen, und das Feuer auf das Brachland beschrnken. Bume werden als Baumaterial und Brennholz benutzt, ausserdem liefern sie (in Form von Asche) Nhrstoffe, die Felder mit Reis und anderen Feldfrchten dngen. Roden- und Brennflchen werden mit geringer Bodenbeeintrchtigung bestellt. Bei niedriger Bevlkerungsdichte konnte das System ber Jahrhunderte ohne grosse Umweltverschlechterung eine gleichbleibende Selbstversorgerkonomie aufrechterhalten. Unlngst jedoch wurde das System instabil. Die meisten Entwicklungsprojekte wurden nicht in bestehende Landnutzungssysteme integriert. Allgemein wurden agro-forstwirtschaftliche Techniken zur Ertragssteigerung beim Roden- und Brennsystem nicht angewendet. Der Landanteil, der den Karen zur Verfgung steht, ist durch umfangreiche Aufforstungsprojekte zurckgegangen, whrend gleichzeitig die Bevlkerungszahl durch Zurckgehen der Sterblichkeit und Umsiedelung in die Berge gestiegen ist. Kommerzialisierung der Selbstversorgerkonomie fhrte zu einem Rckgang in der Verfgbarkeit von Austauscharbeitskrften. Zunehmender Bedarf an Waldressourcen hat ausserdem zur Verunsicherung der Besitzverhltnisse des Roden- und Brennlandes und anderer kommunaler Lndereien gefhrt. Die Karen legen jetzt mehr Wert darauf, ihre Felder zu bewssern; dadurch werden sie hufiger bestellt, die Zeit der Brache ist krzer, aber die Feuergefahr ist hher, whrend sich das System des Rodens und Brennens verschlechtert hat.
mounresedeve.31.1.27|This paper analyzes 35 oral testimonies that were collected in Shimshal through a Panos oral testimony project. The project's goal was to record villagers' perspectives on social change in the community. The link road, which would eventually connect Shimshal to the Karakoram Highway and down-country Pakistan, features prominently as an important vector of sociocultural transformation, despite being 2 years from completion at the time of the interviews. Our analysis delineates 10 narratives that reveal the public discourses that structure Shimshalis' understanding of the road's emerging effects. These narratives contribute to development research and practice related to rural road construction by documenting local representations of the lived experience of a new road and its social and developmental effects, a neglected but vital structuring element of material outcomes. They also constitute an important starting point for tracing shifts in road-related public discourse, as accessibility becomes an increasingly accustomed aspect of everyday life in Shimshal.
3674533|Mountains and highlands are often called the world's natural "water towers" because they provide essential freshwater for populations both upstream and downstream. Despite this, knowledge about the significance of mountains in the hydrological cycle is still uncertain. The present article takes a regional approach, Using case studies to assess and compare the hydrological significance of mountains. Methods are developed based on the experience gained in the Rhine River catchment and then applied to 19 additional selected catchments worldwide, with the river Euphrates serving as an example. The resulting comparative assessment serves as an elaboration on the hydrological significance of the world's mountains and underscores their function as sources of large, reliable, and compensatory discharge. The mean annual mountain contribution to total discharge in the river basins included in our case studies is disproportionately high, at 63%, with a mean relative mountain area of only 32%. Furthermore, distinctions can be made according to climatic regions, clearly highlighting the vital role of mountain runoff in lowlands in arid and semiarid areas. This means taking mountains and highlands more carefully into account in terms of monitoring and scientific research and especially in terms of watershed management and conflict management.
10.2307/3673971|The Central Peruvian Andes stand out as a globally important center of cultural and biological evolution. This is supported by its location at the heart of the former dominating Inca civilization (AD 1440-1534), itself built on remarkable preceding civilizations. These civilizations have arisen in this area possibly because of its exceptional natural biodiversity and its prominence as a center of domestication for numerous high altitude crops growing between 2,000-4,500 m a.s.l. Continuous environmental records for the Holocene from lake basin deposits in the Cuzco area would provide valuable information on how early human impact occurred. They would also assist in determining when the transition to agriculture took place in the southern highlands of present day Peru. A pollen record from Marcacocha, an in-filled lake basin at 3,300 m near Ollantaytambo indicates evidence of a deforested agricultural landscape earlier than 4,000 years ago. Major local climatic events at about AD 100 and 1050 in the record separate three contrasting land-use phases and may be linked to climatic events of a wider geographical occurrence. Most importantly these data furnish valuable insight into which cultures in Peru appeared to manage these fragile mountainous environments with minimal impact, and even evidence of agro-forestry using Alnus on a major scale. There are numerous lakes in the Cuzco area to provide a complete regional overview. A selection of these sites is presented. It is suggested that a series of continuous records at different altitudes may fill the gaps in our understanding of the composition of natural vegetation communities, including the distribution of Polylepis forest in existence prior to human impact. All this information will be important to agronomists, archaeologists, ecologists, and palaeoclimatologists alike. /// Les Andes pruviennes centrales se distinguent en tant que centre mondialement important de l'volution culturelle et biologique. Non seulement elles se trouvent au coeur de la civilisation Inca qui a domin sur un continent de 1440 apr. J.-C. jusqu' 1534 apr. J.-C. mais elles sont aussi le berceau de nombreuses civilisations antrieures en raison peut-tre de leur biodiversit naturelle exceptionnelle et de leur importance comme centre de domestication de nombreuses plantes poussant  2000-4500m d'altitude. Des relevs continus de sdiments de l'poque holocne effectus dans les bassins des lacs du milieu environnant, dans la rgion de Cuzco, pourraient offrir des informations prcieuses sur le premier impact de l'homme et sur la priode  laquelle la transition vers l'agriculture a eu lieu. Un relev de pollen provenant de Marcacocha, un bassin de lac rempli situ  3300m prs d'Ollantaytambo, apporte la preuve de l'existence d'un paysage agricole dbois il y a plus de 4000 ans. Les principaux phnomnes climatiques locaux situs vers 100 apr. J.-C. et 1050 apr. J.-C. mettent en vidence trois phases distinctes d'utilisation des terres et sont peut-tre lis  des phnomnes climatiques d'une ampleur gographique plus importante. Ces donnes prcieuses nous permettent surtout d'imaginer quelles taient ces cultures pruviennes qui semblaient grer ces milieux montagneux fragiles avec le minimum d'impact, et elles nous apportent mme la preuve de l'existence d'une agro-foresterie utilisant l'Aulne sur une grande chelle. Les nombreux lacs de la rgion de Cuzco permettent d'offrir une vue d'ensemble rgionale complte. Une slection de ces sites est prsente. On suggre qu'une srie de relevs continus  des altitudes diffrentes pourrait peut-tre combler nos lacunes dans notre connaissance de la composition des associations vgtales naturelles, y compris la distribution des forts de Polylepis prsentes avant l'impact de l'homme. Toutes ces informations seront importantes aussi bien pour les agronomes que pour les archologues, les cologistes et les paloclimatologues. /// Die mittelperuanischen Anden zeichnen sich als ein Zentrum kultureller und biologischer Evolution von weltweiter Bedeutung aus, das nicht nur das Herz der kontinentbestimmenden Inka-Zivilisation (AD 1440-AD 1534) war, sondern auch eine Vielzahl frherer Zivilisationen hervorgebracht hat, die in dieser Region mglicherweise auf Grund der auergewhnlichen natrlichen biologischen Vielfalt entstehen konnten. Auch ihre Bedeutung als Mittelpunkt fr die Kultivierung vieler Hochlandfeldfrchte, die zwischen 2000 und 4500 Metern Hhe gedeihen, mag hierzu beigetragen haben. Durchgehende kologische Nachweise aus dem Holozn in den Ablagerungen des Seenbeckens in der Cuzco-Region bieten wertvolle Erkenntnisse darber, wie frh bereits menschliche Einflsse auftraten und zu welchem Zeitpunkt der bergang zur Landwirtschaft stattfand. Ein Pollennachweis aus Marcacocha, einem aufgefllten Seebecken in 3300 Metern Hhe in der Nhe von Ollantaytambo gibt Hinweise darauf, da dieser Landstrich bereits vor mehr als 4000 Jahren entwaldet und landwirtschaftlich genutzt wurde. Durch grere lokale klimatische Ereignisse in den Jahren 100 und 1050, die in den Aufzeichnungen erwhnt sind, werden drei unterschiedliche Phasen der Landnutzung beschrieben, die auch auf einen Zusammenhang mit klimatischen Ereignissen eines umfassenderen geographischen Ausmaes schlieen lassen. Besonders wichtig ist jedoch, da diese Daten wertvolle Erkenntnisse darber geben, welche Kulturen in Peru in der Lage waren, die empfindlichen Bergkologien mit minimalen Auswirkungen zu nutzen; sie sind sogar ein Nachweis fr eine Bewirtschaftung des Waldes mit Alnus-Nutzung in groem Umfang. Im Cuzco-Gebiet befinden sich unzhlige Seen, die einen vollstndigen berblick ber diese Region geben. Eine Auswahl dieser Orte wird vorgestellt. Es wird darauf hingewiesen, da eine Reihe kontinuierlicher Aufzeichnungen in unterschiedlichen Hhenlagen unsere Lcken im Verstndnis der Zusammensetzung von Gemeinschaften natrlicher Vegetation schlieen knnten, einschlielich der Verbreitung des Polylepsis-Waldes, der bereits vor dem Eingreifen der Menschen existierte. All diese Informationen sind fr Agronome, Archologen, kologen und Paloklimatologen gleichermaen von Bedeutung.
10.2307/3673987|This study examines the use of commercial and domestic wood in nine research areas located near native Andean forests in Ecuador, its importance for the rural economy, and its relation to the pronounced deforestation process. The sale of charcoal for commercial use in restaurants is the prime source of income for producers, and may accelerate deforestation near cities. In turn, timber and firewood are of negligible commercial importance. In general, income from wood represents a temporary resource, confined to early stages of agricultural frontier expansion, and provides income that tends to be reinvested in agriculture and particularly cattle ranching. The conversion of forests into pastures is the predominant long-term land-use change in the highlands, and this increases the commercial integration with urban markets. Public institutions in Ecuador generally have reinforced this deforestation for pasture through credit and tenure incentives and by poor forest administration practices. The main domestic wood use is firewood, but it is almost always combined with bottled gas as a fuel source so that it has little impact on forests. It is concluded, therefore, that deforestation in the highlands of Ecuador is dominated by the demand for agricultural land and cattle ranching, whereas only in exceptional cases are requirements for wood the motivation for forest conversion. /// Cette tude examine l'utilisation du bois commercial et domestique dans neuf zones de recherche situes au voisinage des forts indignes de l'Equateur, son importance pour l'conomie rurale et sa relation avec le processus marqu de dforestation. La vente de charbon de bois pour une utilisation commerciale dans les restaurants constitue la source principale de revenu pour les producteurs et risque d'acclrer la dforestation prs des villes. D'autre part, l'importance commerciale du bois en grume et du bois de chauffage est ngligeable. En gnral, le revenu en provenance du bois constitue une ressource temporaire limite aux premiers stades de l'expansion de la frontire agricole; il tend  tre rinvesti dans l'agriculture et en particulier dans l'levage bovin en libert. La conversion des forts en pturages reprsente  long terme le changement prdominant de l'utilisation des terres dans les rgions montagneuses, augmentant l'intgration commerciale avec les marchs urbains. Les institutions publiques de l'Equateur ont gnralement renforc la conversion des forts en pturages par l'octroi de facilits de crdit et de tenure, et par des pratiques incorrectes d'administration des forts. L'utilisation domestique principale du bois est le bois de chauffage, mais elle presque toujours combine avec le gaz en bouteille en tant que source de combustible, et elle a donc peu d'impact sur les forts. On peut en conclure que la dforestation des rgions montagneuses de l'Equateur est domine par la demande en terres agricoles et l'levage bovin en libert, alors que seulement dans des cas exceptionnels les besoins en bois entranent la conversion des forts. /// Diese Studie untersucht anhand von Daten aus neun bewaldeten Testgebieten in den Anden von Ecuador kommerzielle und private Aspekte der Holzwirtschaft, sowie ihre Bedeutung fr die lokale konomie und Konsequenzen bezglich der blichen Praxis des Kahlschlags. Fr die kommerziellen Nutzer ist der Verkauf von Holzkohle an Restaurants im Umfeld grerer Stdte eine Haupteinnahmequelle, was sehr wahrscheinlich den Entwaldungs-prozess beschleunigt. Daneben haben Bau- und Brennholzhandel nur eine geringe kommerzielle Bedeutung. Im allgemeinen liefern die Einknfte aus der Holzwirtschaft nur kurzlebige Ressourcen, die am Anfang der landwirtschaftlichen Expansion hauptschlich in landwirtschaftliche, insbesonders Rinderzucht-betreffende Projekte reinvestiert werden. Die Transformation von Waldflchen in Weideland ist im Hochland die wichtigste langfristige nderung in der Landnutzung, wodurch auch die kommerzielle Verflechtung mit dem stdtischen Handel gefrdert wird. Offentliche Institutionen in Ecuador haben die Entwaldung zugunsten von Weideland durch Kredite, Grundbesitzfrderung und durch verfehltes Waldmanagement untersttzt. Die Nutzung von Brennholz im huslichen Bereich ist nicht wichtig, da oft Flaschengas als zustzliche Quelle eingesetzt wird, womit diese Nutzung kaum Einflu auf den Schwund der Waldflchen hat. Als Schlubemerkung wird die Tatsache angefhrt, da der Kahlschlag in den Hochlanden von Ecuador durch den Bedarf an Landflchen zur Rinderzucht bestimmt wird, und nur selten ist der Holzbedarf Grund zur Abholzung. /// En este artculo, se investigan los usos comerciales y domsticos de la madera nativa de los Andes del Ecuador, as como su importancia para la economa rural y para el fuerte proceso de deforestacin. El uso comercial del carbn en las polleras constituye el ingreso ms importante para los productores de madera y, en las zonas cercanas a las ciudades, puede acelerar la deforestacin. En cambio, la madera aserrada y la lea casi no tienen importancia comercial en las nueve reas de estudio. Generalmente, los ingresos extractivos provenientes de la madera son transitorios, porque la mayora se obtiene en las primeras fases de la ampliacin de la frontera agrcola, y son reinvertidos en la agricultura y, sobre todo, en la ganadera. Este cambio muy pronunciado en el uso de la tierra- la sustitucin de bosques por pastos-, permite al campesino integrarse cada vez ms a los mercados urbanos. Las instituciones pblicas en el Ecuador generalmente han resforzado la deforestacin con fines agropecuarios, a travs de incentivos crediticios y de tenencia, y mediante una deficiente administracin de los bosques. El principal uso domstico de la madera es la lea para coccin que se combina casi siempre con el gas, por lo que su uso tiene poco impacto sobre los bosques investigados. Por lo tanto, concluimos que la deforestacin en las reas de estudio se debe, en primer lugar, a la demanda de tierras para el uso agropecuario; los productos de la madera slo en casos excepcionales constituyen un motivo independiente para la conversin de los bosques.
mounresedeve.32.2.158|In the Peruvian sierra near the city of Cajamarca, livelihood options of extensive grazing and plantation forestry often conflict with ecosystem services provided by the native jalca grasslands where these land uses are undertaken. This study estimates financial returns for local landowners for grazing livestock and plantation forestry and compares these values with estimated values for environmental services under each land use. Results of the estimated financial returns to landowners suggest that the profitability of each land use varies significantly because of local variation in grassland productivity, proximity to the village, and rates of time preference. In comparison to the financial returns to each land use, resulting values for environmental services were relatively high in magnitude, especially for the ecosystem service of water provision, suggesting that in most cases, overgrazing and pine plantations in the jalca will yield net economic losses at the national level. Regarding pine plantations in particular, the value for increased carbon sequestration was outweighed by the value of expected losses in water provision for irrigation, suggesting that a potential market based on carbon could yield net economic losses if water is not considered. The paper concludes that rural development can be best achieved in the study area by promoting conservation of the jalca, encouraging low-impact grazing practices, and targeting pine plantations only for areas of the jalca that are already degraded.
10.2307/3673854|Crop rotation and other ancient agricultural practices have been inappropriately replaced by the use of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides. Today, it is recognized that the old traditional methods have potential for sustainable agriculture. This ongoing study (1993-1998) evaluates the effects of monocropping and crop rotation on yield, above-ground biomass, and weed populations of four Andean crops: potato (Solanum tuberosum), melloco (Ullucus tuberosus), lupine (Lupinus mutabilis), and quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa), planted both with and without fertilizer. The results of research during the first three years are presented here. Crop rotation increased marketable yields of quinoa, compared to monocropping. Potato yields followed the same trend in 1995. Lupine gave the best results as previous crop; when non-fertilized quinoa and potato were planted after non-fertilized lupine, yields were 44-188% higher than those planted as non-fertilized monocrops. Weed populations were affected only by the current season crop. Previous-season crop and previous-season fertilizer did not affect weed population dynamics. Again, lupine was the most successful current crop in maintaining lower weed populations. The first three years of the experiment indicate that lupine should be planted as the first crop in rotation systems for highland agriculture in Ecuador. Also, fertilized potato followed by non-fertilized quinoa, and melloco followed by quinoa with or without fertilization are the recommended sequences. /// La rotation des cultures et d'autres anciennes pratiques agricoles ont t inopportunment remplaces par l'utilisation d'engrais synthtiques et de pesticides. On se rend maintenant compte que les anciennes mthodes rendaient possible une agriculture viable. Cette tude en cours (1993-1998) value les effets de la monoculture et de la rotation des cultures sur la biomasse au-dessus du sol et sur les peuplements de mauvaises herbes, pour quatre cultures andines,  savoir la pomme de terre (Solanum tuberosum), le melloco (Ullucus tuberosus), le lupin changeant (Lupinus mutabilis) et le quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa), plantes avec ou sans engrais. Les rsultats des trois premires annes de recherche sont prsentes dans cet article. Par rapport  la monoculture, la rotation des cultures a augment la production commerciale de quinoa. La production de pommes de terre a volu de la mme manire en 1995. Le lupin changeant a donn les meilleurs rsultats en tant que culture prcdente; lorsque le quinoa et la pomme de terre non fertiliss ont t plants aprs le lupin non fertilis, leurs productions respectives taient de 44  188 pour cent suprieures  celles obtenues en monocultures non fertilises. Les peuplements de mauvaises herbes n'ont t affectes que par la culture de la saison en cours. La culture et la fertilisation de la saison prcdente n'ont pas affect la dynamique des peuplements de mauvaises herbes. De nouveau, le lupin a constitu la meilleure culture de la saison du point de vue de la rduction des peuplements de mauvaises herbes. Les trois premires annes de recherche indiquent que le lupin doit tre plant en tant que premire culture pour les systmes de rotation de l'agriculture des hautes terres de l'Equateur. Ensuite, la pomme de terre fertilise suivie du quinoa non fertilis, et le melloco suivi du quinoa, avec ou sans fertilisation, constituent les squences recommandes. /// Fruchtwechsel und andere althergebrachte landwirtschaftliche Praktiken wurden unangemessenerweise durch den Einsatz von synthetischen Dngern und Pestiziden ersetzt. Inzwischen wird anerkannt, da die alten, traditionellen Methoden ein groes Potential fr nachhaltige Landwirtschaft bieten. Die hier beschriebene, noch andauerende Studie (1993-1998) untersucht die Effekte von Monokultur und Fruchtwechsel mit und ohne Dngung auf Ertrag, berirdische Biomasse und Unkrautpopulationen fr vier landwirtschaftlich genutzte Pflanzenarten in den Anden: Kartoffel (Solanum tuberosum), Melloco (Ullucus tuberosus), Lupine (Lupinus mutabilis) und Quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa). Es werden die Ergebnisse der ersten drei Untersuchungsjahre prsentiert. Im Vergleich mit der Monokultur verbesserte die Fruchtfolge den verkufliechen Quinoaertrag. 1995 folgte der Kartoffelertrag dem gleichen Trend. Lupinen erwiesen sich als beste Vorgngerfrucht; auf Lupinenanbau ohne Dngung folgender Anbau von ungedngten Kartoffeln und Quinoa ergab 44 bis 188% hhere Ertrge als in dngungsloser Monokultur angebaute Kartoffeln und Quinoa. Unkrautpopulation wurden nur von der Fruchtart der jeweiligen Saison beeinflusst. Pflanzenart und Dngung in der vorangegangenen Saison hatten keinen Einflu auf Unkrautpopulationsdynamiken. Wiederum wurde die Unkrautpopulation am erfolgreichsten von Lupinen unterdrckt. Die ersten drei Untersuchungjahre zeigen, da Lupinen als erste Fruchtart in Fruchtwechselsystemen in der Hochlandlandwirtschaft in Ecuador eigesetzt werden sollten. Weitere ratsame Fruchtfolgen sind gedngte Kartoffeln geflogt von ungedngtem Quinoa sowie Melloco gefolgt von Quinoa mit oder ohne Dngung. /// La rotacin de cultivos y otras prcticas culturales tradicionales fueron equivocadamente sustituidas por el uso de fertilizantes y pesticidas sintticos. Afortunadamente, en los ltimos aos se est reconociendo que estas prcticas tienen potencial para ser usadas en sistemas agropecuarios autosustentables. El presente estudio fue realizado para evaluar el efecto del monocultivo y de la rotacin en el rendimiento, biomasa area y poblacin de malezas de cuatro cultivos andinos: Papa (Solanum tuberosum), melloco (Ullucus tuberosus), chocho (Lupinus mutabilis) y quinua (Chenopodium quinoa), sembrados con y sin fertilizante. La investigacin se est realizando en la Estacin Experimental Santa Catalina en Ecuador, desde 1993 hasta 1998. Los resultados de los primeros tres aos se presentan en este artculo. El monocultivo redujo los rendimientos comerciales de quinua entre 66 y 92% en 1994 y entre 15 y 64% en 1995, en comparacin con las rotaciones. En papa se observ la misma tendencia en 1995. El chocho ejerci la mejor influencia como cultivo anterior. Los rendimientos de quinua y papa sin fertilizacin, cuando se sembraron despus de chocho tambin sin fertilizacin, fueron de 44 a 188% mas altos que sus monocultivos sin fertilizacin. La poblacin de malezas fue afectada solamente por el efecto del cultivo actual. Los efectos de cultivo anterior y fertilizacin anterior fueron no significativos para poblacin de malezas. Nuevamente, chocho fue el mejor cultivo actual para mantener una poblacin baja de malezas. Las parcelas de chocho en 1995 presentaron 586, 422 y 82 malezas m<sup>2</sup> menos que las de papa, melloco y quinua respectivamente. Despus de los primeros tres aos del experimento, se recomienda el uso de chocho como cultivo previo, para sistemas de rotacin de cultivos en la Sierra de Ecuador. Las rotaciones de papa con fertilizacin seguida de quinua sin fertilizacin y melloco seguido de quinua, ambos con o sin fertilizacin, tambin son recomendables.
10.2307/3673643|The extensive alpine pastures of Kinnaur in the Indian Himalaya are an invaluable resource, with fertile soils that provide high-quality pasturage above treeline. However, today these pastures are being degraded by excessive livestock pressure and lack of good management. This is weakening animal husbandry programs and upsetting the normal hydrological functioning of the upland river catchments. The forested area in the Kinnaur District is small and only half is under well-protected forest. Within the forests infiltration and water retention rates are high and help to effect regular sediment-free water yields to the rivers, but there is growing pressure from the local people who claim that they need a large proportion of the annual yield of the forest. The cultivable waste lands that cover a large area should be used for social forestry to augment the vegetation cover and reduce the pressure on the present forest land. The cultivated area is very limited and produces low yields of less remunerative crops. The agricultural land in the forest and alpine belts on steep slopes is being severely eroded and may become completely unstable. /// Les pturages alpins couvrent une grande partie de l'Himalaya indien et constituent une ressource indispensable; les sols fertiles fournissent des pturages de haute qualit au-dessus de la limite des arbres. Nanmoins, ces pturages sont maintenant sujets  une dgradation srieuse cause par une utilisation excessive par le btail et par un manque de gestion rationnelle. Cela affaiblit les programmes d'levage et perturbe le fonctionnement hydrologique normal des bassins hydrographiques de montagne. La zone forestire du district de Kinnaur est restreinte et seulement la moiti est sous forme de forts protges. Dans les forts, la rtention de l'eau et les vitesses d'infiltration sont leves et contribuent  assurer un apport rgulier d'eau sans sdiments dans les cours d'eau, mais la population locale affirme de plus en plus qu'elle a besoin d'une grande partie de la production annuelle de la fort. Les terres en friche cultivables qui couvrent une superficie importante devraient tre utilises pour la foresterie sociale, dans le but d'augmenter le couvert vgtal et de rduire la pression sur les terres boises existantes. Les zones cultives sont trs limites et le rendement des cultures peu rmunratices est faible. Les terres agricoles dans les forts et les zones alpines sur les pentes escarpes sont soumises  un rosion srieuse et risquent d'tre dtruites. /// Alpines Weideland bedeckt eine groe Flche des indischen Himalaya und ist mit seinen fruchtbaren Bden oberhalb der Baumgrenze, die Weideland von hoher Qualitt liefern, eine wertvolle Ressource. Gegenwrtig verschlechtern sich jedoch diese Weideflchen durch bermige Viehhaltung und fehlendes Management. Dieser Umstand fhrt dazu, da Programme fr bessere Viehwirtschaft geschwcht werden und da die normalen hydrologischen Funktionen der Flueinzugsgebiete im Hochland gestrt werden. Die bewaldeten Gebiete sind eng begrenzt, und nur die Hlfte steht unter Schutz. Wasserretention und Infiltrationsraten sind hoch, was sich auf die regulren, sedimentfreien Wasserertrge der Flsse auswirkt. Die einheimische Bevlkerung, die die Hlfte des jhrlichen Holzertrages fr sich beansprucht, bt zunehmenden Druck aus. Groe Gebiete mit kultivierbaren, brachliegenden Flchen sollten fr Gemeinde-Waldwirtschaft genutzt werden, um die grnen Flchen zu vergrern und den Druck auf bestehende Waldgebiete zu mindern. Die bestellte Flche ist sehr klein und liefert wenig lohnende Feldfrchte mit geringem Ertrag. Das Agrarland auf steilen Hngen in den Wald- und alpinen Grteln ist zunehmender Erosion ausgesetzt und kann auf lange Sicht wahrscheinlich nicht erhalten werden.
25164070|In recent decades, the Mount Kenya highland-lowland system, which includes the Ewaso Ngiro North Basin, has experienced complex ecological and socioeconomic dynamics. These are reflected in changing land use systems and practices as well as in a rapidly growing human population, especially in the footzones and adjacent lowlands. These changes have exerted unremitting pressure on water resources, especially because the demand for water by different user groups has continued to grow, against the backdrop of expensive alternative sources (rainwater and groundwater harvesting) and increasingly dwindling river water resources. As each of the user groups moves to make substantial claims to available river water, competition for the resource becomes even sharper, thus setting the stage for conflicts related to scarcity that intensify during the dry season, at times resulting in fatal physical conflicts among different user groups in the basin, especially between upstream and downstream users. Different approaches have been used to address these scarcity-related conflicts. The present article discusses Water Users' Associations as one of the most effective initiatives launched to address the problem of water use conflicts in the basin in the recent past.
mounresedeve.34.3.266|Families living in Gorno- Badakhshansituated in the Pamir Mountains in Tajikistandepend on irrigated agriculture to meet their subsistence needs. Because men predominate, and are most visible in, the operation and management of irrigation systems in this region, water-related activities are often labeled as masculine. Yet women historically played an important role in on-farm irrigation activities and even formed the majority of the agricultural workforce during the Soviet period. Today women are still responsible for the bulk of farming activities, including irrigation. This is partly a consequence of the difficulty of depending on farming alone for making a living, which leads many men to migrate elsewhere in search of employment. Drawing on 6 months of fieldwork in 2 villages in different irrigation systems, this article argues that although formal water rights and power are vested in men, this does not mean that women lack agency, nor is it necessarily a reflection of wider gender inequities. Understanding the power and equity implications of formal distributions of rights and powers among men and women requires an analysis that links formal rights to actual irrigation and farming practices and places them in broader historical and livelihood contexts.
25164050|Combined applications of manure and inorganic fertilizer (integrated nutrient management) may allow sustainable cropping with higher productivity and larger economic benefits than applications of either one alone. This is being examined in three of the major crop rotations in the mid-hills of Nepal. These are rice-wheat on irrigated khet land, millet, either relayed or grown sequentially after maize, on rain-fed bari land, and blackgram grown after upland rice on ancient river terraces, tar land. At each of the six sites seven different nutrient treatments were applied either to a single crop (maize and upland rice) or to both crops (rice and wheat) in the rotation. Manure or inorganic fertilizer, or equal parts of both, were applied at a high rate and at half that rate. A treatment with no additions was also included. Crops of millet and blackgram were unfertilized. Grain yields of maize, upland rice, wheat, and rice were greater at the higher rate of N, as were straw yields. Grain and straw yields were greatest following application of fertilizer alone, except for maize at Pakhribas and wheat at Kholitar, and rice grain yields at Kholitar. For most crops, labor costs exceeded the market value of the yields from the zero-input treatment. Partial budget analysis showed that margins were generally negative when manure was applied either alone or in combination with fertilizer, but positive with applications of fertilizer. Results imply that applications of fertilizer are advantageous in the short-term.
3674294|The future of Swiss alpine winter tourism must be reassessed in view of global climate change in order to determine possible strategies for overall development of mountain regions. At present, 85% of all Swiss ski areas still have sufficient snow cover. A 300-m rise of the snow line, however, would reduce this to about 63%. As a consequence, skiers will expect more artificial snow, go on winter holidays less often, and concentrate on ski areas at higher altitudes. On the supply side, climate change will be used to justify increased use of artificial snow and advances into areas above 3000 m. This raises a variety of new problems, both economic and ecological. Developments in the Swiss snow industry indicate the rise of 2 distinct classes of tourist resorts. Climate change may increase economic pressure in terms of capital concentration and division into "winners" and "losers." Although global climate change certainly has an influence on tourism, it is not the only factor that determines the conditions of tourism.
4096455|Biodiversity conservation programs rely on accurate knowledge about past rates of ecological change and patterns of human use. In remote areas of the world, empirical data on historical trends rarely exist to inform conservation planning. Such is the case in the mountains of Yunnan, where there are many perceptions about historical drivers of environmental change, but little direct evidence. Since 2001, The Nature Conservancy has employed repeat photography to develop a historical profile for northwestern Yunnan. This 100-year profile allows us to assess the true magnitude of threats to biodiversity and the long-term contributions made by indigenous cultures to biodiversity maintenance. We found that many assumptions, often stated as fact, are wrong or do not apply universally. The magnitude and drivers of forest cover loss, arid shrubland dynamics, crop field expansion, and glacier retreat fall into this group. We also found that some threats have been ignored, such as a rapidly warming climate. The direct evidence of landscape change provided by repeat photographs has a range of conservation policy, investment, and management implications.
10.2307/3673775|This study describes changes occurring in a stand of Pinus kesiya in hill evergreen forest adjacent to a new settlement of tribal people in the Doi Inthanon mountain region of northern Thailand. These forests are increasingly experiencing chronic human impacts as tribal people are settled permanently at one site by government programs which encourage the cultivation of cash crops in place of opium. Results from age stand structure analysis suggest that two factors, human-set fires and kindling stick harvesting, are now severely affecting the age distribution of Pinus kesiya in the mixed pine and evergreen hardwood forest. /// Cette tude dcrit les changements qui ont affect un peuplement de Pinus kesiya situ dans une fort sempervirente adjacente  une nouvelle collectivit tribale tablie dans la rgion montagneuse de Doi Inthanon, en Thalande septentrionale. Ces forts sont de plus en plus sujettes  des impacts humains chroniques au fur et  mesure que des collectivits tribales s'tablissent en permanence sur certains sites, dans le cadre de programmes gouvernementaux encourageant la culture de denres commerciales plutt que de l'opium. Les rsultats d'une analyse structurale du peuplement de pins suggrent que deux facteurs, les feux de fort allums par les habitants et la collecte du petit bois de chauffage, affectent normment la distribution par ge de Pinus kesiya dans la fort sempervirente mixte de bois durs. /// Diese Studie beschreibt Vernderungen in einem Kiefernwald in der Doi Inthanon Gebirgsregion von Nordthailand, an den eine neue Siedlung mit einheimischen Bewohnern angrenzt. Diese Waldflchen sind mehr und mehr menschlichen Dauerbelastungen ausgesetzt, da die einheimische Bevlkerung durch Regierungsprogramme ermutigt wird, sich an einem Ort fest anzusiedeln, um Gartenfrchte statt Opium anzubauen. Einige Kiefernstnde in diesem Gebiet haben als gleichaltrige Gruppen den bestandszerstrenden Einflssen widerstanden. Eine Analyse dieser Bestnde deutet darauf hin, da zwei Faktoren die Altersverteilung der "Pinus kesiya" gravierend beeintrchtigen: Von Menschenhand verursachte Feuer und die Feuerholzgewinnung. Versumte Aufforstung der Kiefernwlder und die geringere Feuerempfindlichkeit von breitblttrigen Arten deuten auf den Trend, da in der Zukunft Kiefernwlder durch breitblttrige Baumarten ersetzt werden.
10.2307/3673691|A forest in the Harerge highlands representing the forests that used to cover all the highland areas of southeastern Ethiopia was studied. It is dominated by Juniperus procera and Podocarpus gracilior which are associated with several broad-leaved tree species. The forest is important for its productive and protective functions as well as for conserving both plant and animal diversity for future uses. However, like many other tropical forests, it is under increased human pressure. As a result, some of the species such as Olea hochstetteri, Hagenia abyssinica, and Juniperus procera are under threat of extinction from the area. The problems associated with human impact are discussed and recommendations that may help to alleviate these problems are presented. /// Une fort situe dans les hautes terres de l'Harerge, reprsentative des forts qui dans le pass couvraient toutes les rgions de hautes terres du sud-est de l'Ethiopie, a t tudie. Cette fort est domine par les espces Juniperus procera et Podocarpus gracilior qui sont associes  plusieurs espces d'arbres feuillus. La fort est importante  cause de ses fonctions de production et de protection, ainsi que pour le maintien de la diversit vgtale et animale en vue d'utilisations futures. Nanmoins, comme beaucoup d'autres forts tropicales, cette fort est soumise  une pression humaine croissante. En consquence, certaines des espces telles que Olea hochstetteri, Hagenia abyssinica et Juniperus procera, sont menaces d'extinction dans la rgion. Les problmes associs  l'impact humain sont examins et des recommandations sont faites dans le but d'aider  rsoudre ces problmes. /// Ein Waldgebiet in den Harerge Hochlanden, stellvertretend fr alle Wlder, die einst die Hochebenen von Sdost thiopien ganz bedeckten, wird untersucht. Das Gebiet ist berwiegend mit Juniperus procera und Podocarpus gracilior bewachsen, die zusammen mit verschiedenen breitblttrigen Baumarten stehen. Dieser Wald hat wichtige produktive und schtzende Funktionen; er bewahrt auerdem die Mannigfaltigkeit der Pflanzen- und Tierwelt fr zuknftige Nutzung. Ebenso wie andere tropische Wlder, steht dieses Gebiet unter zunehmender menschlischer Belastung. Als Folge davon sind einige Arten, wie z.B. Olea hochstetteri, Hagenia abyssinica und Juniperus procera vom Aussterben bedroht. Die Probleme der menschlichen Belastung werden diskutiert und Vorschlge zu ihrer Abhilfe gemacht.
3674349|Headwater unincised savanna (sabana) landscapes in the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic, have a vegetation cover dominated by the native tussock grass, Danthonia domingensis. Sites occur on gentle-relief upland surfaces approximately between 2000 and 2400 m, mainly in Jos del Carmen Ramrez National Park (JCR) and Juan B. Prez Rancier National Park (JBPR). Surface and subsurface data from 1 site constrain regolith age overlying granitoid saprolite to <12,570 <sup>14</sup>C years BP. We conclude that the savannas studied are dambos that developed in response to environmental change during and after the Pleistocene-Holocene transition. Dambos elsewhere are widely regarded as reliable indicators of major Quaternary environmental change. Dambos have unique hydrological, ecological, scenic, and utilitarian attributes; their importance will increase with greater tourism, as will the concerns for their sustainable use. This first publication on dambos in the Caribbean signals the need for more research into their origin, evolution, and state of equilibrium.
10.2307/3673635|Rapid sedimentation is a major problem at the reservoir of the Amaluza dam on the Paute river where more than half of Ecuador's electric power is produced. With this in mind extensive small-plot experiments were conducted with portable rainfall simulators to investigate the runoff dynamics and erosional responses of different soils and land uses in the <tex-math>$5,186\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Paute drainage basin. The results, combined with field observations and morphometric data, indicate that patterns of contemporary land use largely control the production and movement of runoff and sediment from slopes. Abandoned farmlands play an important role due to their great extent and to their runoff and erosional characteristics, while recently plowed crop lands absorb rain of the more frequent intensities. The integrated behavior of surfaces with different land uses on the same slope requires the study of erosion to extend beyond individual agricultural plots. Topography, proximity to the reservoir, presence of delivery networks, and in-stream material extraction are key non-agricultural factors affecting sediment movement into the reservoir. /// La sdimentation rapide constitue un problme majeur pour le rservoir du barrage d'Amaluza sur le Paute; ce barrage produit plus de la moiti de l'energie lectrique de l'Equateur. Dans cette perspective, des expriences extensives ont t effectues sur de petites parcelles  l'aide de simulateurs de pluie portatifs, de manire  tudier la dynamique de l'coulement et l'rosion produite, pour diffrents sols et modes d'utilisation des terres, dans le bassin hydrographique du Paute <tex-math>$(5,186\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math>. Les rsultats, combins avec des observations sur le terrain et des donnes morphomtriques, indiquent que les modes actuels d'utilisation des terres dterminent principalement l'coulement ainsi que la production et dplacement des sdiments en provenance des versants. Les terres cultives abandonnes jouent un rle important en raison de leur grande tendue et de leurs caractristiques d'coulement et d'rosion, alors que les terres rcemment laboures absorbent les pluies d'intensits les plus frquentes. Le comportement intgr des surfaces affectes  diffrents types d'utilisation sur le mme versant ncessite une tude de l'rosion  une chelle plus tendue que celle des parcelles agricoles individuelles. La topographie, la proximit du rservoir, la prsence de rseaux d'alimentation et l'extraction de matires dans le lit du cours d'eau constituent des facteurs non-agricoles importants qui affectent le dplacement des sdiments vers le rservoir. /// Am Amaluza Damm im Paute Flu, wo mehr als die Hlfte von Ecuador's elektrischer Energie erzeugt wird, ist starke Sedimentation ein ernsthaftes Problem. Um Abfluvorgnge und Erosion auf verschiedenen Bden und an unterschiedlichen Landnutzungsarten zu untersuchen, wurden mit tragbaren Regensimulatoren im <tex-math>$5.186\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> groen Paute Einzugsgebiet viele kleinrumige Experimente durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse, in Verbindung mit Gelnde- und morphometrischen Daten zeigen, da Wasserflu und Sedimenttransport von den Hngen hauptschlich durch die Landnutzung beeinflut werden. Brachliegende Ackerbden spielen wegen ihrer Flchenausdehnung und ihres Abfluverhaltens die Hauptrolle bei Erosionsvorgngen, frisch gepflgte Anbauflchen dagegen absorbieren selbst strkere Regenflle. Die verschiedene Landnutzung am selben Hang fhrt zu unterschiedlicher Abtragung, was Erosionsuntersuchungen erfordert, die ber einzelne, landwirtschaftlich genutzte Teilstcke hinausgehen. Topographie, Nhe zum Reservoir, Vorhandensein eines Abflusystems und Extraktion des abgelagerten Materials aus dem Flu sind neben den landwirtschaftlichen Einflssen, weitere Schlsselfaktoren, die den Sedimentstrom ins Reservoir bestimmen. /// Un problema grave es la rpida sedimentacon del embalse de la represa Amaluza del ro Paute, donde se genera ms de la mitad de la energa electrica del Ecuador. Se hicieron pruebas con dos simuladores de la lluvia porttiles para investigar el escurrimiento y la erosin de varios suelos y usos del suelo en los <tex-math>$5.186\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> de la cuenca del ro Paute, ubicada en los Andes del Ecuador. Los resultados, juntos con observaciones del campo y datos morfomtricos, indican que, en mayor parte, patrones del uso del suelo actual gobiernan la presencia y el movimiento de escurrimiento en las laderas. Terrenos con cultivos abandonados juegan un papel importante por su extensin y sus caractersticas de escurrimiento y erosin de suelos, mientras que terrenos cultivados con recin labranza absorben totalmente la mayora de las lluvias. El funcionamiento integrado de superficies con usos diferentes en la misma ladera requiere que estudios sobre erosin de suelos tomen en cuenta la ladera en su totalidad. La topografa, la proximidad al embalse, la existencia de redes de entrega de sedimentos, y extraccin de materiales del cauce del ro son factores claves, no relacionados con la agricultura, que afectan el movimiento de sedimentos hacia el embalse.
10.2307/3673731|The Tasman Glacier and its tributaries have been down-wasting since the 1880s. Until relatively recently reduction of ice mass had little effect on glacial valley topography but, beginning in the early 1960s, lateral moraines and even the bedrock valley walls began to undergo slope failure. The precursors to failure included tension cracks and the development of upslope facing fault scarps. The slope failure then rapidly progressed to widespread bedrock debris slides, topples, and frequent debris avalanches. Mountaineering huts and long established trails either have been moved or demolished as a result of this slope failure. The activation of all these slope failures is due directly to the rapid down-wasting of the valley glaciers. It is estimated that the Tasman ice surface is lowering 3.5  0.5 m annually. This rapid withdrawal of ice removes the lateral support of the valley walls which, as a consequence, are re-equilibrating, via slope failure, through periodic adjustments within lateral moraines and bedrock. Adjustments of moraines and valley walls is sporadic and appears to be associated with spring thaws and wet storms. This study indicates that dry moraine walls will become metastable and will re-equilibrate back to a lower relief via slope failure when the vertical relief between the moraine crest and glacial ice surface exceeds 129  10 m. Based on this information it is possible to predict when failure will likely occur on certain moraines. /// Le glacier du Tasman et ses tributaires subissent un amaigrissement qui a commen dans les annes 1880. Jusqu' une poque relativement rcente, la diminution de la masse glaciaire avait peu d'effet sur la topographie des valles glaciaires, mais depuis le dbut des annes 1960, les moraines latrales et mme les versants des valles du substratum ont commenc  subir une dgradation des pentes. Les signes prcurseurs de cette dgradation comprennent des fissures de tension et la formation d'escarpements de faille vers le haut des pentes. La dgradation des pentes volue ensuite vers des glissements de roches dtritiques du substratum, des boulis et de frquentes avalanches de roches dtritiques. Des chalets-refuges et des sentiers depuis longtemps tablis ont t dplacs ou dmolis par suite de cette dgradation des pentes. L'apparition de toutes ces dgradations de pentes est directement lie  l'amaigrissement rapide des glaciers des valles. Il a t estim que la surface glaciaire du Tasman s'abaisse de 3,5 m  0,5 m par an. Cette rcession rapide des glaciers te le support latral des versants de valles qui se rquilibrent par consquent via la dgradation des pentes, durant les ajustements priodiques  l'intrieur des moraines et du substratum. L'ajustement des moraines et des versants de valles est sporadique et semble tre associ aux dgels de printemps et aux pluies abondantes. Cette tude indique que les versants secs des moraines deviennent mtastables et se rquilibrent pour aboutir  un relief moins lev via la dgradation des versants, lorsque le relief vertical entre la crte d'une moraine et la surface glaciaire est suprieure  129 m  10 m. En se basant sur ces donnes, il est possible de prdire  quel moment le processus de dgradation est susceptible de se produire sur certaines moraines. /// Der Tasmangletscher und seine Nebengletscher sind seit den achtziger Jahren des vorigen Jahrhunderts im Schwinden begriffen. Bis etwa 1960 wirkte sich die Verringerung der Eismasse nur geringfgig auf die Topographie des Gletschertales aus. In den frhen sechziger Jahren begannen jedoch die Seitenmornen und sogar der Fels der Talwnde nachzugeben. Die ersten Anzeichen von Hangbrchen waren Spannungsrisse und das Auftreten von aufwrts weisenden Verwerfungsbrchen. Die Hangdestabilisierung schritt dann sehr schnell fort, und es gab in einem weiten Umkreis Gerllrutsche an der Felssohle, Felsstrze und hufige Schuttlawinen. Berghtten und alte Pfade, die in der ersten Hlfte des 20. Jahrhunderts gebaut worden waren, wurden entweder verlegt oder infolge der Hangeinstrze zerstrt. Alle Hangbrche in deisem Gebiet sind eine direkte Folge der rapiden Verringerung der Eismasse des Talgletschers. Schtzungen zufolge senkt sich die Oberflche des Tasmangletschers im Jahr um 3.5 0.5 m. Dieser rapide Rckgang des Gletschereises entzieht den Talwnden die seitliche Sttze, so dass sie sich durch Hangeinsturz, d. h. durch periodische Ausgleichsbewegungen in den Seitenmornen und Talwnden sind sporadisch und scheinen bei Tauwetter im Frhjahr und bei Regeneinbruch aufzutreten. Die vorliegende Studie zeigt, dass die trockenen Mornanwnde im Begriff sind, metastabil zu werden, und dass sie sich durch Hangbruch und Oberflchensenkung wieder ins Gleichgewicht bringen werden, sobald der Hhenunterschied zwischen dem Mornenrcken und der Gletscheroberflche 129 10 m berschreitet. Aufgrund dieser Information kann man vorhersagan, wann die Destabilisierung an bestimmten Mornan aller Wahrscheinlichkeit nach eintreten wird.
10.2307/3673035|This project, undertaken jointly by Chiang Mai University and the United Nations University and carried out by an interdisciplinary team, aimed to improve resource management and promote smallholder agro-forestry to replace the existing swidden system in the hill-country of Northern Thailand. The population is growing rapidly, mainly due to the inflow of Khon Muang people from the lowlands, and there is great competition for farm land. Already 35-50 percent of households depend on wage labour. It is expected that by A.D. 2000 the total hill population will be five or six times that of the mid-1970s. At present the Huai Thung Choa area has less population pressure than other areas of Northern Thailand. The project aimed to collect data on soil losses on swidden lands and on control plots, to survey the existing socio-economic structure of the Karen, Lisu, and other hill-tribes, and to test various agro-forestry systems. /// Ce projet est une entreprise commune de l'Universit Chiang Mai et de l'Universit des Nations Unies. Il est men par une quipe interdisciplinaire qui cherche  amliorer la gestion des ressources disponibles, et  promouvoir un systme d'agro-foresterie bas sur la petite proprit, pour remplacer les systmes de culture sur brlis pratiqus dans les rgions montagneuses de la Thalande septentrionale. La croissance dmographique y est rapide, surtout  cause de l'influx de Khon Muangs venant des terres en contrebas; la demande de terres arables y est intense. A prsent, 35-50 pour-cent des familles dpendent dj du travail salari. On peut s'attendre  ce que la population des rgions montagneuses en l'an 2000 soit de 5  6 fois celle du milieu des annes 70. La pression dmographique est moindre dans la rgion de Huai Thung Choa que dans les autres rgions de la Thalande septentrionale. Ce projet a pour but de relever des donnes sur les pertes de sol dans les zones de culture sur brlis et dans les parcelles tmoins, d'examiner la structure socio-conomique des Karens, Lisus, et autres groupes vivant dans les rgions montagneuses, et d'essayer diffrents systmes d'agro-foresterie. /// Dies Projekt wurde in Zusammenarbeit zwischen der Chiang Mai Universitt und der Universitt der Vereinten Nationen von einem interdisziplinren Team ausgefhrt. Projektziele waren besseres Management der Naturressourcen und Frderung der Agro-Forstwirtschaft unter den Kleinbauern, um das bestehende System des Brandfeldbaus im Bergland Nordthailands zu ersetzen. Die Bevlkerungszahl wchst schnell, hauptschlich durch den Zustrom der Khon Muang aus dem Flachland. Ackerland ist sehr begehrt. Bereits 35-50% der Familien hngen im Einkommen von Gelegenheitsarbeit ab. Es wird geschtzt, dass im Vergleich zu den 70er Jahren die Bevlkerung sich bis zum Jahr 2000 verfnffachen oder sogar versechsfachen wird. Zur Zeit ist der Bevlkerungsdruck auf das Huai Thung Choa Gebiet geringer als auf andere Teile Nordthailands. Projektziele sind: Datenerfassung von Bodenverlusten beim Brandfeldbau und auf Vergleichsflchen, berprfung der bestehenden sozio-konomischen Struktur der Karen, Lisu und anderer Stmme des Berglandes und Erprobung verschiedener agro-forstwirtschaftlicher Systeme.
25164154|Glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs) are common natural hazards in the Himalaya. These floods, usually of large magnitude, can severely affect fragile mountain ecosystems and their limited economic activities. In this study, GLOF hazard in the Sagarmatha region (national park and buffer zone) was assessed using dam break and hydrodynamic modeling. The available data from the Dig Tsho GLOF of 1985 were used to validate many of the model outputs. The technique was further applied to GLOF hazard assessment of Imja Lake, the largest and potentially most dangerous glacial lake in the region. The peak outflow discharge of an Imja GLOF is estimated at 5463 m/s. The peak discharge attenuates to about 2000 m/s at the boundary of the buffer zone at about 45 km from the outburst site. Finally, a GLOF vulnerability rating map was prepared and an assessment of vulnerable settlements was carried out. The study was found to be a cost-effective means of obtaining preliminary information on the extent and impact of possible GLOF events-information that is useful for developing plans for early warning systems and implementing management plans.
10.2307/3673850|The arid Andes between 18 and 30 South are located in the transition zone between the tropical and westerly circulation belts. Precipitation rates are lower than 150-200 mm/yr. Results from paleoclimatic and isotope hydrologic research suggest that modern recharge of the water resources in this area is very limited, or even below the level of detection. The groundwater resources of today were formed when precipitation rates were greater than at present by a factor of 2.5. Thus, water is a resource that is renewed extremely slowly, or is even non-renewable. The distribution of mountain protected areas along the 7,500 km Andean Cordillera and the extent of the arid diagonal, the zone of extremely low precipitation that crosses from the western flank in southern Ecuador and Peru to the eastern flank in Argentina, are compared. This indicates the very low density of protected areas within the arid diagonal and the potential for endangerment of diversity in this highly sensitive, dynamic, and harsh environment. Scientific knowledge about the age and origin of water resources and maps of water protection zones are the basic elements required for decision making. This type of information should help to resolve the growing conflict between the users of water, especially between the expanding mining industry, conservationists, and local communities concerned with the integrity of the fragile mountain ecosystems. Establishment of a series of new protected areas would be a modest but efficient measure for preserving the unique mountain environment and guaranteeing water resources for the benefit of both human development and nature conservation. /// Les Andes arides entre 18 et 30 Sud se situent dans la zone de transition entre les zones de circulation tropicale et extratropicale, avec une prcipitation annuelle infrieure  150-200 mm. Les rsultats de recherches paloclimatiques et hydrologiques isotopiques indiquent que le renouvellement des ressources hydriques y est trs limit, mme au-dessous du niveau de dtection. Les rserves actuelles des nappes phratiques se sont accumules lorsque la prcipitation tait d'environ deux fois et demie la prcipitation actuelle. L'eau est donc une ressource qui se renouvelle trs lentement, si elle se renouvelle du tout. La rpartition des zones alpestres de protection le long des 7 500 km de la Cordillre des Andes et l'tendue de la diagonale aride, la zone de prcipitation extrmement faible qui s'tend du versant ouest dans l'Equateur sud et le Prou jusqu'au versant est en Argentine, sont compares. Cette comparaison indique une trs faible densit des zones de protection dans la diagonale aride et une rduction possible de la biodiversit dans cet environnement ultra-sensible, dynamique et hostile  la vie. De meilleures connaissances scientifiques concernant l'ge et l'origine des ressources hydriques, ainsi que des cartes des zones de protection des eaux, constituent les lments de base de la prise de dcision. Ce type d'informations devrait contribuer  la rsolution sur conflit croissant entre les utilisateurs d'eau, en particulier l'industrie minire en expansion, les conservationnistes et les collectivits locales soucieuses de l'intgrit des cosystmes alpestres fragiles. L'tablissement de nouvelles zones de protection constiturait un moyen modeste, mais efficace, de prservation de cet environnement alpestre unique et de protection des ressources hydriques, au profit du dveloppement humain et de la conservation du milieu naturel. /// Die ariden Anden zwischen 18 und 30 S bilden den Trenn- und Ubergangsbereich zwischen den tropischen und aussertropischen Zirkulationszonen mit jhrlichen Niederschlgen von weniger als 150-200mm. Paloklimatische und isotopenhydrologische Untersuchungen zeigen, da die Erneuerung der Wasserressourcen unter heutigen Klimabedingungen sehr begrenzt ist. Die Grundwasserspeicher wurden in humideren Klimaphasen gebildet, grsstenteils im Sptglazial bis frhen Holozn (Taucaphase ca. 14000-8500 BP), als der Niederschlag um einen Faktor 2.5 grsser war als heute. Die Schutzzonen entlang der 7500 km langen Kordillere lassen deutliche Lcken in den trockenen Anden erkennen. Der Grund mag in der reduzierten Biodiversitt liegen. Die Quantitt darf aber nicht das alleinige Kriterium sein, besonders nicht fr die gefhrdeten und seltenen Pflanzen und Tiere in einer hchst sensitiven, dynamischen und lebensfeindlichen Umwelt. Bessere wissenschaftliche Kenntnisse ber Alter und Herkunft des Wassers, sowie Gewsserschutzkarten sind grundlegende Elemente fr Entscheidungsprozesse in einem wachsenden Konflikt verschiedener Interessengruppen, im besonderen zwischen der expandierenden Minenindustrie und den gefhrdeten Gebirgskosystemen. Eine Serie von neuen Schutzzonen wre eine bescheidene, aber wirksame Manahme zur Entwicklung und Erhaltung dieses einzigartigen Gebirgsraumes. /// Los Andes ridos, entre los 18 y 30 de latitud sur, se ubican en la zona de transicin entre el cinturn de circulacin tropical y los vientos constantes del oeste ('Westerlies'). En este sector la precipitacin es inferior a los 150-200 mm/ao. Las investigaciones paleoclimticas con istopos radioactivos que aqu se reportan constatan que la recarga de los acuferos es muy limitada, desarrollndose posiblemente a un nivel mas bajo del que puede ser detectado. De esta manera, las aguas subterrneas de las que se dispone en la actualidad se han generado en momentos en que los niveles de precipitacin en la zona eran 2.5 veces superiores al actual. Se observa que el agua disponible se renueva muy lentamente o, sencillamente, no se renueva. En esta diagonal rida las reas protegidas ocupan una superficie muy limitada. Esto es mas evidente cuando se la compara con la superficie que ocupan las reas que se encuentran bajo proteccin a lo largo de los 7500 km de la Cordillera de los Andes. Es en este ambiente altamente sensitivo, dinmico y dificil-una zona de baja precipitacin que se extiende desde las laderas occidentales de los Andes desde el sur del Ecuador y del Per hasta las laderas orientales de los Andes en la Argentina-que la biodiversidad necesita ser protegida. El conocimiento cientfico sobre la edad y el origen de los recursos hidrolgicos, y el acceso a mapas de reas de proteccin de los acuferos constituyen elementos bsicos que requiere todo proceso de toma de decisiones. Este tipo de informacin facilitar la resolucin del creciente conflicto entre los usuarios del recurso, particularmente entre la actividad minera en expansin, grupos conservacionistas y las comunidades locales que dependen directamente del recurso. El establecimiento de una serie de reas protegidas en esta diagonal rida ser una medida modesta aunque eficz para preservar el medio ambiente de montaa, y de esa manera garantizar recursos hdricos que lleven al desarrollo sostenible de las actividades humanas promuevan la conservacin.
10.2307/3673426|Paleoclimatological and historical evidence shows that mountain areas undergo major changes in glacio-hydrological and ecological conditions in response to changes in climate. The question of the relative intensity of these changes, compared with conditions in adjacent lowlands has received little attention, yet this issue is crucial to appropriate interpretations at regional and local scales of global climate model simulations of possible future climates. Global models necessarily represent the orography of mountain areas in a highly simplified manner and model outputs reflect this in the generalized nature of the results. Accordingly, a review has been undertaken of the evidence for past changes in mountain climatic conditions. The physical basis of high-altitude effects is briefly considered in the altitudinal variations of temperature lapse rates, solar radiation, and precipitation amounts, especially snowfall and snow cover. Observational and proxy evidence of climatic change is discussed for three time scales. Long-term evidence of shifts of vegetation and snowline boundaries during the Last Glacial Maximum ca. 18,000 B.P. shows a significant discrepancy between the inferred 5-6C cooling of tropical mountain areas based on glaciological and vegetational evidence, versus sea-surface temperature reduction of only 2C inferred from planktonic foraminifera. Possible reasons for this paradox are discussed. Historical records of glaciological conditions during the Little Ice Age interval in Europe (ca. A.D. 1550-1850) are summarized and recent instrumental records of meteorological-hydrological conditions are discussed using examples from the Rocky Mountains of Colorado and the European Alps. These comparisons are briefly discussed in the context of model simulations for the climatic effects of increased concentrations of atmospheric greenhouse gases. Modeling studies are urgently required for impact assessment of potential hydro-meteorological changes in mountain areas. /// Les traces paloclimatologiques et historiques montrent que les rgions montagneuses sont sujettes  des changements majeurs dans les conditions glacio-hydrologiques et cologiques, en rponse  des changements de climat. L'intensit relative de ces changements, par rapport aux conditions dans les basses terres avoisinantes, est une question qui n'a gure t considre bien qu'elle soit d'une importance primordiale pour interprter correctement, au niveau rgional et local, les prdictions fournies par les modles de climat global. Par ncessit, ces modles reprsentent l'orographie des rgions montagneuses d'une manire trs simplifie, et les informations qu'ils fournissent prsentent donc un caractre trs gnral. Pour cette raison, on a entrepris d'examiner en dtail les traces de changements passs dans les conditions climatiques des montagnes. Les bases physiques des effets  haute altitude sont considres brivement en rapport avec les variations altitudinales de gradients verticaux de temprature, de radiation solaire et de prcipitations, en particulier les chutes de neige et la couverture de neige. Les rsultats d'observations et les traces indirectes de changements de climat sont discuts en rapport avec trois chelles de temps. Les traces  long terme de dplacement des limites de vgtation et de neige au cours du dernier maximum glaciaire (env. 18.000 avant l'poque actuelle) mettent en vidence une diffrence importante entre le refroidissement de 5-6C des rgions montagneuses tropicales, infr  partir des traces glaciologiques et vgtales, et le refroidissement de 2C de la surface de la mer, infr  partir des foraminifres planctoniques. Les raisons possibles pour ce paradoxe sont examines. Les traces historiques des conditions glaciologiques au cours du petit ge glaciaire europen (env. 1550-1850 ap. J.-C.) sont prsentes sommairement et les rsultats de mesures rcentes de conditions mtorologiques-hydrologiques sont discuts  l'aide d'exemples portant sur les Rocheuses du Colorado et les Alpes europennes. Ces comparaisons sont brivement discutes dans le contexte des modles de simulation des effets climatiques d'une augmentation de la concentration en gaz dans l'atmosphre (effet de serre). Un besoin urgent existe concernant l'utilisation de modles pour valuer l'impact de changements hydro-mtorologiques dans les rgions montagneuses. /// Paloklimatisches und historisches Beweismaterial zeigt, da Gebirgsregionen als Folge von Klimavernderungen bedeutenden Umwandlungen ihrer glazial, hydrologischen und kologischen Beschaffenheit unterliegen. Die Frage nach der relativen Intensitt solcher Vernderungen im Vergleich zu Bedingungen im angrenzenden Tiefland hat wenig Beachtung gefunden, obwohl sie entscheidend ist fr die richtige Interpretation der regionalen und lokalen Skalen von globalen Modellen, die Klima zur Vorhersage von zuknftigen Klimabedingungen simulieren. Notwendigerweise stellen globale Modelle die Orographie der Gebirgsregionen sehr schematisch dar, was den Modellergebnissen nur allgemeinen Charakter verleiht. Deshalb wurde das Beweismaterial ber klimatische Vernderungen in der Vergangenheit neu berprft. Der physikalische Einflu der Hhenlage wird bercksichtigt durch hhenabhngige Temperaturgradienten, Sonnenstrahlung und Niederschlagsmengen, insbesonders die von Schneefall und Schneedecke. Beobachtete und reprsentative Ergebnisse klimatischer Vernderungen werden fr drei Zeitrume diskutiert. Langfristige Resultate ber Verschiebungen der Vegetations- und der Schneegrenzen whrend der letzten Eiszeit vor ca. 18000 Jahren zeigen eine deutliche Diskrepanz zwischen der auf glazialen und pflanzlichen Nachweisen beruhenden 5-6C Abkhlung der tropischen Gebirgsregionen, und dem Temperaturrckgang der Meeresoberflche von nur 2C, der von planktonischen Foraminiferen abgeleitet wurde. Die mglichen Grnde dieses Widerspruchs werden errtert. Historische Aufzeichnungen glazialer Bedingungen whrend der kleinen Eiszeit in Europa (ca. 1550-1850 AD) werden zusammengefat, und neuere Daten ber meteorologisch-hydrologische Bedingungen werden anhand von Beispielen aus den Rocky Mountains in Colorado und den europischen Alpen diskutiert. Diese Vergleiche werden kurz im Zusammenhang mit Modellsimulationen fr klimatische Effekte bedingt durch eine erhhte Konzentrationen von atmosphrischen Treibhausgasen, diskutiert. Um Auswirkungen potentieller hydro-meteorologischer Vernderungen in Berggegenden beurteilen zu knnen, werden dringend weitere Modellstudien bentigt.
3674656|The relationship between vegetation and water budgets in mountain catchments has been the subject of intense debate from an ecological as well as a hydrological point of view. In the present article, we evaluate forest landscape patterns and their hydrological effects on the Qilian Mountains of northwest China, using GIS and 15 years (1987 to 2001) of hydrological databases to illustrate the cases of 2 catchments, Dayekou (DYK) and Haichaoba (HCB). Landsat <tex-math>$ETM^{+}$</tex-math> remote sensing satellite data (1:50,000) taken in May 2001 and topographic maps (1:50,000) were used to produce the landscape maps. The results showed that the main landscape elements affecting hydrological processes were grassland and Picea crassifolia forest in the lower areas in DYK, while the main landscape elements affecting hydrological processes in the higher areas in HCB were shrubland and barren land. Observations over many years indicate that the water retention capacity of Picea crassifolia forest makes it the best of all vegetation types for hydrological purposes in the area. In DYK, evapotranspiration was 61%, and runoff was 39% of rainfall, whereas in HCB, evapotranspiration was 41%, and runoff was 59% of rainfall. However, dry season runoff in DYK (25.2%) was higher than in HCB (17.7%). Our results show that the various forest landscapes cause different hydrological processes in arid mountain areas in northwest China.
10.2307/3673324|Features of subsistence agriculture in two districts of Nepal, Sindhu Palchok and Kabhre Palanchok, are outlined, including population, land use and levels of agricultural production, cropping patterns employed, and animal husbandry. Some features of the forests, including types and area, are reviewed before considering impacts of subsistence agriculture on these forests and their effects in recent historical time. While the nature of these impacts can be described, the exact determination of usage and productivity of the forest is very difficult, if not impossible, to quantify so that many of the published estimations are known to be subject to error. The use of fuelwood and timber for buildings and implements has undoubtedly had adverse impacts which, although quite serious, cannot be seen as the prime cause for much of the deforestation in recent historical time. Gathering of leaf material for fodder and for animal bedding is the main impact of subsistence agriculture on the forested land. In the historical past timber cutting for the building of Kathmandu and other urban areas nearby as well as ore smelting for military purposes impacted very adversely on the forests, but these uses ceased many decades ago. The main strategy of development activities must be aimed at increasing the capacity of the non-cultivated land to produce fodder and bedding materials for animals if the present agro-ecosystem is to be sustained. /// Les caractristiques de l'agriculture d'autoconsommation dans deux districts du Npal, Sindhu Palchok et Kabhre Palanchok, sont dcrites brivement, y compris la population, l'utilisation des terres et les niveaux de production agricole, les formes de culture et l'levage. Certaines caractristiques des forts, y compris les types et les zones, sont passes en revue avant d'examiner l'impact de l'conomie d'autoconsommation sur ces forts dans le pass rcent. Bien que la nature de l'impact peut tre dcrit, le niveau d'exploitation et de la productivit des forts sont difficiles sinon impossibles  valuer prcisment, et donc beaucoup d'estimations publies sont entches d'erreur. L'utilisation du bois de chauffrage et celle du bois d'oeuvre pour la construction de btiments et de matriel divers a eu sans aucun doute des rpercussions nfastes sur les forts. Cet impact est maintenant sensible, mais il n'est pas la cause principale du dboisement observ dans le pass rcent. La collecte de feuillage vert pour le fourrage et la litire des animaux constitue l'impact principal de l'conomie d'autoconsommation sur les forts et cause la plus grande partie du dboisement rcent. Dans le pass, l'abattage de bois pour la construction  Kathmandu et autres centres urbains, ainsi que pour la fusion de mineral  des fins militaires, affectait beaucoup les forts, mais ces types d'exploitation ont cess il y a longtemps. La strategie principale pour le dveloppement de ces rgions doit viser  augmenter la capacit de production des terres non cultives en termes de matires organiques pour le fourrage et la litire des animaux, afin de prserver l'cosystme agricole actuel. /// In zwei Gebieten Nepals, Sindhu Palchok und Kabhre Palanchok werden Besonderheiten der Subsistenz-landwirtschaft anhand von Bevlkerungszahl, Landnutzung, landwirtschaftlichem Produktionsaufkommen, angewandten Bebauungsplnen und Viehhaltung aufgezeigt. Einige Merkmale des Waldbestandes, wie Baumarten und Flchennutzung, werden dargelegt, um dann die Belastungen der Subsistenzagrarwirtschaft auf diese Waldgebiete und in jngster Zeit entstandene Schden in Betracht zu ziehen. Wenn auch das Ausma der Belastungen beschrieben werden kann, so ist eine genaue Aussage ber quantitative Waldnutzung und -produktivitt schwierig, ja unmglich. Das fhrt dazu, da viele verffentlichte Schadenschtzungen fehlerhaft sein mssen. Waldnutzung fr Feuer- und Bauholz und zur Gerteherstellung hatte zweifelsohne fr den Waldbestand nachteilige Folgen. Solche Belastungen sind schwerwiegend, aber sie sind nicht der Hauptgrund der Entwaldung in jngster Vergangenheit. Den strksten Anteil an der Entwaldung hatte die Subsistenzlandwirtschaft mit dem Entlauben fr Viehfutter und Streu. In frheren Zeiten fhrten das holzfllen fr Bauvorhaben in Kathmandu und andren umliegenden stdtischen Gebieten und fr Verhttung zu militrischen Zwecken zum Schwund des Waldbestandes; diese Nutzungsart wurde jedoch schon vor vielen Jahrzehnten aufgegeben. Wenn das derzeitige Agro-kosystem erhalten bleiben soll, mu das Hauptanliegen aller Entwicklungsaktivitten darauf ausgerichtet sein, auf bisher noch nicht kultiviertem Land die Produktion von Viehfutter und Streu zu steigern.
mounresedeve.32.3.364|The University of Central Asia (UCA) is committed to addressing sustainable mountain development through the design and implementation of its academic programs and in its operations. In June 2011, UCA launched its first university-wide, interdisciplinary research centerthe Mountain Societies Research Centre (MSRC).
3674135|Accelerated soil erosion is a common and environmentally destructive consequence of development, especially in mountain regions. Soil erosion is of special concern in agricultural lands, but agriculture is only one of many development activities that greatly accelerates soil erosion processes. Road building, trail use, excavation, extractive activities, and construction also can cause severe soil erosion. Soil conservation technologies are relatively simple and well known, but often they are not applied where they could be most effective because the connections between different elements of the landscape (eg, roads and cultivated fields) are not well understood. This paper reviews two previous soil erosion research projects in the Ecuadorian Andes involving field observations and small-plot rainfall simulation experiments and provides examples of erosion-related landscape connections at the drainage basin scale. In light of the important influence of roads, trails, and abandoned farmlands on soil erosion processes on Andean slopes, sustainable management of the soil resource requires both looking across and managing across conventionally delineated boundaries in the natural and altered landscapes of mountain regions.
mounresedeve.31.4.305|In a comparative study of energy resources and energy consumption patterns in the Pamir-Alai Mountains of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, the relations between energy consumption, land use, and livelihoods were investigated. An approach that presents energy flow through an ecosystem was developed, in particular to highlight ecosystem services and the scope of action for human interventions in the energy-land management nexus. Qualitative data were collected during a field study in October 2009 through household interviews and group discussions. Based on the relationship between energy supply and ecosystem services, typical village profiles depicting the flows of energy and financial assets are presented that illustrate the relation between energy resources, land use, and livelihood assets. The household interviews reflect situations in the different villages and allow a distinction to be made between the energy consumption patterns of poor and wealthier families. This case study in the Pamir-Alai Mountains emphasizes that a reappraisal of energy as a central focus within mountain ecosystems and their services to the population is necessary for both ecosystem preservation and poverty reduction.
10.2307/3673538|Using a historical-ecological approach, this paper explores those human and environmental processes that have shaped the montane agrosystems of Rwanda. The focus is on how the subsistence systems (pastoralism and cultivation) have interacted with a diversity of demographic, socio-economic, and political variables through time to create a high-density "island" within the interlacustrine region of Central Africa. Of particular concern are landscape and settlement changes induced by agricultural and economic development policy, natural resource management, and demographic growth. A key question considered is whether Rwanda is moving toward agricultural "involution" or "intensification" in its response to accelerated population growth. Conclusions regarding future population-resource relationships are considered. /// Cette tude utilise une approche historico-cologique pour explorer les processus humains et naturels qui ont model les agrosystmes montagnards du Rwanda. Elle se concentre sur la manire dont les systmes d'autoconsommation (pastoralisme et culture) ont interagi au cours du temps avec diverses variables dmographiques, socio-conomiques et politiques, pour crer une "le" densment peuple au sein de la rgion inter-lacustre de l'Afrique centrale. L'tude porte un intrt particulier aux changements de paysage et de peuplement causs par la politique de dveloppement agricole et conomique, la gestion des ressources naturelles et la croissance dmographique. Un question primordiale se pose: le Rwanda se dirige-t-il vers une "involution" ou "intensification" agricole en rponse  une croissance dmographique acclre? Des conclusions concernant les relations futures entre la population et les ressources sont avances. /// Unter Bercksichtigung von historischen und kologischen Aspekten untersucht diese Verffentlichung die menschlichen und umweltbezogenen Prozesse, die die bergigen Agrarsysteme in Rwanda geformt haben. Der Schwerpunkt der Studie konzentriert sich auf die Frage nach dem Schema, das die Selbstversorgungssysteme (Weidewirtschaft und Ackerbau) langfristig mit den vielfltigen demographischen, sozio-konomischen und politischen Variablen verflechtet, um eine so dicht besiedelte "Insel" innerhalb des Seengebietes von Zentralafrika zu schaffen. Auf Landschafts- und Siedelungsvernderungen, die durch landwirtschaftliche und konomische Entwicklungspolitik, Naturressourcen-Management und demographisches Wachstum verursacht wurden, wird besonders eingegangen. Eine wichtige Frage stellt sich: Wird Rwanda als Antwort auf beschleunigtes Bevlkerungswachstum sich in Richtung eines landwirtschaftlichen "Rckgangs" oder einer "Intensivierung" bewegen? Schlufolgerungen bezglich knftiger Beziehungen zwischen Bevlkerung und Ressourcen werden gemacht.
3674554|Rapid economic development has induced urbanization in China. Urbanization and deurbanization strategies co-exist in most of China's mountain regions. Urbanization typically occurs in famous scenic spots and in the vicinity of macro engineering works, while de-urbanization is implemented in large areas by the government to protect the natural environment. Over-urbanization has considerable impacts on the esthetic qualities of many mountain tourist resorts and sometimes even destroys the natural state of land-scapes and ecosystems. Administrative gaps and omissions of the central government in managing the development of mountain parks and world heritage sites are responsible for over-urbanization in mountains. The search by local governments for short-term economic benefits is also a driving force of over-urbanization. The present article recommends that regulations and laws be developed to effectively assess and monitor the state of parks and world heritage sites in mountains. Institutions with sufficient authority must be set up to legally supervise and protect the natural state of parks and heritage sites in mountains, for the benefit of the Chinese people and the entire world.
mounresedeve.35.4.410|The more national and European policies focus on metropolitan regions, the more the question arises what will be the outlook for rural and mountain areas. Several strategies addressing development in rural and mountain areas in Switzerland, created at different policy levels (cantonal, national, and European/macroregional), were published in 2014 and 2015. What are the reasons for these parallel efforts, and what are their aims and opportunities? And how are mountains defined in relation to other areas? The Swiss Interacademic Commission for Alpine Studies aims to take up relevant scientific questions that emerge from these strategies.
90009011|The African continent is endowed with mountains of high productivity, biodiversity, endemism, and cultural diversity. African mountain ecosystems play an important role in economic development, poverty alleviation, and environmental protection. However, climate change and extreme events, as well as human activities, alter the capacity of mountains to provide such services to millions of Africans who depend on them. Since the creation in 1995 of the Albertine Rift Conservation Society (ARCOS), mountains have been at the core of its programs, and collaboration among stakeholders is a key aspect of its search for sustainable solutions to threats affecting African mountains.
10.2307/3673358|The alpine vegetation of the mountains of western North America has experienced increasing recreational pressures throughout the twentieth century. While the problems of recreational damage to alpine vegetation have been recognized and described for over 70 years, detailed scientific research into these problems has been undertaken only during the past two decades. Studies of the ecological impacts of recreation may be divided into two main groups: analytical and experimental. Analytical studies involve the assessment of the effects of recreational activities, over a considerable number of years, on a specific area. Experimental studies involve the assessment of artificially-induced change, resulting from regulated human trampling along transects, over one or more field seasons. The impacts of four activities have been investigated in analytical studies: downhill skiing, camping, horse riding/packing, and hiking. Methodologies and results of these studies are described and discussed. Experimental studies have assessed only the impacts of horse use and hiking. These studies have varied considerably in both design and methods of analysis, so that many can only be compared at a general level. Problems of comparison are discussed, followed by the description of methodologies and results of significant studies. While the recovery of vegetation, subsequent to both analytical and experimental studies, has frequently been investigated, such studies are not described. Predictive studies are required for the informed management of alpine areas so as to minimize the long-term impacts of recreational activities. The two predictive studies completed to date are described and discussed. Finally, recommendations regarding the use of the results of past studies, and the topics of future studies, designed as an input to management strategies and monitoring programmes, are presented. /// Au cours du vingtime sicle, la vgtation alpine dans l'Ouest de l'Amrique du Nord a subi l'effet croissant des activits rcratives. Bien que l'endommagement de la vgtation alpine caus par ces activits ait t reconnu et dcrit depuis plus de 70 ans, les recherches scientifiques prcises sur la nature de ces problmes ne datent que des deux dernires dcennies. Les tudes de l'impact cologique des activits rcratives peuvent tre divises en deux catgories principales: analytiques et exprimentales. Les tudes analytiques concernent l'valuation portant sur un grand nombre d'annes de l'effet des activits rcratives dans une rgion particulire. Les tudes exprimentales concernent l'valuation portant sur une saison ou plus de changements produits artificiellement, le rsultat d'un pitinement humain contrl sur des chemins transversaux. L'impact de quatre activits a t valu dans le cadre des tudes analytiques: ski alpin, camping, randonne  pied et randonne  cheval. Les mthodologies et les rsultats de ces tudes sont dcrits et discuts. Les tudes exprimentales n'ont valu que l'impact de la randonne  pied et celui de la randonne  cheval. La conception et les mthodes d'analyse de ces tudes ont vari considrablement, si bien que beaucoup d'entre elles ne peuvent tre compares que d'une manire gnrale. Les problmes de comparaison sont discuts, suivis d'une description des mthodologies et des rsultats des tudes importantes. Bien que le rtablissement de la vgtation, postrieurement aux tudes analytiques et exprimentales, ait t frquemment valu, ces tudes ne sont pas dcrites. Des tudes prdictives sont ncessaires pour la gestion rationnelle des rgions alpines de manire  minimiser l'effet  long terme des activits rcratives. Les deux tudes prdictives dj compltes sont dcrites et discutes. Finalement, les recommandations concernant l'exploitation des rsultats des tudes antrieures et les sujets d'tudes futures, sont prsentes en tant que support des stratgies de gestion et des programmes de contrle. /// In diesem Jahrhundert war die Vegetation der Hochgebirge im Westen Nordamerikas steigendem Druck durch Erholung und Freizeit ausgesetzt. Probleme der Freizeitbelastungen sind seit mehr als 70 Jahren bekannt und beschrieben worden, jedoch detaillierte, wissenschaftliche Untersuchungen sind erst whrend der vergangenen zwei Jahrzehnte unternommen worden. Studien der kologischen Erholungsbelastungen knnen in zwei Hauptgruppen, analytisch und experimentell, eingeteilt werden. Die analytischen Studien schliessen die Untersuchung der jahrelangen Wirkungen von Erholungsaktivitten auf ein bestimmtes Gebiet ein. Die experimentellen Studien schliessen die Untersuchung von nicht naturbedingten nderungen ein, die sich ber die Jahre aus dem stndigen Traversieren der Hnge ergeben haben. Die Belastungen durch Abfahrtsskilauf, Camping, Pferdereiten und Wandern sind in analytischen Studien untersucht worden. Die Forschungsmethoden und Ergebnisse dieser Studien werden beschrieben und diskutiert. Experimentelle Studien haben nur die Belastungen durch Pferdereiten und Wandern untersucht. Die Forschungs- und Analysemethoden dieser Studien sind usserst verschieden, sodass viele von ihnen nur ganz allgemein verglichen werden knnen. Vergleichsprobleme werden diskutiert, danach werden Forschungsmethoden und Ergebnisse von wichtigen Studien beschrieben. Es gibt viele Studien ber die Vegetationsregeneration nach analytischen und experimentellen Studien, solche Studien werden nicht diskutiert. Vorhersagende Studien sind fr die verstndige Verwaltung von Gebirgen erforderlich, um langfristige Belastungen durch Erholungsaktivitten auf ein Minimum zu beschrnken. Zwei vorhersagende Studien sind gegenwrtig beendet, welche beschrieben und diskutiert werden. Zuletzt werden Empfehlungen ber die Anwendung der Ergebnisse von beendeten Studien, und ber die Themen von Zukunftsstudien, die als Input fr die Entwicklung von Verwaltungsstrategien geplant werden, dargestellt.
25164177|The Nevado de Toluca National Park, Mexico, performs important support, regulation, natural production, and cultural functions. Today these functions are severely endangered by the use of the Park's natural resources by people living within and near the National Park. Do payments for environmental services (PES), including schemes for carbon sequestration, offer alternatives that enhance livelihood options for local people and at the same time conserve the multiple functions of the protected area? This question was the basis of an assessment that elaborated the pros and cons of PES, with a special focus on the constraints of entering global carbon markets-the proposition emerging from today's increasingly globalized world. We compare the potential benefits of PES against the market value of forest resources for the local population. Alternative schemes, which do not necessarily involve monetary valuation, are proposed.
3674513|Soil erosion assessment and prediction play critical roles in addressing problems associated with erosion control and environmental rehabilitation. The past dynamics of soil erosion can provide information valuable for understanding the relation of soil erosion to environmental change and anthropogenic activity. The Chinese Loess Plateau was once a high, flat plain in northwestern China, but now more than 70% of the area is gully-hill dominated, owing to massive soil erosion during the later Quaternary and human-induced accelerated soil erosion in recent centuries. The present article investigates the dynamics of erosion during the Holocene and the driving forces of human activities and bio-climatic changes. Modern soil erosion on the Loess Plateau is a combination of intensive natural erosion and human-induced erosion, the latter being 4 times as intense as the former.
mounresedeve.29.1.14|Monitoring and assessing karst rock resulting from desertification is important to local sustainable development in the karst mountain regions of Southwest China. A new derived index, the Normalized Difference Rock Index (NDRI), is proposed to map karst rock. It takes advantage of the unique spectral response of karst rock and other land cover forms. Supervised maximum likelihood classification trials using different input bands (Landsat TM band 35, NDVI and NDRI derived from TM imagery) were assessed for accuracy of karst rock mapping in Bijie County, Southwest China. Results were compared with land use maps for 2000, with the best result obtained using a combination of the NDVI and NDRI indices. This paper offers a tool for land cover mapping.
mounresedeve.31.1.45|Although the southeastern Tibetan Plateau has one of the world's highest natural treelines, little is known about its microclimatic conditions. In order to characterize microclimatic conditions for natural Blackseed juniper (Juniperus saltuaria [Rehd & Wils], syn:
90001382|Tourist traffic has been observed to cause changes in vegetation cover, particularly in alpine areas. These changes can be monitored using remote-sensing methods. This paper presents an analysis of the condition of the dominant sward species surrounding the most frequented alpine tourist trails in the Tatra National Park, one of the most visited natural mountain parks in Poland and a UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Reserve. Hyperspectral measurements of interactions between the electromagnetic spectrum and the morphology and physiology of plants were presented. The spectral properties of plants and remote-sensing vegetation indices could be used at a later date for monitoring, for example from the air. The results identified the species sensitivity and resistance to trampling and allowed an assessment of their physiological condition. Differences were observed in the conditions of trampled and control plants. The alpine swards in the Tatra National Park were assessed as being in good condition, with only small areas located close to the most popular trails showing damage. The proposed method for analyzing the condition of alpine swards could be a useful tool for the future management of protected areas.
4096451|As a mountainous country with a sparse population largely dependent upon agriculture and natural products, Laos must overcome many challenges to develop its economy and raise living standards. The geographical constraints are well known-rugged and inaccessible terrain which makes transport and large scale agriculture or industrial development difficult. However, it is also important to recognize how recent history has shaped the country. War, social disruption, and insecurity have not only affected communities, but also the landscape and the ways in which agriculture and resources have been managed. As we pursue development projects in rural Laos, we must be cognizant of all these influences.
10.2307/3673109|Forestry as an economic activity is not very important except in the area of the humid Andes, approximately south of latitude 35S. Indiscriminate clearing of forests and cutting of woody vegetation for firewood in the dry Andes has created serious problems for soil conservation and land management. Improper and inefficient use of the native forests and woodlands dates from colonial times, and it accelerated with independence. Reforestation is becoming important, especially in Chile, but mostly exotic species are used. Reforestation with native species is only experimental. /// L'exploitation des forts ne constitue pas une activit conomique trs importante,  part dans les Andes humides situes plus ou moins au sud de la latitude 35S. L'claircissement inconsidr des forts et la coupe de bois pour le chauffrage dans les Andes sches ont entran des problmes srieux du point de vue de l'rosion du sol et de la gestion des terres. L'exploitation inapproprie et inefficace des forts et des zones boises remonte  l'poque coloniale, et s'est acclre aprs l'indpendance. Le reboisement commence  prendre de l'ampleur, surtout au Chili, mais il dpend surtout d'espces exotiques. Le reboisement avec espces indignes n'en est encore qu'au stade exprimental. /// Der Forstwirtschaft kommt, auer in den feuchten Regionen der Anden etwa sdlich des 35. Breitengrades, keine wichtige wirtschaftliche Bedeutung zu. Unberlegtes Abholzen der Wlder und das Schneiden von holzigem Buschwerk zur Verwendung als Brennstoff haben im klimatisch trockenen Teil den Anden ernsthafte Probleme fr Bodenerhaltung und Landmanagement aufgeworfen. Die falsche und unwirtschaftliche Nutzung der Wlder und Waldflchen geht bis in die Kolonialzeit zurck, und diese Umstnde verschlechterten sich noch nach der Unabhngigkeit. Besonders in Chile ist Aufforstung dringlich, und dazu werden heute grtenteils fremdlndische Arten benutzt, da das Anpflanzen von heimischen Arten noch im Versuchsstadium ist. /// Como actividad econmica la silvicultura no es muy importante en el rea, con excepcin de la regin de los Andes hmedos, aproximadamente al sur del parelelo 35 S. La tala indiscriminada de bosques, y la corta de arboles para lea en la regin seca han creado serios problemas de conservacin de suelos y manejo de la tierra. El uso irracional de la vegetacin leosa data de la poca colonial, pero fue acelerado con la independencia. Reforestacin est comenzando a ser importante, sobre todo en Chile, pero por la mayor parte se usan especies exticas. Reforestacin con especies nativas est en la fase experimental.
25164043|The current DFID (Department for International Development) Hillsides Project in Bolivia is a study of soil and water conservation options for smallholder hillside farms in the Inter-Andean valley region of Bolivia. The two most appropriate options are live-barriers of grass, shrub, and tree species (sown on the contour); and green manure/cover crop legumes. Results of technical analyses of the practices are presented. Other, complementary, elements of the project are noted (socioeconomic evaluation, modeling of barrier and legume performance, and watershed characterization with GIS). There is a strong participatory focus. Most of the research is done in farmers' fields and the diffusion process is the result of the strong linkages between farmer and researcher.
mounresedeve.36.2.236|The International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development is coordinating the Hindu Kush Himalayan Monitoring and Assessment Programme, which will be carried out with partners and individual experts. The assessment addresses the social, economic, and environmental pillars of sustainable mountain development and will serve as a basis for evidence-based decisionmaking to safeguard the environment and advance people's wellbeing. It is not a one-off assessment but will be an ongoing process. A 2017 publication is planned as the first of a series of monitoring and assessment reports.
mounresedeve.32.2.187|To identify the sapling species that can be planted in sprucefir forest in the Changbai Mountains, China, we analyzed the associations among saplings and between saplings and adult trees of 4 tree species (spruce [
mounresedeve.29.2.177|The goal of the study was to derive up-to-date and complex information on the current vegetation cover of the Pradd Reserve (Hrub Jesenk Mountains, Czech Republic), with special regard to the unique alpine treeline ecotone formed by krummholz of Norway spruce. We argue that the data of remote sensing and automated techniques of image processing should be preferably used. Accordingly, a colorinfrared orthophoto map was classified in a land cover map employing maximum likelihood spectral classifier, ancillary data, texture analysis, and a knowledge base classification technique. The overall classification accuracy was about 78%, distinguishing 7 land cover classes. Using a reclassified land cover map and the moving window mean filter, a spruce canopy closure map was calculated. The continuous map of the canopy closure was subsequently reclassified in predefined intervals that were used for an automated delimitation and mapping of complex transitional borders of the alpine treeline ecotone. The proposed method can serve for objectified mapping of gradual transitions between any land cover or vegetation classes.
25578197|In current scientific and political discourses there is common agreement that the future of Alpine agriculture is a challenge not only for farmers, but also for society at large. What remains unclear is the question of how to adapt agriculture towards sustainable development of the Alpine territory in a manner that takes sufficient account of local diversity. We propose to treat agriculture and rural development as a matter of local concern, starting with a definition of sustainable agriculture drawn up by local stakeholders. Based on a 3-year experiment, we examine the capacity of local people to take joint action to contribute in a consistent way to rural development and to sustainable agriculture. We discuss the assets and limitations of local projects based on multi-stakeholder participation, ie in relation to their capacity to initiate closer links between farmers and other stakeholders and renew the contribution of agriculture to rural development. Our paper highlights 2 main points: first, how social dynamics are initiated and how farmers and other actors take joint action towards sustainable development; second, we analyze the impact of such local projects on agriculture and rural development and the counterbalancing effects of global factors, including market trends and related policies. Finally, we discuss the consequences of our results for policies targeting sustainable rural development.
10.2307/3674038|A simple photogrammetric system was designed to monitor trail degradation by generating digital terrain models (DTMs) of sample <latex>$\text{plots}\ <4{\rm m}^{2}$</latex>. A sloped path was photographed in stereo with a standard 35 mm camera from 2.4 m above the ground. A portable stereo camera platform provided the photogrammetric parameters to capture elevation data directly off the photographs with an accuracy of about 3 mm, without the aid of ground control. Volume estimates of simulated trail erosion, computed from the photo-based DTMs, were accurate to about one percent of the true volume.
10.2307/3673891|By international standards, national parks are natural areas where ecosystems, for the most part, have not been substantially modified by human activity, and which have been set aside to protect and preserve the features of the landscape. In Austria the Hohe Tauern National Park represents a high mountain area which combines a diversified alpine landscape and ecosystem with the century-old traditions of local population. Based on initiatives beginning in 1971 to establish the Hohe Tauern National Park, between 1983 and 1991 the Lnder of Carinthia, Salzburg, and Tyrol worked together and gradually enlarged the Park to a non-contiguous area of 1,800 km<sup>2</sup> which includes a total of 29 communities. In an attempt to conserve nature, preserve traditional living space, and promote tourism, the National Park area was subdivided into a high alpine core zone of largely unspoiled nature and an outer zone which includes landscapes modified by human impact. Zoning has been introduced to foster interrelationships and interaction between wilderness areas and adjacent semi-natural cultural landscapes. The fifteen-year old history of the Park has been marked by a series of diverse goals and potential land-use conflicts which required the active involvement of the local population into the planning process of the National Park. This partnership approach, which resulted in a so-called 'eco-realism' compromise, has reversed the initial widespread rejection of the park concept and won the approval of the local population. /// Selon les normes internationales, les parcs nationaux sont des rgions naturelles dont l'cosystme en gnral n'a pas t modifi par les activits humaines, et qui ont t prserves dans le but de protger le paysage naturel. Le parc national Hohe Tauern, en Autriche, constitue une rgion de hautes montagnes combinant un paysage et cosystme alpin diversifi, avec les anciennes traditions de la population locale. Sur la base des mesures prises en 1971 en vue de l'tablissement du parc national Hohe Tauern, les "Lnder" de Carinthie, de Salzbourg et du Tyrol ont, entre 1983 et 1991, troitement coopr et progressivement largi le parc pour former une zone de 1 800 km<sup>2</sup> englobant 29 communauts. A des fins de conservation de la nature, de la prservation de l'espace vital traditionnel et de la promotion du tourisme, le parc national a t divis en une zone centrale de hautes montagnes  l'tat naturel, et une zone extrieure incorporant des paysages modifis par l'impact humain. Le zonage a t introduit afin de favoriser les interrelations et l'interaction entre les aires de nature sauvage et les paysages humaniss  l'tat semi-naturel. Ces paysages humaniss ont t incorpors dans le parc national afin de prserver la diversit biogntique des ressources, en accord avec les objectifs de celui-ci. De telles zones sont prserves pour la recherche, l'ducation environnementale et les activits de loisir respectant l'cologie. Pendant les quinze annes d'existence du parc national, des objectifs divergents et des conflits potentiels d'utilisation des terres ont ncessit une participation active de la population locale lors de la planification de celui-ci. Cette approche cooprative a abouti  un compromis "co-raliste" et a transform le rejet initial et rpandu du concept de parc national en une approbation de la part de la population locale. /// Nach internationalen Masstben sind Nationalparke natrliche Gebiete, die zum grssten Teil nicht wesentlich durch menschliche Aktivitten verndert wurden, und die gegrndet wurden, um die Landschaft zu schtzen und zu bewahren. In sterreich ist der Nationalpark Hohe Tauern ein Beispiel sowohl fr eine Hochgebirgsregion mit einem sehr vielfltigen alpinen Landschaftsbild und kosystem, als auch fr ein Siedlungsgebiet mit jahrhundertealten kulturellen Traditionen. Ausgehend von Initiativen zur Grndung eines Nationalparks im Jahre 1971, arbeiten die Lnder Krnten, Salzburg und Tirol zusammen und grndeten den Nationalpark Hohe Tauern. Die nicht zusammenhngende Flche des Parks wurde schliesslich auf etwa 1.800 km<sup>2</sup> vergrssert und schliesst Flchenanteile von 29 Gemeinden ein. Um den drei wesentlichen Zielvorstellungen des Nationalparks, des Schutzes der Natur, der Bewahrung des traditionellen Lebensraums und der Frderung des Tourismus gerecht zu werden, wurde der Park in zwei hauptschliche Zonen eingeteilt: eine hochalpine Kernzone mit einer weitgehend naturbelassenen Landschaft, und eine Aussenzone mit Regionen, die durch menschliche Aktivitten genutzt und verndert werden. Die Zonierung ermglicht hiermit eine Abgrenzung von, aber auch die Herstellung einer Verbindung zwischen naturbelassenen Regionen und Kulturlandschaften. Die fnfzehnjhrige Geschichte des Nationalparks Hohe Tauern war geprgt von vielfltigen Zielvorstellungen und potentiellen Landnutzungskonflikten. Dies erforderte eine aktive Einbeziehung der lokalen Bevlkerung in den Planungsprozess des Parks. Die auf Partnerschaft aufgebaute Planung und Implementierung des Parks erforderte eine Reihe von Kompromissen, die mit dem etwas beschnigenden Schlagwort "ko-Realismus" bezeichnet wurden. Immerhin fhrte das partnerschaftliche Konzept dazu, dass der ursprnglich von der lokalen Bevlkerung vielfach abgelehnte Nationalpark inzwischen weitgehend akzeptiert und untersttzt wird.
mounresedeve.35.4.414|Alpine resources will play a crucial role in the development of the European Alpine region: They are triggering genuine innovations in technology, social and cultural institutions, property ownership, and economic valuation. Natural, social, cultural, and economic resources are crucial assets for sustainable development in Alpine regions. This was reason enough for the International Scientific Committee for Alpine Research (ISCAR), an organization in which the Interacademic Commission for Alpine Studies (ICAS) represents the Swiss Academies, to make Alpine resources the main topic of the 2014 ForumAlpinum. ICAS invited ISCAR to report on the outcomes of the Forum.
3674561|The study of the climate in the last 2700 years reflected in the palaeo record is obscured by the strong influence of human destruction of forest cover during this period. In this study 2 sites in the Queixa Sierra (northwestern Iberian Peninsula, Europe), Castelo Cerveira (1380 m) and As Aguilladas (1580 m), provide insights into high montane forest dynamics in this area since 2700 years BP. The palynological record shows regional development of vegetation associated with forest clearance. Around 2700 BP a montane Quercus-Betula forest was destroyed, followed by an abrupt increase in grass and heather vegetation. Human impacts reached their maximum in the last 1000 years. Abundant microcharcoal particles, along with an increase in Cerealia pollen, indicate frequent fires and generally intense human impacts on the environment. Despite this deforestation, some temporary phases of Betula vegetation occur before the total disappearance of the natural forest and its replacement by plantations of (regional) pine forest.
10.2307/3673044|The grasslands of Northern Thailand are a consequence of shifting cultivation practices of local opium-growing farmers and they are maintained by annual fires. Their productivity is low and they are a fire hazard in the dry season. In swiddening systems, a grassland fallow appears inferior to forest as a means of restoring soil fertility after a cropping phase. Imperata cylindrica cannot be classed as a serious weed in this area; the grass provides some forage for village cattle, is seldom a problem in cultivated fields, and tends to decline or disappear if continually grazed by cattle. Improved pastures based on Desmodium intortum or Stylosanthes guianensis can readily be established and subsequently dominate other species. Data are presented of an experiment in which cattle were put into stands of Eucalyptus and Pinus at a stocking rate of 0.5 beasts ha<sup>-1</sup>. Damage to the trees was negligible and the cattle controlled Imperata regrowth without affecting either survival rates or the height of the trees. /// Les herbages de la Thalande septentrionale rsultent de la divagation des cultures pratique par les producteurs d'opium locaux, et sont maintenus par une mise en feu annuelle. Leur productivit est basse et ils prsentent un danger d'incendie au cours de la saison sche. Dans les systmes de culture sur brlis, les herbages en friche semblent tre infrieurs aux forts en tant que moyen de restaurer la fertilit du sol aprs la rcolte. L'Imperata cylindrica ne peut pas vraiment tre classifie comme mauvaise herbe dans cette rgion: elle constitue une source de fourrage pour le btail, elle envahit rarement les champs cultivs, et tend  decliner et  prir si elle est broute en permanence. Des pturages bass sur les espces Desmodium intortum ou Stylosanthes guianensis peuvent tre facilement tablis, et ces espces finiront par dominer les autres. Des donnes sont presentes dans cette tude, relatives  une exprience dans laquelle du btail a t mis dans des peuplements d'Eucalyptus et de Pinus, avec une densit de 0,5 btes par hectare. L'endommagement des arbres ft minime et la prsence du btail a permis de limiter la repousse de l'Imperata sans affecter le taux de survie ou la hauteur des arbres. /// Wanderhackbau der ansssigen Opiumbauern begnstigte die Entstehung von Grasflchen im Norden Thailands, und ihr Fortbestand wird durch jhrliches Abbrennen gesichert. Ihre Ertragsfhigkeit ist gering und whrend der trockenen Jahreszeit bilden sie eine Feuergefahr. Bei der Roden- und Abbrennmethode ist eine brachliegende Grasflche scheinbar weniger zur Wiederherstellung der Bodenfruchtbarkeit nach der Ernte geeignet als Waldgebiete. Imperata cylindrica kann in diesem Gebiet nicht als unerwnschtes Unkraut klassifiziert werden, denn es liefert Viehfutter, ist auf bewirtschafteten Flchen selten problematisch und vermindert sich oder verschwindet ganz, wenn es vom Vieh stndig abgegrast wird. Durch Desmodium intortum oder Stylosanthes guianensis verbessertes Weideland kann sich leicht etablieren und in der Folge dominiert es bald die anderen Arten. Es werden Untersuchungsdaten vorgelegt, die auf einer Viehhaltungsdichte von <tex-math>$0.5/{\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math> in Eucalyptusund Pinienbestnden basieren. Die Schdigungen an den Bumen waren geringfgig, und das Vieh schrnkte neuen Imperata Wuchs ein, ohne jedoch den Fortbestand oder die Hhe der Bume zu beeintrchtigen.
25164130|The Iezer Mountains are part of the Southern Carpathians in Romania; the elevation range spans over 1800 m, with the highest peak at 2470 m. In recent years, the vegetation in this montane landscape has undergone various changes. The aim of the present analysis is to test whether the evolution of vegetation zones can be modeled using remote sensing data and official forestry cadastre data, in correlation with climatic data for the same period. Our analysis used the change detection procedure (image difference) with 2 LANDSAT TM/ETM+ subscenes for the summers of 1986 and 2002. Field research (2001-2005) helped us to validate thematic classification of the altitudinal zones. The change detection image showed general trends: an increase in timberline elevation, a gradual replacement of coniferous forests by mixed forests, and a natural regeneration of beech trees on mountain slopes.
3674484|The state of the physical environment is reviewed and the importance of grazing in complex rural livelihoods is assessed in the hitherto little studied Tarija altiplano, Bolivia. Past and contemporary climatic fluctuations have dominated environmental change and are reflected in landforms, soils, vegetation, and land use. Broad fluctuations of dry and wet phases, 200-500 years long, occurred between BC 1500 and the 19th century. Warming has taken place during the 20th century, the final decades characterized by sharp climatic fluctuations (drought and floods) typical of the El Nio southern oscillation. Grazing by sheep and cattle-introduced by Europeans 500 years ago-has affected vegetation, but current grazing pressure alone does not explain the differences in biomass. In most of the areas grazed, present-day herds appear not to affect the quality of the vegetation any more than during the past 500 years. The term overgrazing is misleading, given the complexity of vegetation changes. Transhumance, shareherding, rotations, and the use of microenvironments (bofedales and marshland) ensure optimum recovery of pastures. Given access to other pastures at times of climatic stress, as well as seasonal migration, existing resource use appears ecologically sustainable. It is uncertain whether the security offered by pastoralism will meet the rising livelihood expectations of the young.
mounresedeve.35.2.195|In recent decades, a number of global frameworks have been developed for disaster risk reduction (DRR). The Hyogo Framework for Action 20052015 and its successor document, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction, adopted in Japan in March 2015, provide general guidance for reducing risks from natural hazards. This is particularly important for mountainous areas, but DRR for mountain areas and sustainable mountain development received little attention in the recent policy debate. The question remains whether the Hyogo and Sendai frameworks can provide guidance for sustainable mountain development. This article evaluates the 2 frameworks in light of the special challenges of DRR in mountain areas and argues that, while the frameworks offer valuable guidance, they need to be further adapted for local contextsparticularly for mountain areas, which require special attention because of changing risk patterns like the effects of climate change and high land-use pressure.
10.2307/3673683|During the last 20,000 years, the mountains of Africa between the Mediterranean and the equator have experienced significant climatic changes with important consequences for the vegetation and resource potential. At about 18,000 B. P. present altitudinal belts were depressed and the zonation of climate and vegetation was changed considerably. In the Holocene, higher temperatures led not only to more humid conditions but also to an uplifting of altitudinal belts and transformation of climatic and ecological zones and to increased natural resource potential. These changes in climate, vegetation, and altitudinal zonation are illustrated in a series of schematic diagrams. The cumulative effects of natural and anthropogenic processes and impacts within the last 2,000 years are also depicted. In particular, human impact on ecosystems formed under more favorable climatic conditions could result in irreversible degradation. The mountains of the subtropics and tropics very often have more advantageous ecological conditions than the surrounding lowlands. They are an important resource potential for the future, although they may be very sensitive to climatic and anthropogenic changes. /// Au cours des 20,000 dernires annes, les montagnes africaines situes entre la Mditerrane et l'quateur ont t soumises  des changements climatiques considrables qui ont eu des consquences importantes pour la vgtation et les ressources potentielles. Il y a environ 18,000 ans, les ceintures altitudinales actuelles taient affaisses et la zonation du climat et de la vgtation a chang considrablement. Pendant l'Holocne, les tempratures plus leves ont non seulement entran une plus haute humidit, mais aussi une lvation des ceintures altitudinales et une transformation des zones climatiques et cologiques, ainsi qu'une augmentation des ressources naturelles potentielles. Ces changements de climat, de vgtation et de zonation altitudinale sont illustrs au moyen d'une srie de diagrammes schmatiques. Les effets cumulatifs des processus naturels et anthropogniques, ainsi que ceux des impacts au cours des 2,000 dernires annes, sont galement dcrits. En particulier, l'impact humain sur les cosystmes forms dans des conditions climatiques plus favorables peut entraner une dgradation irrversible. Les montagnes des subtropiques et des tropiques jouissent trs souvent de conditions cologiques plus avantageuses que les basses terres avoisinantes. Elles constituent des ressources potentielles importantes pour le futur, bien qu'elles soient probablement trs sensibles aux changements climatiques et anthropogniques. /// Die Gebirge Afrikas zwischen Mittelmeer und quator waren in den letzten 20,000 Jahren bedeutenden Klimavernderungen unterworfen, die sich auf die Vegetation und die gesamten natrlichen Ressourcen entscheidend ausgewirkt haben. Die heutigen Hhenstufen waren um 18,000 B. P. bedeutend tiefer und auch die zonale Ordnung von Klima und Vegetation war vllig verndert. Im Holozn erfolgte mit zunehmender Erwrmung ein Wechsel zu feuchteren Bedingungen, die ein Ansteigen der Hhenstufen und eine grossrumige Vernderung der Klima- und Vegetationszonen und dementsprechend den gesamten natrlichen Ressourcen bewirkte. In den letzten 2,000 Jahren begannen sich natrliche und anthropogene Prozesse zu berlagern und sehr oft auch zu verstrken. Wurden dazu noch Oekosysteme genutzt, die unter gnstigeren Klimabedingungen enstanden waren, so konnte das zu irreversiblen Degradationsprozessen fhren. Die Gebirge in subtropischen und tropischen Zonen weisen sehr oft gnstigere kologische Bedingungen auf als die umgebenden Tieflnder, doch wird dieses fr die Zukunft wichtige Nutzungspotential auf Klimavernderungen sehr empfindlich reagieren.
mounresedeve.30.4.401|Glaciers are the largest reservoir of freshwater on Earth, supporting one third of the world's population. The Himalaya possess one of the largest resources of snow and ice, which act as a freshwater reservoir for more than 1.3 billion people. This article describes a new project called HIMALA, which focuses on utilizing satellite-based products for better understanding of hydrological processes of the river basins of the region. With support from the US Agency for International Development (USAID), the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD), together with its partners and member countries, has been working on the application of satellite-based rainfall estimates for flood prediction. The US National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) partners are working with ICIMOD to incorporate snowmelt and glacier melt into a widely used hydrological model. Thus, through improved modeling of the contribution of snow and ice meltwater to river flow in the region, the HIMALA project will improve the ability of ICIMOD and its partners to understand the impact of weather and climate on floods, droughts, and other water- and climate-induced natural hazards in the Himalayan region in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan.
10.2307/3673588|More than 550 active landslides in the catchment of the Gaula River, each more than 25 m<sup>2</sup>, were investigated. The slope failures are related to angle of hillslope, structural conditions of the bedrock, extent and type of vegetation, and also to road construction. The structure, particularly faulting and shearing, greatly influences the stability of the hillslopes. The frequency of naturally occurring and excavation-induced chronic landslides is <tex-math>$0.72\ \text{landslides per}\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Rockfalls and debris slides are most common on steep slopes, and debris flows occur on moderate and more gentle slopes. Debris falls occur on weathered rocks and old landslide deposits, whereas slumps affect semi-consolidated old landslide material. As a result of recurrent landslides and accelerated rates of erosion (1.7 mm per year) in the catchment area, the streams carry large amounts of sediment and their channels are being rapidly filled up. The intensity of storms, the amount of rainfall, and the duration of the storm period affect the occurrence of landslides. /// Parmi les 550 glissements de terrain actifs dans le bassin du fleuve Gaula, ceux de plus de 25 m<sup>2</sup> ont t tudis. Les ruptures de terrain sont lies  l'angle de la pente, les conditions structurales de la roche, l'tendue et le type de vgtation et la construction de routes. Les conditions structurales du type de roche, en particulier les failles et le cisaillement, influencent normment la stabilit des pentes. La frquence des glissements de terrain chroniques, naturels ou causs par des excavations, est de <tex-math>$0,72\ \text{par}\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Les chutes de pierres et les glissements de dbris se produisent le plus souvent sur les pentes raides, et les coulements de dbris se produisent sur les pentes faiblement ou moyennement inclines. Les chutes de dbris se produisent dans le cas de roches altres et d'anciens dpts de glissements de terrains, alors que les affaissements affectent les anciens dpts de glissements de terrains qui sont partiellement consolids. Du fait des glissements de terrain frquents et des taux d'rosion acclrs (1,7 mm par an)) dans le bassin, les fleuves charrient de grandes quantits de sdiments et leurs lits se remplissent rapidement. L'intensit des orages, la quantit d'eau tombe, et la dure de la priode orageuse dterminent la frquence des glissements de terrain. /// Es wurden ber 550 aktive Erdrutsche mit Flchenausdehnungen ber 25 m<sup>2</sup> untersucht. Das Nachgeben der Hnge steht im Zusammenhang mit der Steilheit der Bschungen, der strukturellen Beschaffenheit des Fels, dem Ausma und der Art der Vegetation sowie mit dem Straenbau. Die Felsstruktur, insbesondere Stellen mit Verwerfungen und Verschiebungen, beeinflussen die Stabilitt der Hnge wesentlich. Die Hufigkeit der sich wiederholenden Erdrutsche, d.h. natrliche und solche, die durch Ausschachtungen hervorgerufen wurden, ist <tex-math>$0,72\ \text{pro}\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Steinflle und Gerllawinen sind an steilen Hngen am hufigsten, und Gerllrutsche ereignen sich an miger geneigten Hngen. Steinschlag tritt an verwitterten Felsen und Ablagerungen alter Erdrutsche auf, wogegen Wassereinbrche halbverdichtetes, altes Erdrutschmaterial beeinflussen. Als Folge wiederkehrender Erdrutsche und erhhter Erosionstraten (1,7 mm pro Jahr) im Einzugsgebiet fhrt das Flubett groe Sedimentmengen und wird dadurch schnell aufgefllt. Erdrutsche werden durch Unwetterintensitt, Niederschlagsmenge und Dauer der Regenperiode beeinflusst.
10.2307/3673214|It is postulated that the theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation is a gross over-simplification that must be totally discarded; a new body of theory needs to be put in its place. The Himalayan region is one of extreme complexity, from both physical and human points of view, and panacea-type solutions of perceived and illusory problems will likely exacerbate growing human and environmental crises. A first approach is made to outline the ingredients for development of a new research strategy, or rather a series of strategies, since we adhere to the multiple problem-multiple solution mode. It is concluded that there is a problem of frightening magnitude facing the region, and that it is being made the more intractable because of the persisting adherence to conventional wisdom; this further clouds the problem in uncertainty. A bold new approach to development policy and foreign aid is urgently required. This must be fully sensitive to the critical need for reduction in the disparity of access to resources and must incorporate indigenous knowledge and the direct contribution of local people on a far larger scale than hitherto. /// L'opinion est avance que la thorie de la dgradation de l'environnement himalayenne est beaucoup trop simpliste et doit tre rejete; une nouvelle thorie doit prendre sa place. La rgion himalayenne est extrmement complexe, tant du point de vue physique qu'humain, et les remdes du type universel aux problmes perus et illusoires ne feront qu'empirer les crises affectant la population et l'environnement. Une tentative est faite d'identifier les lments d'une nouvelle stratgie de recherche, ou plutt une srie de stratgies, puisque nous utilisons le mode problme multiple-solution multiple. La conclusion est que la rgion fait face  un problme extrmement srieux, d'autant plus grave que les solutions primes continuent obstinment  tre appliques. Une approche entirement nouvelle vis--vis de la politique du dveloppement et de l'aide extrieure est indispensable. Celle-ci doit rpondre au besoin critique de limiter les diffrences d'accs aux ressources et doit englober les connaissances accumules par les populations locales et assurer leur participation sur une chelle beaucoup plus grande qu'auparavant. /// Es wird postuliert, da die Theorie der Umweltverschlechterung im Himalaya eine hochgradige Vereinfachung ist, von der man sich vllig trennen mu; eine neue Theorie mu ihren Platz einnehmen. Der Himalaya ist ein kompexes Gebiet sowohl von geophysikalischen als von menschlichen Gesichtspunkten, und Allheillsungen fr bestehende oder vorgetuschte Probleme verschlimmern mit Gewiheit wachsende menschliche Konflikte und Umweltkrisen. Ein erster Versuch wird unternommen, die Bestandteile zur Entwicklung einer neuen Forschungsstrategie oder besser gesagt einer Reihe von Strategien (da wir die Auffassung vertreten "Viele Probleme-viele Lsungen") zu umreien. Fest steht, da das Gebiet einem Problem von ungeheurem Ausma gegenbersteht, das noch schwieriger gemacht wird, wenn man sich an konventionelle Weisheit klammert, womit das Problem mit weiteren Ungewiheiten umgeben wird. Eine vllig neue Einstellung zu Entwicklungspolitik und Auslandshilfe ist dringend notwendig. Sie mu in einfhlsamer Weise der kritischen Notwendigkeit zur Reduzierung des ungleichen Ressourcenzugangs Rechnung tragen, und mu das Wissen und die direkte Mitwirkung der einheimischen Bevlkerung in hherem Mae als bisher miteinschlieen.
10.2307/3673913|The contribution of snow and glacier-melt runoff to Himalayan rivers is significant and an estimation of the amount is necessary for the development, planning, and management of water resources. In this study, the average contribution of snow and glacier-melt runoff in the annual streamflow of the Chenab River at Akhnoor was estimated using a water balance approach. For a period of 10 years (October 1982-September 1992) the total water budget of the basin was assessed; rainfall data of 25 well-distributed stations were used to compute total rainfall input to the basin, and total volume of flow was computed using discharge data at the Akhnoor gauging site. Evapotranspiration losses only from the snow-free area were taken into account, considering that evaporation from rain falling on the snow-covered area, and from the snow-covered area itself, is negligible. The snow-covered area in the basin was determined using satellite imagery. It is observed that, on average, about 70% of the area of the basin is covered with snow in March/April and this is reduced to about 24% in September/October. The average snow and glacier runoff contribution to the annual flow of the Chenab River at Akhnoor is estimated to be about 49 percent. /// La contribution de la fonte nivale et glaciaire au dbit des cours d'eau de l'Himalaya est importante, et son estimation est ncessaire au dveloppement,  la planification et  la gestion des ressources hydriques. Dans cette tude, la contribution moyenne de la fonte nivale et glaciaire au dbit annuel de la rivire Chenab  Akhnoor a t estime sur la base du bilan hydrique. Au cours d'une priode de 10 ans (d'octobre 1982  septembre 1992), le bilan hydrique total du bassin a t valu; les donnes pluviomtriques de 25 stations bien rparties ont t utilises pour calculer le volume total de pluie tomb dans le bassin et le dbit total d'coulement a t calcul  l'aide des donnes de dbit collectes  Akhnoor. Seules les pertes par vapotranspiration de la zone non couverte de neige ont t utilises, si l'on considre que l'vaporation due  la pluie tombant sur la zone couverte de neige et  la zone elle-mme est ngligeable. La zone du bassin couverte de neige a t dtermine  l'aide d'images prises par satellites. On peut observer, qu'en moyenne, environ 70% du bassin sont couverts de neige en mars et avril, et environ 24% en septembre et octobre. La contribution moyenne de la fonte nivale et glaciaire au dbit annuel de la rivire Chenab  Akhnoor est estime  environ 49 pour cent. /// Der Anteil des Schneeund Gletscherschmelzwassers in den Flssen des Himalaya ist erheblich, und ein Schtzwert dieser Wassermenge wird fr die Entwicklung, Planung und das Management der Ressource Wasser gebraucht. In dieser Studie wurde eine water balance Methode angewendet, um den durchschnittlichen Beitrag von Schnee- und Gletscherschmelzwasser an der jhrlichen Wasserflumenge des Chenab-Flues bei Akhnoor abzuschtzen. ber einen Zeitraum von 10 Jahren (Oktober 1982 bis September 1992) wurde der gesamte Wasserhaushalt des Einzugsbeckens beurteilt; Niederschlagsdaten von 25 gut verteilten Mestationen wurden benutzt, um den gesamten Niederschlagsinput des Beckens zu berechnen. Die Gesamtflumenge wurde unter Bercksichtigung der Abfludaten an der Akhnoor Mestelle berechnet. Nur von schneefreien Gebieten wurden Verdunstungsverluste bercksichtigt; die Verdunstung von Regen, der auf schneebedeckte Gebiete fllt, sowie die von schneebedeckten Flchen wurden vernachlssigt. Mit Satellitenbildern wurden die schneebedeckten Flchen des Einzugsgebietes bestimmt. Es ergab sich, da etwa 70% des Beckengebietes in den Monaten Mrz/April schneebedeckt sind; in den Monaten September/Oktober liegt dieser Wert bei ungefhr 24%. Der durchschnittliche Anteil, den Schnee-und Gletscherschmelzwasser an der jhrlichen Flumenge des Chenab-Flues bei Akhnoor liefern, wird auf ungefhr 49% geschtzt.
mounresedeve.35.2.139|Because of some landuse practices (such as overstocking with wild ungulates, historical clear-cuts for mining, and locally persisting forest pasture), protective forests in the montane vegetation belt of the Northern Limestone Alps are now frequently overaged and poorly structured over large areas. Windthrow and bark beetle infestations have generated disturbance areas in which forests have lost their protective functions. Where unfavorable site conditions hamper regeneration for decades, severe soil loss may ensue. To help prioritize management interventions, we developed a geographic information system-based model for assessing sensitivity to site degradation and applied it to 4 test areas in the Northern Limestone Alps of Austria and Bavaria. The model consists of (1) analysis of site conditions and forest stand structures that could increase sensitivity to degradation, (2) evaluation of the sensitivity of sites and stands, and (3) evaluation and mapping of mountain forests' sensitivity to degradation. Site conditions were modeled using regression algorithms with data on site parameters from pointwise soil and vegetation surveys as responses and areawide geodata on climate, relief, and substrate as predictors. The resulting predictorresponse relationships were applied to test areas. Stand structure was detected from airborne laser scanning data. Site and stand parameters were evaluated according to their sensitivity to site degradation. Sensitivities of sites and stands were summarized in intermediate-scale sensitivity maps. High sensitivity was identified in 3 test areas with pure limestone and dolomite as the prevailing sensitivity level. Moderately sensitive forests dominate in the final test area, Grnstein, where the bedrock in some strata contains larger amounts of siliceous components (marl, mudstone, and moraines); degraded and slightly sensitive forests were rare or nonexistent in all 4 test areas. Providing a comprehensive overview of site and forest stand structure sensitivity to site degradation, our sensitivity maps can serve as a planning instrument for the management and protection of mountain forests.
10.2307/3673946|Results of a 1991 field investigation of the nature and extent of historical and contemporary human disturbance in the upper Barun valley, Makalu-Barun National Park and Conservation Area, Nepal, are presented. Forest structure, soils, pollen analysis, <sup>14</sup> C dating of buried wood samples, historical documents, and contemporary land-use trends of herders and mountaineering/trekking groups were assessed. Historical religious texts suggest that pilgrims may have been visiting sacred sites in the valley since the 14th century. Genealogical records indicate that regular seasonal grazing may have commenced in the 17th century with the easterly migration of the Sherpa people from the Solukhumbu region. Results of pollen analysis and <sup>14</sup> C dating suggest that historical anthropogenic disturbances in a dynamic environment, including the possibility of regular burning in a presumed attempt to increase pasture area, could have played significant roles in modifying the upper Barun valley landscapes. A corridor of disturbance related to contemporary indigenous and tourist use (tree harvesting, burning, grazing) was observed along the main valley trail, and impacts appeared to be growing in frequency and magnitude. Increased monitoring of these impacts is recommended, and priority research areas are identified. Support for, and monitoring of, existing park management policies which seek to recognize the rights of traditional users are also suggested as providing the most promising mechanisms for the sustainable conservation of the upper Barun valley's unique physical, cultural, and spiritual attributes. /// Cet article prsente les rsultats d'une tude sur le terrain effectue en 1991 et concernant la nature et l'tendue des perturbations humaines, historiques et contemporaines, dans la valle suprieure du Barun, Parc national du Makalu-Barun, au Npal. L'tude a port sur la structure des forts, les sols, l'analyse pollinique, la datation par le carbone 14, les documents historiques disponibles et les tendances d'utilisation des terres par les bergers et les groupes d'alpinisme ou de randonne. Les textes historiques religieux semblent indiquer que depuis le <tex-math>${\rm XIV}^{{\rm e}}$</tex-math> sicle des plerins ont visit des sites sacrs dans la valle. Les dossiers gnalogiques indiquent que le pacage saisonnier a commenc au <tex-math>${\rm XVII}^{{\rm e}}$</tex-math> sicle, par suite de la migration vers l'Est des Sherpas  partir de la rgion du Solukhumbu. Les rsultats de l'analyse pollinique et de la datation par le carbone 14 semblent indiquer que les perturbations anthropogniques historiques dans un environnement dynamique, y compris la possibilit d'un incendie rgulier visant  augmenter la superficie de pacage, ont probablement jou un rle important dans la modification des paysages de la valle suprieure du Barun. Un corridor de perturbation li  l'utilisation par la population autochtone et les touristes (rcolte des arbres, incendie, pacage) a t observ le long de la piste principale de la valle, et les impacts semblent augmenter en frquence et en importance. Une surveillance accrue de ces impacts est recommande et des zones de recherche prioritaires ont t identifies. Le soutien et le suivi des politiques actuelles de gestion du parc national visant  reconnatre les droits des utilisateurs traditionnels sont galement suggrs au sens o ils fournissent les mcanismes les plus prometteurs pour assurer la conservation viable des attributs uniques de la valle du Barun, qu'ils soient physiques, culturels ou spirituels. /// Art und Ausma von frheren und derzeitigen anthropogenen Umweltstrungen wurden vor Ort in Nepal im oberen Barun Tal des Makalu-Barun National Park und Naturschutzgebietes studiert. Zur Auswertung trugen Bewaldungs- und Bodenstrukturen, Pollenanalysen, C<sup>14</sup> Datierungen von ausgegrabenen Holzproben und geschichtliche Dokumente bei; auerdem wurden Trends bei der heutigen Landnutzung durch Hirten, Bergsteiger und Touristen bercksichtigt. Religise Aufzeichnungen berliefern, da Pilger seit dem 14. Jahrhundert heilige Sttten im Tal aufgesucht haben. Aus genealogischen Berichten geht hervor, da im 17. Jahrhundert regelmige, saisonbedingte Weidegebruche eingefhrt wurden, als Sherpas aus der Solokhumbu Region von Osten her einwanderten. Ergebnisse von Pollenanalysen und C<sup>14</sup> Datierungen zeigen im oberen Barun Tal eine dynamische Umwelt, die durch Jahrhunderte zurckgehende anthropogene Strungen, insbesondere durch die Abbrennpraktiken zur Weidelandvergrerung, entscheidend verndert wurde. Entlang der Hauptroute im Tal wurde ein Landstreifen ausgewertet, dessen Erscheinungsbild eindeutig Folge der gegenwrtigen Nutzung durch Einheimische und Touristen (u.a., Fllen der Bume, Abbrennen, Weiden) ist. Die nachteiligen Folgen nehmen zu und scheinen immer schwerwiegender zu werden. Es wird empfohlen, da zerstrische Einflsse unter Kontrolle gebracht werden, und da Prioritten fr die Zielsetzungen von zuknftigen Besserungsmanahmen gesetzt werden. In diesem Zusammenhang wird eine Untersttzung und Beratung des waltenden Parkmanagements, das mehr die Interessen von heimischen Nutzern wahrt, vorgeschlagen. Dies knnte die Bedingungen verbessern, die erforderlich sind, den einzigartigen geologischen, kulturellen und spirituellen Charakter des oberen Barun Tals zu erhalten.
10.2307/3673985|A research project undertaken at the Geographical Institute, University of Berne, analyzed the demographic development in the European Alps between 1870 and 1990 at the level of the commune. Studies of growth, stagnation, decline, commune size, and altitude in almost 6,000 communes are presented on three colored maps enclosed with this issue. It is apparent that two highly divergent processes are at work and, accordingly, statistical mean values reveal little of importance. Approximately one-half of Alpine Europe is undergoing general economic and demographic growth and has experienced significant increase in population since the end of the agricultural era. This development has taken place primarily in low-lying valleys and basins and in areas bordering the Alps that have good access to transport routes. Tourism is not as widespread as generally assumed and is usually characterized by a punctate pattern. Only in the western part of the Eastern Alps does tourism account for widespread population growth at higher altitudes; elsewhere the Alps have not been affected by modern development and the economy and population are declining, with some areas in danger of becoming completely abandoned. The results challenge the earlier concept of the Alps as a rural region, once populated by peasants, where tourism now plays a major role. The structural change relates to ecological, social, cultural, and economic problems, and region-specific mountain policies should be introduced. /// Un projet de recherche entrepris par l'Institut de Gographie de l'Universit de Berne a analys l'volution dmographique des Alpes europennes entre 1870 et 1990, au niveau de la commune. Les tudes portant sur la croissance, la stagnation, le dclin, la taille des communes et l'altitude et couvrant presque 6,000 communes, sont reprsentes sur les trois cartes en couleur ci-jointes. Il est apparent que deux processus trs divergents sont mis en jeu et de ce fait les moyennes statistiques ne signifient pas grand chose. La moiti environ des Alpes europennes fait l'objet d'une croissance conomique et dmographique gnrale et sa population a beaucoup augment depuis la fin de l're agricole. Cet amnagement a surtout pris place dans les valles et bassins en contrebas et dans les zones en bordure des Alpes jouissant d'un bon accs aux voies de transport. Le tourisme n'est pas aussi rpandu que l'on pense et il est en gnral caractris par une configuration ponctue. Ce n'est que dans la partie Ouest des Alpes orientales que l'on peut attribuer au tourisme une croissance dmographique gnrale  haute altitude; partout ailleurs, les Alpes n'ont pas t affectes par le dveloppement moderne et l'conomie et la population sont en dclin, certaines zones risquant mme de devenir compltement abandonnes. Les rsultats remettent en question la conception antrieure des Alpes en tant que rgion rurale, peuple dans le pass par des paysans, et o le tourisme joue maintenant un rle primordial. Le changement structurel est li aux problmes cologiques, sociaux, culturels et conomiques, et des politiques spcifiques  chaque rgion de montagne doivent tre introduites. /// Dieser Artikel prsentiert die wichtigsten Ergebnisse eines Forschungsprojektes am Berner Geographischen Institut, in dem erstmalig der Alpenraum auf Gemeindeebene analysiert wurde. Daraus ergeben sich wichtige Bestandteile fr ein neues Alpenbild, die deutlich machen, dass das herkmmliche Alpenbild-die Alpen als buerlich-lndliche, stark touristisch berprgte Region-lngst nicht mehr der Realitt entspricht. Dieses neue Alpenbild fordert dazu heraus, die Prinzipien der bisherigen Berggebietspolitik, der Wirtschaftsfrderung im Berggebiet, der Umweltpolitik zu berdenken. Im 1. Teil wird die demographische Entwicklung aller knapp 6.000 Alpengemeinden nach Wachstum/Stagnation/Rckgang, Gemeindegrsse und Hhenlage analysiert: Die eine knappe Hlfte der Alpengemeinden verzeichnet seit 1870 ein starkes Bevlkerungswachstum (Verdopplung), die andere knappe Hlfte einen starken Bevlkerungsrckgang (Halbierung)-die Alpen werden durch stark gegenlufige Entwicklungen geprgt, so dass die Durchschnittswerte wenig aussagekrftig sind. Die Wachstumsgemeinden liegen v.a. in tiefen, verkehrsgnstigen Lagen, und es sind in der Regel die Stdte, die die hchsten Wachstumsraten aufweisen. Die Entsiedlungsgemeinden liegen im eigentlichen Gebirgsraum in ungstiger Verkehrslage, und es handelt sich meist um kleine Gemeinden. Entgegen dem verbreiteten Alpenbild stellt der Tourismus-mit Ausnahme der Region der westlichen Ostalpen-kein flchenhaftes Phnomen dar. Im 2. Teil werden anhand von 41% aller Alpengemeinden kommunale und regionale Entwicklungstypen (Wirtschaftsstruktur-analysen) erarbeitet, um die Ursachen der unterschiedlichen Bevlkerungsentwicklungen besser verstehen zu knnen. Der alpenweit dominierende Strukturwandel ist derzeit die "Verstdterung und Verdung": In den Gemeindetypen "Zentrum" und Pendlergemeinde" leben 1980 bereits mehr als die Hlfte aller Alpenbewohner, wobei dieser Anteil seitdem stark wchst. Parallel dazu verschwinden die lndlichen Alpenregionen (N-Regionen: "nicht-zentrendominierte Regionen") zugunsten "zentrendominierter Regionen" (Z-Regionen) oder "Pendler-Regionen" (P-Regionen). Auf der anderen Seite sind 1980 ein Viertel aller Alpengemeinden problematische Kleingemeinden, und die "Entsiedlungsregionen" (E-Regionen), in denen die gesamte Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft zusammenbricht, machen etwa ein Fnftel der Alpenflche aus. Dieser Strukturwandel ist mit zahlreichen kologischen, sozialen, kulturellen und konomischen Problemen verbunden, die es dringend erforderlich machen, "regionsspezifische" Berggebietsmassnahmen zu entwickeln.
4540653| For the native population in the Andes, the mountains are sacred places and central elements of a mythical historical identity, since the founding fathers, according to Inca legend, arose out of the land. In honor of this tradition, the mountains are objects of worship: one asks for their protection, while returning, through sacrifice, the wealth obtained from the earth. The mountains, moreover, are the place of the dead and of different gods and spirits that require special attention. In the mining centers, for example, there is an ambivalent figure, El To, both evil and good, residing in the dark caves deep below ground. These belief systems, reproduced over and over again in ritual acts, inform everyday practices of the Andean population and constitute part of its world view. They are the result of the conflictive combination of Spanish Catholicism and Indian cosmology during the modern period. Ignoring this tradition turned out to have considerable drawbacks for development agencies and the political parties that tried to organize miners. The religious culture of this mountain society was, and to a certain degree still is, an important source of class struggle and a basis for development politics. 
mounresedeve.33.3.305|This study is the first to have surveyed the population of black-necked cranes (
10.2307/3673125|This paper discusses mountain landscapes from a visual point of view, using the Indian Peaks section of the Colorado Front Range (Rocky Mountains, U.S.A.) as a type example. The accompanying coloured map, scale 1:50,000, represents in cartographic form the results of visual landscape mapping and analysis. This includes evaluation for diverse individual recreational uses in summer. It is one component of an environmental atlas, the purpose of which is to facilitate understanding of complex mountain terrain both for its own sake and to provide a basis for the development of sound management practices. Based on the landscape perception and assessment of visitors, this approach leads to the recognition of aspects of the visual landscape that constitute an essential environmental resource in a scenic mountain region. Data selected from different fields of research are compiled in a single map with a combined legend. This enables the formal character of a landscape type to be compared directly with its degree of ecological stability or instability, and with its degree of attractiveness for wilderness recreational use. Thus visual conflicts, as could occur in highly attractive areas that are likely to experience a high degree of human impact, are clearly displayed. The need for especially careful landscape management is underscored. /// L'aspect visuel du paysage constitue une ressource naturelle essentielle des rgions montagneuses pittoresques. Le prsent travail fait partie d'un "Atlas de l'environnnement" destin  faire comprendre les conditions et les phnomnes naturels d'un cosystme montagneux ainsi que la ncessit de le protger et de l'utiliser rationnellement. On a inventori et tax tous les lments visuels naturels jouant un rle pour un tourisme individuel estival de dlassement vari dans le parc (Wilderness Area) des Indian Peaks du Colorado Front Range (Rocky Mountains). Ces donnes aideront les scientifiques, les planificateurs et les autorits responsables  dterminer les possibilits et les limites du dveloppement touristique d'une rgion attractive, mais dlicate du point de vue cologique, en tenant compte des lments esthtiques et visuels particulirement apprcis des visiteurs. En plus des facteurs du milieu qui influencent la stabilit cologique et visuelle, on a analys non seulement quelles sont la nature, la grandeur et la distribution des lments visuels du paysage, mais aussi dans quelle mesure ceux-ci contribuent  l'attrait de la rgion et au bien-tre des visiteurs. On a reprsent les lments tudies sur une carte (The Visual Landscape) de manire  mettre en vidence les conflits existants et possibles entre l'utilisation touristique et la conservation du paysage avec son pouvoir d'attraction naturelle. On insiste sur l'importance de la protection du paysage et des mesures de planification ncessaires  cet effet dans les rgions de montagne en grande partie encore vierges, convenant pour le tourisme. Comme exemples d'application des rsultats on discute certains travaux du Service forestier des U.S.A. /// In diesem Fachbereich steht der visuelle Aspekt der Landschaft als essentielle natrliche Ressource in einem landschaftlich reizvollen Berggebiet zur Diskussion. Die vorliegende Arbeit ist Teil eines "Umwelt-Atlas", dessen Ziel es ist, Verstndnis zu wecken fr die natrlichen Gegebenheiten und Vorgnge in einem Gebirgskosystem sowie dessen Schutz und Management. Die Naturgrundlagen-Daten aus dem visuellen Bereich und die Evaluation derselben fr einen vielseitigen Individual-Erholungstourismus im Sommer wurden in den "Indian Peaks" der Colorado Front Range (Rocky Mountains, U.S.A.) erhoben. Sie erleichtern es dem Wissenschafter, Planer und Entscheidungstrger, die Entwicklungsmglichkeiten und Grenzen dieser spezifischen Art von Nutzung in einem kologisch empfindlichen, zugleich aber fr den Erholungssuchenden erlebnisreichen Gebiet aus visuell/aesthetischer, besucherorientierter Sicht zu beurteilen. Neben Art, Grsse und rumlicher Verteilung der visuellen Landschaftselemente und -komponenten wurden deshalb auch deren Stellenwert fr die Attraktivitt der gesamten Region, das damit verbundene aesthetische Wohlbefinden der Besucher und relevante kologische Beobachtungen (kologische/visuelle Empfindlichkeit) in die Untersuchung miteinbezogen. Die Gegenberstellung ausgewhlter Daten aus smtlicher dieser Untersuchungsbereiche in einer Karte mit kombinierter Legende (vgl. beigelegte Karte "The Visual Landscape") zeigt Konflikte und Konfliktsmglichkeiten zwischen touristischer Nutzung und der natrlichen landschaftlichen Szenerie klar auf. Es wird die Wichtigkeit des Landschaftsschutzes und eines entsprechenden Managements in mehrheitlich unberhrten, fr den Einzeltourismus attraktiven Berggebieten unterstrichen. Als mgliche Anwendung der Resultate werden Arbeiten des U.S. Forest Service diskutiert.
mounresedeve.34.4.326|In November 2004, the Albeta windstorm hit the mountainous areas of northern and central Slovakia. The most affected area was Tatra National Park, where downslope wind damaged 12,000 ha of forest, mostly Norway spruce (
3674075|This paper explores endogenous development as a strategy for Swiss mountain communities. Endogenous development refers to self-determined participatory development based on regional needs and the use of endogenous potentials. Data from 2 case studies, Urnsch and Schamserberg, show that endogenous development cannot be detached from its national and global context and that local initiatives evolve as a continuous interplay between internal and external factors. The main benefits of endogenous development are within the social and cultural realm: it raises people's awareness of local problems, promotes community bonds, and fosters local identity. These effects are important because they increase the quality of life. Indirectly, they can have an effect on economic development because they motivate people to stay in their communities and become involved in local activities. Regional policy should thus pay more attention to endogenous development by promoting participation, local initiative, and social capital.
10.2307/3673669|In the mountain watersheds of northern Thailand, the calculated runoff efficiency (that is the ratio between input as precipitation and output as surface runoff) is extremely low for a mountainous region, with an average of 20-25 percent. In those catchment basins for which data are available, the volume of suspended sediment is low, averaging approximately <tex-math>$100\ {\rm t}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Furthermore, time-series analyses of the existing data bases show no evidence that streamflow or sediment regimes have changed significantly since the 1950s. There is no empirical substantiation for the hypothesis that land-use practices have altered the hydrologic regime of these basins, or have contributed to an increase in the sediment load of the rivers. At the present time, the most pressing need for the government of Thailand is to organize the existing data bases, and publish annual statistics. This would increase the efficiency with which planning and management of water resources could be undertaken. /// Dans les bassins hydrographiques de montagne situs dan le nord de la Thalande, le coefficient de ruissellement calcul (le rapport entre l'entee sous forme de prcipitations et la sortie sous forme de ruissellment  la surface du sol) est extrmement bas pour une egion montagneuse, de 20  25% en moyenne. Pour les bassins hydrographiques pour lesquels des donnes sont disponsibles, le volume de sdiments en suspension est bas, environ <tex-math>$100\ {\rm t}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> en moyenne. De plus, les analyses en sries chronologiques des bases de donnes existantes indiquent que les rgimes d'coulement et de transport de sdiments n'ont gure vari depuis les annes 1950, et ne fournissent aucune confirmation empirique que les modes d'utilisation des terres ont contribu  l'augmentation de la charge des cours d'eau. A prsent, le besoin le plus urgent pour le gouvernement thalandais est d'organiser les bases de donnes existantes et de publier des statistiques annuelles. Ce travail augmenterait l'efficacit de las planification et de la gestion de ces ressources. /// Der berechnete Abflusswirkungsgrad (das verhaltnis zwischen input als Niederschlag und output als flachenbezogenen Abfluss) ist in den bergigen Wasser einzugsgebieten des nrdlichen Thailand im Durchschnitt etwa 20 bis 25%, was fr gebirgige Gebiete extrem niedrig ist. In Einzugsgebieten mit verfgbaren Daten is die Menge an mitgetragenen Sedimenten gering, im Durchschnitt etwa <tex-math>$100\ {\rm t}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Analysen der Zeitabhngigkeit von vorhandenen Daten geben keinen Aufschluss darber, ob sich Abfluss- oder Sedimentvorgnge seit den 50er Jahren erheblich verndert haben; daneben gibt es keinen empirischen Beweis, dass die Landnutzung das hydrologische System verndert, oder dass sie zu einem erhhten Sedimentanteil der Flsse beitrgt. Die derzeit wichtigste Aufgabe fr die thailndische Regierung besteht im Ordnen der existierenden Daten. Solche Bemhungen wrden die Effizienz erhhen, die zur Planung und zum Management der Wasserressourcen bentigt wird.
25164201|Prominent construction projects in Switzerland, such as the Sawiris luxury resort in Andermatt planned by Orascom Hotels & Development, Cairo (Egypt), or the idea of a hotel and apartment tower at Schatzalp, Davos, demonstrate how rapidly Alpine landscapes may undergo major changes. Decisions on whether or not such changes are supported by policymakers should be based on the best information available and in agreement with the local population to ensure longterm sustainable development. The present article investigates the potential and limitations of computer-based tools to support such decisions in the area of landscape planning, with a particular focus on Alpine landscapes.
3674235|An ethnobotanical survey was carried out among a campesino community in a Costa Rican montane cloud forest. Campesino families were interviewed about how they used indigenous and introduced vascular plants along an altitudinal gradient (2000-3000 m). From a total of 590 species known in the area, 23.8% of 189 useful plant species were used for medicinal purposes, 39.7% for food, and 24.3% for construction (timber) or as combustibles (fuelwood, charcoal). Less important uses included dye, ornament (ecotourism), fodder, gum, oil, and poison. A total of 61.9% of the plants were used for one purpose only. The introduced and exotic woody species Cupressus Iusitanica and Eucalyptus globulus showed the highest diversity in types of use (7), together with the native Alnus acuminata. Trunks (53%) and fruits (47%) were the main plant organs used, followed by leaves (33%) and branches (30%). Over 27.5% of all plants were used on a daily basis, while 34.9% were used occasionally. About 11.6% of the species were rarely used. At present, use of indigenous species is becoming less common; the trend is to favor introduced and economically important species. In the short or medium term, local knowledge of medicinal plants will probably disappear in this rural community that is undergoing modernization, with a focus on new undertakings such as fruticultural export, rainbow trout hatcheries, and ecotourism.
10.2307/3672949|In the highland provinces of Papua New Guinea the highest concentrations of population are found in valleys between 1,400 and 2,600 m. At greater altitudes adverse climatic conditions restrict agriculture. Between about 1,400 m and the coastal belt population densities are again low because of unspecified physical conditions and the prevalence of malaria. The recent growth in population has placed considerable pressure on the traditionally densely populated area and is leading to accelerated deforestation, depletion of soil nutrient levels, and increased soil erosion. From this it follows that the lower parts of Enga Province that have suitable slopes (generally less than 35) will be settled for either cash cropping or subsistence agriculture. This paper describes the physical environment, physical planning constraints, and likely impact of planned or informal settlement of the lower land. While inadequate data are available, it is likely that soils below about 1,400 m will deteriorate more rapidly following deforestation, and social problems compounded by relative isolation will arise. It is concluded that Enga Province presents an obvious case for study of its highland-lowland interactive systems as a basis for intelligent land-use planning in response to the steadily mounting population pressures. /// Sur les hautes terres de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine, les plus grandes concentrations de population se trouvent dans les valles entre 1,400 et 2,600 m. A de plus hautes altitudes, les conditions climatiques dfavorables restreignent le dveloppement de l'agriculture. Entre 1,400 m environ et la bande ctire, les densits de population sont de nouveau plus basses  cause de certaines conditions physiques non spcifies et de l'incidence de la malarie. L'augmentation rcente de la population exerce une pression dmographique considrable sur une rgion traditionnellement surpeuple et conduit  un dboisement acclr, un puisement des substances nutritives des sols, et un plus grande rosion de ceux-ci. Il s'en suit que les rgions basses  pentes propices (en gnral moins de 35) dans la Province d'Enga seront occupes par l'agriculture soit commerciale soit d'autoconsommation. Cette tude porte sur l'environnement physique, les contraintes de planification, et l'effet probable de l'occupation planifie ou non des rgions basses. Bien que des donnes fiables ne soient pas disponibles, il est probable que les sols en dessous de 1,400 m se dtrioreront plus rapidement suite au dboisement, et que des problmes sociaux aggravs par l'isolement relatif apparatront. En conclusion, la Province d'Enga est de toute vidence un cas intressant pour l'tude des systmes interactifs hautes terres-basses rgions en vue d'une planification intelligente de l'exploitation des terres, en rponse  une pression dmographique toujours croissante. /// In den Provinzen des Hochlandes von Papua Neu Guinea, findet man die hchste Bevlkerungsdichte in Tlern, die von 1,400 m bis 2,600 m hoch gelegen sind. In hheren Lagen schrnkt unwirtliches Klima die Landwirtschaft ein. Wegen ungnstiger Umweltsbedingungen und hufig auftretender Malaria ist die Bevlkerungsdichte zwischen 1,400 m und dem Kstenstreifen ebenfalls gering. Der neuerliche Bevlkerungszuwachs hat betrchtlichen Druck auf das ursprnglich dicht besiedelte Gebiet ausgebt und fhrt zu beschleunigter Abholzung, Erschpfung der Bodenfruchtbarkeit und fortschreitender Bodenerosion. Daraus folgt, da die tiefer liegenden Teile der Enga Provinz, die geeignete Hnge haben (meistens weniger als 35 Neigung) besiedelt werden, um Ackerbau zum Erwerb oder zur Deckung des Eigenbedarfs zu betreiben. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt die natrliche Umwelt, die Beschrnkungen bei der Planung und die mglichen Folgen einer entweder gesteuerten oder planlosen Besiedelung des Tieflandes. Obwohl ungenaue Angaben vorliegen, ist anzunehmen, da sich die Bodendqualitt in Lagen unter 1,400 m wegen der Abholzung beschleunigt verschlechtern wird; und da die relative Isolierung ein zustzlicher Grund ist fr zuknftige soziale Probleme. Zusammenfassend wird gesagt, da die Enga Provinz ein deutliches Beispiel ist fr Untersuchungen der Wechselwirkung Hoch- Tiefland, das zeigt, wie geplante Bodennutzung eine Antwort auf verstrkten Besiedelungsdruck sein kann.
3674080|Tropical deforestation poses a threat to ecological sustainability and socioeconomic development in many parts of the world. Information on forest transformations is especially pertinent in sensitive ecological zones such as mountainous regions, where forest cover protects steep slopes and thin soils from erosion. Such areas are frequently unsuitable for agriculture, but inhabitants may have few alternatives to meet subsistence needs. Understanding the relationship between human behavior and forest change poses a major challenge for development projects, policy makers, and environmental organizations that aim to improve forest management. Knowledge of the areal extent of forest cover and the processes of change represents an integral step, but in many areas of the globe, these processes are still relatively unknown. This study addresses forest cover change in a community in the mountains of western Honduras. Between 1987 and 1996, <tex-math>$9.77\ km^{2}$</tex-math> of land was reforested and only <tex-math>$7.48\ km^{2}$</tex-math> was deforested, as determined by satellite image analysis. This reforestation is related to the current institutional, biophysical, and socioeconomic contexts. Forests remain primarily on steeper slopes, at higher elevations, and at a distance from settlements and roads. A county ban on logging has allowed regrowth of previously logged areas. Agricultural intensification appears related to abandonment of some marginal lands. Processes of privatization have been occurring; private forests reveal higher reforestation and lower deforestation rates than communal forests. Privatization, however, has favored the wealthy. Thus, the majority has had to depend on shrinking communal forests.
10.2307/3673556|A new approach to evaluating hillslope soil erosion was developed when conventional erosion assessment strategies were found to be inappropriate to a <tex-math>$1,300\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> intensively cultivated drainage basin in highland Ecuador. Methods used in this project enabled relatively rapid and inexpensive estimates of soil erosion on agricultural lands to be made throughout the study area. One phase of the work involved replicated experiments using a portable rainfall simulator. Erosion rates of zero to 836 tonnes/ha/yr were estimated in the catchment and areas of greatest soil loss under present land-use conditions were identified. The research methodology which evolved from this project is particularly useful in defining which lands are relatively more fragile than others and in targeting certain areas for highest priority conservation efforts. /// Une nouvelle approche pour valuer l'rosion du sol sur les versants de montagnes a t dveloppe en rapport avec un bassin hydrographique de <tex-math>$1300\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>  culture intensive dans les hautes terres de l'Equateur, lorsque les mthodes traditionnelles se sont rvles inadquates. Les mthodes utilises pour ce projet ont permis d'effecteur des estimations relativement rapides et conomiques de l'rosion du sol dans les terres cultives, couvrant l'ensemble de la zone tudie. Une phase des travaux a mis en jeu des expriences rptes utilisant un simulateur de pluie portatif. Des taux d'rosion variant entre zro et 836 tonnes/ha/an ont t estimes dans le bassin hydrographique, et les zones montrant les pertes de sol les plus importantes dans les conditions actuelles d'utilisation ont t identifies. La stratgie de recherche qui s'est dveloppe au cours du projet est particulirement utile pour dfinir quelles terres sont relativement plus fragiles que d'autres, et pour slectionner certaines zones o les efforts de conservation doivent se concentrer en premier. /// Eine neue Methode zur Bewertung von Bodenerosion an Berghngen wurde entwickelt, als sich fr ein <tex-math>$1300\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> groes, intensiv bebautes Wasserscheidegebiet im Hochland von Ecuador konventionelle Berechnungsmethoden als ungeeignet erwiesen. Die Methoden, die in diesem Projekt benutzt wurden, erlaubten relativ schnelle und kostenarme Abschtzungen insbesondere der Bodenerosion auf land-wirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen. Eine Arbeitsphase bestand in wiederholten Messungen mit einem tragbaren Regensimulator. Im Wasserscheidegebiet wurden Erosionsraten von 0 bis 836 Tonnen/ha/Jahr abgeschtzt, und Gebiete mit den hchsten Bodenverlustraten unter gegebenen Landnutzungsbedingungen wurden bestimmt. Die Strategie der Untersuchungen fr dieses Projekt ist sehr ntzlich zur Feststellung jener Flchen, die besonders anfllig sind, und um Gebiete zu bestimmen, die hchste Prioritt bezglich Erhaltungsbemhungen verlangen. /// Se desarroll una nueva manera para evaluar erosin de suelos en laderas cuando estratgias convencionales para determinar la erosin resultaron no apropiadas para una cuenca intensivamente cultivada de <tex-math>$1300\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> en las montaas del Ecuador. Los mtodos utilizados en este proyecto facilitaron la estimacin relativamente rpida y barata de erosion en las tierras agrcolas en todo el rea de estudio. Durante una fase del trabajo se experiment repetidamente usando un simulador porttil de precipitacin. Se estimaron tasas de erosin en la cuenca desde cero hasta 836 toneladas/ha/ao; y se identificaron las reas de mayor prdida de suelo bajo las condiciones actuales de uso de la tierra. La estratgia de investigacin que evolucion de este proyecto fue particularmente til en la definicin de cuales tierras son relativamente ms frgiles que otras, y en la sealizacin de ciertas reas para esfuerzos conservacionistas.
mounresedeve.33.1.63|In recent decades, mountainous areas that contain some of the best-preserved habitats worldwide are experiencing significant, rapid changes. Efficient monitoring of these areas is crucial for impact assessments, understanding the key processes underlying the changes, and development of measures that mitigate degradation. Remote sensing is an efficient, cost-effective means of monitoring landscapes. One of the main challenges in the development of remote sensing techniques is improving classification accuracy, which is complicated in mountainous areas because of the rugged topography. This study evaluated the 3 main steps in the supervised vegetation classification of a mountainous area in the Spanish Pyrenees using Landsat-5 Thematic Mapper imagery. The steps were (1) choosing the training data sampling type (expert supervised or random selection), (2) deciding whether to include ancillary data, and (3) selecting a classification algorithm. The combination (in order of importance) of randomly selected training data, ancillary data (topographic and vegetation index), and a random forest classifier improved classification accuracy significantly (411%) in the study area in the Spanish Pyrenees. The classification procedure includes important steps that improve classification accuracies; these are often ignored in standard vegetation classification protocols. Improved accuracy is vital to the study of landscape changes in highly sensitive mountain ecosystems.
10.2307/3673064|Potential evapotranspiration, calculated using the Penman-approach (modified), shows the smallest annual amounts in nival elevation belts (Alps: 80 mm) and the largest in perarid montane basins (Bolivian Andes: 1,540 mm). Within the snow-free regions of tropical and subtropical mountains the annual amounts are well above 1,000 mm. Annual amounts decrease with latitude and especially with the duration of snow cover. In the Alps, the annual values vary between 80 mm and 800 mm; monthly totals may be as high as in tropical latitudes. The numerical results for the different regions are compiled in four tables; special attention is given to the Andean data. /// Les hauteurs totales durant le mois et durant l'anne moyennes de l'vapotranspiration potentielle ont t dtermines moyennant la mthode de Penman sous forme modifie-en dterminant le terme nergtique d'aprs Albrecht et en tenant compte de la dpendance des coefficients de psychromtre et d'change de l'altitude-pour une srie de stations de montagne de diffrents climats. Les plus petites hauteurs annuelles rsultent pour l'etage nival, montrant, par exemple, environ 80 mm seulement dans les Alpes. Les plus grandes hauteurs annuelles se trouvent dans les bassins montagnards perarides, par example, avec 1540 mm dans les Andes Boliviennes. Pour les tage, sans neige des montagnes tropicales et subtropicales, nous trouvons des hauteurs totales durant l'anne excdant 1000 mm. Les hauteurs se reduisent avec latitude et spcialement avec la dure de couches de neige. Ainsi, les hauteurs totales durant l'anne de l'vapotranspiration potentielle varient aux Alpes de 800 mm  80 mm; les hauteurs totales pour les mois sans neige peuvent tre ici les mmes que dans les tropiques. Quatre tableaux montrent les rsultats pur les rgions diffrentes; attention spciale a t porte sur les dates des Andes. /// Durchschnittliche Monats- und Jahressummen der potentiellen Landverdunstung wurden mit Hilfe eines modifizierten Penman-Ansatzes-Bestimmung des Energie-Terms nach Albrecht, Bercksichtigung der Hhenabhngigkeit von Psychrometer- und Austauschkoeffizienten-fr eine Reihe von Gebirgsstationen in verschiedenen Klimaten bestimmt. Die geringsten Jahressummen ergeben sich fr die nivale Hhenstufe, wo z.B. in den Alpen nur etwa 80 mm erreicht werden; die grten Jahreshhen treten in den vollariden montanen Becken auf, z.B. mit 1540 mm in den bolivianischen Anden. In den schneefreien Hhenstufen der tropischen und subtropischen Gebirge liegen die Jahreshhen deutlich ber 1000 mm. Mit zunehmender Breite und insbesondere mit zunehmender Andauer einer Schneedecke gehen die Jahressummen erheblich zurck. So schwanken die Jahressummen der potentiellen Landverdunstung in den Alpen zwischen 800 mm and 80 mm; die Monatssummen schneefreier Monate knnen sich hier auf gleiche Werte belaufen wie Monatssummen in den Tropen. In vier Tabellen sind die Ergebnisse fr die unterschiedlichen Regionen zusammengestellt; besondere Aufmerksamkeit erfahren die Daten fr die Anden.
25578195|The Ore Mountains (the Krun Hory Mountains) are located in Central Europe on the border between the Czech Republic and Saxony, Germany. They are known as an area where air pollution has had a very severe impact. Sulphur dioxide, produced mainly by coal power plants and the chemical industry, caused extensive decay of forests in the upper part of the Ore Mountains during the 1970s and 1980s. Dying trees were felled on more than 40,000 ha. Stands of mainly substitute tree species, considered to be more resistant to air pollution, were established on these locations. With the desulphurization of the main pollution sources and the decrease in industrial production, pollution significantly diminished during the 1990s. Nevertheless, even in the second half of the 1990s, distinctive damage to substitute forests was observed. A survey of their condition detected about 1600 ha of white birch stands in decline, 53 ha of blue spruce stands affected by needle yellowing, and prevalent damage of mountain ash by red deer. Our comprehensive studies closely observed the situation in the Ore Mountains and focused on practical questions and solutions to current forestry problems. We proposed appropriate measures relating to changes of tree species composition, forest plantation, silvicultural principles, and amelioration of forest soils, taking into account the current level of pollution, the condition of forest soils, and the vitality of forests. Several options, including a rough economic evaluation, are presented here.
10.2307/3673058|Paramos occur in the tropical mountains of all continents between the timberline and the snowline, mostly at elevations between 3,200 and 4,000 m above sea level. They are limited to the humid and semi-humid equatorial areas. The Paramo belt has a vertical inner structure; various types of vegetation are described briefly and their development is attributed to differences in altitude and climate. Climatic boundary criteria and the problem of hypsometric asymmetry are discussed and the climatological parameters of certain Paramo locations are introduced. An attempt is made to reconstruct the pleistocene and post-pleistocene development by discussing the question of whether the Paramo belt is an ecological buffer between timberline and snowline and has become a distinctive high mountain zone only through the massive impact of man. /// Les Pramos se trouvent dans les hautes montagnes tropicales de tous les continents. Ils sont dvelopps entre le limite des arbres et de neige eternelle normalement entre 3200 et 4000 m au dessus du niveau de la mer. Leur extension se renferme dans les rgions quatoriales humides ou semi-humides. L'tage des pramos est structur intrieurement ce qui est expliqu en dtail. L'auteur expose brivement les formes de vie et l'tat de plantes et ramne leur diffrentes formations  diffrentes topoclimates. Il fait sortir quelques critres dmarcatifs et suit le problme de l'asymmtrie hypsomtrique  l'exemple de quelques stations caracteristiques de Pramos en essayant de les expliquer selon certains paramtres climatologiques. Il essaie de reconstruire le dveloppement pleistocne et postpleistocne et postpleistocne et traite de la question si les Pramos en tant que formations cologiques tampon entre le fort et la neige ternelle sont devenus une formation des hautes montagnes  la suite de l'intervention intense humaine. /// Pramos kommen in den Hochgebirgstropen aller Erdteile vor. Sie sind zwischen der Wald- und der Schneegrenze ausgebildet, meist in Hhen zwischen 3200 und 4000 m ber M. Sie beschrnken sich jedoch auf den feuchten (humiden bzw. semihumiden) quatorialen Raum. Die Pramohhenstufe hat eine vertikale innere Gliederung, wie im einzelnen erlutert wird. Lebensformen und Vegetations-bestand werden kurz dargestellt und ihre unterschiedliche Ausbildung auf verschiedene Topoklimate zurckgefhrt. Einige klimatische Grenzkriterien werden herausgearbeitet und dem Problem der hypsometrischen Asymmetrie an einigen charakteristischen Pramo-Standorten nachgegangen und anhand einiger klimatologischer Parameter zu erklren versucht. Die pleistozne und postpleistozne Entwicklung der Pramos wird zu rekonstruieren versucht und dabei die Frage errtert, ob die Pramos als kologische Pufferformation zwischen Wald und ewigem Schnee erst durch den starken Eingriff des Menschen zur eigenen Hochgebirgsformation geworden sind.
10.2307/3673089|The Northern Andes, including Ecuador, Colombia, and Venezuela, consist of a dense mosaic of humid ecosystems. The altitudinal effect on temperature and the contrasts in annual precipitation within short distances caused by the complexity of the relief result in an extraordinary diversity of environments. The original forest cover has been replaced by a man-made landscape of crops and pasture. Earthquakes and widespread mass movement on the steep slopes make for environmental fragility subject to frequent and major ecological disruptions. High rates of population increase tend to aggravate this situation. Integrated, multidisciplinary studies should lead to a better understanding of the constraints facing the people who live and work on these slopes. /// La rgion des Andes du Nord, y compris l'Ecuador, la Colombie, et le Venezuela, est caractrise par une mosaque dense de systmes cologiques humides. L'effet altitudinaire sur la temprature et les variations de la quantit de pluie annuelle  courte porte du fait de la nature complexe du relief donnent lieu  ces caractristiques extrment varis de l'environnement. La couverture de la fort d'origine a t remplace par un paysage de cultures et de pturages cre par l'homme. Des tremblements de terre et des dplacements massifs de terre sur les pentes raides favorisent un terrain vulnerable expos  des bouleversements cologiques frquents et importants. Une croissance dmographique leve ne fait qu'accentuer la situation. Des tudes intgres  multi-disciplines devraient nous permettre de mieux comprendre les contraintes imposes aux habitants qui vivent et travaillent sur ces pentes. /// Die Nrdlichen Anden einschliesslich Ecuador, Kolumbien und Venezuela bestehen aus einer Vielzahl feuchter kologischer Systeme. Eine ungewhnlich vielgestaltige Umwelt ergibt sich aus der Hhenabhngigkeit der Temperatur und den starken Unterschieden jhrlicher Niederschlge ber kleine Entfernungen, durch die Eigenart des Reliefs bedingt. Die ursprngliche Bewaldung wurde fr Getreideanbau und Weideflchen kultiviert. Erdbeben und weitverbreitete Erdrutsche auf den steilen Hngen sind Ursachen fr eine anfllige Umwelt und Grund hufiger, gravierender kologischer Strungen. Diese Situation wird durch hohen Bevlkerungszuwachs noch verschlimmert. Ein besseres Verstndnis der Einschrnkungen, denen die Menschen, die auf diesen Hngen leben und arbeiten ausgestezt sind, knnte aus koordinierten und interdisziplinaren Untersuchungen gewonnen werden. /// Los Andes del norte, incluyendo Ecuador, Colombia y Venezuela comprenden un denso mosaico de ecosistemas hmedos. El efecto que la altura tiene en la temperatura y los contrastes en precipitacin anual causados por la complejidad del relieve de lugares que se encuentran a corta distancia entre si resultan en una extraordinaria diversidad de medios ambientes. La cobertura original de bosques la ha reemplazado el hombre por un manto de cosechas y pastos. Los terremotos y los movimientos generalizados de masas en las laderas escarpadas crean una fragilidad ambiental sujeta a frecuentes e importantes desorganizaciones ecolgicas. Las altas tasas de incremento de la poblacin tienden a agravar esta situacin. Los estudios integrados y multidisciplinarios deberan contribuir a un mejor entendimiento de las restricciones a las que se enfrentan las personas que viven y tribajan en esas laderas.
3674671|Since 2002, the Peruvian government has allowed the Harakmbut people to conserve and manage natural resources within their ancestral territory. In order to alleviate the difficulties the Harakmbut had in establishing the institutional and operational framework of this protected area, a Partnership Action for Mitigating Syndromes (PAMS) project aiming to strengthen indigenous institutions in the Amarakaeri Communal Reserve, has supported training of administrative leaders and forest rangers.
3674386|The International Potato Center (CIP) has had an evolving research-for-development agenda that includes potatoes, sweet potatoes, Andean roots and tubers, and sustainable use of natural resources in mountains. In 2003, CIP completed a participatory Vision Exercise that led to prioritization of 7 development challenges that reflect 8 of the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In summary, these challenges include: reducing poverty and hunger; improving human health; developing sustainable rural and urban systems; and improving the availability of new technologies. A strategy was developed to help accomplish the selected MDGs. The first step towards implementation of this vision was a realignment of CIP's research program. Then, using different tools such as GIS and available national, regional, and world statistics, poverty targeting was carried out in order to prioritize the countries and regions where CIP will focus its resources and its research and development efforts. Targets were identified by overlaying poverty, hunger, and vulnerability with the areas where CIP's commodities are produced. Within this framework, the Center is implementing a new project in the Central Andes Altiplano, which is supported by the Government of Canada as well as other donors. The project is called ALTAGRO (Andean Agriculture in the Altiplano).
25164077|Milk production is an important source of secure and regular income, especially in mountain areas. However, slope farmers in the Andes commonly face difficulties in shifting to milk production, given the limited access to land and water for fodder production. The implementation of sprinkler irrigation to expand the cultivation of permanent fodder crops, reduce soil erosion, and enhance soil productivity would represent a promising step forward. This study stresses the feasibility for small-scale farmers of shifting to sprinkler irrigation. It draws on farm household data and analysis of 10 family-based sprinkler irrigation projects in northern Peru. A farm-optimization model and a farm investment model were applied to assess expected changes in production and profitability and the development of farmers' savings and liquidity over a 10-year period. Independent of the water efficiency gain, results show that smallholders face a strong cash flow (liquidity) problem when shifting to sprinkler irrigation. To make this investment feasible for farmers, longer repayment periods (of several years) should be implemented and interest rates kept low. Close collaboration between nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and regional milk buyers would best guarantee credit because farmers' repayments could simply be deducted from regular milk bills. Given their own interest in increasing local milk supply, these milk buyers are also good NGO partners in implementation of effective extension to improve fodder and herd management, in order to maximize the payoff of the sprinkler investment.
mounresedeve.36.2.222|The European Alps are well positioned to contribute significantly to the energy transition. In addition to sites with above-average potential for wind and solar power, the water towers of Europe provide flexible, low-carbon power generation as well as energy storage. In the future, hydropower systems are expected to become more than mere electricity generators, serving a key role as flexible complements to intermittent power generators and as providers of large-scale seasonal and daily energy storage. Energy transition on national and European scales can be facilitated by expanding the capacity of pumped storage hydropower (PSHP) plants. Yet the extension of hydropower production, in particular PSHP, remains controversial, primarily due to environmental concerns. Focusing on 2 Alpine countries, Austria and Switzerland, this paper provides a system view of hydropower production and energy storage in the Alps. It discusses advantages and drawbacks of various assessment tools and identifies gaps and needs for the integrated assessment of PSHP plants. It concludes that instruments that evaluate the impacts and sustainability of PSHP projects need to be developed, elaborated, and applied in a participatory manner, in order to promote public dialogue, increase social acceptance, and, ideally, encourage energy consumers to become advocates of a sustainable energy future.
10.2307/3673714|The highland valleys of Papua New Guinea contain substantial areas of steepland under dense human occupation. These steeplands are not severely afflicted by rill or gully erosion, but they are very liable to mass movement. The people using them have a range of cultivation systems that contain some elaborations directed specifically to slope management, but not of an order comparable with those of some other montane areas, nor have there been major changes within the past half century. Specific cases of recent slope failure, and their subsequent use history, are presented in some detail to assess the problems encountered. Discussion then focuses on a specific valley where it can be established that high density occupation has a history extending over several generations. In conclusion, plans for determining the sustainability of present cultivation on these slopes are outlined. /// Les valles des montagnes de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine comprennent des zones importantes de terres escarpes avec une haute densit de population. Ces terres escarpes ne sont gure exposes  l'rosion par rigolles ou par ravelines, mais par contre elles sont sujettes aux mouvements de masse. Les habitants utilisent plusieurs systmes de culture diffrents qui incorporent certaines mesures visant directement  stabiliser les pentes, mais pas dans une mesure comparable  d'autres rgions montagnardes. De plus, la situation n'a gure chang au cours des cinquante dernires annes. Cet article prsente en dtail un certain nombre d'exemples rcents de rupture de pente, et l'historique de leur utilisation ultrieure, et value les problmes recontrs. La discussion se limite ensuite  une valle particulire o il a t possible d'tablir que la haute densit de population remonte  plusieurs gnrations. En matire de conclusion, l'article prsente brivement des plans visant  dterminer la viabilit du mode de culture utilis  prsent sur ces pentes. /// In den Hochgebirgstlern von Paupa Neu-Guinea gibt es viele Steilhanggebiete, die dicht besiedelt sind. Diese Steilhnge zeigen kaum Rillen- oder Gullyerosion, sie sind aber gegen Erdverschliebungen anfllig. Die Bergbewohner haben zur Landnutzung verschiedene Kultivierungssysteme entwickelt, die besonders fr Steilhnge geeignet sind. Diese Systeme sind nicht mit denen anderer Berggegenden vergleichbar und haben sich in den vergangenen 50 Jahren kaum verndert. Einzelne Flle, bei denen Hnge in letzter Zeit nachgaben, und Einzelheiten der dazu gehrenden Nutzungsvorgeschichte werden aufgezeichnet, um die aufgetretenen Probleme zu beurteilen. Die Diskussion konzentriert sich dann auf ein bestimmtes Tal, fr das nachgewiesen werden kann, da dort eine hohe Bevlkerungsdichte ber mehrere Generationen hinweg bestand. Abschlieend werden Plne umrissen, wie die gegenwrtige Kultivierung von Steilhngen langfristig aufrechterhalten werden kann.
25164122| Forests perform a range of valuable environmental functions, such as sequenstering carbon, controlling erosion, and sheltering a diversity of species. Traditional cultures such as the Mori in Aotearoa/New Zealand (NZ) have long seen forests as a source of livelihood. Recent policy innovations in response to environmental issues like climate change are creating markets for environmental services, leading to new opportunities to earn livelihoods from forests. We worked with indigenous Mori landowners in a rural area of NZ to implement a "carbon farming" project-a management system that encourages reforestation and generates marketable offsets for greenhouse gas emissions under the Kyoto Protocol. Our experience in establishing a carbon sequestration project sheds light on the factors affecting uptake and project success for other groups seeking to utilize these markets as a tool for sustainable development. 
25164208|The Alps are one of the largest natural regions left in Europe and therefore of particular importance for biodiversity; but they are also home to 14 million people and one of the most visited areas in the world. This is not without impact on biodiversity. Habitat loss and fragmentation, climate change, changes in agricultural practices, and pollution are among the most important reasons for biodiversity loss and landscape destruction in the Alps. The creation of a functioning ecological network in the Alps can help to conserve extraordinarily rich alpine diversity. Two closely linked initiatives are working together to implement an ecological network: on the one hand the Ecological Continuum Project initiated in June 2007 by the Alpine Network of Protected Areas (ALPARC), the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), the International Scientific Committee on Research in the Alps (ISCAR), and the International Commission for the Protection of the Alps (CIPRA); on the other, the Ecological Network Platform of the Alpine Convention.
3674416|Land cover mapping obtained from photointerpretation of aerial photographs and orthophotographs was used to quantify land cover changes between 1957 and 1996 in a Mediterranean middle mountain area. Expansion of forested area is clearly the main land cover change caused by the abandonment of traditional agricultural activities and by the use of other materials and energy sources instead of forest resources. As a result, about 64% of the area was covered by forest by 1996, whereas in 1957 forests accounted for only 40% of the land cover. Spontaneous afforestation of abandoned fields with Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) in terraced areas and areas of sparse scrub vegetation, coupled with an increase in the density of forest canopies, has been responsible for this expansion of woodland. The influence of physiographic factors in land cover change processes in the terraced areas of the catchment was also considered. The results demonstrate that within the terraced areas, north-facing and more elevated steeper slopes are more intensely afforested. However, an accurate analysis of the role played by these factors in land cover change cannot be carried out because the pattern of land abandonment is not independent of these physiographic characteristics. Furthermore, field observations at the terrace scale are evidence of the relevant influence of local topography in afforestation dynamics.
3674070|Ningnan County, Sichuan Province, China, is a small, typical mountain county with an area of <tex-math>$1670\ km^{2}$</tex-math> and a population of 167,000. In the past 20 years, great achievements have been made in economic development in general and agricultural development in particular.
10.2307/3674253|A study of air photographs and satellite imagery of a Hani village (Mengsong) in southwestern Yunnan between 1965 and 1993 showed that swidden cultivation did not lead to permanent conversion of forest land to agriculture but rather a conversion of a fairly homogeneous secondary closed-canopy forest into a highly heterogeneous land cover of different stages of forest succession. An analysis showed a direct correlation between government policies on producing food from hilly lands and the destruction of forest cover. This analysis also showed that since the Household Responsibility System was introduced in late 1979, allowing farmers the right to decide where, what, and how much to plant, farmers have decreased the amount of land farmed and intensified their farming methods.
mounresedeve.33.4.477|Switzerland and Austria are committed to addressing sustainable mountain development in Europe through a joint effort. In June 2013, more than 140 researchers as well as representatives of the 2 countries' funding ministries participated in the Mountain Days event in Mittersill, Austria, thereby marking the official launch of the Swiss-Austrian Alliance. The resulting Mittersill Commitment Paper highlights 8 research areas and calls for international cooperation between mountain researchers, institutions, and governments.
mounresedeve.35.3.289|Governance collaborations between public and private partners are increasingly used to promote sustainable mountain development, yet information is limited on their nature and precise extent. This article analyzes collaboration on environment and natural resource management in Swedish mountain communities to critically assess the kinds of issues these efforts address, how they evolve, who leads them, and what functional patterns they exhibit based on Margerum's (2008) typology of action, organizational, and policy collaboration. Based on official documents, interviews, and the records of 245 collaborative projects, we explore the role of the state, how perceptions of policy failure may inspire collaboration, and the opportunities that European Union funds have created. Bottom-up collaborations, most of which are relatively recent, usually have an action and sometimes an organizational function. Top-down collaborations, however, are usually organizational or policy oriented. Our findings suggest that top-down and bottom-up collaborations are complementary in situations with considerable conflict over time and where public policies have partly failed, such as for nature protection and reindeer grazing. In less contested areas, such as rural development, improving tracks and access, recreation, and fishing, there is more bottom-up, action-oriented collaboration. State support, especially in the form of funding, is central to explaining the emergence of bottom-up action collaboration. Our findings show that the state both initiates and coordinates policy networks and retains a great deal of power over the nature and functioning of collaborative governance. A practical consequence is that there is great overlapaggravated by sectorized approachesthat creates a heavy workload for some regional partners.
10.2307/3673969|This paper reconsiders existing 'orthodox' definitions of forest degradation by looking at the changes in vegetation caused by swidden farming near three upland villages in Northern Thailand. It is argued that the common belief that swidden is a degrading land use, causing species loss, soil erosion, and water shortages, is highly simplistic. Instead, swidden should be evaluated in recognition of its great diversity in species encouraged; the economic uses of species; and the cultural needs and practices of different forest users. The case studies indicate that swiddens from Lawa and Karen ethnic groups may provide better land management and diversity than reforestation, largely because of the practice of using 'relict emergents'-or retaining trees in cleared ground. But a different swidden system in one Akha village led to species loss and less useful secondary regrowth. It is argued that environmental policy makers should acknowledge that many secondary forest formations in Thailand do not constitute degraded forest, and that defining degradation from the viewpoint of one ethnic group may avoid loss of potentially valuable forest uses defined by others. /// Cet expos rexamine les dfinitions "orthodoxes" actuelles de la dgradation des forts en tudiant les changements de vgtation occasionns par la pratique agricole de l'essartage prs de trois villages des hautes terres du nord de la Thalande. On affirme que la croyance universelle selon laquelle l'essartage est une mthode d'utilisation des terres entranant la dgradation de l'environnement, et en particulier, la disparition de certaines espces, l'rosion du sol et les pnuries d'eau, est extrmement simpliste. Au contraire, l'essartage devrait tre apprci en reconnaissance de son soutien apport  une grande diversit d'espces, de l'utilisation rationnelle des espces et des besoins et pratiques agricoles des diffrents utilisateurs de la fort. Les tudes de cas indiquent que l'essartage des groupes ethniques de Lawa et Karen pourrait peut-tre permettre une meilleure gestion et diversit des terres que la reforestation, en raison principalement de la pratique d'utilisation des "mergents reliques" ou de conservation des arbres sur les terres dfriches. Mais un systme d'essartage diffrent pratiqu dans un village de l'Akha a entran des disparitions d'espces et une repousse secondaire moins utile. On maintient que les responsables de la politique de l'environnement devraient reconnatre que beaucoup de formations secondaires de forts en Thalande ne sont pas des forts dgrades et que dfinir la dgradation du point de vue d'un groupe ethnique pourrait peut-tre viter qu'une utilisation potentiellement prcieuse des forts ne soit dfinie par d'autres. /// Der vorliegende Text befat sich kritisch mit bestehenden "orthodoxen" Definitionen der Degradation des Waldes, indem die Vernderungen der Vegetation betrachtet werden, die durch den Schwendbau in der Nhe dreier Hochlanddrfer in Nordthailand verursacht werden. Es wird die Behauptung aufgestellt, da die landlufige Meinung, da Schwendbau eine degradietende Landnutzung ist, die eine Verringerung der Artenvielfalt, Bodenerosion und Wasserknappheit nach sich zieht, allzu vereinfachend ist. Stattdessen sollte erkannt werden, da Schwendbau eine groe Artenvielfalt und deren wirtschaftliche Nutzung frdert und die kulturellen Bedrfnisse und Praktiken unterschiedlicher Waldnutzer bercksichtigt. Die Fallstudien zeigen, da Schwendbau der Lawa- und Karen-Bevlkerungsgruppen eine bessere Landbewirtschaftung und Artenvielfalt erbring als eine Aufforstung, vor allem auf Grund der Verwendung von berhlter-oder der Erhaltung von Bumen auf entwaldetem Boden. Ein anderes Schwendbau-System in einem Akha-Dorf fhrte jedoch zu einer Verringerung der Artenvielfalt und einem Nachwachsen weniger ntzlicher Arten. Es wird die Behauptung aufgestellt, da Umweltpolitiker anerkennen sollten, da viele Sekundrwaldgebiete in Thailand nicht aus degradiertem Wald bestehen und da eine Definition der Degradation aus dem Blickwinkel einer ethnischen Gruppe dazu fhren kann, da eine potentiell wertvolle, von anderen Parteien festgelegte Waldnutzung unterbleibt.
25164031|This paper highlights the scarcity of arable cropland in the hills and mountains of the Himalayan region. This is one of the factors leading to food insecurity and poverty. Technological interventions were applied in some areas to increase the amount of land available by making productive use of marginal areas. This has been supported by strong political commitment which facilitates a favorable policy environment for investment in technological research, enterprise, and infrastructure development. These experiences indicate a new thinking which advocates research into 'niche based' sustainable production systems on marginal lands as part of the solution to cropland scarcity. Better management of marginal land and improved livelihoods may result.
mounresedeve.36.3.299|Land use and land cover (LULC) changes that occurred during 19922011 in Sagarmatha National Park, a United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization World Heritage Site in the Himalayas of eastern Nepal, were evaluated using multitemporal satellite imagery in combination with land use data and sociological information gathered from semistructured interviews and workshops. We asked study participants about LULC changes, the causes of each change, and the likely duration of its effects, and used this information to produce high-resolution maps of local perceptions of LULC change. Satellite image analysis revealed that above 6000 m there has been a decrease in the area covered by snow and ice and a consequent expansion of glacial lakes and areas covered by rock and soil. Between 3000 and 6000 m, forest and farmland are decreasing, and areas under grazing, settlement, and shrubland are increasing. Such LULC changes within the protected area clearly indicate the prevailing danger of land degradation. Results from the interviews and workshops suggest that people tended to detect LULC change that was acute and direct, but were less aware of slower changes that could be identified by satellite imagery analysis. Most study participants said that land use changes were a result of rapid economic development and the consequent pressure on natural resources, especially in the tourism industry and especially below 6000 m elevation, as well as limitations to protected area management and a period of civil war. Human influence coupled with climate change may explain the changes at higher elevations, whereas anthropogenic activities are solely responsible in lower areas. Although global factors cannot be mitigated locally, many of the local drivers of LULC change could be addressed with improved management practices that aid local conservation and development in this high mountain ecosystem. A broader interdisciplinary approach to LULC change should include a mix of satellite image analysis and local observations.
25164096|Oaxaca is not just a political unit but a land of diverse traditions and languages, characterized by a difficult landscape with 3 major mountain ranges and a history of colonization and exploitation. These components make Oaxaca a special place in Mexico, where diversity constitutes a form of wealth that contrasts with the conditions of poverty and marginality in which its population lives. Today Oaxaca is considered the second poorest state in Mexico. Economic hardship and social inequality are important factors that trigger migration. Oaxaca has a long tradition of outmigration dating back to the early 1900s. But outmigration has increased so dramatically in recent decades that almost half of the Oaxacan population have become permanent or temporary residents of the Mexico City metropolitan area, the northern states of Mexico, or the United States. The present article describes the experience of an Oaxacan coffee producers' organization and its members' efforts to offer alternatives to outmigration and improve their livelihoods in their mountain environment and move towards greater gender equality.
25164129|Plant diversity, water, and soil conservation of man-made versus natural forests in Mouding (2524'09" N, 10128'18" E), mid-Yunnan, were investigated and analyzed. Various plant communities exist in this mountainous region: 4-year-old shrubland, a 10- to 14-year-old plantation of Eucalyptus smithii, a 35- to 45-year-old plantation of Pinus yunnanensis, a 35- to 45-year-old semi-natural forest of Keteleeria evelyniana and Pinus yunnanensis, a 35- to 55-year-old natural secondary forest of Keteleeria evelyniana and Cyclobalanopsis glaucoides, and a climax forest of Cyclobalanopsis glaucoides, Castanopsis orthacantha and Castanopsis delavayi as the original mid-subtropical, semi-moist, evergreen broad-leaved trees in the region. The species diversity and the regenerative quality were poorest under the Eucalyptus forest. The Pinus forest had the lowest interception and stemflow (26.4%) of rainfall, followed by the Eucalyptus forest (29.5%). The leaching loss of nutrients was greater in the two planted forests than in the natural ones. The soil under the Eucalyptus forest was impoverished and showed deterioration of its chemical characteristics, as compared to the shrubland, semi-natural, natural, secondary, and climax forests in the same area.
3674074|Regional development in mountain areas and the impact of development on landscapes have been focuses of economic and regional policies in Austria for many decades due to the country's very mountainous topography. A special Support Program for Mountain Farmers was established in the early 1970s. Since the late 1970s, support for regional economies has been defined from a bottom-up perspective. Meanwhile, measures designed in accordance with agricultural and regional policies have become an important component of Austria's mountain policy, with significant implications for sustainable regional development. Assessment of mountain agriculture in Austria has been carried out with particular attention to ways and means of supporting the agricultural sector and to measures aiming to preserve and manage land resources sustainably under the difficult production conditions in mountains. At the core of mountain policy is the valuation of nonmarketable goods, which are increasingly referred to as "rural amenities" in international discourse (Figure 1). Such valuation must be included in comprehensive policy assessments of sustainable development. Emphasis on the character of mountain areas with respect to potential local and regional amenities has made it possible to enhance small-scale development initiatives at the local level. Sustainable resource use in peripheral mountain regions largely depends on the possible development potential of amenities in regional concepts, on nurturing the endogenous potential of the local population, and on inducing appropriate initiatives for balanced development of cultural landscapes and rural society.
10.2307/3673852|The distribution of Polylepis forest on the flanks of Sajama Volcano in the Western Cordillera of Bolivia was determined using remote-sensing and GIS methods. Based on a digital elevation model, computer simulated solar irradiance, and LANDSAT-MSS data, the meso-scale distribution and vitality of Polylepis tarapacana shrubs were analyzed; the results are supported by climatic and microclimatic measurements taken in the forest habitats. The spatial distribution pattern of the forests is strongly coincident with the daily variation in soil temperatures in the root zone. On north-facing slopes that receive adequate solar irradiance, soil temperatures are high while relative atmospheric humidity is low. On south-facing slopes soils are frozen when atmospheric water content is low. /// La rpartition de la fort de Polylepis sur les versants du volcan Sajama, dans la Cordillre est de la Bolivie, a t dtermine  l'aide de techniques de tldtection et du Systme d'Information Gographique. En se servant d'un modle numrique d'altitude, d'une simulation informatique du rayonnement solaire et des donnes LANDSAT-MSS, on a pu analyser la rpartition  l'chelle moyenne et la vitalit des arbrisseaux de Polylepis tarapacana; les rsultats sont soutenus par des mesures climatiques et micro-climatiques effectues dans les habitats forestiers. La rpartition spatiale des forts correspond fortement  la variation quotidienne de la temprature du sol dans la rhizosphre. Sur les versants orients vers le Nord o l'ensoleillement est suffisant, la temprature du sol est leve, alors que l'humidit relative de l'atmosphre est basse. Sur les versant orients vers le Sud, les sols sont gels lorsque la teneur en eau de l'atmosphre est basse. /// Am Beispiel der Polylepis-Gehlze am Vulkan Sajama in der Westkordillere Boliviens werden GIS- und fernerkundungsgesttzte Methoden zur Analyse der Vegetationsverbreitung vorgestellt. Auf der Grundlage eines digitalen Hhenmodells, Einstrahlungsmodellen und LANDSAT-MSS-Daten werden die mesoskaligen Verbreitungsmuster und die rumlich differenzierte Vitalitt von Polylepis tarapacana-Bestnden untersucht. Die Befunde der rechnergesttzten Verbreitungsanalyse werden durch klimatische Messungen ergnzt. Die mesoskalige Verbreitung der Polylepis-Gehlze am Vulkan Sajama zeigt eine deutliche Abhngigkeit von den tglichen Schwankungen der Bodentemperaturen. An den einstrahlungsbegnstigten nordexponierten Standorten wurden zur Zeit geringer relativer Feuchte der Luft hohe Bodentemperaturen gemessen. An den strahlungsbenachteiligten, sdexponierten Standorten trat zum Zeitpunkt eines hohen Sttigungsdefizites der Luft Bodenfrost auf. /// Mediante el uso de sensores remotos y SIG, fue determinada la distribucin de los bosque de Polylepis en las laderas del Volcn Sajama, Cordillera Occidental de los Andes. Se analiz la distribucin y vitalidad de los bosquecillos de Polylepis tarapacana utilizando modelos digitales por elevacin, insolacin solar simulada, e informacin LANDSAT-MSS. Los resultados se encuentran sustentados adems por mediciones climticas y microclimticas realizadas en el terreno. Se observa que la distribucin espacial de los bosques coincide con la variacin diaria de la temperatura del suelo a nivel de raz. En las laderas norte, que reciben una adecuada insolacin, la temperatura del suelo es alta, mientras que la humedad relativa de la atmsfera es baja. En las laderas sur, por el contrario, los suelos se encuentran congelados y la humedad relativa de la atmsfera se mantiene baja.
10.2307/3673945|This paper addresses the net radiation balance as it is affected by high elevation, topography, and variable surface materials and surface conditions in the Annapurna region of central Nepal. Emphasis is given to shortwave radiation components. Heat flux data were collected during the pre-monsoon period at four sites north of Annapurna Himal at elevations of 4,170; 5,019; 5,200; and 5,526 m. Results from this and other investigations of radiation in the Himalaya confirm remarkably consistent high transmissivities with low atmospheric turbidities. Seasonal cloudiness, elevation, and solar position appear to be the primary cause of changing global radiation in the region. Beam/diffuse ratios, in addition to expected cloud effects, are strongly influenced by slope, aspect, and surface material. For example, wall-originated diffuse radiation represented 15% of total global radiation at the 5,019 m Tilicho Lake site. Changes of local weather at Tilicho Lake, accompanied by snow flurries and subsequent snow melts, resulted in constantly changing albedos and highly variable longwave and net radiation values throughout most days. /// Cet article traite des effets sur le bilan rayonnement net de la haute altitude, de la topographie et des variations des matriaux et des conditions de surface dans la rgion de l'Annapurna au Npal central. L'accent est mis sur les composantes  ondes courtes du rayonnement. Des donnes de flux thermique ont t collectes au cours de la priode prcdant la mousson sur quatre sites au nord de l'Annapurna Himal, aux altitudes de 4 170, 5 019, 5 200 et 5 526 mtres. Les rsultats de cette tude et d'autres tudes du rayonnement dans l'Himalaya confirment la corrlation remarquable entre les hautes transmissivits et les bas troubles atmosphriques. La couverture nuageuse saisonnire, l'altitude et la position du soleil semblent constituer la cause principale des variations du rayonnement global dans la rgion. Les rapports direct/diffus, en plus des effets prvus de la couverture nuageuse, sont fortement influencs par la pente, l'exposition et les matriaux de surface. Le rayonnement diffus en provenance des murs, par exemple, reprsentait 15% du rayonnement global total au Lac Tilicho  5 019 mtres. Les variations du temps local au Lac Tilicho, accompagnes d'averses de neige et des fontes nivales subsquentes, ont entran des albdos  changement constant et des valeurs trs variables du rayonnement  ondes courtes et du rayonnement net presque tous les jours. /// Dieser Artikel untersucht den Einfluss von grosser Hhenlage, Topographie und verschiedener Beschaffenheit der Erdoberflche auf die Gesamtstrahlungsbilanz in der Annapurna Region von Zentral-Nepal unter besonderer Bercksichtigung von Kurzwellenstrahlungskomponenten. Vor Beginn des Monsuns wurden Messungen zu Wrmeschwankungen an vier verschiedenen Stellen und zwar auf 4.170, 5.019, 5.200 und 5.526 m Hhe nrdlich des Annapurna Himals durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse dieser und anderer Untersuchungen ber Strahlung in den Himalajas besttigen eine bemerkenswerte Konsistenz von hoher Einstrahlungsfhigkeit bei geringer atmosphrischer Eintrbung. Saisonale Bewlkung, Meereshhe und Sonnenposition scheinen der Hauptgrund fr eine Vernderung in der Kurzwellenstrahlung in dieser Region zu sein. Das Verhltnis von gebndelter zu diffuser Strahlung sowie die zu erwartenden Auswirkungen von Bewlkung werden stark von Hangneigung, Sonnenexposition und Erdoberflchenmaterial beeinflut. So stellte zum Beispiel diffuse Rckstrahlung von Bergwnden 15% der gesamten globalen Strahlung am 5.019 m hochgelegenen Tilichosee dar. rtlich begrenzter Wetterwechsel am Tilichosee begleitet von leichtem Schneefall und nachfolgender Schneeschmelze fhrten zu einer stndig wechselnden Albedo und stark variablen Langwellen -und Gesamtstrahlungswerten an den meisten Tagen.
mounresedeve.36.4.452|This study explored the effects of landscape change on the provision of ecosystem services in a mountain area in northern Portugal, in particular the trade-offs and synergies between services in 2 categories: provisioning and regulating. Services were assessed for 1990 and 2006 and projected for 2020 under 3 scenarios, both biophysically and economically, based on modeling and published and unpublished statistics. We found that landscape changes in the 16-year period under study increased the total supply of ecosystem services, measured both biophysically and monetarily, but that agriculture production dropped dramatically. Both regulating and provisioning services increased in value, but only regulating services increased in biophysical units. Projections under 2 of our 3 scenarios indicated that both types of ecosystem services will continue to increase in both amount and monetary value and will function in synergy, whereas the third scenario predicted a decrease in services and trade-offs between the 2 categories. Because land use has a major impact on ecosystem service supply, an understanding of the changes and trade-offs described in this article can support planning and management, in particular in mountain areas and other regions with limited alternatives for income generation. Our findings suggest that regional development plans should include incentives to maximize regulating and provisioning ecosystem services.
10.2307/3673605|This paper presents an overview of the evolution of the Huesca landscape with emphasis on stockbreeding activities from Paleolithic times until the present. A generalized account of changes before A.D. 1800 traces the development of the population from hunters and gatherers to stockbreeders and cultivators. After 1800, population increased and the potato and crop rotation were introduced. By the twentieth century the impacts of outmigration, new technologies, and urbanization heralded the greatest landscape changes. /// Cet article prsente une vue d'ensemble de l'volution du paysage de Huesca, en particulier l'levage du btail de la priode palolithique jusqu' nos jours. Un compte-rendu gnral des changements que se sont produits avant 1800 ap. J.-C. suit l'volution de la population, depuis les chasseurs et cueilleurs jusqu'aux leveurs et cultivateurs. Aprs 1800, la population a augment et la culture de la pomme de terre ainsi que la rotation des cultures ont t introduites. Au vingtime sicle, les impacts de l'migration, des nouvelles technologies et de l'urbanisation ont provoqu les plus grands changements de paysage. /// Dieser Artikel gibt fr das Huesca Gebiet einen berblick ber die Entwicklungen bezglich der Viehzucht fr den Zeitraum von der Steinzeit bis zur Gegenwart. Eine verallgemeinernde Darstellung der Vernderungen vor 1800 A.D. verfolgt den Wandel der Bevlkerung von Jgern und Sammlern zu Viehzchtern and Landwirten. Nach 1800 stieg die Bevlkerungszahl, und als Folge wurden Kartoffelanbau sowie Wechselwirtschaft eingefhrt. Das 20. Jahrhundert brachte dann die einschneidensten Landschaftsvernderungen als Folge von Abwanderung, neuen Technologien and Urbanisierung. /// Se expone revisivamente la evolucin del paisaje norte de la provincia de Huesca, en el que incidi principalmente, la actividad ganadera desde el Paleoltico hasta la actualidad. Un relato general se refiere a los cambios ocurridos desde 1.800 a. de C., en que aparecen huellas del desarrollo de una poblacin de cazadores y recolectores y ms tarde ganaderos y labradores. Despus de 1.800, la poblacin increment y se introdujo el cultivo de la patata y la rotacin de cultivos. Durante el presente s. XX, los impactos emigratorios, las nuevas tecnologias y la urbanizacin rigieron en buena medida, los cambios del paisaje.
mounresedeve.32.4.400|Is the increasing interest in landscape at a European level translated to a local level? How is it perceived and mobilized by local actors? Are there lessons to be learned from empirical case studies? To increase our understanding of these issues, an analysis was carried out by using the theoretical framework of the sociology of translation on 8 landscapebased initiatives in an Italian Alpine valley. The initiatives aimed, either explicitly or implicitly, at enhancing the mountainous landscapes in a move toward more sustainable development. The sociology of translation conceives the implementation of an innovation as an attempt to build a working network between human and nonhuman entities such as landscape. Our analysis shows how dynamically different actors can interact with landscape in a rural mountain context. In quite similar places (ie sharing the same problems, rural history, and goals), the same resources were used in different ways by the different initiatives. The outcomes depend on the ability of the promoters of the initiatives to build networks with different actors, in some cases far beyond the valley or province's borders, around new concepts of landscape. Moreover, an adequate organizational framework that fosters bottom-up approaches can support successful implementation of local landscape projects. Active, two-way communication is also crucial to move from a local to a participative project and thus mobilize allies for sustainable landscape planning and management. Overall, the research provides insights into how such landscape initiatives can be better implemented and effectively contribute toward the European Landscape Convention.
mounresedeve.30.2.103|We used participatory scenario planning to support strategic-level analysis by stakeholders in tourism and park management issues in Sagarmatha National Park, Nepal. Authority and responsibility for protected area management in Nepal are gradually being devolved to local communities. Tourism growth and globalization are strengthening the links between social-ecological change in mountain protected areas and drivers of change at national, regional, and global scales. Park management needs to become forward looking, and local communities need to increase their grasp of potential long-term changes and associated uncertainty. Scenario planning is a tool for dealing with long-term uncertainty and complexity and for guiding adaptive management. We developed scenarios together with representatives of the tourism industry, park comanagement institutions, and communities. Stakeholders described their understanding of the social-ecological system of the park. They formulated and tested 4 scenarios of system change, based on plausible changes in governance systems and the role of outside tourism industry actors. Stakeholders can use scenarios to reflect on the inherent uncertainty of long-term change, to address potentially conflictual issues by exploring multiple perspectives, and to assess the need to negotiate strategic goals and long-term visions for the park.
mounresedeve.32.4.480|Mountains are hotspots of climate and land use change. The Hindu KushHimalayan (HKH) region features some of the world's most vulnerable ecosystems and is highly susceptible to climate change. Both climate change and land use transition in the HKH region have impacts on human health. A warming trend is driving the geographical expansion of disease outbreaks, whereas ecological changes and economic inequalities influence the spread of diseases. Altered distributions of vector species are early signs of climate change, and pests, pathogens, and parasites are among the first scourges to emerge during periods of transition. The distribution and seasonal transmission of vector-borne infections among humans may be affected by climate change. Information on the impacts of such changes on human health in the region is scanty. This article reviews literature on the impacts of climate change and land use transition on human health in the HKH region, specifically dealing with topics such as the relationship between climate change and health; health sensitivity, vulnerability, and adaptation; health determinants related to climate change; temperature extremes and health issues; air pollution, black carbon, and health; food security, nutrition, and health; land use change and infectious diseases; and population migration and livelihood transition. The article outlines an agenda for future research on climate change and human health for the HKH region.
10.2307/3673112|The southern Cordillera shows less environmental degradation than areas farther north. The primary reason for this is the much lower human density of this region in historical times. Consequently, there is a better chance that the environmental problems can be addressed and solved with minimum social disruption, and without undue economic effort. The populations of Argentina and Chile show the highest level of socio-economic development in Latin America. There are no serious food shortages in the region. They also have the lowest demographic increase in South America. Unfortunately, the regional indices indicate lower values for the mountain regions, suggesting that they are less well developed than the respective countries as a whole. The major environmental constraint on development of the Southern Andes is water. Furthermore, the use of water, soil, vegetation, and fauna, in disregard of rational management techniques and without adequate scientific knowledge, appears to have decreased the carrying capacity of the land and, directly or indirectly, to have led to lower living standards for the indigenous population. /// La dgradation de l'environnement est moindre dans la cordillre sud que dans les rgions situes plus au nord. La raison principale en est que la concentration dmographique a toujours t beaucoup plus faible. De ce fait, il est plus probable que les problmes de l'environnement peuvent y tre abords et rsolus avec un minimum de troubles sociaux, et sans contraintes conomiques excessives. Les populations de l'Argentine et du Chili jouissent du niveau de dveloppement socio-conomique le plus lev de l'amrique latine. Les rationnements srieux de denres alimentaires n'existent pas dans cette rgion. De plus, la croissance dmographique est la plus faible de l'amrique du sud. Nanmoins, les indices rgionaux indiquent une valeur moindre pour les rgions montagneuses, ce qui suggre qu'elles sont bien moins dveloppes que l'ensemble des pays respectifs. Du point de vue de l'environnement, l'eau constitue la contrainte majeure en ce qui concerne le dveloppement des Andes mridionales. D'un autre ct, les modes actuels d'exploitation de l'eau, du sol, de la vgtation, et de la faune, ignorent les techniques de gestion rationnele et ne sont bass sur aucune connaissance scientifique valide. En consquence, ces modes semblent avoir diminu le patrimoine vital des terres et, directement ou indirectement, d'avoir abaiss le niveau de vie de la population indigne. /// Die Umweltverschlechterung im sdlichen Teil der Kordilleren ist geringer als in Gebieten weiter nrdlich. Der Hauptgrund dafr liegt in der schon zu historischen Zeiten niedrigen Bevlkerungsdichte. Hier ergibt sich die Mglichkeit, Umweltprobleme mit minimaler sozialer Strung und ohne bermige wirtschaftliche Anstrengung anzupacken und zu lsen. In Lateinamerika zeigt die Bevlkerung Argentiniens und Chiles den hchsten Grad sozio-konomischer Entwicklung. In diesen Lndern gibt es keinen ernsthaften Nahrungsmangel. Beide Lnder haben die kleinste Bevlkerungszuwachsrate von ganz Sdamerika. Unter regionalen Aspekten haben die Berggegenden eine niedrige Wertzumessung, was die Annahme zult, da diese Regionen weniger entwickelt sind als die jeweiligen Lnder als ganzes. Wasser ist die Hauptbeschrnkung, die die Umwelt der Entwicklung der sdlichen Anden auferlegt. Auerdem scheint es, da die Nutzung von Wasser, Boden, Vegetation und Fauna unter Miachtung rationaler Managementmethoden und ohne fundierte wissenschaftliche Kenntnisse erfolgt, wodurch die Tragfhigkeit des Landes herabgesetzt wird, was direkt oder indirekt zu einem niedrigeren Lebensstandard der einheimischen Bevlkerung fhrt. /// La regin de las Cordilleras del Sur muestra menos degradacin ambiental que las regiones de ms al norte. La razn principal de este estado de cosas es la menor densidad humana de la regin en tiempos histricos. Consecuentemente existe la posibilidad de que los problemas ambientales puedan ser resueltos sin mayor costo social, y sin grandes esfuerzos econmicos. La poblacin de Argentina y Chile tienen el mayor desarrollo socio-econmico de ningn pas en Latno-America. No hay graves problemas de falta de alimentos en la regin. La poblacin muestra tambin el menor crecimiento demogrfico de Sud-America. Desafortunadamente los indices regionales muestran valores ms bajos para la regin de las montaas indicando que estas zonas estn menos desarrolladas que sus respectivos pases. El problema mayor en trminos de desarrollo en la regin es la falta de agua. El uso de agua, suelo, vegetacin, y fauna, en forma irracional sin tomar en cuenta patrones tcnicos y cientficos, ha resultado en una baja de la capacidad de carga de la tierra, e indirectamente ha resultado en un decrecimiento del nivel de vida de la poblacin.
3674536|Analysis of seasonal water discharge and sediment load data for major tributaries of the Upper Yangtze indicates significant changes from 1957 to 1987. Discrimination between land use-induced and climatic variation-induced changes was attempted using the systematic shift in the seasonal sediment load relative to the seasonal water flow. Available evidence suggests that most of these changes were caused by human activities such as deforestation, water use, and construction of reservoirs rather than by decadal climatic variations. The changes identified in water flow and sediment flux in both wet and dry seasons for some tributaries had significant implications with respect to flooding and water shortages.
3674290|Many physical similarities exist between the European Alps and the Southern Alps of New Zealand. This may be the reason why European settlers (re)named Ka Tiritiri o te Moana-the Maori name for the long stretch of alpine country that crosses Te Wahi Pounamu or the South Island from southwest to northeast- the Southern Alps. But both major mountain ranges have very different landscape histories and cultural heritages: a centuries-old history at the heart of the densely populated European Continent and a rich adaptation of Polynesian and European cultures on an island (fairly) recently settled and sparsely populated. This paper compares 5 representative landscape types in New Zealand and Switzerland from a geographer's viewpoint, briefly discussing physical and cultural similarities and differences. The area selected for presentation in each case covers a square of approximately <tex-math>$100\ km^{2}$</tex-math>.
mounresedeve.34.2.157|This study analyzed the ecological factors influencing soil degradation in the Atacora Mountains in northern Benin, which harbor two endemic species, Thunbergia atacorensis and Ipomoea beninensis. Data were collected along line transects from plain to summit within 22 plots of 30 m  30 m. Indicators of physical soil degradation (extent of organic layer, color of topsoil, compactness of soil, presence and extent of rills, and occurrence of sheet erosion) and environmental factors (canopy and ground cover, topography, occurrence of flooding, and slope) were assessed. Cluster analysis identified 4 soil degradation classes: light, moderate, high, and extreme. Discriminant and multivariate variance analyses identified canopy and ground cover as the 2 main ecological drivers of soil degradation. Plant, litter, and stone cover were found to decrease as soil degradation increased. The parts of the Atacora Mountains with high elevation and steep slope were found to be less degraded than areas with low slopes, which are easily accessible for human activities. Policies to mitigate soil degradation should prioritize practices with low impact on vegetation cover and promote soil protection practices such as tree planting and mulching.
mounresedeve.31.3.261|The occurrence of areas or centers of endemism is commonly attributed to the existence of suitable refugia in which plant lineages survived while others evolved during the late Neogene and Quaternary global cooling. In China, several studies performed since the 1980s have identified the mountains of central and southern China as the main centers of endemism in the country. A recent work studied the patterns of endemism separately for palaeoendemics and neoendemics and found that these tend to be located in different mountain ranges. Whereas, young endemics are preferably located in the mountain ranges of the eastern fringe of the Tibetan Plateau (plant cradles), old endemics tend to occur in the mountains of central, south central, and southeastern China (plant museums), although there are some exceptions. This pattern seems to be related to the different geological history of the mountain ranges. The eastern fringe of the Tibetan Plateau clearly constitutes the evolutionary front of China, probably due to the uninterrupted uplift of the plateau fromthe late Neogene. In contrast, the relative tectonic stability in central and southern China during most of the Tertiary may have maximized the persistence of relict plant lineages. These results have significant implications in the conservation of the endemic flora, which are briefly discussed.
mounresedeve.30.1.14|We investigated local people's perceptions, knowledge, and attitudes toward conservation planning and management in Chitral Gol National Park in North West Frontier Province (NWFP) of Pakistan. A literature review was undertaken to unravel the historic drivers behind the formation of this protected area. Key informant interviews and questionnaire surveys were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of current governance approaches adopted by the park management authorities. Community-based questionnaire surveys and key-informant interviews focused on local communities' knowledge and awareness of the objectives of the park, people's role in decision-making, social characteristics, and resource use structures. The information from these surveys was evaluated within the context of good governance and sustainability of park management. Results show a lack of awareness and a low level of participation in protected area management, but a high degree of willingness in the communities to participate in conservation activities. An analysis of the survey data suggests that the park authorities enforce strict protection measures within the park, but this approach lacks a strong vision of sustainability. The surveys reveal that the local people have a very strong sense of belonging to the place and are willing to contribute to the protection of the PA. A large majority of the respondents rely on electronic media as their main source of information, which could potentially form the best medium for conservation campaigning in the region. With these findings in mind, we propose changes to the current governance model for effective and sustainable management of the park in the future.
10.2307/3673572|The fragile resource base of hill and mountain regions in Latin America is increasingly overused and abused, leading to land degradation from soil erosion. However, soil conservation projects directed toward this problem have often been based on the indiscriminate application of technologies that do not take into account variations in the biophysical conditions of the specific region. The hypothesis of this study is that the systematic and full use of available data, and the generation of appropriate complementary information, can lead to better project design. As an example, available climatic, slope, and soil data for twelve locations in Highland Ecuador are reviewed. Supplemented by field visits, the data are used to generate a preliminary "decision tree" designed to assist the practitioner in the choice of more appropriate conservation techniques (e.g., microrelief, bench terraces, biological barriers, or drainage ditches). Although the present study focuses primarily on biophysical parameters, it is also suggested that a thorough and concurrent understanding of social, economic, and institutional factors is needed in order to advance the starting point for project implementation, while facilitating later project modification and refinement. /// La base fragile des ressources dans les rgions de collines et de montagnes en Amrique latine est de plus en plus surutilise et abuse, entranant une dgradation des terres par suite de l'rosion du sol. Nanmoins, les projets de conservation du sol s'adressant  ce problme sont souvent bass sur l'application inconsidre de techniques qui ne tiennent pas compte des variations des conditions biophysiques de la rgion considre. L'hypothse de cette tude est que l'utilisation systmatique et complte des donnes disponibles et l'obtention d'informations complmentaires appropries peut mener  une meilleure conception des projets. A titre d'exemple, les donnes sur les climats, les pentes et les sols de 12 sites dans les rgions montagneuses de l'Equateur sont passes en revue. Les donnes, soutenues par des tudes sur le terrain, sont utilises pour engendrer un "arbre de dcision" prliminaire visant  aider le chercheur  slectionner les techniques de conservation les mieux appropries  la situation (par exemple, micro-relief, terrasses en banquette, barrires biologiques ou fosss de drainage). Bien que la prsente tude se concentre principalement sur les paramtres biophysiques, elle suggre nanmoins qu'une comprhension complte et parallle des facteurs sociaux, conomiques et institutionnels est ncessaire afin d'avancer la date d'implementation d'un projet tout en facilitant la modification et le reaffinement ultrieurs de celui-ci. /// Die fragile Ressourcenbasis der Vorgebirgs- und Gebirgsregionen in Latein Amerika wird zunehmend berbeansprucht und ausgebeutet, was besonders zur Landverschlechterung durch Bodenerosion beitrgt. Erhaltungsbemhungen, die sich diesem Problem widmen, grnden sich jedoch oftmals auf der unberlegten Anwendung von Technologien, die Unterschiede in den biophysikalischen Gegebenheiten eines bestimmten Gebietes unbercksichtigt lassen. Diese Studie schlgt vor, da die systematische und volle Anwendung aller verfgbaren Daten und die Erstellung von spezifisch-ergnzenden Informationen als Wegweiser fr einen besseren Projektentwurf dienen. In einem Beispiel werden alle verfgbaren Klima-, Hang- und Bodendaten von 12 Orten im Hochland von Ecuador berprft. Untersttzt durch Vorort-Arbeiten, werden diese Daten benutzt, um eine erste "Entscheidungspyramide" zu entwickeln, die dem Praktiker bei der Wahl einer best-geeigneten Erhaltungsmethode (z.B., Mikrorelief, Terrassen, biologische Schranken oder Entwsserungsgrben) helfen soll. Obwohl sich die derzeitige Untersuchung in der Hauptsache auf die biophysikalische Parameter konzentriert, wird betont, da ein grndliches und abgestimmentes Verstndnis der sozialen, konomischen und institutionellen Faktoren zustzlich notwendig ist, um am Anfang die Projektdurchfhrung zu beschleunigen, wobei dann noch spter nderungen und Verbesserungen am Projekt mglich sein sollten.
3674529|Water scarcity is a major issue in rural watersheds in the Middle Mountains of Nepal and in the entire Hindu Kush-Himalaya region. Dense population and heavy dependence on irrigated agriculture place immense pressure on available water resources, which have a distinct seasonality. New forms of management based on traditional and scientific knowledge must be introduced to solve problems of water supply, water demand, and water quality in these watersheds.
10.2307/3673394|The Afroalpine and subalpine environments (Hagenia Woodland and Bamboo Forest belts) are continually affected by the movements of large animals such as elephant (Loxodonta africana), buffalo (Syncerus caffer caffer), small animals such as hyrax (Procavia johnstoni mackinderi), groove-toothed rat (Otomys orestes orestes), and man. Elephant and buffalo herds and colonies of hyrax and groove-toothed rats range over most of the mountain, whereas human activities tend to be limited primarily to the western approaches and particularly the Teleki Valley and the Sirimon Track. In this paper some of the pristine landforms and soils are described and assessed, and current activities which threaten the environment are discussed and evaluated. Aside from minor amounts of littering and heavy use of wood for fires, the most important impact comes from the foot traffic of tourists and climbers, and the continual pressure placed on herds of large animals by an expanding human population. In an Appendix observations on vegetation cropping by the hyrax and groove-toothed rat are reported. These animals preferred grass and sedge species and the loss of plant cover may affect various geomorphological processes. /// Les environments afroalpin et subalpin (ceintures de forts d'Hagenia et forts de bambou) sont continuellement affects par les dplacements de gros animaux tels que l'lphant (Loxodonta africana) et le buffle (Syncerus caffer caffer), de petits animaux tels que le daman (Procavia johnstoni mackinderi) et le rat  dentition strie (Otomys orestes orestes), et des humains. Les troupeaux d'lphants, les bandes de buffles, et les colonies de damans et de rats se dplacent presque partout alors que les activits humaines sont restreintes aux voies d'accs ouest, en particulier la valle de Teleki et la piste Sirimon. Cet article identifie et dcrit un certain nombre de configurations et de sols primitifs, et examine et value les activits humaines qui menacent l'environnement. A part des problmes mineurs de dcharge d'ordures et une consommation excessive de bois pour usages domestiques, l'impact le plus important provient du passage rpt des touristes et des alpinistes, ainsi que la pression continuelle exerce par la population humaine sans cesse croissante sur les troupeaux d'animaux de grande taille. Des observations sont fournies en annexe sur le broutement de la vgtation par les damans et les rats  dentition strie. Ces petits animaux prfrent les espces d'herbes et de laches, et la rduction de la couverture vgtale peut affecter diffrents processus gomorphologiques. /// Die afroalpinen und subalpinen Umgebungen (Hagenia Waldungen und Bambuswaldgrtel) werden stndig durch Wanderungen von Grotieren wie Elefanten (Loxodonta africana), Bffel (Syncerus caffer caffer) und Kleintieren wie Klippschliefer (Procavia johnstoni mackinderi), Kerbzahnratte (Otomys orestes orestes) und durch den Menschen beeinflut. Elefanten- und Bffelherden, Klippschliefer- und Rattenscharen durchstreifen fast das gesamte Berggebiet, whrend sich die menschlichen Aktivitten hauptschlich auf die Westseite und besonders auf das Teleki Tal und die Sirimon Route beschrnken. In dieser Verffentlichung werden einige ursprngliche Landschaftsarten und Bden beschrieben und beurteilt; es werden gegenwrtige, umweltschdigende Aktivitten diskutiert und bewertet. Die grte Belastung, abgesehen von geringen Abfallmengen und groem Feuerholzbedarf, entsteht durch Trittbeeintrchtigung von Touristen und Bergsteigern, und die wachsende Bevlkerungszahl bt stndigen Druck auf die Grotierherden aus. Im Anhang werden Beobachtungen ber die Vegetationsvernichtung durch die Klippschliefer und Kerbzahnratte beschrieben. Diese Tiergruppen fraen Gras und Segge, und die Zerstrung der Vegetationsdecke kann viele geomorphologische Vorgnge beeinflussen.
10.2307/3673308|The upland valleys of central Papua New Guinea have distinctive Humic Brown soils. They were originally interpreted as zonal soils which formed on a variety of soil parent materials in response to the cool, wet climate of the highlands. More recent data indicate that they are formed on extensive deposits of volcanic ash which mantle much of the gently sloping topography of the highlands. The soils owe their distinctive appearance and properties to the nature of the soil parent material rather than the climate. However, climatic factors are important in regulating soil processes and the effects of cultivation on soil properties. When cultivated, these soils degrade more rapidly in areas with higher rainfall and steep slopes, particularly at lower altitudes around the highland margins. This is one reason why semi-permanent cultivation is practised in the highlands whereas shifting cultivation is practised on similar soils at lower altitudes. Although having excellent physical properties for cultivation, Humic Brown soils are lower in available nutrients, give lower crop yields, and degrade more rapidly than other agricultural soils in the highlands. Societies in the highlands are now faced with an ecological dilemma where the soils which are physically most suitable for growing sweet potato are no longer capable of sustaining continuous cropping. This contrasts with previous assumptions that the soils are very fertile and do not decline in fertility with cultivation. /// Les valles des montagnes centrales de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine ont des sols bruns humiques bien distincts. Ces sols ont t interprts comme des sols zonaux qui se sont forms sur divers matriaux primitifs par suite du climat frais et humide des montagnes. Des donnes plus rcentes indiquent qu'ils se sont forms sur d'importants dpts de cendres volcaniques qui recouvrent une grande partie de la topographie  pentes douces. L'aspect et les proprits caractristiques de ces sols sont plutt lis  la nature des matriaux primitifs qu'au climat. Nanmoins, les facteurs climatiques sont importants pour la rgulation des processus daphiques et des effets de l'agriculture sur les proprits des sols. Lorsqu'ils sont cultivs, ces sols se dgradent plus rapidement dans les zones o les pluies sont abondantes et les pentes fortes, en particulier  basse altitude en bordure des montagnes. C'est une des raisons pour laquelle une agriculture semi-permanente est pratique dans les montagnes alors qu'une agriculture changeante est pratique sur des sols similaires  plus basse altitude. Bien qu'ils possdent d'excellentes proprits physiques pour l'agriculture, les sols bruns humiques contiennent moins de substances nutritives, produisent des rcoltes moins abondantes et se dgradent plus rapidement que d'autres sols arables des montagnes. Les socits montagnardes sont maintenant confrontes par une dilemne cologique du fait que les sols physiquement les plus aptes  la culture des patates douces ne sont plus capables de supporter une agriculture continue. Ces conclusions sont contraires aux opinions prcdentes que ces sols avaient une grande fertilit qui n'tait pas affecte par l'agriculture. /// Die Hochlandtler in Zentral Papua Neuguinea haben besondere braune Humusbden. Sie wurden ursprnglich als zonengebundene Bden gedeutet, die sich als Folge des khlen, feuchten Hochlandklimas auf verschiedenen Mutterbden bildeten. Neuere Untersuchungen zeigen jedoch, da sie sich auf ausgedehnten Vulkanascheablagerungen an sanften Hochlandhngen gebildet haben. Die Bden verdanken ihr besonderes Aussehen und ihre typischen Eigenschaften mehr dem Mutterbden als dem Klima. Klimafaktoren spielen eine wichtige Rolle beim Regulieren von Bodenvorgngen, whrend die Bestellung Einflu auf Bodeneigenschaften hat. Bestellte Bden verschlechtern sich schneller in Gebieten mit hohem Niederschlag und an steilen Hngen, insbesondere in tieferen Lagen am Rande des Hochlandes. Aus diesem Grund ist man in den Hochlanden zur semi-permanenten Bestellung bergegangen, whrend in tieferen Lagen auf hnlichen Bden Wechselwirtschaft betrieben wird. Obwohl sie ausgezeichnete physikalische Eigenschaften fr die Bestellung besitzen, haben braune Humusbden einen geringeren Nhrstoffgehalt, ergeben niedrigere Ernteertrge und verschlechtern sich schneller als andere in den Hochlanden landwirtschaftlich genutzte Bden. Die Hochlandbewohner sind heute in einer kologischen Zwangslage, da Bden, die zum Anbau der Skartoffel am geeignesten wren, keine kontinuierliche Ernte mehr erbringen knnen. Dies widerspricht frheren Annahmen, da die Bden sehr fruchtbar wren, und da ihre Bestellung den Ertrag nicht beeintrchtige.
3674208|As part of The Mountain Institute's monitoring and evaluation program, historic landscape photographs from 10 photopoints of the 1936 and 1939 German/Austrian climbing and cartographic expeditions to the Cordillera Blanca (Huascarn National Park) were replicated in 1997 and 1998. Comparisons revealed contemporary changes in native forest cover, nonnative forest cover, glacial recession, grazing impacts, and urban expansion. Results indicated an apparent stability and/or increase in native Polylepis forest cover, significant regional increases in nonnative Eucalyptus and Pinus forest cover, improved pasture conditions in some areas, widespread glacial recession, and increases in regional urbanization. Important management-related questions in need of further study are identified, such as the impacts of cattle on Polylepis regeneration, correlations between road construction and forest loss, long-term impacts of nonnative forests, and strategies for the reintroduction of native forest species. Increasing the photographic, quantitative, and oral databases for the Huascarn National Park and buffer zone will continue to provide important insights regarding contemporary landscape change processes, human versus natural impacts, and future management and restoration options.
90009008|Bark of
10.2307/3673406|The past 3,000 years of vegetation history of the western part of the Province of Neuqun is interpreted from fossil pollen, charcoal, loss on ignition, and lithology of two mires in the Andes Mountains. One record from an open stand of araucaria (Araucaria araucana) at 1,200 m elevation near Paso del Arco (3852S, 7104W) is of a 200-cm section with an age of 2495  125 yr BP. The other record of a 300-cm section with a basal age of 3000  110 yr BP is from matorral-woodland at 1,000 m in the valley of the Ro Malleo (3936S, 7124W). Southern beech (Nothofagus dombeyi type) and grass generally co-dominate the pollen diagrams, indicating mostly open vegetation, while varying proportions of these taxa imply community changes in the forest/steppe ecotone on the east side of the mountains. Against the backdrop of changing climate, a repetition of fires and volcanic eruptions has variously shaped the regional vegetation. Araucaria, from pollen evidence, has demonstrated an adaptive ability to endure these catastrophes over the period of record, thus accounting for its persistence as an endemic during past geologic ages in the volcanically active southern Andes. /// L'historique de la vgtation au cours des 3.000 dernires annes est interprt pour l'ouest de la province de Neuqun en examinant le pollen fossile, le charbon de bois, les pertes par le feu et la lithologie de deux tourbires andines. Un spcimen trouv dans un peuplement ouvert d'araucarias (Araucaria araucana) situ  1.200 m d'altitude prs de Paso del Arco (3852S, 7104W) consiste en une section de 200 cm age de 2.495  125 ans B.P. (Dbut de priode). L'autre spcimen, une section de 300 cm avec un age basal de 3.000  110 ans B.P. provient d'un bois de matorrals situ  1.000 m d'altitude dans la valle du Ro Malleo (3936S, 7124W). En gnral, l'htre de l'hmisphre Sud (type Nothofagus dombeyi) et l'herbe dominent ensemble les diagrammes de pollen, indiquant une prdominance de vgtation ouverte, alors que des proportions variables de ces groupes impliquent des changements de communaut dans l'cotone fort/steppe sur le versant ouest de la chane. Dans le contexte d'une volution climatique, une succession d'incendies et d'ruptions volcaniques ont diversement model vgtation rgionale. Sur la base de l'vidence fournie par le pollen, l'espce Araucaria a dmontr une grande capacit adaptative pour supporter ces catastrophes au cours de la priode tudie, ce qui explique sa persistance en tant qu'espce endmique au cours des poques gologiques passes dans les Andes mridionales o a svi une grande activit volcanique. /// Anhand von Fossilpollen, Holzkohle, Brandberbleibseln und Lithologie von zwei Sumpfgebieten wird die Vegetationsgeschichte des westlichen Teils der Neuqun Provinz in den Anden vor 3000 Jahren interpretiert. Eine Probe mit 200 cm Querschnitt von einem freistehenden Araucaria Baumbestand (Araucaria araucana) in einer Hhe von 1.200 m in der Nhe von Paso del Arco (3852S, 7104W) erlabut eine Datierung von 2495  125 Jahren. Eine zweite Probe mit 300 cm Querschnitt aus einem Waldgebiet in einer Hhe von 1.000 m im Tal des Rio Malleo (3936S, 7124W) ergibt eine Grunddatierung von 3000  110 Jahren. Sdlndische Buche (Nothofagus dombeyi Typ) und Gras kommen im allgemeinen in Pollendiagrammen zu gleichen Anteilen vor, was berwiegend freie Vegetation anzeigt; whrend an der Ostseite der Berge unterschiedliche Anteile dieser Bestimmungsgren auf Vernderungen der Pflanzengemeinschaften in der bergangszone Wald/Steppe schlieen lassen. Neben klimatischen Vernderungen haben wiederholte Brnde und Vulkanausbrche die Vegetation dieses Gebietes verschiedenartig gestaltet. Mit Hilfe des Pollennachweises hat Araucaria seine Anpassungsfhigkeit bewiesen; diese Bume berstanden die Katastrophen ber die Zeitspanne der Aufzeichnung, was ihr berleben whrend der vergangenen geologischen Vernderungen als einheimischen Bewuchs der vulkanischaktiven sdlichen Anden erklrt. /// Los ltimos 3.000 aos de la historia de la vegetacin en el sector occidental de la provincia de Neuqun son interpretados a partir del registro de polen fsil, carbn, prdida por ignicin, y litologa de dos mallines en las montaas andinas. Un registro proveniente de un stand abierto de araucaria (Araucaria araucana) a 1.200 m s.n.m. cerca de Paso del Arco (lat. 3852S, long. 7104W) corresponde a una seccin de 200 cm con una edad basal de 2.495  125 a AP. El otro registro de una seccin de 300 cm con una edad de 3.000  110 a AP proviene de una asociacin de bosque-matorral a 1.000 m en el valle del Ro Malleo (lat. 3936S, long. 7124W). Los nothofagus (Nothofagus dombeyi type) y los pastos generalmente co-dominan los diagramas polnicos, indicando mayormente vegetacin abierta, en tanto proporciones variables de estos taxa implican cambios en las comunidades en el ecotono bosque/estepa, sobre el sector oriental de las montaas. En reemplazo de cambios climticos, una vegetacin de incendios y erupcions volcnicas ha modificado en forma diversa la vegetacin regional. Araucaria, a partir de la evidencia polnica, ha demonstrado una capacidad adaptativa para soporta estas catstrofes a lo largo del registro, de este manera dando cuenta de su persistencia como una especie endmica durante las eras geolgicas pasadas en los Andes meridionales, altamente activos en lo que concierne a su vulcanismo.
mounresedeve.34.3.276|Accessibility in rural Austrian areas is more restricted than in urban regions. Limited accessibility leads to social exclusion. Therefore, mobility should be inclusive, allowing everyone to satisfy mobility needs and reach destinations. Mobility should also be environmentally friendly. Use of a private car offers opportunities for comprehensive mobility but is related with high individual, social, and environmental costs. We studied the interplay between employment, care, and mobility variables among people in the foothills of the European Alps in Lower Austria who are employed and have care responsibilities, assuming them to be a group with complex mobility needs and high vulnerability. The aim was to derive policy recommendations to decrease their car dependency and ensure accessibility. Adopting a mixed methods approach, we conducted a tailored quantitative and qualitative survey, using cluster analysis to derive relevant patterns. Within the group under analysis, 5 subgroups were identified: persons in 2 clusters worked more and cared less, with significant differences in commuting distances. Persons of 2 further clusters cared more and worked less, with one group caring for very young children, and the other working and caring a lot. Persons in the fifth cluster cared for elderly people, had low caring duties, and almost no pickup/drop-off trips; almost all had full-time jobs. Significant gender differences existed in the identified activity patterns. Results showed that responsibility for care is still mainly with women, even if they are increasingly seeking employment. Recommendations in 3 major fields of action were derived, comprising: measures to support the mobility of persons responsible for care, measures to support the autonomy of cared persons' mobility, and measures to reduce the mobility needs of both groups. Even if respondents are satisfied with how they manage their care tasks and employment by car, higher shares of walking, cycling, and public transport seem to be necessary and feasible.
10.2307/3673309|The inter-relationship between settlement pressures in the Town of Vail, Colorado and the hydrological and geophysical natural hazards of the upper Gore Creek Valley poses problems shared by other rapidly developing mountain towns in Colorado and other Rocky Mountain states. What is unique in Vail's case is that town government officials and some early developers sought expert scientific opinion on the identification and mapping of these natural hazards before such action was legally required. The scientific information was incorporated into hazard zoning ordinances. This paper examines with several case-studies how the municipality of Vail has used the expert scientific information in the implementation of its avalanche hazard zoning and how it has responded to land-use decisions in relation to the pressures of property development in those zones. /// La relation mutuelle entre les pressions d'affaissement dans la ville de Vail, Colorado, et les dangers hydrologiques et gophysiques naturels de la valle suprieure de Gore Creek pose des problmes qui se retrouvent dans d'autres villes de montagne en voie de dveloppement rapide dans le Colorado et d'autres tats des Montagnes Rocheuses. Nanmoins, Vail est unique du fait que le conseil municipal et un certain nombre de lotisseurs ont demand conseil  des scientifiques au sujet de l'identification et de la localisation de ces dangers naturels bien avant que de telles dmarches deviennent obligatoires. Les donnes scientifiques ont t incorpores dans les rgles de zonage bases sur l'valuation des dangers. Cette tude examine  l'aide de plusieurs tudes de cas la manire dont la municipalit de Vail a exploit l'information scientifique disponible pour mettre en oeuvre un zonage bas sur les dangers d'avalanche, et comment elle a rpondu aux dcisions concernant l'utilisation des terres en rapport avec les pressions du dveloppement foncier dans ces zones. /// Die Wechselbeziehung zwischen Besiedelungszwngen in der Gemeinde Vail, Colorado und den hydrologischen und geophysikalischen Naturgefahren im oberen Gore Creek Tal bringt Probleme mit sich, denen andere, schnell wachsende Berggemeinden in Colorado und in anderen Staaten der Rocky Mountains ebenfalls gegenberstehen. Das Besondere im Fall Vail ist, da die Gemeindeverwaltung und einige der ersten Planer wissenschaftlich fundierte Expertisen zur Erkennung und Kartierung dieser Naturgefahren einholten, noch bevor es gesetzlich gefordert war. Solche wissenschaftliche Information wurde dann auch in gesetzliche Verordnungen, die die Einteilung in Gefahrenzonen regeln, eingebracht. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht anhand von Fallstudien wie die Gemeindeverwaltung Vail wissenschaftlich fundierte Information bei der Lawinengefahrzonierung angewendet hat, und welche Konsequenzen sich fr Zonen ergaben, wenn Landnutzungsbeschlsse unter Erschlieungszwngen standen.
3674437|Climate change is happening and people have begun to feel its impacts on their daily lives. Clear indications of these impacts can be seen on Himalayan glaciers, which are melting at rapid rates and consequently form massive glacial lakes (Figure 1), with a risk of catastrophic glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs). GLOFs result in loss of lives, property, and costly infrastructure, as well as displacement of local people. They represent a particular threat in Nepal, where resources are already scarce. In least developed countries (LDCs) like Nepal, where poverty reduction is a national priority, the impact of climate change appears to be an obstacle to the process of sustainable development. Institutionalizing the climate change issue in national policies has now become an urgent need rather than a choice. As a signatory to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Nepal has agreed to take climate change considerations into account in its national development agenda. The first step was the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol; the second is building the necessary institutional services such as a Designated National Authority (DNA), which is in the process of establishment. Moreover, climate change policies and strategies, the interconnections between different sectors, and coordination among different line ministries and government departments are issues to be addressed in the near future. WWF has initiated a Climate Witness Project to raise national and international awareness, and supports national efforts to shape adequate institutional responses to climate change.
3674587|Bamboo is a giant grass that takes on tree-like functions in forest ecosystems. Around 75 genera and 1250 species of bamboo are known to exist throughout the world. Five hundred species in 40 genera are recorded in China, mostly in the monsoon areas of south and southwest China. Of these, 250 species in 29 genera grow naturally in the mountainous province of Yunnan, in the Chinese Himalayan region. Bamboo has a long history of being used for multiple purposes by various mountain communities in China. Among others, bamboo has served-and still serves-as construction material, fiber, food, material for agricultural tools, utensils, and music instruments, as well as ornamental plants. Yunnan as a landlocked mountain province in southwest China holds a great number of species in its natural bamboo forests. This article presents the diversity of bamboo species and of their utilization in Yunnan Province, China.
3674633|Small cardamom (Elettaria cardamomum) is a valuable source of income for numerous resource-poor farmers inhabiting the East Usambara Mountains in Tanzania. Notwithstanding, the primary forests in these mountains also have the highest ratio of endemic flora and fauna per <tex-math>$100\ km^{2}$</tex-math> of all biodiversity hotspots in the world. Cardamom cultivation, under current growing practices, is radically changing the composition of the forest, thus threatening the endemic species within the forest. A comparative analysis of cardamom-growing practices, problems, and opportunities in the traditional cardamom-producing country, India, and in the world's largest cardamom producer, Guatemala, showed that deterioration is a common denominator. On-farm research, conducted as a complement to the project, demonstrated that organic cardamom could be profitably grown in homegardens. By implementing agroforestry systems, the harmful impact of cardamom cultivation on the forests might be dramatically reduced.
mounresedeve.29.1.5|The shrinking glacier atop Kilimanjaro has received much attention as it is one of the few remaining tropical glaciers in the world. Physical drivers ranging from changes in temperature and humidity to shifts in cloud coverage and radiation have been attributed to reducing the ice mass. Studies have utilized varying methods and often use point data sources that tend to be spatially and temporally poor in the region. The objective of this study was to use complementing remote sensing data sets with systematic measurements to delineate ice cap fluctuations and land surface phenology on Kilimanjaro over the past two decades. Multitemporal, fine-scale Landsat imagery (30 m) showed approximately a 70% reduction in ice coverage since 1976. High-frequency (bimonthly) image analysis conducted along a human activityelevation ecocline showed that the entire mountain, including the subalpine and alpine regions, has undergone an increase in vegetative signal indicating a greening up of Kilimanjaro over the past two decades. In addition, upper elevations of Kilimanjaro have undergone a temporal shift, or lengthening, in dry season phenology on the order of one month over the past two decades. The shift in dry season timing is concordant with maximum ablation periods. Overall, this study provides insight into land surface trends at resolutions that are currently lacking in Kilimanjaro climate change analyses.
10.2307/3673295|A programme for mountain research in Indonesia has been initiated by the Department of Population and Conservation. This has involved establishing an Environmental Research Centre within the Bird of Paradise University in Irian Jaya, on the island of New Guinea. This paper outlines the current proposals for organizing and carrying out mountain research in Indonesia in order to seek responses and assistance with the programme from other mountain researchers. /// Le Service de la Population et de la Conservation a commenc un programme de recherche sur les montagnes indonsiennes, entranant la cration du Centre de Recherche sur l'Environment au sein de l'Universit Oiseau de Paradis  Irian Jaya, dans l'le de la Nouvelle Guine. La prsente communication donne un aperu des propositions actuelles relatives  l'organisation et  l'excution de la recherche sur les montagnes indonsiennes, afin de solliciter des rponses et de l'aide de la part d'autres chercheurs dans le cadre du programme. /// Ein Programm fr Gebirgsforschung in Indonesien ist vom Institut fr Bevlkerung und Naturschutz begonnen worden. Im Zusammenhang damit wurde eine Zentrale fr Umweltforschung in der "Bird of Paradise" Universitt von Irian Jaya auf der Insel Neuguinea eingerichtet. Dieser Bericht erlutert die gegenwrtigen Absichten fr die Organisation und Durchfhrung der Gebirgsforschung in Indonesien, um von anderen Gebirgsforschern Reaktionen und Hilfestellung bei dem Vorhaben zu ersuchen. /// Program penelitian pegunungan tinggi di Indonesia telah dirintis oleh Menteri Kependudukan dan Kingkungan Hidup termasuk pula pendirian Pusat Studi Lingkungan Universitas Cenderawasih (PSL-UNCEN) di Irian Jaya. Salah satu dari program PSL UNCEN adalah program ekosistem alpin. Makalah ini memuat rencana ataupun program penelitian pegunungan tinggi khususnya ekosistem alpin di Irian Jaya dengan harapan memperoleh perhatian, tanggapan dan bantuan dari para ahli ataupun peneliti pegunungan lainnya.
25164126|Forest landscapes are often not adequately taken into account by land use planning, leading to loss of biodiversity and reduction in ecosystem services and functions. One of the reasons relates to the data provided to planners, which tend to be limited to a description of the characteristics of forests-eg presence of a given vegetation type-rather than an assessment of their multiple values. Value assessments are important for prioritizing forest areas and consequently for steering development toward less sensitive sites. The present study aimed to transform forest inventories into composite, clear and consensual value assessments, in order to provide support to land use decisions in forest areas (eg for location of ski infrastructure, conversion to agriculture, etc). An expert panel-based approach was employed to make an assessment of the nature conservation value of different forest types within an Alpine region. A geographical information system (GIS) database was then built up by linking the forest parcels with the results of the assessments. This information system is being used by the local Environmental Protection Agency to support land use planning procedures, such as environmental impact assessments (EIA) and strategic environmental assessments (SEA).
3674317|Finding ways to assess and measure the impact of tourism and its associated development on sustainability is critical to developing long-term sustainability plans for regions such as the Indian Himalayas. Among the methods proposed is ecological footprint (EF) analysis or appropriated carrying capacity analysis. EF analysis estimates the area of productive land and water ecosystems required to produce the resources that a population consumes and to assimilate the wastes that the population produces in supporting itself. This study used EF analysis to quantify the sustainability of Manali, a rapidly growing tourist center in Kullu District, Himachal Pradesh, India. It considered the changes in the size of Manali's footprint since the advent of mass tourism in the early 1980s, the direct impact that tourists are having on the size of the footprint, and the challenges of applying this analysis in a developing world context. Data regarding land use, goods and services, and population were collected through local interviews and available data. The results indicate that between 1971 and 1995, the overall EF of Manali town grew from 2102 to 9665 ha, an increase of over 450%; the EF of Manali is now 25 times greater than its size. This indicates that Manali is increasingly relying on outside ecosystems for its sustenance. The article highlights areas of focus for future sustainability planning, including waste management, decreasing fossil fuel dependence, ecofriendly tourism, and creating greater environmental awareness, particularly among tourists.
mounresedeve.29.4.350|This article highlights the economic and ecological value of the water resource systems of Ecuador's pramo and montane forest region and gives a description, based on a survey of recent literature, of the mechanisms controlling the rainfallrunoff process and how changes in land use alter the transformation. The review reveals that available understanding is partial, the result of individual and isolated research efforts, and is hindered by a lack of long-term complete and consistent data sets. Available knowledge does not yet permit up- and downscaling of findings. The article concludes by (1) citing some of the major gaps that impede hydrological understanding of the tropical Andean ecosystems and (2) proposing recommendations to speed up understanding and development of policies and measures to guarantee ecologically safe and sustainable development of the fragile water-based ecosystems of Ecuador's tropical Andean region.
mounresedeve.30.2.127|The problem of supporting decision- and policy-makers in managing issues related to solid waste and water quality was addressed within the context of a participatory modeling framework in the Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone in Nepal. We present the main findings of management-oriented research projects conducted within this framework, thus providing an overview of the current situation in the park regarding solid waste and water quality issues. We found that most of the solid waste generated in the park is composed of organic matter, paper, and minor reused waste that is mainly reused for cattle feeding and manure, while disposal of other nondegradable categories of collected waste (glass, metal, and plastic) is not properly managed. Particularly, burning or disposal in open dumps poses a great hazard to environmental, human, and animal health, as most dump sites situated close to water courses are prone to regular flooding during the rainy season, thereby directly contaminating river water. Pollutants and microbiological contamination in water bodies were found and anthropogenic activities and hazardous practices such as solid waste dump sites, open defecation, and poor conditions of existing septic tanks are suggested as possibly affecting water quality. Collection of these data on solid waste and water quality and compilation of management information on the targeted social-ecological system allowed us to develop consensusbuilding models to be used as management supporting tools. By implementing such models, we were able to simulate scenarios identifying and evaluating possible management solutions and interventions in the park. This work reveals insights into general dynamics that can support the quest for solutions to waste and water quality management problems in other protected areas and mountain landscapes where traditional livelihood and land use patterns are changing under the influence of a growing population, changing consumption patterns, and international tourism.
mounresedeve.31.2.166|The Centre for Mountain Studies was established at Perth College, Scotland, in August 2000, with the objective of creating a center of excellence for work in mountain areas within a new University of the Highlands and Islands.
mounresedeve.29.3.202|The Chakhama Valley, a remote area in Pakistan-administered Kashmir, was badly damaged by the 7.6-magnitude earthquake that struck India and Pakistan on 8 October 2005. More than 5% of the population lost their lives, and about 90% of the existing housing was irreparably damaged or completely destroyed. In early 2006, the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) initiated a multisector, community-driven reconstruction program in the Chakhama Valley on the premise that the scale of the disaster required a response that would address all aspects of people's lives. One important aspect covered the promotion of disaster risk management for sustainable recovery in a safe environment. Accordingly, prevailing hazards (rockfalls, landslides, and debris flow, in addition to earthquake hazards) and existing risks were thoroughly assessed, and the information was incorporated into the main planning processes. Hazard maps, detailed site investigations, and proposals for precautionary measures assisted engineers in supporting the reconstruction of private homes in safe locations to render investments disaster resilient. The information was also used for community-based land use decisions and disaster mitigation and preparedness. The work revealed three main problems: (1) thorough assessment of hazards and incorporation of this assessment into planning processes is time consuming and often little understood by the population directly affected, but it pays off in the long run; (2) relocating people out of dangerous places is a highly sensitive issue that requires the support of clear and forceful government policies; and (3) the involvement of local communities is essential for the success of mitigation and preparedness.
mounresedeve.32.1.16|The Upper Indus Basin (UIB) covers an area of more than 200,000 km
3674156|Black tents serve as mobile housing for a majority of the nomadic groups in a belt that stretches from the shores of the Atlantic Ocean to the eastern Tibetan Plateau. The existence of the black tent in its easternmost distribution has rarely been discussed in detail. In most regions, the requirements of the tent are determined by hot, arid climatic conditions, whereas an arid high mountain climate predominates on the Tibetan Plateau. The eastern part receives precipitation of over 500 mm annually. This raises questions about how Tibetan nomads have adapted the black tent to their specific needs and to environmental conditions. Using examples from a region in the eastern Tibetan Plateau, these questions are examined through descriptions of tent variations, construction, interior, choice of location for pitching the tent, and the strategies of tent dwellers to improve protection from cold and rain.
25164127|Australian bipinnate acacias, known locally as mimosa, are widespread on the plateaus and mountains of Madagascar. Rarely, however, do these trees attain their full size, leading to a surprising landscape of 'scrubby' wattles. We review the introduction of the wattles, survey their multiple uses in rural livelihoods and environmental management, and analyze the forestry policies, tenure rules, and ecological factors that maintain the trees' scrubby state. This well-adapted plant is an important resource for farmers and serves to green treeless hills, but it may become a conundrum to conservation managers due to its non-native, invasive status.
3674076|The European Alps are among the world's most densely populated mountain regions. To date, towns have played a subordinate role within this area. Due to the marginal position of Alpine towns within national urban systems, they do not constitute an interrelated urban system, and no primary center exists. The current degree of urbanization cannot be measured by adding up the population of the towns in the Alps. Instead, it is necessary to demarcate urbanized zones according to functional criteria. This article presents a demarcation of urbanized zones in the Alps based on the French method of European functional urban areas (EFUAs). As elsewhere in Europe, urbanized zones are expanding and gaining importance under the influence of structural changes in the economy. At the same time, the shift to post-Fordist production and regulation is leading to more pronounced internationalization of medium-sized and small towns as well as conurbations. Census data on demography and commuting collected between 1960 and 1995 indicate that urbanization processes in the Alps have caught up with those occurring in non-Alpine Europe. A comparison of 1980 and 1990 data on employment shows that growth sectors in the Alps are lagging behind those in peri-Alpine conurbations. The Alpine border is gradually being turned into a residential and recreational area for these peri-Alpine conurbations. The present article argues that this externally driven functional division between urban regions outside the Alps and monofunctional recreational landscapes within the Alps contradicts the criteria of sustainable development. Hence, a policy of strengthening small and medium towns in order to increase the value of inner-Alpine lifestyles and economies and enhance town-country relations is preferable to the continued expansion of peri-Alpine agglomerations and metropolitan areas and should be encouraged within the boundaries set by ecological principles.
3674560|In the Andean Cordillera, natural grasslands above 2500 m are used for livestock grazing. Few studies on the effects of foraging natural vegetation have been conducted in the northern Argentinean Andes, although this activity is frequently considered to be involved in the dragging of large amounts of sediment and in soil erosion after summer rainfall. The present study aims to identify and describe floristic composition in main vegetation units, and the potential and susceptibility of these units to foraging within a small catchment in the Andes of northwestern Argentina. Vegetation was sampled for total cover, cover per species, altitude, exposure, slope, and foraging pressure. Data are classified and ordered through multivariate analysis. Species are also classified according to life form (shrubby, gramineous/graminoids, and herbaceous) and palatability. Variance Analysis was applied to detect significant differences among vegetation units. In the study area, differences in the floristic composition of vegetation units are associated with grazing, altitude and slope. Our results allow us to propose different uses of vegetation: sectors fit for foraging, sites severely degraded and in need for foraging, sites severely degraded and in need of strict protection, and sites fit solely for moderate firewood extraction are identified.
mounresedeve.30.4.381|Increasing human and livestock populations in Ethiopia are leading to a growing demand for food and feed. Cereal cropping is highly prioritized at the cost of the livestock subsector and the environment. Grazing land is decreasing, leading to overstocking and overgrazing of pastures, thus fueling conflicts over scarce resources and exacerbating further land degradation. Two independent surveys were carried out in 4 areas in the Ethiopian Highlands, using questionnaires to investigate livestock husbandry as well as farmers' perceptions and attitudes regarding the relationship among cropping, livestock, and natural resources, in the context of broader reflection on what could help support Ethiopia's human, animal, and environmental needs in a sustainable way. In total, 684 farmers were interviewed in 75 villages. The majority of animals were said to be fed on natural pasture and crop residues; only 1.3% of the respondents purchased supplementary feed. Overall, cropland had increased in the study area at the cost of grazing land, and overstocking of pastures was seen as a major problem. Decreasing grazing land was also considered to be due to drought in Woldia and increased human population in Gurage. No pasture management system was in place at community level in our study sites. Less than 2% of the respondents perceived and understood land degradation and subsequent reduced land fertility to be a constraint for sustainable feed production. Measures and priorities for future livelihoods were perceived differently by farmers from different regions. We discuss strategies for de-stocking cattle herds, the nature of which is intrinsically tied to cereal cropping. This study highlights the lack of understanding amongst farmers of the causes and effects of land degradation and the lack of community-based strategies for conservation agriculture.
10.2307/3673142|Tourism in the southeastern portion of the Canadian Cordillera began with construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, when workers discovered the hot springs at what is now Banff. Despite the tremendous increase in visitation which followed, little is known about the visitors or their areal use patterns for the region as a whole. Thus, baseline data regarding the visitor structure and areal use characteristics in the region are presented and provide the basis for a conceptual schema relating an area's visitor use and origin to its fame and accessibility. Tourism is concentrated in famous and accessible areas, especially within the national parks. Some back-country areas, although receiving much less use than areas near highways, are also relatively heavily used. Most visitors are from local and near-local areas and go to particular sites primarily on short trips. Distant and far-distant visitors tend to use the entire region as a destination for two to three weeks duration, to spend one or two days at a given site, and to engage in more unusual activities. Local and near-local visitors engage primarily in more common activities. In a few especially renowned back-country areas a large percentage of users are distant and far-distant visitors. The generalizations and conceptual schema are presented to help shed light on present and future impacts of tourism and to promote the concept of regional planning. The 1988 Winter Olympic Games will be held in the Kananaskis Country in the Eastern Slopes area of the Rocky Mountains just west of Calgary and will undoubtedly have serious environmental impacts. /// Le tourisme dans le sud-est de la cordillre canadienne a dbut avec la construction du chemin de fer "Canadian Pacific Railway", lorsque les ouvriers ont dcouvert des sources chaudes sur le site o la ville de Banff s'tablira plus tard. En dpit de l'accroissement considrable du nombre de visiteurs depuis cette poque, leurs caractristiques sont trs mal connues ainsi que les formes d'utilisation de l'ensemble de la rgion. Un modle est propos ici pour dterminer la nature et l'intensit de l'utilisation, ainsi que l'origine des visiteurs. Ce modle conduit  srie de gnralisations concernant le renom d'un site donn, l'accessibilit, les formes d'utilisation, et les caractristiques des visiteurs. Le tourisme se concentre sur les sites connus et accessibles, en particulier dans les parcs nationaux. Certains sites de l'arrire-pays, bien que moins frquents que ceux situs prs des routes, sont nanmoins lourdement utiliss. La plupart des visiteurs sont des locaux ou viennent des rgions avoisinantes; ils font surtout des courtes randonnes pour se rendre  des sites particuliers. Les visiteurs en provenance de rgions lointaines et trs lointaines ont tendance  visiter l'ensemble de la rgion au cours d'une priode de 2  3 semaines, passant un jour ou deux  un site donn. Les activits du second type de visiteurs sont en gnral plus inhabituelles que celles du premier type. Nanmoins, pour certains sites particulirement renomms dans l'arrire-pays, un gros pourcentage de visiteurs est du second type. Le modle et les gnralisations qui en dcoulent sont prsentes pour lucider l'impact prsent et futur du tourisme, et de promouvoir le concept de planification rgionale. Les jeux olympiques d'hiver de 1988 se tiendront dans les Kananaskis sur le versant est des montagnes Rocheuses, juste  l'ouest de Calgary. Ils auront sans aucun doute un impact srieux sur l'environnement. /// Der Tourismus im sdstlichen Teil des Kanadischen Berggebietes begann mit dem Bau der "Canadian Pacific Railway", als Arbeiter die Heilquellen im heutigen Banff entdeckten. Trotz des gewaltigen Anstieges der Besucherzahlen in diesem Gebiet seit jener Zeit, ist nur wenig ber die Touristen und die gesamtrumliche Verbreitung ihrer Freizeitaktivitten bekannt. Um diese Wissenslcke schliessen zu helfen, wird im vorliegenden Artikel ein Modell vorgestellt, das sowohl Besucheraktivitten und deren Intensitt in einem Gebiet bestimmt, als auch die Herkunft der Touristen in Beziehung zur rumlichen Lage des Erholungsgebietes setzt. Im weiteren wird eine Reihe von Verallgemeinerungen bezglich Berhmtheit und Zugnglichkeit eines Gebietes und der rumlichen Verhaltensmuster der Besucher prsentiert. Der Tourismus im Untersuchungsgebiet ist in den berhmten und leicht zugnglichen Teilen konzentriert, vor allem innerhalb der Nationalparks. Einzelne "Backcountry"-Gebiete (d.h. abgelegene und unzugngliche) werden ebensfalls relativ intensiv benutzt, obwohl sie bedeutend weniger Besucher erhalten als die Gebiete unmittelbar an den Hauptverkehrsstrassen. Fr das ganze Untersuchungsgebiet trifft zu, das Besucher vorwiegend aus der nahen Umgebung kommen und bestimmte Sehenswrdigkeiten und Einrichtungen whrend kurzer Ausflge besichtigen bzw. benutzen. Besucher aus weiter entfernten Gegenden neigen dazu, das gesamte Untersuchungsgebiet als Hauptziel einer zwei oder drei Wochen dauernden Ferienreise auszuwhlen und ein oder zwei Tage an einem bestimmten Platz zu verbringen. Die eher aussergewhnlichen Aktivitten, so wie Heliskiing, ziehen weitentfernte Besucher an, whrend die Naherholungstouristen sich in alltglichen Akitivitten, z.B. Langlauf, bettigen. In einigen wenigen besonders berhmten "Backcountry"-Gebieten sind Touristen aus weitentfernten Gegenden jedoch prozentual verhltnismssig hoch vertreten. Das Modell und die Verallgemeinerungen werden vorgestellt, um die genenwrtigen und zuknftigen Einflsse des Tourismus im Untersuchungsgebiet zu erhellen und das Konzept einer Regionalplanung zu frdern. Die Winterolympiade 1988 findet im Kananiskis Gebiet auf den stlichen Hngen der Rocky Mountains westlich von Calgary statt. Zweifelsohne wird sie schwerwiegende Umweltprobleme mit sich bringen.
10.2307/3673615|This paper addresses two of the principal themes that affect the viability of, and the future prospects for, Third World mountains. It summarizes research experiences of the author from the Andean test area of the UNU Highland-Lowland Interaction Systems Programme in Ecuador, and the results from the international workshop on "Sustainable Uses for Steep Slopes" organized by the Development Strategies for Fragile Lands (DESFIL) Program in Ecuador. The paper first makes reference to the meaning and the use of the key words "environmental stress" and "sustainable development," by different scholars and disciplines. These concepts are then examined in the spatial context of the tropical Andes, specifically of the central Sierra of Ecuador. An attempt is made to portray, in a tabulated form, a typology of the various stressors of the natural and human environments, their potential impact on the cultural landscape and human activities, and potential adaptation or adjustment strategies to counter the effect of the stressors. The final section of the paper is devoted to the theme of sustainable rural development of the Andes. In a summarizing table, thirteen major problems are presented, together with a corresponding set of recommendations or solutions to counter these problems. It is argued that a clear understanding of the stress factors or problems, especially as perceived by the rural population, form the basis for a sustainable development of the tropical Andes geared towards long-term ecological stability as well as towards a sustained socio-economic development of the rural populations. /// Cet article s'adresse  deux thmes principaux affectant la viabilit et le futur des rgions montagneuses du Tiers Monde. Il rcapitule les travaux de recherche effectus par l'auteur en rapport avec la zone d'essai andenne du programme "Systmes d'interaction hautes terres-basses terres" de l'Universit des Nations Unies, et les rsultats de la runion internationale sur "L'exploitation viable des versants escarps" organise par le programme "Stratgies de dveloppement des terres fragiles" (DESFIL) en Equateur. L'article passe d'abord en revue les interprtations et emplois varis des termes "perturbations de l'environnement" et "dveloppement viable" par plusieurs auteurs appartenant  diffrentes disciplines scientifiques. Ces concepts sont ensuite examins dans le contexte spatial des Andes tropicales, plus particulirement la Sierra centrale de l'Equateur. L'article essaie ensuite de prsenter sous forme de tableaux une typologie des diffrentes perturbations affectant l'environnement naturel et humain, leur impact possible sur le paysage culturel et les activits humaines, et l'adaptation possible ou les stratgies d'ajustement pour pallier  l'effet de ces perturbations. La dernire partie de l'article se concentre sur le thme d'un developpement rural viable des Andes. Un tableau rcapitulatif prsente treize problmes majeurs ainsi que les recommandations ou solutions visant  remdier  ceux-ci. Il est suggr qu'une bonne comprhension des perturbations ou problmes, en particulier du point de vue de la population rurale, doit tre  la base d'un dveloppement viable des Andes tropicales orient vers la stabilit cologique  long terme aussi bien que vers un dveloppement socio-conomique des populations rurales. /// Die vorliegende Arbeit befat sich mit zwei hauptschlichen Themen, die die gegenwrtige Tragfhigkeit und die Zukunft von Gebirgsrumen in der Dritten Welt betreffen. Der Beitrag gibt eine Zusammenfassung der Untersuchungen des Autors aus dem Testgebiet des Forschungsprogramms der Universitt der Vereinten Nationen ber "Hochland-Tiefland-Beziehungen" und fat die Ergebnisse des internationalen "Workshop" ber "langfristig tragfhige Nutzung von Steilhngen," organisiert von dem "Development Strategies for Fragile Lands" (DESFIL) Programm in Ekuador, zusammen. Die Arbeit untersucht zunchst die Bedeutung und den Gebrauch der Begriffe "Umweltstress" ("environmental stress") und "langfristig tragfhige Entwicklung" ("sustainable development"). Diese Begriffe werden auf den geographischen Rahmen der tropischen Anden bezogen, in spezifischer Hinsicht auf die zentrale Sierra von Ekuador. Dabei wird der Versuch unternommen, in tabellarischer Form eine Typologie der verschiedenen Stressfaktoren der naturgeographischen und humangeographischen Umwelt und ihrer potentiellen Einwirkung auf die Kulturlandschaft und die menschlichen Aktivitten aufzustellen, und mgliche Anpassungs- oder Modifikations-strategien als Gegenmanahmen zu den Stressfaktoren aufzuzeigen. Der letzte Teil des Beitrags ist dem Thema einer langfristig tragfhigen lndlichen Entwicklung gewidmet. In einer Tabelle werden dreizehn Probleme, zusammen mit entsprechenden Vorschlgen und Lsungsmglichkeiten dargestellt. Abschlieend wird betont, da ein echtes Verstehen der Stressfaktoren oder Probleme, besonders solcher in der Perzeption der lndlichen Bevlkerung, die Basis sein sollte fr eine langfristig tragfhige Entwicklung der tropischen Anden, die darauf abzielt, eine kologische Stabilitt mit einer langfristig tragfhigen sozio-konomischen Entwicklung der lndlichen Bevlkerung zu verbinden.
mounresedeve.31.4.367|Not having to depend on energy imports: This vision holds great fascination for many regions in the European Alps. At the heart of the corresponding concepts are the ideas of meeting demand through regional renewable sources of energy, saving energy, and using energy more efficiently. Energy self-sufficiency can be seen as a regional declaration of independence with opportunities and challenges. It is a promising strategy for dealing with both climate change and energy crisisto the benefit of the regional economy, society, and environment. Examples from the Alps prove that energy self-sufficient regions are not just a pipe dream, but a worthwhile alternative. Some major findings from a recent study conducted by the International Commission for the Protection of the Alps (CIPRA) are presented, as well as a political agenda to further advance the transformation process toward energy self-sufficiency. The long-term goal is to make the entire Alpine arc energy self-sufficient.
10.2307/3673427|Five mountain regions of Western Canada display distinctive hydrologic regimes and can be expected to respond differently to climatic change. A review of the extreme boundary conditions for climate change by A.D. 2050 for western Canada between 50 and 60 North as simulated by global climatic models indicates that all predict warming and the majority predict increased precipitation. Implications of these predicted changes for erosion processes are shown to depend heavily on the lagged response to climate change of glacier, permafrost, vegetation, and sediment systems. While runoff and available water resources will respond to climate change on an annual basis, glacier, permafrost, and vegetation responses are measured in decades to centuries and sediment systems take centuries to millennia to respond regionally. The three sources of uncertainty (the spatial variability of mountain systems, the range of predicted climate change scenarios, and the variable lag times of environmental systems to climate change) lead to qualitative estimates and predictions of tendencies rather than to confident assertions about geomorphic impacts of climate change. If principles of sustainable development are to be applied to mountain systems over the next few decades, an improved understanding of climate-erosion relationships is urgently needed, in particular the relationship between relevant meteorological events and climate sensitive processes. /// Cinq rgions de l'ouest du Canada prsentent des rgimes hydrologiques particuliers, et sont donc susceptibles de rpondre diffremment  un changement de climat. Un examen des conditions limites extrmes ncessaires pour un changement de climat avant l'an 2050 dans l'ouest du Canada, entre 50 et 60 de latitude Nord, sur la base de modles climatiques globaux, indique que ces modles prdisent tous un rchauffement et que la majorit d'entre eux prdisent une augmentation des prcipitations. Cet article dmontre que les implications de ces changements prvus, en ce qui concerne les processus d'rosion, dpendent normment de la rponse retarde  un changement de climat des systmes glacier, perglisol, vgtation et sdiment. Alors que le ruissellement et les ressources en eau disponibles rpondent  un changement de climat  l'chelle d'une anne, la rponse des systmes glacier, perglisol et vgtation est mesure en termes de dizaines  centaines d'annes, et celle du systme sdiment s'tend de centaines  milliers d'annes au niveau d'une rgion. Les trois sources d'incertitude (la variabilit spatiale des systmes montagnards, la plage des scnarios de changement de climat, et les temps de retard variables des systmes environnementaux vis--vis d'un changement de climat) conduisent  des estimations qualitatives et des prdictions de tendances plutt qu' des affirmations sres au sujet des impacts gomorphiques d'un changement de climat. Si, au cours des prochaines dcennies, on dsire appliquer les principes du dveloppement soutenable aux systmes montagnards, une meilleure comprhension de la relation entre le climat et l'rosion est  prsent indispensable, en particulier la relation entre les vnements mtorologiques significatifs et les processus sensibles au climat. /// Im Westen Kanadas zeigen fnf Gebirgsregionen ausgeprgte hydrologische Systeme, die erwartungsgem unterschiedlich auf klimatische Vernderungen reagieren. Eine berprfung der extremen Grenzbedingungen fr Klimavernderungen bis zum Jahr 2050 fr das westliche Kanada zwischen 50 und 60 N, wie es durch globale Klimamodelle simuliert wird, zeigt, da alle Modelle eine Erwrmung und die Mehrzahl erhhte Niederschlge vorhersagen. Die Bedeutung dieser durch Klimaschwankungen vorhergesagten nderungen fr Erosionsvorgnge hngt in starkem Ma von der zeitlich verzgerten Reaktion der Gletscher, des Permafrosts, der Vegetation und der Sedimentsysteme auf Klimavernderungen ab. Abflsse und vorhandene Wasserressourcen werden auf klimatische Vernderungen in jhrlichem Zyklus reagieren; die Reaktion der Gletscher, des Permafrosts und der Vegetation wird dagegen in Dekaden oder Jahrhunderten gemessen; die Sedimentsysteme brauchen Jahrhunderte bis Jahrtausende, um regionale Vernderungen zu zeigen. Drei Unsicherheitsfaktoren (die rumliche Verschiedenheit der Gebirgssysteme, der Spielraum der vorhergesagten Klimanderungen und unterschiedliche zeitliche Verzgerung der Umweltsysteme auf Klimavernderungen) erlauben nur qualitative Schtzungen und Vorhersagen von mglichen Tendenzen im Gegensatz zu gesicherten Aussageng ber geomorphische Auswirkungen der Klimavernderungen. Wenn ber die nchsten Jahrzehnte die Grundregeln kontinuierlicher Entwicklung auf Gebirgssysteme angewendet werden sollen, ist ein besseres Verstndnis der Beziehungen zwischen Klima und Erosion unbedingt erforderlich, insbesondere solcher zwischen relevanten, meteorologischen Ereignissen und klimaabhngigen Vorgngen.
25164066|Mountains have traditionally been havens for people seeking peace and spiritual solace. Nowhere has this been truer than in the Himalaya, the "Abode of the Gods," from time immemorial. It is ironic, then, that in the Himalaya (or, to be more exact, in the Karakoram), a bitter, deadly, heroic, and absurd conflict is being fought. For 18 long years, the armed forces of India and Pakistan have fought on the Saltoro Ridge, south of the Siachen Glacier-the highest battlefield in the world. The creation of a Peace Park may contribute to resolving this half-century-old international conflict and preserving a unique high mountain environment currently being subjected to irreparable devastation.
mounresedeve.36.2.213|One of the highest treelines in the world is at 4810 m above sea level on the Sajama Volcano in the central Andes. The climatological cause of that exceptionally high treeline position is still unclear. Although it has been suggested that the mass elevation effect (MEE) explains the upward shift of treelines in the Altiplano region, the magnitude of MEE has not yet been quantified for that region. This paper defines MEE as the air temperature difference in summer at the same elevation between the inner mountains/plateaus (Altiplano) and the free atmosphere above the adjacent lowlands of the Andean Cordillera. The Altiplano air temperature was obtained from the Global Historical Climatology Network-Monthly temperature database, and the air temperature above the adjacent lowlands was interpolated based on the National Center for Environmental Prediction/National Center for Atmospheric Research Reanalysis 1 data set. We analyzed the mean air temperature differences for January, July, and the warm months from October to April. The air temperature was mostly higher on the Altiplano than over the neighboring lowlands at the same altitude. The air temperature difference increased from the outer Andean east-facing slope to the interior of the Altiplano in summer, and it increased from high latitudes to low latitudes in winter. The mean air temperature in the Altiplano in summer is approximately 5 K higher than it is above the adjacent lowlands at the same mean elevation, averaging about 3700 m above sea level. This upward shift of isotherms in the inner part of the Cordillera enables the treeline to climb to 4810 m, with shrub-size trees reaching even higher. Therefore, the MEE explains the occurrence of one of the world's highest treelines in the central Andes.
mounresedeve.36.1.116|The Key Laboratory of Mountain Hazards and Earth Surface Processes, Chinese Academy of Sciences, is a research institution specializing in the mechanisms of mountain hazards in China and their mitigation, research that is especially relevant to key project construction and environmental protection for Chinese mountain regions. It leads research on mountain hazard mitigation in China.
10.2307/3674251|In April 1998 the newly elected Government of India announced that it would oversee the creation of four new states within the federal Union of India. One of these regions currently forms the Himalayan part of Uttar Pradesh, and will be known as Uttaranchal. The reason given for this decision is that the formation of a smaller, separate state will encourage greater administrative efficiency and political accountability in this 'backward' mountain region. This proposal was first officially accepted by the Government of Uttar Pradesh in 1991, and ever since then development planners, academics, economists, and civil servants have discussed the economic and political viability of the proposal. However, much less is heard about what ordinary villagers and townspeople of this hill region think about these issues, despite the fact that their recent mass protest played a vital part in persuading the Central Government to accept the proposal for a separate hill state. This paper explores some of the perceptions of ordinary hill men and women on the subjects of regionalism, politics, and development.
10.2307/3673237|On the basis of the vegetation map of 1957, the Himalayan world is presented as a challenging case of a complex mountain system. Beginning with the range of vegetation types along the foothills from Assam to the northwest, the vertical sequences of the various types are indicated and the continuous belt of higher humidity at about 2,000-3,000 m in the east and 3,000-3,600 m in the west is emphasised. The differentiation in Outer, Inner, and Tibetan Himalaya from south to north concludes the three-dimensional approach. In addition, climatically dry valleys are discussed, as well as the influence of exposure in various parts of the mountain system. Finally, the impact of human activities is referred to. In conclusion it is pointed out that the vegetation map of 1957 remains to be completed. /// Si l'on examine la carte publie en 1957 montrant la rpartition de la vgtation dans les regions himalayennes, on peut observer un cas intressant de systme montagnard complexe. Commenant par les types de vgtation prsents le long des contreforts, de l'Assam au nord-ouest, cette tude caractrise les squences verticales des divers types et fait ressortir la bande continue  haute humidit qui se situe  environ 2.000-3.000 m  l'est, et 3.000-3.600 m  l'ouest. La mthode d'attaque  trois dimensions permet de diffrencier, du sud au nord, l'Himalaya extrieur, intrieur, et tibtain. Les valles  climat chaud sont galement considres, ainsi que l'influence de l'exposition sur les diffrentes parties du systme montagnard. Finalement, l'impact des activits humaines est mentionn. La conclusion de cette tude est que la carte de 1957 est incomplte. /// Auf der Grundlage der Vegetationskarte von 1957 wird der Himalaya vorgestellt als Beispiel fr die rumliche Differenzierung einer komplexen Gebirgswelt: ausgehend vom bergang in der Vegetation von tropisch-feuchten Verhltnissen im E in Assam zu wstenhaften Talstufen im NW werden vertikale Vegetationsabstufungen aus verschiedenen Teilen des Gebirges vorgefhrt und auf den durchgehenden Grtel besonders hoher Luftfeuchtigkeit - ca. 2000-3000 m im E, bis ca. 3000-3600 m im W - hingewiesen. Die rumliche Gliederung des Gebirges von S nach N wird aufgrund der Differenzierung nach "uerem", "Inneren" und "Tibetischen Himalaya" vorgestellt. Als Beispiele fr weitere Differenzierung wird auf die klimatischen Trockentler hingewiesen und die Exposition, sowie auf einige Beispiele fr differenzierende Einwirkungen des Menschen. Der mit der Vegetationskarte von 1957 erstellte Rahmen hat sich in den vergangenen Jahren bewhrt; doch harren noch immer "weie Flecken" der botanischpflanzengeographischen Erforschung.
10.2307/3673970|Grazing elements in the household livelihood strategies of rural people in Tarija (southern Bolivia) are examined in order to show how they use a range of micro-environments in a sustainable way, how such strategies have evolved during the present century, and how grazing is intimately linked with out-migration. Grazing strengthens livelihoods and is easily integrated into the survival strategies of people living in what are evidently translocal and transnational communities. Environmental changes associated with these grazing practices are generally positive and degradation is probably less than it was a decade ago. This contradicts the orthodox views held by urban people and agricultural specialists who blame erosion on the current grazing practices rather than on those of the past. Present-day graziers use livestock as a means to accumulate capital in situations of labor scarcity. /// Les lments de pturage des stratgies de subsistance des mnages de la population rurale de Tarija (sud de la Bolivie) sont examins afin de montrer comment ceux-ci utilisent, d'une faon viable, les diffrents micro-environnements, comment ces stratgies ont volu au cours de ce sicle et comment le pturage est troitement li aux migrations intrieures. Le pturage renforce les moyens d'existence et il est facilement intgr dans les stratgies de subsistance de la population vivant dans des communauts manifestement translocales et transnationales. Les changements de l'environnement lis  ces pratiques de pturage sont gnralement positifs et il y a probablement moins de dgradation depuis ces dix dernires annes. Ceci contredit les ides orthodoxes des populations urbaines et des spcialistes agronomes qui rendent les pratiques de pturage actuelles, et non celles d'autrefois, responsables de l'rosion. Les herbagers d'aujourd'hui utilisent le btail comme moyen d'amasser de l'argent dans des situations de pnurie de travail. /// Die Nutzung von Weideland in den Auskommensstrategien der Landbevlkerung in Tarija (Sdbolivien) wird untersucht, um aufzuzeigen, wie eine Reihe von Mikrokologien auf schonende Weise genutzt werden, wie sich solche Strategien in unserem Jahrhundert entwickelt haben und auf welche Weise Weideland eng mit einer Abwanderung verknpft ist. Eine Weidelandnutzung verbessert das Auskommen und lt sich leicht in die berlebensstrategien von Menschen einbinden, die in offensichtlich translokalen und transnationalen Gemeinschaften leben. Umweltvernderungen, die mit diesen Weidepraktiken in Verbindung gebracht werden, sind in der Regel positiv, und die Degeneration ist wahrscheinlich geringer als noch vor zehn Jahren. Dies steht im Widerspruch zu orthodoxen Ansichten, die von Stadtbewohnern und Landwirtschaftsexperten geuert werden, die die Erosion eher den Weidepraktiken der Gegenwart zuschreiben, als denen der Vergangenheit. Heutige Nutzer von Weideland benutzen ihr Vieh als ein Mittel zur Kapitalbildung in Zeiten der Arbeitsknappheit. /// Elementos de pastoralismo en las estrategias de sobrevivencia de la poblacin rural de Tarija [sur de Bolivia] han estado estudiado para mostrar la forma en la cual se utiliza varios pisos ecolgicos en una manera sostenible, para indicar como se ha evolucionado estas estrategias lo largo del siglo XX y como el pastoreo se relaciona con la emigracin. Pastoralismo fortalece las estrategias y tambien se integra fcilmente dentro de las estrategias de la gente que viven dentro de comunidades obviamente translocales y transnacionales. Cambios en el medio ambiente relacionado con estas prcticas pastorales son en gran parte positivas y la degradacin es probablemente menor que hace una dcada. Esta declaracin contradice las opiniones ortodoxas, en gran parte de gente urbana, y ciertos agrnomos quienes echan la culpa para la erosin a las prcticas pastorales de hoy en d'a mas que los del pasado. Los pastoralistas de ahora utiliza su ganado como manera para permitir la acumulacin de capital en reas de escaso mano de obra.
10.2307/3673760|A risk minimization model is applied to a case study on the eastern Andean escarpment of southern Peru to evaluate the costs and benefits associated with field scattering in peasant agriculture. Farmers in Cuyo Cuyo plant up to twenty dispersed fields each year. Total landholdings for a typical family are small: less than one-half hectare is planted each year. Agricultural inputs, especially labor and fertilizers, are large, and yields vary dramatically across plots. Only a small proportion of the variance in crop yields can be explained by characteristics of fields (i.e., altitude) or the production factors under the control of household management (i.e., labor inputs). Stochastic environmental factors are responsible for the greatest part of production variance. The risk reduction model examines the mean and variance of yield obtained by cultivating different numbers of dispersed fields. Net yields are reduced 7% on average by the additional travel and transport required to tend dispersed plots. However, as additional fields are added to the household's land portfolio, aggregate production variance and the risk of failing to meet minimum needs are reduced. Pooling harvests of dispersed fields buffers households from production shortfalls in an environment characterized by temporally and spatially unpredictable microclimatic and agroecological factors. /// Un modle de minimisation des risques est appliqu  une tude de cas portant sur un escarpement des Andes orientales du Prou mridional, afin d'valuer les cots et les avantages associs  la dispersion des champs en agriculture paysanne. Les fermiers de Cuyo Cuyo peuvent planter jusqu' vingt champs disperss par an. La proprit foncire d'une famille typique est modeste; moins d'un demi-hectare de terre est plant chaque anne. Les facteurs de production, en particulier la main-d'oeuvre et les engrais, sont importants et le rendement varie normment d'une parcelle  une autre. Seulement une petite partie de la variance des rendements peut s'expliquer par les caractristiques des champs (altitude, par exemple) ou les facteurs de production lis  la gestion des familles (facteurs travail, par exemple). Les facteurs environnementaux stochastiques sont responsables de la plus grande partie de la variance des rendements. Le modle de rduction des risques examine la moyenne et la variance des rendements obtenus en cultivant des nombres diffrents de champs disperss. Les rendements nets sont rduits de 7 pour cent en moyenne par les dplacements et les transports ncessaires pour s'occuper des parcelles loignes. Nanmoins, au fur et  mesure que des champs sont ajouts  la proprit foncire d'une famille, la variance de production totale et les risques d'insuffisance sont rduits. Le fait de combiner les rcoltes de champs disperss protge les familles contre les risques d'insuffisance dans un environnment caractris par des facteurs microclimatiques et agrocologiques difficiles  prdire dans l'espace et le temps. /// Ein Modell zur Minimalisierung von Risikofaktoren bei der landwirtschaftlichen Bestellung wird bei einer Fallstudie im sdlichen Peru, wo die Anden nach Osten hin abfallen, angewendet. Ziel ist es, die Kosten und Vorteile fr die Landwirtschaft abzuschtzen, die sich aus verstreut liegenden Feldern ergeben. Die Bauern von Cuyo Cuyo bestellen jedes Jahr bis zu 20 getrennt gelegene Felder. Der Landbesitz einer typischen Familie ist klein: Weniger als 1/2 Hektar wird jhrlich bestellt. Besonders Arbeitskraft und Dngemittel werden als landwirtschaftliche Produktionsmittel intensiv eingesetzt, trotzdem sind die Ertrge von Feld zu Feld sehr unterschiedlich. Nur ein kleiner Teil dieser variablen Ernteertrge kann durch Feldmerkmale (z.B. Hhe) oder Produktionsfaktoren, die dem huslichen Management unterliegen (z.B. Arbeitsaufwand) erklrt werden. Zufllige Umweltfaktoren sind hauptschlich fr die Ertragsunterschiede verantwortlich. Das Modell zur Risikominderung untersucht den Ertragsmittelwert und seine Abweichung, die sich bei der Bestellung von vielen, verstreut liegenden Feldern ergibt. Zustzliche Wege und erhhter Transportaufwand reduzieren die Nettoertrge um 7%, wenn eine Streuung der Felder vorliegt. Zustzlicher Landbesitz mindert das Risiko grerer Ertragsabweichungen und die Gefahr, da fr die Familie das Lebensnotwendigste nicht erbracht werden kann. In einer Umwelt, die durch zeitlich und rumlich unberechenbare mikroklimatische und agro-kologische Faktoren gekennzeichnet ist, schtzen sich die Haushalte vor Produktionsengpssen durch Mittelung der Ernteertrge von verstreut gelegenen Feldern.
3674366|Establishment of conservation areas has become a standard strategy for protecting biodiversity. Different categories are distinguished, such as those that aim at enhancing local participation. Although rapid evolution has taken place since the 1970s, stimulating participation still challenges conservationists. Understanding the complex issues impacting on participation is a first step in finding more effective methods of conservation. The present article addresses this issue by contrasting farmer and conventional perspectives on conservation. A differentiation between ecologically oriented biodiversity conservation perspectives and livelihood-oriented resource diversity perspectives is proposed. A case study from western Mexico illustrates both perspectives. The first perspective is based on a dichotomized view separating nature from land use. The second is related to the process of co-production between farmers and nature, which results in landscape diversity. Effective participation requires effective interfaces between both perspectives, recognizing farmers' creative capacities with reference to co-production of biodiversity.
10.2307/3673972|This paper extends debates about social capital to an analysis of the role of local institutions in establishing environmentally-sustainable development in the Bolivian Andes. Currently, neo-liberal orthodoxies assume an Andean environmental crisis without acknowledging that local adaptation by local inhabitants may reduce exposure to risk, and also enhance economic performance. Conversely alternative development orthodoxy refuses to accept that some regions may indeed be in irreversible decline. The paper questions each of these "orthodoxies". It begins by outlining a framework linking environmental and rural economic regeneration to social capital formation, and then illustrates this in relation to case studies from the departments of Potos and La Paz. Evidence suggests that local organizations have helped localities negotiate more effectively with state, market, and other civil society actors, as well as provide access to new, cleaner technology, financial resources, and new markets. However, the impact of local institutions in reversing processes of rural decline varies among locations, and for some areas progressive decline and out-migration seem likely. Rural regeneration is only likely to occur in these areas through concerted policy commitment to highland small farm production. This is unlikely in the absence of effective social mobilization at a national level. /// Cet expos largit le dbat sur le capital social  une analyse du rle des institutions locales dans la mise en place d'un dveloppement des Andes boliviennes viable sur le plan de l'environnement. Actuellement, Les orthodoxies nolibrales prsument une crise andine de l'environnement sans reconnatre qu'une adaptation locale des habitants locaux pourrait peut-tre rduire l'exposition au risque et amliorer galement les performances conomiques; inversement, l'orthodoxie alternative de dveloppement refuse d'accepter que certaines rgions puissent tre en effet en dclin irrversible. Cet expos remet en question chacune de ces "orthodoxies". Il commence par tracer un cadre reliant la reconstruction conomique de l'environnement et des zones rurales  la formation du capital social et illustre ensuite ceci par rapport aux tudes de cas des dpartements de Potos et La Paz. Il apparat clairement que les organisations locales ont aid les rgions  ngocier plus efficacement avec l'tat, le march et d'autres acteurs de la socit civile et leur ont donn galement accs  des technologies nouvelles et propres, des ressources financires et de nouveaux marchs. Toutefois, l'impact des institutions locales dans le renversement des processus de dclin rural varie selon les endroits et il risque d'y avoir un dclin progressif et des migrations intrieures dans certaines rgions. La reconstruction rurale ne se fera dans ces rgions que si une politique concerte s'engage  soutenir la production des petites exploitations agricoles montagnardes. Ceci est peu probable en l'absence d'une mobilisation sociale efficace au niveau national. /// Der vorliegende Text errtert soziales Kapital bis hin zu einer Analyse der Rolle lokaler Institutionen bei der Realisierung einer umwelterhaltenden Naturnutzung in den bolivianischen Anden. Zur Zeit gehen neoliberale Orthodoxien von einer Umweltkrise in den Anden aus, ohne dabei zu bercksichtigen, da eine lokale Anpassung durch die Einwohner das Risiko verringern und gleichzeitig die wirtschaftlichen Leistungen erhhen kann; umgekehrt weigert sich die alternative Entwicklungsorthodoxie anzuerkennen, da sich manche Regionen tatschlich in einem irreversiblen Niedergang befinden. Der Text stellt jede dieser "Orthodoxien" in Frage. Er beginnt damit, einen Rahmen zu umreien, in dem eine Regeneration der Umwelt und der lndlichen Wirtschaft mit der Bildung sozialen Kapitals in Verbindung gebracht wird und veranschaulicht dies an Hand von Fallstudien aus den Bezirken Potosi und La Paz. Die Fakten lassen darauf schlieen, da lokale Organisationen dazu beigetragen haben, da man in solchen Gegenden effektiver mit dem Staat, dem Markt und anderen Akteuren der brgerlichen Gesellschaft umgeht und somit ein Zugriff auf neue, sauberere Technologien, Geldquellen und neue Mrkte mglich wird. Der Einflu, den lokale Institutionen darauf haben, den Niedergang lndlicher Regionen rckgngig zu machen, ist jedoch von Gebiet zu Gebiet unterschiedlich, und in manchen Regionen ist ein Fortschreiten dieses Niederganges und ein Abwandern wahrscheinlich. Eine Regeneration ist in solchen Gebieten nur durch eine konzertierte Hinwendung zur Produktion in Kleinbetrieben des Hochlands zu erwarten. Eine solche Entwicklung ist in Abwesenheit einer effektiven sozialen Mobilmachung auf nationaler Ebene jedoch unwahrscheinlich.
mounresedeve.31.3.209|We investigated the levels of natural resource use by humans and the consequent response of wild mountain ungulates in the subalpine and alpine habitats of Bedini-Ali, located in the transition zone of the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, India, from 2005 to 2006. The livestock population in the area, livestock dung density, and the number of trees cut, lopped, and debarked by humans were estimated from permanent plots (
90009006|The western highlands of Guatemala lie within the area where maize was first domesticated, and maize remains central to farmers livelihood security. Over 50% of the population in the region are in poverty, and over 48% suffer from chronic malnutrition. Development efforts have focused on improved land management, crop diversification, and improved access to markets, especially for high-value vegetable crops such as snow peas. As a result of successful initiatives worldwide, more attention is being directed at the extent to which farmers can benefit from market opportunities for indigenous crops by receiving a price premium for providing the environmental service of conserving agricultural biodiversity. Such an approach bridges the gap between poverty alleviation and in situ conservation. We explored this potential development pathway through both qualitative and quantitative research. Focus groups were conducted in 5 communities in the maize-growing highlands of Guatemala, followed by a survey of 989 farm households in 59 locations. Our results show that most farmers in the western highlands of Guatemala are severely maize deficient; on average, farm households produce enough maize for only 6.9 months of consumption a year and are forced to purchase maize to meet basic consumption needs. The results are in sharp contrast to research conducted in highland communities in neighboring Mexico, where many farmers are able to sell their maize in relatively lucrative specialty maize markets. In the context of renewed interest in reducing poverty in Central America, our research suggests that rather than focus on market development for local maize varieties, development efforts should target other types of interventions.
3674465|The mountain ecosystems of Sri Lanka are now in crisis, with rapid degradation of the productive resource base and the environment. There are unmistakable symptoms of unsustainability in current production practices and patterns of resource use in tea agroecosystems. The present study was undertaken with the overall objective of examining the sustainability of resource use, with special reference to the land management practices on tea plantations on the Uva highlands of Sri Lanka. Eight different tea plantation units were randomly selected for detailed study, representing a total area of 4548 ha. The information related to the management of the plantations was mainly collected from plantation records. The findings of the study confirmed that the ecological capital of the plantations is in a critical state. Private management companies have been exercising a strategy aimed at short-term profits by extracting higher yields with the aid of inorganic fertilizers and other agrochemicals. Hence activities such as replanting, infilling and bush management have been neglected. Shortage of skilled labor is a major threat to the future of the tea estates. An inter-estate analysis of the quality of the management of tea plantations indicated that most of the tea estates had become marginal. Long-term management plans need to be formulated and implemented in order to make the tea plantations ecologically and economically sustainable.
mounresedeve.30.3.244|We quantified plant diversity patterns according to changes in species composition, floristic richness, and species diversity in various plant communities in the Shilin karst area (2438 2458N, 10311 10329E, altitude 16002203 m) of central Yunnan, China, in which the previous land use had been documented. Cluster analysis of floristic similarity of all the stands showed that plant species composition and diversity were primarily influenced by the legacies of land use (as coppices, pastures, and plantations). The DCA (detrended correspondence analysis) grouped 14 sampling transects into 3 plant communities, including a shrubland, a mixed deciduous and evergreen broad-leaved stand (secondary forest), and a premature semihumid evergreen broad-leaved stand (natural premature forest), along a disturbance gradient. We also analyzed
10.2307/3673372|Slopewash sediments accumulating in limestone rock-shelters have been used to reconstruct prehistoric hillslope erosion rates in the Simbu region of Papua New Guinea. Data on accumulation rates, with sediment chemistry and magnetic properties, suggest that during the late Pleistocene erosion rates were minimal under stable primary forest. Horticultural intensification in the last 6,000 years has resulted in dramatically increased rates of hillslope erosion, especially in the last 300-400 years. The latter change may be associated with the introduction of sweet potato as a staple crop in swidden horticulture. A derived model of limestone soil stability suggests that soil buffering capacity may be critical in resisting irreversible soil degradation and slope stripping. Both long fallow and diversified swidden cropping may reduce the risk of such irreversible erosional hazards. /// Les sdiments accumuls dans des abris sous roche calcaire ont t utiliss pour valuer les taux d'rosion prhistoriques dans la rgion du Simbu en Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine. Les donnes sur les taux d'accumulation des sdiments, ainsi que leur composition chimique et leurs proprits magntiques, suggrent qu' la fin du plistocne les taux d'rosion taient minimes dans un environnement de fort primitive stable. L'intensification de l'horticulture lors des six mille dernires annes a entran un accroissement considrable de l'rosion, en particulier au cours des trois ou quatre cent dernires annes. Ce dernier changement pourrait tre li  l'introduction de la patate douce comme culture de base dans une horticulture sur brlis. Un modle bas sur la stabilit du sol calcaire suggre que la capacit d'amortissement du sol pourrait tre cruciale pour ralentir le processus irrvocable de dgradation du sol et de dnudation des flancs de cteaux. De longues priodes de jachre et une culture diversifie sur brlis pourraient rduire les risques d'une rosion irrvocable. /// Sedimente, die von Hngen heruntergewaschen waren und in Kalksteinhohlrumen akkumulierten, wurden benutzt, um im Simbugebiet von Papua-Neu-Guinea, den prhistorischen Erosionsgrad von Berghngen zu rekonstruieren. Daten ber den Akkumulationsgrad zusammen mit Sedimentbeschaffenheit und magnetischen Eigenschaften lassen darauf schlieen, da die Erosion whrend des spten Pleistozn unter stabilem Primrwald minimal war. Intensivierung des Ackerbaus in den vergangenen 6000 Jahren fhrte dann zu drastisch erhhter Hangerosion, besonders whrend der jngsten 300-400 Jahre. Diese neuere Vernderung kann der Einfhrung der Skartoffel zugeschrieben werden, die der Hauptertrag des Brandfeldbaus ist. Ein Stabilittsmodell von Kalksteinbden wird abgeleitet, und es deutet darauf hin, da die Fhigkeit des Bodens einen Puffer zu bilden eine entscheidende Rolle bei der Abwendung permanenter Bodenverschlechterung und Hangabtragung spielt. Brachland und Wechselbestellung im Brandfeldbau knnten die irreversible Erosionsgefahr mindern.
3674289|Based on inventories of similarities and differences, a comparative approach to high mountains can yield surprising insights that highlight which aspects are unique in both cases and make "old things look new." Insights are determined by the parameters of comparison. In this issue, the raw geographical elements of both high mountain areas have been the points of departure of the articles in the Development as well as the Research sections. Both highland areas cover more than <tex-math>$100,000\ km^{2}$</tex-math>, a daunting area for comparative research. As a result, the authors often relied on case studies, choosing representative or especially interesting examples to illustrate general hypotheses. Even if the terms Alps and alpine have a European origin, the Old World does not necessarily set the standard of a comparative approach. Findings in the Southern Hemisphere complement findings in the Northern Hemisphere and vice versa; often the results of research show that nothing can be taken for granted.
10.2307/3673463|The objective of this paper is to analyse and assess environmental and socio-economic stress factors as perceived by Andean campesinos (peasant farmers). The study region chosen is a section of the Central Ecuadorian Sierra, along a profile which extends from the upper limit of human settlement at the foot of the Chimborazo (about 4,200 m) to the gate of the Oriente around Puyo (around 900 m). This profile offers a wide variety of environmental conditions and includes a number of distinct socio-economic regions. The study reveals that some constraints of the natural environment and development shortcomings, foremost those related to steep slopes and erosion, are not necessarily perceived by the local population as major stress factors. Other problems that were identified by the farmers, such as the shortage of agricultural labour in some areas, were unexpected by the author. The paper further emphasizes that certain perceived problems such as insufficient community infrastructures and services, the high cost of agricultural supplies, and inadequate technical assistance are prominent throughout the entire study region. On the other hand, a number of perceived stressors were related to specific natural or cultural environments, for example low temperatures at high elevations, a dry climate and insufficient irrigation in the Cuenca (basin) of Ambato, or accessibility to highways and market centres. It is hoped that this paper can contribute to a better understanding of the genuine problems and needs of the campesinos, as well as to the design of development strategies that are a true response to the stress and aspirations of rural Andean populations. /// Cette tude se propose d'analyser les lments du stress de l'environnement et de la situation socio-conomique. La rgion d'tude choisie se situe dans la Sierra centrale de l'Equateur et reprsente le profil d'un paysage qui s'tend de la limite suprieure de l'habitat humain au pied du Chimborazo ( une altitude de 4200 m environ) jusque dans la rgion de colonisation agricole rcente de l'Oriente autour du lieu central de Puyo (900 m). Ce profil offre une varit d'espaces naturels et s'tend au travers de diverses rgions conomiques et culturelles. Cette tude dmontre que certains problmes du cadre gographique et des limitations de dveloppement - surtout celles qui se rapportent  des pentes raides et  l'rosion - ne sont pas ncessairement reconnus par la population rurale comme des lments importants du stress. Par contre, les Campesinos ont mentionn d'autres problmes que l'auteur d'abord n'avait pas reconnus comme tant de grande urgence (par example, le manque de travailleurs agricoles dans certaines rgions). En plus, ce travail souligne le fait que certains lments du stress sont perus comme prminents par la population rurale dans la rgion d'tude entire, surtout les infrastructures et services communaux insuffisants, le cot des remdes agricoles, et le manque de l'assistance technique et conomique. D'autre part, dans la perception du stress, certains lments ne sont vidents que dans des rgions naturelles ou culturelles bien dtermines: par example les tempratures basses dans les altitudes suprieures, la scheresse et le manque d'irrigation dans le basin (Cuenca) d'Ambato, les problmes lis  l'accs difficile des routes et des marchs. L'tude prsente se propose de contribuer, en tenant compte du point de vue des Campesinos,  une meilleure comprhension des problmes et des ncessits de l'espace andin rural de l'Equateur. Les rsultats pourraient servir de base  la formulation de stratgies de dveloppement qui rpondent au stress, aux besoins et aux aspirations authentiques de la population rurale des Andes. /// Das Ziel der vorliegenden Arbeit ist, die Umwelt - und sozio-konomischen Stressfaktoren aus der Sicht von Anden-Campesinos zu analysieren. Das gewhlte Studiengebiet liegt in der zentralen ekuadorianischen Sierra und stellt ein landschaftliches Profil dar, das sich von der oberen Hhengrenze menschlicher Siedlung und Bewirtschaftung am Fuss des Chimborazo-Berges (etwa 4200 m) bis in das landwirtschaftliche Kolonisationsgebiet des Oriente um den zentralen Ort Puyo (900 m) erstreckt. Dieses Profil bietet eine Vielfalt von Naturrumen und verluft durch verschiedene wirtschaftliche und kulturelle Regionen. Die Studie zeigt, dass gewisse naturgeographische Probleme und Entwicklungsbeschrnkungen - vor allem solche, die sich auf die steilen Hanglagen und die Erosion beziehen - von der lndlichen Bevlkerung nicht unbedingt als wesentliche Stressfaktoren erkannt werden. Andrerseits wurden von den Campesinos Probleme erwhnt, die von dem Autor zunchst nicht als dringend angesehen wurden (z.B. der Mangel an landwirtschaftlichen Arbeitskrften in gewissen Gebieten). Die vorliegende Untersuchung unterstreicht auch die Tatsache, dass gewisse Stressfaktoren von der lndlichen Bevlkerung im gesamten Studiengebiet als vorrangig wahrgenommen werden, vor allem die ungengenden Gemeinde-Infrastrukturen und Dienstleistungen, die hohen Kosten landwirtschaftlicher Behandlungsmittel und der Mangel an technischer oder wirtschaftlicher Hilfe. Andrerseits treten gewisse Faktoren des Perzeptions-Stress nur in bestimmten Natur-oder Kulturrumen in Erscheinung, so zum Beispiel die tiefen Temperaturen in den obersten Hhenlagen, Trockenheit und Mangel an Bewsserung im Becken (Cuenca) von Ambato oder Probleme, die sich auf den mangelhaften Zugang zu Strassen und Marktorten beziehen. Die vorliegende Arbeit macht sich zur Aufgabe, zu einem besseren Verstndnis der wirklichen Probleme und Bedrfnisse des lndlichen Andenraums Ekuadors, aus der Sicht der Campesinos, beizutragen. Diese Erkenntnisse knnten auch als Grundlage zur Formulierung von Entwicklungsstrategien dienen, die den echten Stressfaktoren, Bedrfnissen und Aspirationen der lndlichen Andenbevlkerung entgegenkommen. /// El objetivo de este artculo es analizar y sealar los factores crticos ambientales y socio-econmicos tal como estos son percibidos por los campesinos. La regin escogida para el estudio es una seccin de la Sierra ecuatoriana central y consiste en un perfil que se extiende desde el lmite ms alto del asentamiento humano al pie del Chimborazo (4200 m) hasta la puerta del Oriente en los alrededores del Puyo (900 m). Este perfil ofrece una variedad muy amplia de condiciones ambientales e incluye un nmero de regiones socio-econmicas distintas. El estudio indica que algunos problemas del ambiente natural y limitaciones en el desarrollo regional, por ejemplo pendientes fuertes y erosin, a menudo no son percibidos por la poblacin local como factores principales del estrs; mientras que otros problemas, tal como la falta de peones en ciertas regiones, no estaban incluidos en la lista de dificultades catalogadas por el autor al principio de la investigacin. El estudio adems enfatiza que ciertos problemas percibidos son predominantes en todo el area, tales como la falta de ciertos servicios e infraestructuras, el alto costo de los insumos agrcolas, o la asistencia tcnica insuficiente. Otros factores del estrs percibido, estn relacionados a un ambiente natural o cultural especfico, por ejemplo el frio y las heladas en las alturas elevadas, el clima seco y la falta de riego en la Cuenca de Ambato, o el problema de accesibilidad al mercado en las regiones aisladas. Se espera que este estudio pueda contribuir a un mejor entendimiento de los problemas y necesidades autnticas de los campesinos y de esta manera proceder al diseo de estrategias de desarrollo que sean acordes con la realidad, es decir que sean una respuesta real a los problemas y aspiraciones de las poblaciones rurales andinas.
10.2307/3673867|Social forestry integrates rural people with forest management in an attempt to improve rural welfare and reverse environmental degradation. Social forestry depends on people, yet the ability to assess opportunities for it is primarily based on technical criteria. Uniform social forestry programs are implemented in communities with different social characteristics without a clear understanding of the effects of those characteristics on people's actions and the outcomes of the program. Based on survey research among eighteen villages in the hilly Chota Nagpur Plateau, southeastern Bihar, India, this paper uses theories of collective action and common property resource management to investigate the relationship between social differentiation, local institutional capacity and wealth distribution, and the likelihood of success of private or community-based social forestry strategies. The results provide the basis for distinguishing among communities according to the probable effectiveness of different forms of social forestry, as well as for determining appropriate roles for external organizations interested in promoting social forestry. Additionally, the paper includes discussion of other factors such as local leadership, land and tree tenure, relations with external institutions, and ecological variation which affect social forestry outcomes. /// La sylviculture sociale intgre la population rurale dans la gestion des forts en essayant d'amliorer la condition rurale et de renverser le processus de dgradation de l'environnement. La sylviculture sociale dpend des gens, et pourtant, l'valuation des opportunits dans ce domaine repose principalement sur des critres techniques. Des programmes de sylviculture sociale uniformes sont mis en oeuvre dans des communauts aux caractristiques sociales diffrentes sans comprendre vraiment les effets de ces caractristiques sur les actions des gens et les rsultats du programme. Bas sur des enqutes ralises dans dix-huit villages du plateau vallonn de Chota Nagpur, Bihar du sud-est, Inde, cet expos utilise les thories d'action collective et de gestion des ressources communes pour tudier la relation entre la diffrenciation sociale, les moyens institutionnels locaux et la distribution des richesses ainsi que les chances de russite des stratgies de sylviculture sociale prive ou communautaire. Les rsultats permettent de distinguer les communauts en fonction de l'efficacit probable de diffrentes formes de sylviculture sociale et de dterminer galement des rles appropris pour les organisations externes dsirant promouvoir la sylviculture sociale. En outre, cet expos examine d'autres facteurs tels que la direction locale, le droit de jouissance des terres et des arbres, les relations avec les institutions externes et les changements cologiques ayant une influence sur les rsultats de la sylviculture sociale. /// In der sozialen Forstwirtschaft wird die Landbevlkerung in die Bewirtschaftung des Waldes miteinbezogen, und man versucht, das Wohlergehen der Menschen in den lndlichen Gebieten zu verbessern und der Verschlechterung der Umwelt entgegenzuwirken. Soziale Forstwirtschaft ist auf Menschen angewiesen; trotzdem werden zur Bestimmung ihrer Mglichkeiten hauptschlich technische Kriterien herangezogen. Einheitliche Programme zur sozialen Forstwirtschaft werden in Gemeinschaften mit unterschiedlichen sozialen Strukturen durchgefhrt, ohne da man sich vllig ber die Auswirkungen dieser Strukturen auf das Verhalten der Menschen und die Ergebnisse des Programms im klaren ist. Der vorliegende Text basiert auf den Ergebnissen von Forschungen in achtzehn Bergdrfern des Chota-Nagpur-Plateaus im Sdosten Bihars in Indien und bedient sich der Theorien des Gemeinschaftsbesitzes und der gemeinschaftlichen Bewirtschaftung von Rohstoffquellen, um das Verhltnis von sozialer Differenzierung, Leistungsfhigkeit lokaler Institutionen und Vermgensverteilung zur Erfolgswahrscheinlichkeit sozialer Forstwirtschaftsstrategien auf privater oder gemeinschaftlicher Basis zu untersuchen. Die hieraus gezogenen Erkenntnisse bilden die Grundlage zur Unterscheidung zwischen Gemeinden im Hinblick auf die Erfolgswahrscheinlichkeit verschiedener Formen sozialer Forstwirtschaft und zur Findung geeigneter Rollen fr externe Organisationen, die an einer Frderung der sozialen Forstwirtschaft interessiert sind. Zustzlich werden in diesem Text weitere Faktoren wie z.B. lokale Fhrung, Land- und Baumbesitz, Beziehungen zu externen Institutionen und kologische Variation angesprochen, die sich auf die Ergebnisse sozialer Forstwirtschaft auswirken.
3674299|The mountain forests of Switzerland and New Zealand have been modified by people, plants, and animals, albeit at different times and in distinctive ways. In both countries, what had been extensive wooded tracts at the start of human settlement were progressively converted by settlers to heterogeneous forest patches surrounded by pasture and other managed systems. Some native species thrived, others became rare, and a relatively small number disappeared. At the same time, exotic plant and animal species became established in remaining areas of forest and have had diverse impacts on the native biota. In both countries, from the 1870s onward, laws were enacted to protect native forest ecosystems. Targeted programs of pest plant and animal control, new regional and national patterns of economic activity, the slow retreat of commercial farming from economically marginal lands, competition from cheap imported wood in Switzerland, and a heightened conservation ethic are expected to facilitate the reestablishment of native forest ecosystems in the mountains of both countries.
mounresedeve.31.1.58|Mountain regions provide a multitude of goods and services for much of humanity (Price and Butt 2000; Becker and Bugmann 2001), especially in the realms of water supply, biodiversity, and other ecosystem services (Schimel et al 2002; Krner et al 2005; Viviroli et al 2007; Viviroli et al 2011). However, the future ability of mountain regions to provide goods and services to both highland and lowland residents is seriously threatened by climatic changes, environmental pollution, unsustainable management of natural resources, and serious gaps in understanding of mountain systems (Huber et al 2005). Disciplinary, interdisciplinary, and transdisciplinary research is required to maintain these goods and services in the face of these forces. The global mountain research community, however, has historically operated at a suboptimal level because of insufficient communication across geographic and linguistic barriers, less than desirable coordination of research frameworks, and a lack of funding.
10.2307/3673880|The aim of this study is to evaluate soil conservation techniques in terms of their efficiency and suitability to particular physical and socioeconomic conditions in the northern and central Ecuadorian Andes. The efficiency of the conservation techniques was measured on runoff plots. Bench terraces, infiltration ditches, and contour bunds produced similar erosion rates. Additionally, labor intensity and the reduction of arable area due to the conservation techniques was also evaluated. The construction of terraces requires the highest amount of labor, followed by infiltration ditches. Loss of arable land is greatest in terraces and ditches and least in contour bunds. Two mapped study areas show rill erosion as an important process. Therefore, biological methods of soil conservation alone seem to be insufficient and they need to be supplemented by the construction of physical structures. The two study areas in the Paramo belt are characterized by smallholdings, outmigration, steep slopes, and infertile volcanic soils. Thus, only inexpensive techniques which require little arable land have the chance of acceptance and infiltration ditches and contour bunds are much more suitable than bench terraces. /// Le but de cette tude est d'valuer les techniques de conservation du sol en termes de l'fficacit et de l'adaptation  la situation gographique et socio-conomique dans les Andes quatoriennes septentrionales et centrales. Sur des parcelles de ruissellement on a msur l'fficacit des techniques de conservation. Les terrasses en gradins, les fosss dnfiltration et les andains de niveau montrent sensiblement les mmes vitesses d'rosion. Par ailleurs on a valu l'apport de main d'oeuvre et la rduction de la terre arable requises par ces techniques. Ce sont les terrasses qui ncessitent le travail le plus intensif, suivies des fosss d'infiltration. La perte de terre arable est plus importante pour les terrasses et les fosss d'infiltration et moindre pour les andains de niveau. superficie requise. Les deux zones d'tude cartographies indiquent que l'rosion en rigoles est une forme importante. Ceci signifie que les mthodes biologiques de conservation du sol sont insuffisantes et qu'elles doivent tre soutenues par la construction d'amnagements matrials. Les deux zones d'tudes dans la ceinture du Paramo sont caractrises par de petites exploitations, l'exode rural, des pentes escarpes et des sols volcaniques infertiles. Pour cette raison, seules des techniques anti-rosives peu coteuses et ne necessitant que peu de terre arable auront une chance d'tre acceptes par la population autochtone. Ainsi les fosss d'infiltration et les andains de niveau sont plus conseills dans cette rgion et dans des rgions semblables, que les terrasses. /// Ziel der Studie ist die Bewertung von Bodenschutzmanahmen unter Bercksichtigung von Wirksamkeit und Anpassung an die lokalen physischen und sozio-konomischen Rahmenbedingungen in den nrdlichen und zentralen ecuadorianischen Anden. Auf Erosionsmeparzellen wurde die Wirksamkeit verschiedener Erosionsschutzmanahmen gemessen. Bankterrassen, Infiltrationsgrben und Konturwlle erreichten ungefhr diesselben Werte. Zustzlich wurden Erstellungsaufwand und Flchenverbrauch der Manahmen untersucht. Terrassen bentigen den hchsten Arbeitsaufwand gefolgt von den Infiltrationsgrben. Der Verlust an landwirtschaftlicher Nutzflche ist bei Terrassen hher als bei Infiltrationsgrben. Konturwlle haben den kleinsten Flchenverbrauch. Die Kartierung von zwei Untersuchungsgebieten zeigt zahlreiche Erosionsrillen. Dies bedeutet, da biologische Erosionsschutzmanahmen nicht ausreichend sind und durch mechanische ergnzt werden mssen. Die beiden Untersuchungsgebiete im Paramo sind geprgt von Kleinbesitz, Abwanderung, steilen Hngen und unfruchtbaren vulkanischen Bden. Deshalb haben nur kostengnstige Erosionsschutzmanahmen mit geringem Flchenverbrauch Aussicht auf Akzeptanz in der lokalen Bevlkerung. Somit sind Infiltrationsgrben und Konturwlle in diesem und hnlichen Rumen besser angepat als Terrassen.
mounresedeve.34.2.95|The mountains in northeastern Thailand cover an area of about 25,000 km
10.2307/3674098|Since European contact about 1835 a specific set of coercive labor relations-porters carrying loads for foreign travelers-has significantly shaped local/Western interaction in the Karakorum region of Northern Pakistan. This paper offers a preliminary attempt to outline some theoretical and methodological issues relevant to understanding portering relations as a historical and contemporary site for structuring cross-cultural interaction in the region. It draws on the concepts of contact zone, transculturation, discursive formations, and public and hidden transcripts. It then sketches the rough dimensions of an unfolding empirical project to trace metropolitan and indigenous transcultural discourses of self and other into, through, and out of the specific material relations of portering. Two brief examples discuss (a) the European-initiated formalized regulation of porter employment in the late 19th century, and (b) indigenous practices of publicly resisting unequal labor relations through strategically-situated work stoppages.
mounresedeve.29.3.255|Transhumance, the seasonal movement of herds occurring between two points and following precise routes repeated each year, is practiced on a broad scale in the open field areas of Tigray (North Ethiopia). This article presents a characterization of the practice, factors that explain its magnitude, and recent changes. Eleven villages were selected randomly, semistructured interviews were conducted, and data on the sites were collected both in the field and from secondary sources. The transhumance destination zones are characterized as better endowed with water and fodder resources, essentially due to their great extent. The sample villages can be classified into three groups: annual transhumance (average one-way traveling distance 8.1 km), home range herding (average traveling distance 2.2 km), and keeping livestock near homesteads. Movements are basically induced by the fact that there is little to no space for livestock near the villages during the crop-growing periodnot by the significantly different temperature or rainfall conditions in the grazing lands. Adults will only herd the flocks when the distance for transhumance is great or considered unsafe; otherwise, young boys tend the livestock for the entire summer rainy season. Faced with social (schooling) and technological (reservoir construction and establishment of exclosures) changes, transhumance in Tigray has adjusted in a highly adaptive way, with new routes being developed and others abandoned. Transhumance does not lead to major conflicts in the study area even when livestock are brought to areas that belong to other ethnic groups (Afar, Amhara).
10.2307/3673638|In the Andean desert zone of Chile, three vegetational belts can be distinguished: the subalpine belt (<3,200-3,500 m); the low alpine belt (3,500-4,250 m); and the high alpine belt (4,250-4,450 m). In the Cordillera Doa Ana area (2945 S, 6959 W) soils show a great variation in chemical and drainage characteristics which may explain the patchy distribution of plant species. In the subalpine belt, the shrubby species (>1 m) are found exclusively on north-facing slopes in rocky sites with shallow soils, and this may be related to thermal refuges. In contrast, many subshrubs and perennial herbs grow mainly on south-facing slopes or on hillsides with deep sediments. Most leguminous species grow on soils rich in calcium, and this may be due to their greater ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen. Large areas with hypothermal anomalies have no vegetation, except when covered by sediments of other origins (such as volcanic or intrusive). At the same altitudinal level, the chemical characteristics, drainage of the substrate, and winter snow accumulation determine which species are present. /// On peut distinguer trois tages de vgtation dans la zone dsertique des Andes du Chili,  savoir l'tage subalpin (moins de 3.200  3.500 m), l'tage alpin infrieur (de 3.500  4.250 m) et l'tage alpin suprieur (de 4.250  4.450 m). Dans la rgion de la Cordillera Doa Ana (2945 S, 6959 O), les caractristiques chimiques et de drainage des sols sont trs variables, ce qui explique la distribution ingale des espces vgtales. Dans l'tage subalpin, les espces arbustives (>1 m) se trouvent exclusivement dans des zones rocheuses avec sols peu profonds sur les versants nord, un phnomne pouvant tre li aux refuges thermiques. Par contre, des espces subarbustives et des herbes prennes poussent principalement sur les versants sud ou sur des pentes couvertes de sdiments profonds. La plupart des espces lgumineuses poussent sur des sols riches en calcium, la raison en tant probablement leur plus grande capacit  fixer l'azote atmosphrique. Des zones tendues avec anomalies hypothermiques n'ont aucune vgtation,  part si elles sont couvertes de sdiments profonds d'origine diffrente (volcanique ou intrusive). Au mme niveau altitudinal, les caractristiques chimiques, le drainage du substrat et l'accumulation des neiges hivernales dterminent quelles espces sont prsentes. /// In der Wstenzone der chilenischen Anden knnen drei Vegetationsgrtel unterschieden werden: Der subalpine Grtel (<3.200-3.500 m), der untere alpine Grtel (3.500-4.250 m) und der hochalpine (4.250-4.450 m). In den Kordilleren von Doa Ana (2945 S, 6959 W) sind die chemischen Eigenschaften und Drnungsmerkmale der Bden sehr unterschiedlich, womit sich die ungleichmige Verteilung der Pflanzenarten erklren lt. Im subalpinen Grtel wachsen Strucher (>1 m) ausschlielich in flachem Erdreich an steinigen Nordhngen, die gegen Temperaturstrze schtzen. Im Gegensatz dazu wachsen Unterholz und mehrjhrige Grser hauptschlich an Sdhngen oder an Hngen mit tiefen Bden. Kalziumreiche Bden, dank ihrer gesteigerten Fhigkeit, Luftstickstoff zu binden, sind besonders fr den Anbau von Hlsenfrchten geeignet. Ausgedehnte Gebiete mit extrem thermalen Schwankungen sind vegetationslos, auer wenn sie mit Sedimenten anderen Ursprungs (z.B. vulkanischen oder eingedrungenen) bedeckt sind. Bei gleicher Hhenlage entscheiden die chemischen Bodeneigenschaften, Drnung der Unterschicht und Schneeansammlung im Winter, welche Pflanzenarten wachsen.
10.2307/3672946|The beauty and fascination of the Simen high mountain massif have long attracted interest from all over the world. Simen, however, is being engulfed by manifold problems. This paper seeks to explain and analyse these problems by introducing a simple systems approach derived from several years of multidisciplinary mountain research. It is demonstrated that the current relationships between the designated subsystems, NATURE, LAND USE, and MAN, are leading to an accelerated destabilization of the entire geoecosystem. Extension of cultivated land on steep slopes even into the National Park is being induced by population pressures and soil erosion losses from traditional cultivated land. Controlled population growth and soil conservation measures are vitally needed if the forthcoming catastrophe is to be averted. An important prerequisite for scientific evaluation and for implementation of conservation and development is the preparation of high quality topographic maps. This was undertaken as the first phase of the teamwork described here. As a by-product a Trekking Map, scale 1:100,000, was designed and is enclosed with this paper. It is intended as a guide for development of rational tourism based upon trekking, without negative effects on the environment. /// Recherche sur la conservation et le dveloppement du milieu alpin dans le Semien, Ethiopie (avec carte a-l'echelle 1:100. 000). La beaut et la fascination du haut massif montagneux du Semien ont depuis longtemps suscit l'intrt dans le monde entier. Cependant, le Semin fait  prsent face  une multitude de problmes. Cette tude cherche  expliquer et analyser ces problmes en introduisant une simple approche de systmes drive de nombreuses annes de recherches multidisciplinaires portant sur le milieu alpin. L'tude dmontre que les relations prsentes entre les sous-systmes dsigns par NATURE, EXPLOITATION DES TERRES, et POPULATION, mnent  une dstabilisation acclre de la totalit du gocosystme. La progression des terres cultives vers les terrains en forte pente, mme dans le Parc National, est induite par la pression dmographique et par les pertes par rosion des terres cultives traditionnelles. Une rgulation de la croissance dmographique et des mesures de conservation des sols sont requises d'urgence pour viter la catastrophe qui se prpare. L'laboration d'excellentes cartes topographiques est une importante condition pralable pour l'valuation scientifique et pour l'application des mesures de conservation et de dveloppement. Ce travail a constitu la premire phase du travail d'quipe dcrit ici: une Carte de Randonne en Montagne,  l'chelle 1:100,000, a t produite et elle accompagne cette publication. Cette carte a t conue pour servir de guide en rapport avec le dveloppement rationnel d'un tourisme bas sur la randonne en montagne, sans effets ngatifs sur l'environnement. /// Gebirgsforschung zur Konservierung und Entwicklung des Semien-Gebirges, thiopien (mit Landkarte im Mastab 1:. Die faszinierende Schnheit des Hochgebirges von Semien hat schon immer weitherum Interesse geweckt. Semien ist jedoch auch in vielfltige Probleme verstrickt, die hier mit einem einfachen, auf mehrjhrigen interdisziplinren Forschungen aufbauenden Systemansatz erlutert werden. Hauptschlich Relationen zwischen den Subsystemen NATUR, LANDNUTZUNG und MENSCH, wie Ausdehnung von Ackerland, Bevlkerungszuwachs und Bodenerosion, fhren zu einer beschleunigten Destabilisierung des Geo-Oekosystems. Die Ausdehnung der Ackerflchen bis in den Nationalpark wurde durch die hohe Bevlkerungszunahme und die Bodenerosionsschden in Ackerflchen verursacht. Eine Kontrolle von Bevlkerung und Massnahmen gegen die Bodenerosion wird demzufolge unumgnglich. Eine wichtige Grundlage fr Forschung und Anwendung ist das Erstellen von topographischen Karten, wie es in der ersten Phase gemacht wurde. Die beiliegende Trekking-Karte ist ein Nebenprodukt dieser Arbeit. Sie hilft mit, den neu aufkommenden Tourismus als bescheidenen Trekking-Tourismus zu entwickeln, damit Semien keine negativen Auswirkungen erleidet.
mounresedeve.30.3.282|A protected areas system (PAS) is effective only when it adequately includes a representative sample of important geophysical and biological features, including critically endangered biota of a region. However, protected areas in Nepal, as in many parts of the world, have been established on an ad hoc basis, and thus one or more important features have been overlooked. We conducted a gap analysis and developed a comparison index to assess the representativeness of geophysical features (physiography, altitude, and ecoregions), species diversity, and endangered species listed in International Union for Nature Conservation (IUCN) and Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) by using a Geographical Information System (GIS) framework. The analysis indicated that more than two thirds (67.84%) of the total area of protected areas (PAs) is in high mountains, although this region accounts for only 23.92% of the country's total area. The hills comprise the highest proportion (29.17%) of the country's area but currently have the smallest proportion (1.33%) of PAs. The altitudinal zones between 200400 m are well represented with PAs; however, the region between 400 2700 m is poorly represented, and representation by PAs is comparatively higher in the area above 2800 m. The ecoregions that have high conservation priority at global scale are poorly represented in protected areas of Nepal. Existing PAs include 39.62% of flowering plants, 84.53% of mammals, 95.73% of birds, and 70.59% of herpetofauna of the country. Threatened animal species are well protected, whereas a large number of threatened plant species are not represented by the current PA system.
mounresedeve.31.2.144|Exclusion of grazing animals and tree plantations are 2 methods that have been used for restoration of degraded lands in tropical semiarid areas. These 2 options can foster secondary forest succession by improving soil conditions, attracting seed-dispersal agents, and modifying microclimate for understory growth. We compared native woody plant diversity and soil chemical and physical attributes under exclosure and on Eucalyptus globulus (EGP) and Cupressus lusitanica (CLP) plantations. Vegetation data were collected by an inventory of stands with circular plots of 5.64 m radius, and soil samples were collected from the 4 corners and center of 20  20 m plots. As a result, 15 native woody plant species belonging to 13 families were recorded. Importance value index (IVI), Shannon-Wiener, Simpson's diversity, and species richness were higher in the exclosure, followed by EGP and CLP. Contents of soil organic carbon and total nitrogen showed significance difference and were highest in the exclosure, followed by CLP, EGP, and grazing land. Although the difference was not significant, an increasing trend was observed for cation exchange capacity and K
10.2307/3674109|A study is presented of the application of GIS to landslide hazard mapping. Two methods of statistical analysis are employed: the failure rate (FR) and quantification scaling type II (Q-S II). The study area is the Kulekhani watershed <tex-math>$(124\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math>, located in central Nepal. A map showing the distribution of landslides was produced from air photograph interpretation and field checking. This was used to analyze the important terrain factors influencing landslide initiation. The factors employed were slope gradient, slope aspect, elevation, geology, land-use/cover, proximity to fault lines, and drainage density. Each factor was divided into several classes. The influencing factors were first determined from the FR analysis and were then considered for the Q-S II analysis. Also, two of the influencing factors were overlaid in turn to produce combined-factor layers (consisting of combined-classes). This was used as the basis for another FR analysis. Geology was found to be the most important factor influencing landslide activity. Other important factors were elevation and land use/cover. Based on the results of the three analyses, three hazard maps were produced each with four levels of hazard classes: high; moderate; less; and least. The area occupied by the different hazard classes do not show substantial variation from map to map. In general, about four percent of the study area fell into the "high hazard class." The "moderate," "less," and "least" hazard classes occupied about a quarter, a half, and a fifth of the total study area, respectively.
90013235|Studies of migration and gender have focused mostly on changes at the household level, where they have found womens experience to be mixed, with greater autonomy in decision-making but also a greater work burden and increased stress. Little is known about migrations impact on community-level gender relations. This study of 10 forest user groups in 3 districts of Nepal, experiencing different levels of migration, investigated changes within migrant and nonmigrant households and how they impact peoples participation in local forest user groups. We found a slight increase in womens participation in the groups general assemblies, especially among nuclear households with at least 1 migrant member. However, male migration did not seem to increase womens access to those groups executive committees, where most decisions are made. Traditional gender norms, institutional requirements that privilege literacy and mens networking skills, and mens entrenched control of local forestry institutions continue to limit womens participation in community forestry. Women with migrant husbands also suffer disproportionately from time poverty, which further limits their engagement in activities outside the home.
25164028|This paper explores the social and economic factors that influence household responses to soil and water conservation technologies. It is based on a case study from the Cochabamba Department of Bolivia. The importance of understanding the effects of socioeconomic variation on household decision-making processes is underlined and a selection of frameworks used in illustrating these differences is presented. These include analysis of rural livelihood strategies, farming systems, and households' characteristics as ways of identifying farmer recommendation domains. Although such methodologies are theoretically useful, collection of the necessary field data can be problematic. Analysis of household decision making based on semi-structured interviews and informal discussions provided the basis for economic analysis using the actual costs and benefits faced by farmers. Soil and water conservation technologies are likely to be viable only in the more intensive farming systems at low discount rates and are unlikely to be adopted by the resource poorest. In less intensive systems, especially where irrigation is not available, adoption is likely to be low. For widespread adoption technologies need to be low cost, productivity enhancing, and risk reducing in the short term.
mounresedeve.30.2.169|People in the Karakoram use discharge from glaciers during summer for irrigation and other purposes. While the glacial meltwater supply during hot and dry periods will vary as a result of climate change, Karakoram glaciers so far have not shown a consistent reaction to climatic change, although climate scenarios indicate severe future impacts in the high-elevation regions of the Himalaya and Karakoram. Field measurements on Hinarche Glacier in Bagrot Valley are combined with remote sensing information and climate observations to investigate the meltwater production of the glacier and estimate the meltwater discharge in the valley. Special emphasis was placed on ice melt beneath supraglacial debris, which is the common process on the glacier tongues in the region. The calculated annual meltwater production of about 135 million m
mounresedeve.34.4.405|Mountains are key contexts for sustainable development because of their provision of indispensable goods and services. Still, they are among the most disadvantaged regions in the world, with the highest poverty rates and some of the greatest vulnerability to global climatic, environmental, and socioeconomic change and related risks. The existing challenges of and increasing pressure on mountain people and resources enforce unsustainable land management practices and land abandonment, which in turn might imperil the provision of key mountain services. With its new international program Promoting Sustainable Mountain Development for Global Change, Switzerland continues its support for the sustainable mountain development agenda to increase the resilience of mountain populations.
3674669|International labor migration is an increasingly important livelihood strategy in Nepal. There is little documentation of the movements of migrant workers or of their remittances. It is estimated that Nepalese migrants send remittances equivalent to about one quarter of Nepal's gross national product. Migrants and their families lack information about safe migration procedures, host countries, their rights as migrants, and awareness about HIV/AIDS. The present article examines two projects that address these migrants' needs in their home country and in one destination. The first project is a Nepal-wide radio program based in Kathmandu that provides information on migration issues. The second is a community outreach project based in Delhi, India, focusing on education of migrants.
10.2307/3673666|The applicability of traditional altitudinal zonation models for mountain land use has recently been called into question where levels of accessibility and lowland economic penetration are high. The Hawaiian volcanic mountains of Mauna Kea (elevation 4,205 m) and Mauna Loa (4,170 m) are currently embroiled in a variety of planning and land-use conflicts deriving directly or indirectly from the rapid pace of lowland (coastal) urbanization and population growth. The slopes of these two tropical mountains encompass dramatic environmental diversity ranging from lowland rainforest (windward) and desert (leeward) to snow-capped summit peaks. The distinctive series of altitudinal ecozones reflect the steep topo-climatic gradients typical of mountainous trade wind islands. Aboriginal Polynesian land tenure in Hawaii was based on "vertical control" of narrow strips of village land running from the sea to the mountains, thus assuring relative self-sufficiency through access to different resource zones. These land ownership patterns have persisted into the modern era. Current mountain management and planning are complicated by this ownership heritage which runs across horizontally-tiered resource zones, and this has led to serious fragmentation of forest watershed and endangered wildlife habitat. This paper includes analysis of existing land use and use conflicts along windward and leeward altitudinal transects on both Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa; it also evaluates the complex of evolving interactions between long established agricultural and forest extractive land uses (e.g., grazing, sugarcane, coffee, macadamia nuts, and native forest products) on the one hand and recently emerging uses dependent on new technologies (i.e., wood-chipping, geothermal energy development, and astronomical research) on the other. Additional indirect impacts derive from tourist-related, coastal economic development and include demands for expanded mountain recreational access, second-home development, golf courses, and forest watershed protection necessary to sustain coastal development. Integrated management strategies are suggested to rationalize economic development and mountain resource conservation. /// L'applicabilit des modles traditionnels de zonation altitudinale pour l'exploitation des terres de montagne a rcemment t remise en question l o le niveau d'accessibilit et la pntration conomique  partir des terres en contrebas sont levs. Les volcans hawaens Mauna Kea (4 205 m) et Mauna Loa (4 170 m) font  prsent l'objet d'un certain nombre de conflits de planification et d'exploitation des terres, qui dcoulent directement ou indirectement de l'urbanisation rapide des terres littorales en contrebas et de la croissance dmographique acclre. Le milieu naturel des versants de ces deux montagnes tropicales est extrmement vari, depuis la fort tropicale (ct au vent) et le dsert (ct sous le vent)  basse altitude, jusqu'aux pics couronns de neige. La srie distinctive d'cozones altitudinales reflte les forts gradients topo-climatiques caractristiques des les montagneuses exposes aux vents alizs. Le rgime foncier de la population aborigne polynsienne des les Hawa, qui subsiste encore de nos jours, est bas sur le "contrle vertical" d'troites bandes de terres s'tendant de la mer jusqu'aux montagnes, assurant ainsi une autosuffisance relative due  l'accs  diffrentes zones de ressources. La gestion et la planification actuelles des terres de montagne sont compliques par ce rgime foncier dcoupant les zones de ressources horizontales, ce qui a engendr une fragmentation srieuse du bassin versant forestier et mis en danger l'habitat des animaux sauvages. Cet article prsente une analyse des modes d'exploitation des terres existants et des conflits d'utilisation le long des divisions altitudinales au vent et sous le vent sur les volcans Mauna Kea et Mauna Loa. Il value le complexe d'interactions qui se dveloppent entre les modes traditionnels d'exploitation des terres agricoles et des forts (pturage, canne  sucre, caf, noisettes macadamia et produits indignes de la fort, par exemple) et les modes plus modernes bass sur de nouvelles technologies (production de copeaux de bois, dveloppement de l'industrie gothermique et recherche astronomique, par exemple). D'autres impacts indirects dcoulent du dveloppement conomique littoral li au tourisme, y compris des revendications concernant un meilleur accs  la montagne pour les loisirs, la construction de maisons de villgiature et la protection du bassin versant forestier en vue de maintenir le dveloppement du littoral. Certaines stratgies de gestion intgre sont proposes pour rationaliser le dveloppement conomique et la conservation des ressources de la montagne. /// In Berggebieten, die verkehrstechnisch gut erschlossen sind und in denen der Einflu der Tieflandkonomie gro ist, wird neuerdings die Anwendbarkeit der blichen Zonierung nach Hhenlage in Frage gestellt. Die beiden hawaiischen Berge vulkanischen Ursprungs Mauna Kea (4205 m) und Mauna Loa (4170 m) sind Mittelpunkt vieler Landnutzungs- und Planungskonflikte, die direkt oder indirekt von schneller Tiefland-(Ksten-) Urbanisierung und starkem Bevlkerungswachstum herrhren. Die Hnge dieser beiden tropischen Berge umfassen eine auergewhnliche Vielgestaltigkeit von Tiefland-Regenwald (windwrts) und Wste (leewrts) bis zu schneebedeckten Berggipfeln. Die besondere Folge der hhenbedingten kozonen spiegelt ein extremes topographisch-klimatisches Geflle wider, das fr bergige Inseln im Bereich der Passatwinde typisch ist. Das Gemeindeland der eingeborenen Polynesier auf Hawaii bestand aus schmalen vertikalen Streifen von Meereshhe an die Berghnge hinauf. Der Zugang zu verschiedenen Ressourcezonen sicherte relative Unabhngigkeit. Dieses Vorbild der Besitzverteilung blieb bis in die moderne Zeit erhalten. Die Besitzverhltnisse erschweren derzeitiges Gebirgsmanagement und Planungen, denn sie zerschneiden horizontal eingeteilte Ressourcezonen und fhren zur Zerstckelung von bewaldeten Wassereinzugsgebieten und gefhrdeten Tierhabitaten. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht gegenwrtige Konflikte bei der Landnutzung entlang der wind-und leewrts gelegenen hhenabhngigen Landstreifen auf dem Mauna Kea und dem Mauna Loa. Auerdem werden die Wechselwirkungen zwischen bestehenden landwirtschaftlichen und extraktiv-forstwirtschaftlichen Landnutzungen (z.B. Weidewirtschaft, Rohrzucker, Kaffee, Makademiennsse und heimische Holzprodukte) und von der technischen Entwicklung geprgte Nutzungen (z.B. Holzchips, Entwicklung der geothermischen Energie und astronomische Forschung) untersucht. Zustzliche indirekte Auswirkungen ergeben sich aus der auf Tourismus basierenden konomie entlang der Kste und schlieen leichteren Zugang zu den Bergen fr Freizeitgestaltung, Erschlieung fr Ferienhuser und Schutz der bewaldeten Wassereinzugsgebiete ein. Es werden integrierte Managementmethoden vorgeschlagen, um die Entwicklung entlang der Kste zu sichern, und die konomische Entwicklung und Erhaltung der Bergressourcen vernnftig zu lenken.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r119|   ()         .               .   2011 .       -       ().
mounresedeve.29.4.320|La Sepultura Biosphere Reservecreated in 1995 in Chiapas, Mexicois well known for its biodiversity. Its buffer zone, harboring the upper Tabln river basin, has been intensively managed by peasants for 48 years. We carried out interviews with cattle producers at the Los ngeles ejido, coupled with field surveys of vegetation presence, to determine the nature and allocation of different vegetation associations and their relation to indicators of tree regeneration (sapling presence). Our data showed that 96% of the producers surveyed owned areas with open pastures, and 83% owned at least 1 patch of forested pastures where cattle browse. For oak-forested pastures, the results suggest a trend of high sapling presence with high tree cover. In contrast, for deciduous pastures, the results suggest a trend of high sapling presence with intermediate tree cover. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that woody vegetation within grazing areas may facilitate natural tree recruitment around reserves. Furthermore, these vegetation cover results suggest that within the pasturelands found today in the Los ngeles ejido, some ranchers may be inadvertently conducting practices that are consistent with agro-silvo-pastoral systems.
mounresedeve.30.2.113|This paper presents the results of managementoriented research on energy, forest, and human health issues in a remote mountain area, the Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone (SNPBZ), Nepal. The research was based on a broader, integrated participatory framework ultimately intended for use in adaptive management. The present study focused on the application of a participatory modeling framework to address problems related to energy demand and consumption, forest condition, and indoor air pollution, which were defined by the stakeholders as important issues to be addressed. The models were developed using a generalizing design that allows for user-friendly adaptation to other contexts (free download at
3674510|Mountain resort communities in North America depend on tourism and recreation for their economic viability. Heavy recreation and other anthropogenic activities such as land conversion for development directly threaten mountain ecosystems. To maintain beneficial ecosystem services and preserve the characteristics that draw people to the area, there is much interest in setting aside conservation reserves. Historically, reserve networks have been selected in an opportunistic manner guided by local expert knowledge, but this method frequently results in networks that fail to be fully representative of biodiversity. More recently, systematic reserve selection tools have been developed for conservation planning at national or regional scales. This science-based approach has great appeal to local planners, as it has the potential to be very effective and efficient. Systematic tools have not been used for reserve selection at small scales and their merit in community planning is unknown. Here we present the results of a case study in which we used systematic software to select a conservation reserve network in the Resort Municipality of Whistler, Canada. We describe the Whistler area ecosystems and potential threats, and examine the suitability of systematic reserve selection tools for mountain resort planning. After considering factors such as the discrepancy between scales of planning and geographic data, data quality, and expected delays in designation of reserves, we suggest that systematic reserve selection tools should be used with caution, and only in conjunction with local expert knowledge.
10.2307/3673393|Like most areas of the earth's surface, the Papua New Guinea Highlands experience a variety of natural hazards. This paper considers landslide, frost, volcanic, and epidemic hazards. It presents a number of case studies, including some dating from the pre-European contact period. An attempt is made to assess the relative significance of hazards in the area in terms of deaths per decade. Some of the evidence presented suggests that government intervention has reduced reliance on traditional coping strategies. It is also noted that Western definitions of hazards and hazard events are not well suited to the PNG Highlands situation. /// Comme pour la majorit de la surface terrestre, les montagnes de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine prsentent un certain nombre de dangers naturels. Cette tude porte sur les dangers associs aux glissements de terrain, au gel,  l'activit volcanique, et les dangers pidmiques. Plusieurs tudes de cas sont prsentes, y compris certaines remontant  la priode antrieure au contact avec les Europens. Une valuation de l'importance relative des dangers naturels dans la rgion est bauche sur la base du nombre de morts par dcennie. Les faits prsents semblent indiquer que l'intervention du gouvernement a rduit le rle des moyens traditionnels de faire face  ces dangers. Il apparat galement que les dfinitions occidentales dcrivant les dangers naturels et les vnements dangereux ne s'appliquent gure  la situation particulire aux montagnes de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine. /// Das Hochland von Papua-Neu-Guinea ist - wie fast alle Gebiete der Erdoberflche - einer Vielzahl von Naturgefahren ausgesetzt. Diese Verffentlichung bercksichtigt Erdrutsche, Frost, vulkanische und epidemische Gefahren. Es werden Fallstudien gezeigt, von denen einige bis in die voreuropische Einfluzeit zurckgehen. Versuchsweise wird die relative Bedeutung von Gefahren in diesem Gebiet in Todesfllen pro Jahrzehnt ausgedrckt. Einige der vorgelegten Ergebnisse deuten darauf hin, da Intervention seitens der Regierung zu vermindertem Vertrauen in bewhrte berlebenstrategien fhrte. Auerdem wird bemerkt, da die Definitionen fr Gefahren und Gefahrenvorkommnisse, wie sie in der westlichen Welt blich sind, fr Situationen im Hochland von Papua-Neu-Guinea, nur bedingt brauchbar sind.
25164073|This article compares the current state of maize diversity in 6 highland indigenous Maya Guatemalan villages with studies conducted earlier in this century. Although findings are preliminary, it appears that a significant number of maize varieties are no longer grown, as determined from comparisons with data collected earlier in this century. The authors believe that this decline is related to the recently concluded (1996) Guatemalan civil war and the associated poor socioeconomic conditions in which most rural Guatemalans exist. We present the case for the direct link between the maintenance of crop diversity and the political and economic atmosphere or security in peasant farming landscapes.
3674627|From its decade-long pioneering work dedicated to the economic development and environmental regeneration of the high-altitude region of the Indian Himalayas, Pragya-an NGO based in Gurgaon, India, focusing on appropriate development of vulnerable communities and sensitive ecosystems-devised the MVPower (Mountain Village Power) model. This comprises in essence the development of decentralized energy facilities for use in (a) improving rural welfare facilities, (b) creating sustainable, niche-sector enterprise clusters, and (c) providing alternatives to overuse of natural resources. A pilot project is being implemented in the district of Lahaul and Spiti in the Western Indian Himalayas. Discussion of the initial results of the project constitutes the core of this paper.
90013243|The scale and speed of urbanization in the mountainous regions of western China have received little attention from researchers. These cities are facing rapid population growth and severe environmental degradation. This study analyzed historical urban growth trends in this mountainous region to better understand the interaction between the spatial growth pattern and the mountainous topography. Three major factorsslope, accessibility, and land use typewere studied in light of their relationships with urban spatial growth. With the analysis of historical data as the basis, a conceptual urban spatial growth model was devised. In this model, slope, accessibility, and land use type together create resistance to urban growth, while accessibility controls the sequence of urban development. The model was tested and evaluated using historical data. It serves as a potential tool for planners to envision and assess future urban growth scenarios and their potential environmental impacts to make informed decisions.
4540674|Land management is a multi-dimensional and multi-institutional engagement that demands collective analysis, design, and implementation of innovations. Its importance for Ethiopia cannot be overemphasized, as land degradation threatens food security and environmental sustainability. Building on a specific case study of a project in Southern Ethiopia, the present article describes how the government and non-state agencies are collaborating to learn together while promoting improved land management practices and implementing land rehabilitation programs in communal areas and farmlands in the Ethiopian highlands. Ensuring full involvement and commitment of stakeholders at different levels, building the capacity of local institutions, and redefining the role of communities and the state in a dynamic way are essential prerequisites for success. Suggestions have also been formulated to facilitate wider adoption and scaling up of improved land management innovations.
3674297|A comparative review is provided of the weather and climate processes and phenomena that characterize the New Zealand Southern Alps and European Alps. The general climate conditions and atmospheric circulation features that affect the 2 mountain regions are assessed. Interaction of the mountains with synoptic weather systems is described, including their dynamic and thermal effects on airflow, such as the foehn and nor'wester. The different orientations of the mountain barriers are seen as creating differences between the 2 regions, including the high frequency of cyclogenesis south of the European Alps and the marked orographic effect on fronts along the east coast of New Zealand. Other distinctive features of the regional wind field are described and explained. Mountain effects on rainfall amounts and distribution are also briefly covered, including the very high precipitation received on the west coast of the New Zealand Southern Alps and the more even spread of precipitation north and south of the European Alps. Medium- to long-term influences on the climate are examined for each region, with both affected by interregional teleconnections. El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and North Atlantic Oscillation (NSO) are seen as strongly controlling the intradecadal climate variability experienced in the New Zealand Southern Alps and European Alps, respectively.
mounresedeve.32.4.446|One of the most important parameters of the hydrological cycle, precipitation, is directly affected by global warming; as a result, natural spring flow that receives input from rainfall in the midwestern Himalayan hills is affected as well. Spring flow is of prime importance in this area: Springs are the backbone of all of the population's agricultural, social, and financial activities. The deterioration of spring flow results in outmigration and adversely affects the economy of the region. An 11-year study was undertaken of 2 watersheds in Uttarakhand, Chandrabhaga and Danda. These watersheds were observed using 9 automatic rain gauges and 2 river gauging sites. Spring flow measurements were made daily, covering almost all springs used by local inhabitants. A power regression relationship between precipitation and spring flow was developed, with high correlation. The time lag between precipitation and spring flow was investigated for different springs, based on 2 to 11 years of daily data. The springs in Chandrabhaga and Danda watersheds showed a daily measured lag of 1 to 30 days and a monthly measured lag of 0 to 2 months. It was observed that the discharge of springs in Chandrabhaga and Danda watersheds primarily responds to rainfall. Based on an analysis of average water availability, theoretical water demand, and actual water use in the 2 watersheds, we recommend planning for increasing the water retention power of each watershed, using drip irrigation in horticultural crops, and installing water conservation structures to capture rainwater during monsoon months for use during nonmonsoon months.
25164026|In the last few years participatory research with farmers (FPR), pioneered by NGOs, has moved into the public sector and has recently become a mechanism for government-NGO collaboration. It has been successful in heterogeneous environments and is particularly advocated in areas where green revolution technology and extension models are not appropriate or successful. This paper considers the particular attractions and challenges of facilitating FPR in hillside environments from the perspective of a project which uses such an approach for soil and water conservation in the semi-arid foothills of Bolivia and is funded by a bilateral agency with an interest in generic results. Three emerging issues addressed by the project are: the need to involve government (particularly NARS) staff; the need to make the whole research process, not just problem identification, participatory throughout; and the challenges of using FPR in more complex systems than crop trials and comparisons. The paper goes on to show how other methodologies relate to the FPR approach, with implications for future rural development research, particularly the distribution of benefits when the process is externally initiated, and the potential for generalizing results and comparing impacts over time. These link into new issues to do with stakeholder interactions, institutional roles, and the need to relate individual experimentation to broader change, taking a more holistic view of resource allocations within the watershed.
mounresedeve.34.2.147|Firewood is a major energy source, especially in many high mountainous regions in developing countries where other energy sources are limited. In the mountainous regions of Tajikistan, current energy consumption is limited owing to geographic isolation and numerous challengesincluding in the energy sectorthat emerged after the collapse of the Soviet Union and Tajikistan's independence. The sudden disruption of external supplies of energy forced people to rely on locally available but scarce biomass resources, such as firewood and animal dung. We conducted an empirical study to gain an understanding of current household energy consumption in the Western Pamirs of Tajikistan and the factors that influence firewood consumption. For this purpose, we interviewed members of 170 households in 8 villages. We found that, on average, households consumed 355 kg of firewood, 253 kWh of electricity, 760 kg of dung, and 6 kg of coal per month in the winter of 20112012. Elevation, size of a household's private garden, and total hours of heating had a positive relationship with firewood consumption, and education level and access to a reliable supply of electricity showed a negative relationship.
mounresedeve.36.3.364|Mountain ecosystems around the world are recognized to be among the most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. The need to develop sound adaptation strategies in these areas is growing. Knowledge from the natural sciences has an important role to play in the development of adaptation strategies. However, the extent of and gaps in such knowledge have not been systematically investigated for mountain areas. This paper analyzes the status of knowledge from natural science disciplines and research needs relevant to the national and subnational climate adaptation policies of 1 US state (Washington) and 7 countries (Austria, Bhutan, Colombia, Germany, Nepal, Peru, and Switzerland), in particular the elements of those policies focused on mountain areas. In addition, we asked key individuals involved in drafting those policies to answer a short questionnaire. We found that research needs mainly concern impact and vulnerability assessments at regional and local levels, integrated assessments, and improved climate and socioeconomic data. These needs are often related to the challenges to data coverage and model performance in mountainous areas. In these areas, the base data are often riddled with gaps and uncertainties, making it particularly difficult to formulate adaptation strategies. In countries where data coverage is less of an issue, there is a tendency to explore quantitative forms of impact and vulnerability assessments. We highlight how the knowledge embedded in natural science disciplines is not always useful to address complex vulnerabilities in coupled human and natural systems and briefly refer to alternative pathways to adaptation in the form of no-regret, flexible, and adaptive management solutions. Finally, in recognition of the trans- and interdisciplinary nature of climate change adaptation, we raise the question of which knowledge production paradigms are best able to deliver sustainable adaptations to growing environmental stressors in mountain regions.
mounresedeve.34.1.66|With its mandate to work on natural resource management, food security, and livelihoods and its attention to the social, economic, and environmental dimensions of sustainable development, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has played a leading role in sustainable mountain development for many years. In 1992, FAO was appointed task manager for Chapter 13 of Agenda 21 entitled Managing Fragile Ecosystems: Sustainable Mountain Development (UNCED 1992) and acted as the lead agency for the International Year of Mountains in 2002. FAO is a member of the Mountain Partnership and hosts its Secretariat. From 2003 onward, FAO has also been mandated by the United Nations General Assembly to lead the annual observance of International Mountain Day on 11 December. Every two years, FAO prepares the Secretary General's Report to the United Nations General Assembly, in which it describes the status of sustainable mountain development at the national and international levels and provides suggestions for consideration by the Assembly. This statement reviews the latest actions in FAO's program on sustainable mountain development, watershed management, and forest hydrology, which includes normative work, a strong field program, and support for international processes. In addition, it summarizes the latest achievements of the Mountain Partnership.
10.2307/3673540|Using data from farm interviews and soil analyses, eight land-use options, involving double and triple annual crop rotations, were evaluated in the Chitawan district in Nepal. Productivity and profitability of the eight crop rotation sequences were determined using a micro-computer-based budgeting technique. Land-use options were evaluated in terms of crop preference, productivity, profitability, resource requirements (such as land, labor, draft power, and capital), soil quality, and risks. The results showed that some of the more innovative, triple crop rotation systems with early maturing rice and agroforestry were soil conserving and very profitable; but higher risk and capital inputs make these land-use options difficult for subsistence farmers. The method used in this study facilitates the decision-making process since it provides a means to evaluate land-use options in a flexible way within the context of the farmer's priorities. /// L'utilisation des donnes provenant d'enqutes auprs des cultivateurs et d'analyses de sols, dans le district de Chitawan au Npal, a permis l'valuation de huit utilisations possibles des terres, impliquant une double ou triple rotation annuelle des cultures. La productivit et la rentabilit de ces huit sries de rotation des cultures ont t dtrmines  l'aide d'une technique budgtaire, utilisant un micro-ordinateur. Les possibilits d'utilisation des terres furent values en fontion de la prfrence de la culture, de la productivit, de la rentabilit, des ressources ncessaires (telles la terre, la main-d'oeuvre, la force de trait et le capital requis), de la qualit du sol ainsi que des risques encourus. Les rsultats ont dmontr que certains des systmes  triple rotation, utilisant un riz  maturation prcoce, ainsi que l'agroforesterie aidaient  la prservation du sol et taient trs profitables. Toutefois, les risques plus levs et le capital initial ncessaire rendent ces pratiques difficiles pour le cultivateur qui vit de sa production. Cette mthode facilite par contre la prise de dcision puisqu'elle procure un moyen flexible d'valuation des possibilits d'utilisation des terres en tenant compte des priorits du cultivateur. /// Auf der Basis einer Bauern-befragung und Bodenproben wurden in der Chitawan Region in Nepal acht Landnutzungsmglichkeiten beurteilt, die doppelte und dreifache jhrliche Ernten beinhalten. Die Produktivitt und Wirtschaftlichkeit der acht Fruchtfolgen wurden mit Hilfe eines Mikro-Computer untersttzten Budgets bestimmt. Die Landnutzungsmglichkeiten wurden unter folgenden Gesichtspunkten bewertet: Vorliebe fr das Produkt, Produktivitt, Wirtschaftlichkeit, erforderliche Ressourcen (wie Landflche, Arbeit, Zugtiere, und Kapital), Bodenqualitt und Risiko. Die Ergebnisse zeigten, dass einige der innovativen dreifachen Fruchtfolgen mit schnell reifendem Reis, und Agro-Forstwirtschaft bodenschonend und sehr wirtschaftlich waren. Das hhere Risiko und der Bedarf an Kapital machen es jedoch fr die Bauern schwierig diese Landnutzungsmglichkeiten zu realisieren. Die in dieser Studie angewandte Methodik erleichtert den Entscheidungsprozess, da sie die Mglichkeit bietet, verschiedene Optionen im Zusammenhang der Bedrfnisse der Bauern flexibel zu bewerten.
mounresedeve.30.3.275|This study explores the elevational richness patterns of vascular and cryptogam species in the highest alpine zone in the world, the Tibet/Xizang Autonomous Region (78259906 E, 26503653 N). The data are based on the published flora for vascular plants, bryophytes, and lichens. Elevational ranges have been interpolated for each species recorded in the flora at altitudes between 4500 and 6000 m into 16 elevational bands of 100 m each. A species is assumed to be present at all elevational bands between its lower and upper limits as recorded in the flora. Total richness has been further subcategorized into richness of different functional groups and some dominant angiosperm families. Generalized linear models (GLMs) up to 3 orders are applied to assess the relationship between species richness and elevation and the statistically most appropriate model based on the highest F value among the significant models is selected. A total of 1585 species, 385 genera, and 111 families are recorded in the flora from this part of the alpine zone. Flowering plants are represented by 1328 species, 261 genera, and 54 families. A significant decreasing quadratic relation with increasing elevation is the most common pattern among most of the functional groups. Bryophytes, lichens, and their functional groups show a linear declining pattern except for a quadratic relation in foliose lichen richness. A significant unimodal relation is found with some angiosperm families. The patterns found are both similar and dissimilar to published results from studies using interpolation or direct observations. Scale, environmental heterogeneities, stress, disturbance, and tolerance by individual species are the likely causes for these patterns.
3674155|Sixty-two caregivers in a mountainous region of western Nepal were interviewed about factors related to improving the indoor air quality. The study included 25 households with improved iron stoves and 37 households that cooked on a traditional open fire. In a subsample of 27 households, the field team observed kitchen characteristics and the stoves in everyday use, employing a standardized checklist. All the caregivers with improved stoves expressed satisfaction with their stoves, whereas only 16% of caregivers with traditional stoves were satisfied. There were no differences with respect to time spent in the kitchen or time spent on cooking. The main motivational factors for installing an improved stove were reduced smoke and better health. The villagers were willing to contribute 8% of total annual income per capita to have an improved stove installed. The survey identified weaknesses in stove design that might have influenced the smoke reduction potential of the improved stoves. This paper discusses how local conditions can determine the motivational factors and the success of future programs for improving indoor air quality in this setting.
mounresedeve.33.2.122|In the Ngenge watershed, at Mt. Elgon in the eastern Ugandan highlands, agricultural practices cause serious soil erosion problems and subsequent decrease in soil and water quality. Attempts to manage soil erosion through policy interventions have not been successful, because existing policies and legislation for natural resource management are inadequate and often formulated without consulting local communities. In the Ngenge watershed, an integrated watershed management (IWM) program was initiated to foster sustainable land and water management solutions. Experience shows that successes in IWM programs depend on effective participation by all relevant groups of stakeholders. The present study investigates the usability of a stakeholder analysis (SA) and how it has to be linked with participatory problem identification and participatory formulation of action and work plans to build a base for effective IWM. The SA considered the following criteria: (1) stakeholders' commitment to implement IWM, (2) their power to influence policy-making and implementation processes, and (3) the expected impact of the IWM program on the stakeholders. The SA allowed identification of key groups of stakeholders who participated in workshops and jointly developed concrete action and work plans. These workshop outputs, together with the positive feedback of the stakeholders and the commitment of policy-makers to continue the process, are good indicators that SA is a useful means for supporting the development of IWM strategies.
3674058|Natural mixed forests of European beech (Fagus sylvatica), Norway spruce (Picea abies), and silver fir (Abies alba) were widely replaced by spruce-dominated stands in the montane belt of the northern Calcareous Alps in historical times. This accounts for changing forest structure, diversity, and hemeroby. Observations in other parts of Europe suggest that this development should have led to a replacement of the native understorey vegetation by species typical of coniferous forests and to an increase in plants that are indicators for acidity and nitrogen. The statistical relationships between understorey vegetation structure and species richness, Ellenberg indicator values, and the proportion of Norway spruce in the tree layer were studied in 84 stands selected in a stratified random design in the Bavarian Alps, while controlling for the influence of the natural environment. The results show that the richness of coniferous forest species and the occurrence of acid indicators have been significantly favored by Norway spruce canopies, while understorey species characteristic of deciduous forests and nitrogen indicators have not been affected. While bryophytes and some shallow-rooted vascular plants respond positively to a coniferous canopy, most vascular plants are resilient to changes in the canopy. This can be attributed to the high buffering capacity of the soils under the mountain forests studied.
10.2307/3674037|This paper examines the role of a natural hot spring in a subsistence village economy. The village lies in the Karakorum-Himalaya, isolated from the rest of Pakistan by high mountains and glaciers. To a social geographer, what is of interest is the pattern formed by the daily activities at the hot spring, which acts as a hub, or focus, of village life. Various tasks and rituals are performed here, related to prayer, work, and play, from dawn until sunset. The research is based on participant-observation and set in a phenomenological framework. Three decades ago government initiative changed the original pond, separated by a living partition of willows for men and women, replacing it by a concrete building which now houses the women's room, while the men still bathe in an open-air pool. A 'private' room for elite visitors was also added. The effects of this arbitrary intervention into the private affairs of the community are explored.
3674236|Large-scale vegetation mapping (1:10,000) was applied to obtain estimates of the hydrological properties and dynamics in catchment areas that supply water to the capital city of Austria (Vienna). Vegetation types as defined by standard relev technique, such as alpine grassland, snow bed vegetation, and krummholz were related to habitat conditions. A GIS served as the focal exploration tool. The vegetation units show specific evapotranspiration rates, which were derived from literature on experimental research covering similar vegetation types in the Alps. Additionally, physical soil properties from field data were used to derive the specific soil water balance in relation to the mapped vegetation types. Finally, the hydrological balances for each landscape unit, as well as for the total catchment area, were presented by combining the estimates for evapotranspiration and soil water properties. The consequences of environmental change (forestry, pasturing, and climate warming) are a focus of attention for water management. Predicting general changes in vegetation patterns reveals contrasting scenarios about the consequences to be expected for the water supply of Vienna.
3674150|The east African mountain region provides living testimony to what can go wrong when the traditional balance between people, their habitat and the socio-economic context breaks down. The problems posed by population growth, land pressure, food scarcity, and degradation of a fragile environment with finite natural resources are aggravated by insecurity, civil war and cross-border refugee camps. In the face of these odds, the CGIAR International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) and its predecessor, ILCA, have been working to improve people's livelihoods in Ethiopia since 1974. ILRI believes that the needs of mountain regions can be met sustainably by tapping the potentials of different ecological niches more efficiently, particularly in the area of livestock production. The present paper presents examples of ILRI's development-oriented research and evokes the challenges encountered by research that targets broad development goals.
3674322|This paper presents an inventory of landslides and hazard and risk zonation mapping along the Ro Grande basin in the Central Andes of Mendoza. The mapping was based on field work combined with interpretation of aerial photographs to provide a practical basis for rational land-use planning. Landslide risk zones were mapped, in view of the natural hazards and the degree of loss to a given element or set of elements at risk along roads and routes because of a particular phenomenon of a given magnitude. Landslides occurred in the study area during 2 periods of the year: in spring after snowmelt and in summer after severe rainstorms. A relationship was found between the lithology and the landslides. In addition, the occurrence of a reactivated landslide and the formation of a dam were detected on the satellite images.
mounresedeve.29.1.46|Future economic growth and land development have the potential to produce tradeoffs in which economic values increase at the expense of environmental values. Although such tradeoffs have not been empirically verified in mountain ecosystems, they are likely to exist for an ecosystem containing abundant natural resources and environmental amenities that is undergoing rapid economic and population growth. Quantifying future tradeoffs between economic and environmental values is important because it provides information for natural resource managers and community planners that is useful in alleviating the adverse impacts of future growth and development on wildlife. Such tradeoffs are quantified for Flathead County, Montana, located in the Northern Rocky Mountains of the United States, using the Ecosystem Landscape Modeling System (ELMS). In particular, the ELMS is used for the following: (1) to simulate the extent of the tradeoffs between economic values (ie total output of goods and services) and wildlife habitat suitability (ie extent of habitat disturbance and the degree of loss in habitat security) in buffer zones for 5 protected areas in Flathead County between 2005 and 2024; and (2) to determine whether implementing a more restrictive land use policy than existed in 2005 would reduce future adverse impacts of growth and development on wildlife habitat. Simulation results indicate that future growth in Flathead County increases total output of goods and services, and the resulting land development reduces the suitability of wildlife habitat in the buffer zones. Degradation in habitat suitability can be alleviated by implementing a more restrictive land use policy. The methods used in the study provide a coarse assessment of the tradeoffs between economic values and wildlife habitat suitability in buffer zones for mountain protected areas.
10.2307/3673166|Most earthquake disasters occur in and at the margins of mountain lands and there is an overwhelming concentration of damages in mountain foot, intermontane basin, and mountainous coastline settlements. There is a marked coincidence between regions of recurrent, concentrated earthquake disasters and the concentration of human populations in mountain foot locations, especially in the anomalous predominance of disasters in drier lands. This aspect of earthquake risk is discussed in terms of the nature of the mountain foot or "Basal Zone" ecotones and problems of human settlement. The coincidence of this ecotonal settlement and recurrent disaster is not so much inherent as a product of human activity, some of it long-term but much magnified by the geoecological and socio-economic transformations of the present century. These earthquake issues are but part of much broader problems of mountain land ecology and development. /// La plupart des dsastres causs par les temblements de terre se produisent dans les rgions montagneuses et en bordure de celles-ci; les dommages sont concentrs dans les peuplements situs au pied des montagnes, dans les bassins entre montagnes, et sur les ctes montagneuses. Les rgions sujettes  des tremblements de terre frquents et concentrs concident remarquablement avec les concentrations de population humaine au pied des montagnes; en particulier, la prdominance des dsastres dans les terres sches est anormale. Cet aspect des risques de tremblements de terre est examin en termes de la nature des cotone au pied des montagnes (ou zone basale) et des problmes de peuplement humain. La concidence du peuplement des cotones et des dsastres frquents n'est pas tellement inhrente en tant que produit des activits humaines, certaines d'entre elles  long terme, mais elle est beaucoup renforce par les transformations gocologiques et socio-conomiques du sicle prsent. Ces considrations sur les tremblements de terre font partie des problmes beaucoup plus globaux d'cologie et de dveloppement des rgions montagneuses. /// Erdbebenkatastrophen treten am hufigsten in und am Rande von Berggebieten auf, und die Schden konzentrieren sich fast ausschliesslich auf das Gebiet in den Vorbergen, auf die zwischengebirgigen Becken und auf die besiedelten hgeligen Kstenstreifen. Bemerkenswert ist das Zusammentreffen von Erdbebenkatastrophengebieten und Gegenden mit hoher Bevlkerungsdichte unmittelbar am Fuss von Bergen, wo Katastrophen sich insbesondere in trockenen Gebieten massieren. Die Aspekte von Erdbebengefahren werden unter Bercksichtigung der Beschaffenheit der bergangszone am Fuss von Gebirgen oder "Basis Zone" diskutiert, einschliesslich der Besiedelungsprobleme. Das Zusammentreffen von Besiedelung in dieser Zone und hufig wiederkehrenden Katastrophen ist nicht unbedingt eine Folge menschlicher Aktivitten, die zum Teil langfristiger Art sind, jedoch scheinen die geo-kologischen und sozio-konomischen Vernderungen des gegenwrtigen Jahrhunderts das Auftreten zu verstrken. Diese Erdbebenprobleme sind nur Teil einer viel umfassenderen Fragestellung in der kologie und der Entwicklung von Berggegenden.
10.2307/3673809|The spatial variations of surface infiltration, subsoil permeability, and soil erodibility were studied in a mountain watershed located in the Cordillera de la Costa of the Bo-Bo River basin, Central Chile. The relationships between selected soil parameters and infiltration and permeability rates were established. Infiltration rates of the 0-10 cm surface soil varied from 280 to 0.9 mm h<sup>-1</sup> for native forest and degraded thicket, respectively. The organic matter content was the most important factor correlated with the infiltration rate. Other important parameters were bulk density and silt percentage. The permeability rates in areas of native forest and meadowland varied from 212 to 0.2 mm h<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Slope angle is the only site parameter that showed a significant relationship with the permeability rates. The watershed soils have a wide range of erodibility rates, with values from 0.073 t ha h <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math> in degraded thicket lands, to 0.001 t ha h <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math> in native forest lands where the soil profile has been kept intact. /// Les variations spatiales de l'infiltration superficielle, de la permabilit du sous-sol, et de l'rodabilit du sol, ont t tudies dans un bassin versant de montagne situ dans la Cordillre de la Costa qui fait partie du bassin fluvial du Bio-Bio, au Chili central. Les relations entre des paramtres pdologiques slectionns et les taux d'infiltration et de permabilit ont t tablies. Les taux d'infiltration dans la couche superficielle de 0  10 cm ont vari de 280  0,9 mm h<sup>-1</sup> pour les forts arborignes et les fourrs dgrads respectivement. La teneur en matires organiques tait le facteur le plus important corrl avec le taux d'infiltration. D'autres paramtres importants taient la densit apparente et la teneur en lments fins. Les taux de permabilit dans les forts arborignes et les alpages ont vari de 212  0,2 mm h<sup>-1</sup>, respectivement. L'angle du versant est le seul paramtre de site indiquant une relation significative avec les taux de permabilit. Les sols du bassin versant prsentent une gamme tendue de taux d'rodibilit, avec des valeurs variant de 0,073 t ha h <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math> pour les fourrs dgrads,  0,001 t ha h <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math> pour les forts arborignes o le profil du sol est rest intact. /// In einem Wassereinzugsgebiet des Bio-Bio Flubeckens des Cordillera de la Costa Gebirges, Zentralchile, wurde die rumliche Verteilung der Werte von Oberflchendurchlssigkeit, Aufnahmefhigkeit des Bodens und seine Anflligkeit gegenber Erosion untersucht. Abhngigkeiten zwischen ausgewhlten Bodenparametern und Infiltrations- sowie Permeabilittsraten wurden bestimmt. Die Durchlssigkeitsrate der Bodenoberflche bis zu einer Tiefe von 10 cm variierte von 280 mm/Std fr bewaldete Gebiete bis zu 0,9 mm/Std fr Gebiete mit sprlichem Buschwerk. Der wichtigste Faktor, der die Infiltrationsrate beeinflute, war der Anteil an Biomasse. Weitere Einfluparameter waren die Massendichte und der Sandgehalt. Die Permeabilittsrate von Waldflchen und Wiesengebieten schwankte zwischen 212 mm/Std und 0,2 mm/Std. Die Hangneigung war ein Parameter, der die Permeabilittsrate stark beeinflute. Erosionsraten im Wassereinzugsgebiet variieren mit Werten von 0,073 [t ha Std <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math>] fr Bden mit sprlichem Buschbewuchs, bis zu 0,001 [t ha Std <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math>] fr Urwaldflchen in einem weiten Bereich. /// Se estudiaron las variaciones espaciales de la capacidad de infiltracin, permeabilidad y erodabilidad del suelo en una cuenca de montaa, situada en la Cordillera de la Costa de la hoya del ro Bo-Bo, Chile Central. Adems, se establecieron relaciones entre parmetros seleccionados del suelo y las tasas de infiltracin y permeabilidad. Las tasas de infiltracin variaron entre 280 y 0,9 mm h<sup>-1</sup> correspondiente a sitios con cobertura de bosque nativo y matorral degradado, respectivamente. La variable porcentaje de materia orgnica es el factor ms importante que controla la capacidad de infiltracin. Otros parmetros importantes lo constituyen la densidad aparente y el porcentaje de limo del suelo. Los valores de permeabilidad fluctuaron entre 212 y 0,2 mm h<sup>-1</sup>, en sitios con bosque nativo y pradera natural, respectivamente. El ngulo de la ladera es el nico parmetro del sitio que presenta una relacin significativa con las tasas de permeabilidad. Los suelos de la cuenca poseen un amplio rango de ndices de erodabilidad que comprenden desde valores de 0,073 t ha h <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math> en sitios con matorral degradado hasta valores cercanos a 0,001 t ha h <tex-math>${\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm MJ}^{-1}\ {\rm mm}^{-1}$</tex-math> en sitios con bosque nativo, donde el perfil del suelo se ha mantenido intacto.
10.2307/3673689|The eastern Rif mountains are among the most densely populated regions of Morocco. This is not a recent development but one that can be first related to political and military events at the end of the 15th century: Iberian attacks on the Moroccan coast and the retreat of the urban population from the coastal cities to the countryside, immigration from Andalusia, and the struggle against the Spanish conquerors of Mellila. The severe physical environment, with mountainous topography and scarce and irregular rainfall, is not favorable to agricultural production, and the paradox of this factor and the density of population has provoked several different hypotheses. However, little attention has been given to the impact of emigration, which has been a tradition in this area long before the flow of workers to Western Europe increased significantly in the 1960s. Emigration from the Rif to the region of Tangiers began with the arrival of the Mujahidin (faith fighters), originating from the tribes in the eastern Rif during the second half of the 17th century, who helped to liberate Tangiers from English rule. This Rifian influx became more important at the end of the 19th century and during the severe drought of 1944-45. The patterns of seasonal or temporary emigration towards western Algeria are more recent and, thus, are better known. They probably began around the end of the last century but increased in the 1930s, then ceased after the independence of Algeria in 1956. The Rifian emigration to the Zerhoun mountain area, also beginning in the 19th century, is less well known although it contributed to the peopling of the northern side of the mountain. Emigration from the Rif from early times until present has functioned as a security valve and helped to prevent demographic catastrophes at times when harvests are poor; this is especially so because it is a seasonal or temporary movement. Moreover, although it is the men who seek employment outside the region, the birthrate has not been affected and demographic pressure has been a constant feature. /// Les montagnes de l'est du Rif ont depuis la fin du 15me sicle fait partie des rgions les plus densment peuples du Maroc. A cette poque, les attaques des Ibres sur les ctes du Maroc ont provoqu la retraite de la population urbaine vers l'intrieur du pays, les immigrants en provenance de l'Andalousie sont arrivs et les conflits avec les conqurants espagnols de Melilla ont svi. L'environnment physique difficile, avec sa topographie montagneuse et les chutes de pluie irrgulires, ne favorise gure la production agricole; le paradoxe de ce facteur et la densit de population a donn lieu  plusieurs hypothses diffrentes. Nanmoins, l'impact de l'migration traditionnelle qui a commenc bien avant que le flux de travailleurs vers l'Europe occidentale n'augmente considrablement au cours des annes 60, n'a pas reu l'attention qu'il mrite. L'migration des habitants du Rif vers la rgion de Tanger a commenc au moment de l'arrive des Mujahidin (combattants de la foi) au cours de la seconde moiti du 17me sicle; ceux-ci ont aid  librer Tanger de la domination anglaise. Cet influx de population rifaine s'est amplifi  la fin du 19me sicle et pendant la terrible scheresse de 1944-45. Les modes d'migration saisonnire ou temporaire vers l'ouest de l'Algrie sont plus rcents et donc mieux compris. Ils ont probablement commenc  la fin du sicle dernier, ont beaucoup augment au cours des annes 30, puis ont cess aprs l'indpendance de l'Algrie en 1956. L'migration  partir du Rif, des temps reculs jusqu' prsent, a jou le rle de soupape de sret et permis d'viter des catastrophes dmographiques  une poque o les rcoltes taient mauvaises, en particulier du fait que ce dplacement de population est saisonnier et temporaire. De plus, bien que seuls les hommes cherchent du travail en dehors de la rgion, le taux de natalit n'a pas encore t affect et la pression dmographique est reste constante. /// Seit Ende des 15. Jahrhunderts gehrt der stliche Teil des Rif Gebirges zu den dichtbesiedelsten Gebieten Marokkos, als iberische Angriffe auf die marokkanische Kste die stdtische Bevlkerung veranlate, sich aus den Kstengebieten ins Inland zurckzuziehen, als Immigranten aus Andalusien kamen, und als es Konflikte mit den spanischen Eroberern von Melilla gab. Die unwirtliche Umwelt mit gebirgiger Topographie und geringem, unregelmigem Niederschlag ist fr landwirtschaftliche Produktion wenig geeignet, und da sich dennoch eine hohe Bevlkerungsdichte entwickelte, hat zu vielen Hypothesen gefhrt. Wenig Aufmerksamkeit wurde der traditionellen Immigration geschenkt, die lange vor der in den 1960iger Jahren erheblich zunehmenden Abwanderung nach Westeuropa begann. In der zweiten Hlfte des 17. Jahrhunderts gab es Auswanderungen vom Rif Gebirge in die Gegend um Tanger mit der Ankunft der Mujahidin (Schicksalskmpfern). Sie halfen, Tanger von der englischen Vorherrschaft zu befreien. Diese Zuwanderung aus der Rif Region verstrkte sich Ende des 19. Jahrhunderts und whrend der schlimmen Drreperiode von 1944-45. Saisonal bedingte oder vorbergehende Abwanderungen nach West Algerien sind neueren Datums und daher besser bekannt. Sie begannen wahrscheinlich zum Ende des vergangenen Jahrhunderts, nahmen in den 30iger Jahren stark zu und hrten nach der Unabhngigkeit Algeriens im Jahre 1956 ganz auf. Seit frhester Geschichte bis in die Gegenwart diente die Abwanderung vom Rif als Sicherheitsventil, das demographische Katastrophen in Zeiten, in denen die Ernten drftig waren, verhinderte; und immer nur eine saisonal- oder zeitlich begrenzte Aktion war. Obwohl es die Mnner sind, die sich Arbeitspltze auerhalb des Gebietes suchen, wurden die Geburtenziffern davon nicht betroffen und der demographische Druck ist unverndert.
mounresedeve.36.4.431|Building community resilience is an important topic in the current debate about achieving positive community development outcomes from sustainable place-based policies, especially in mountain regions and less-favored areas. At the practical, grassroots level, however, it remains unclear how community resilience can be effectively included and assessed in local development efforts. We argue that social impact assessment (SIA) can and should play a key role in assessing regional development strategies and proposals and in building community resilience. We present the SIA Framework for Action as a tool to enhance policies, plans, programs, and projects and to assist in attaining appropriate social development outcomes, including community resilience. We demonstrate the value of the framework by discussing its application in a development project in rural Italythe restoration of the Tratturo Magno, an ancient path used by shepherds and flocks for transhumance over centuries. The project,
3674538|Drawn by the rich pre-Columbian legacy of the region, we studied the prehistoric groups of peoples who have settled in the high canyons of Atacama (above 3000 m), on the western slopes of the South-Central Andes, for the past 30 years. The traditional culture of the present-day indigenous Andean population enabled us to interpret the material remains left by pre-Columbian peoples, especially their particular way of understanding and occupying the land, knowledge of its flora and fauna, beliefs related to the sacredness that permeates all aspects of their lives, and their way of inhabiting the landscape that surrounds them. Ethnographic research is a priority in the highlands of northern Chile because the harnessing of water for industrial and urban use has dramatically reduced extensive areas of pastureland, springs, and streams. This progressively restricts the possibility for flora, fauna, and humans to survive in traditional settlements and stimulates gradual, forced migration toward the urban enclaves of the desert. Our research aims to present some aspects of our archaeological and ethnographic work and, especially, to explore ideological aspects related to the mountains in this region, from pre-Hispanic to the present.
10.2307/3672995|The Xizang Autonomous Region covers an area of about 1,200,000 km<sup>2</sup>, forming the major part of the Qinghai-Xizang (Tibet) Plateau, and averaging 4,000 m in elevation. Historically, animal husbandry has been the predominant economic occupation. Since the 1950s, however, agriculture has been extensively developed. Concurrently land-use problems have arisen. The productivity of most of the cultivated land is unstable and susceptible to natural hazards. Necessary responses to the prevailing agricultural instability are proposed: (1) expansion of feed crop and pasture grass production, especially leguminous plants, to occupy 20-30 percent of the total farmland; (2) the planting of native, fast-growing trees around fields and residential areas; and (3) increasing yield per unit area. Overall, the physico-climatic constraints of Xizang must be taken into account. Agricultural production should be restricted to below 4,300 m and to slopes of less than 15 degrees, with a minimum soil thickness of 40 cm and gravel content of less than 20 percent. Adequate water supply must be assured. Finally, increased capital investment is needed. The survey of Xizang's agricultural instability and proposals for improvement are based upon the extensive results of the Comprehensive Expedition to the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau, 1973-1979, organized by Academia Sinica. /// La Rgion Autonome de Xizang, dont l'lvation moyenne est de 4,000 m, occupe une superficie d'environ 1,200,000 km<sup>2</sup>, constituant ainsi la majeure partie du Plateau Quinghai-Xizang (le Tibet). Par tradition l'conomie prdominante de cette rgion est base sur l'levage. Toutefois, depuis les annes 1950, l'agriculture s'est dveloppe de faon intensive. En mme temps se sont manifests des problmes relatifs  l'exploitation des terres. Il existe une instabilit inhrente  la plupart des terres qui sont, par ailleurs, dj prdisposes aux dangers naturels. Afin de combattre cette instabilit agricole gnrale on envisage certaines mesures: 1) accrotre la culture du fourrage et des pturages (et notamment les plantes lgumineuses) jusqu' atteindre 20  30% du total des terres cultives; 2) la culture autour des champs et des zones rsidentielles des arbres indignes qui poussent vite et 3) l'augmentation du rendement  l'hectare. Les contraintes physicoclimatiques doivent tre prises globalement en considration. La production agricole devrait se limiter  des altitudes infrieures  4,300 a et  des pentes de moins de 15 degrs, la profondeur minimum du sol devant tre de 40 cm et son contenu en gravier infrieur  20%. Il faudrait assurer un approvisionnement adquat en eau. En dernier lieu, un investissement augment des capitaux s'impose. Cette enqute sur l'instabilit agricole de Xizang ainsi que les propositions visant  l'amlioration de cette dernire prennent comme point de dpart les rsultats dtaills obtenus lors de l'Expdition Comprhensive au Plateau Quinghai-Xizang, de 1973  1979, organise par l'Acadmie Sinologique. /// Die autonome Xizang Region hat eine Gre von ungefhr 1,200,000 km<sup>2</sup> und bildet den Hauptteil des Qinghai-Xizang Plateaus mit einer Durchschnittshhe von 4,000 m. In der Vergangenheit war Viehwirtschaft die Haupterwerbsquelle. Seit den 50er Jahren entwickelt sich die Landwirtschaft stark. Dadurch ergeben sich Probleme bei der Landnutzung. Die Produktivitt des bewirtschafteten Landes schwankt sehr und ist besonders anfllig gegen Naturkatastrophen. Um der weitverbreiteten landwirtschaftlichen Instabilitt vorzubeugen, werden folgende Manahmen vorgeschlagen: (1) Ertragssteigerungen im Futtergetreide und bei der Heugewinnung; der Anbau von Hlsenfrchten sollte auf 20-30% des gesamten Ackerlandes ausgedehnt werden, (2) Um Felder und Siedlungsgebiete sollten einheimische, schnell wachsende Bume angepflanzt werden, und (3) der Ertrag pro Gebietseinheit mu gesteigert werden. In diesem Zusammenhang mssen auch die physikalisch-klimatischen Beschrnkungen bedacht werden. Landwirtschaftliche Produktion sollte auf Hnge unter 4,300 m und auf weniger als 15% Geflle beschrnkt werden. Die Erdschicht sollte mindestens 40 cm dick und der Sandanteil weniger als 20% sein. Eine ausreichende Wasserversorgung mu gesichert sein. Nichtzuletzt mu fr wachsende Kapitalinvestitionen gesorgt werden. Das Gutachten ber die landwirtschaftliche Instabilitt des Xizang Gebietes und die Verbesserungsvorschlge sttzen sich auf die umfassenden Ergebnisse der Comprehensive Expedition im Gebiet des Qinghai-Xizang Plateaus aus den Jahren 1973-79, die von der Academia Sinica organisiert wurde.
3674176|A live fences project in Ecuador sought to associate the idea of environmental recovery, characterized by an agro-ecological focus, with a perspective on social and economic development. Cultivation of the Opuntia cactus and the cohineal insect (Dactylopus coccus), environmentally and culturally adapted to the region, permitted the recovery of several degraded areas and generated income for rural dwellers, especially during periods of drought. Among the most important project impacts were: recovery of traditional knowledge, cultural values, ancestral skills, and inveterate attachment to communal properties; determination of the ecotones of the cactus for production of cochineal, fruits, forage, and live barriers; recovery of areas eroded by overexploitation and inadequate management; increased sensitivity among political leaders regarding the problems of desertification and the need to support a second phase of the project; decision-making by community-based organizations; and commitment of the community to the activities of the project, based on agreements between authorities, academia, and the community. In 1999, the project was honored with the "Saving the Drylands" Award given by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) at Recife, Brazil, during the Third Conference of Parties (COP 3) of the Convention to Combat Desertification (CCD).
10.2307/3673633|The natural environment and human development and culture are closely related. The basic physical features of relief, climate, and soil and the biological resources of flora and fauna were important factors that influenced early human evolution, expansion, and development. In Latin America, the geoecological features gave rise to horizontal and vertical differentiation. Two examples are examined. In Mexico between 1600 B.C. and A.D. 1500 climatic changes resulted in population fluctuations, varying degrees of environmental damage, and cultivation change from dryland farming to irrigated fields. The system of subsistence of the Callawaya people in Bolivia is adapted to the environment and each family owns land in all altitudinal belts between 3,000 and 4,300 m, so that they are almost self-sufficient and risks of food shortage are minimized. Today, population pressure, on the one hand, and migration to the cities, on the other, have undermined traditional land use. Socioeconomic change in rural mountain areas is inevitable and a balance should be maintained between preservation of traditional, though less productive, systems and the modernization and improvement of the standards of living of mountain people. /// Le milieu naturel, le dveloppment humain et la culture sont troitement lis. Le relief, le climat, le sol et les ressources biologiques de la flore et de la faune ont beaucoup influenc l'volution humaine, l'expansion et le dveloppement. En Amrique latine, les caractristiques gocologiques ont donn lieu  une diffrentiation horizontale et verticale. Deux exemples sont examins dans cet article. Au Mexique, au cours de la priode comprise entre 1.600 ans av. J.-C. et 1.500 ans ap. J.-C., les changements climatiques ont entran des fluctuations de la population, diffrents degrs d'endommagement de l'environnement et un changement du mode de culture, de la culture  sec  la culture irrigue. Le systme de subsistance des Callawaya en Bolivie est bien adapt  l'environnement et chaque famille de paysans possde des terres dans toutes les zones altitudinales entre 3.000 et 4.300 m, de sorte qu'ils se suffisent pratiquement  eux-mmes et que les risques de disette sont minimiss. A l'poque actuelle, la pression dmographique et la migration vers les villes ont branl les modes traditionnels d'utilisation des terres. Le changement socio-conomique dans les rgions rurales de montagne est invitable, mais il est important de respecter  la fois les besoins de prservation des modes de vie traditionnels, bien que moins productifs, et ceux de la modernisation et de l'amlioration du niveau de vie de la population montagnarde. /// Natrliche Umwelt, menschliche Entwicklung und Kultur sind eng miteinander verflochten. Grundlegende, physikalische Merkmale wie Relief, Klima und Boden und die biologischen Ressourcen wie Flora und Fauna waren wichtige Faktoren, die die frhe menschliche Evolution, Ausbreitung und Entwicklung beeinfluten. In Lateinamerika verursachten die geo-kologischen Merkmale horizontale und vertikale Differenzierung. Zwei Beispiele werden untersucht. Zwischen 1600 BC und 1500 AD fhrten Klimanderungen in Mexiko zu Schwankungen in der Bevlkerungszahl, zu Umweltschden von verschiedenen Schweregraden und zu einem Wechsel in der Landbestellung, wobei bisher unbewsserte Felder jetzt bewssert wurden. Das Subsistenzsystem des Callawaya Volkes in Bolivien ist der Umwelt angepat; jede Familie besitzt in allen Hhengrteln zwischen 3.000 m und 4.300 m Land, was sie beinah unabhngig macht gegenber dem Risiko der Nahrungsmittelverknappung. Heutzutage haben Bevlkerungsdruck einerseits und Abwanderung in die Stdte andererseits die traditionelle Landnutzung untergraben. Ein sozio-konomischer Wandel in den lndlichen Berggemeinden ist unabwendbar, und dabei sollte ein Gleichgewicht zwischen den traditionellen - wenn auch weniger produktiven- Systemen und der Modernisierung angestrebt werden, um den Lebensstandard der Bergbevlkerung zu verbessern.
mounresedeve.31.4.343|The endangered tree
mounresedeve.32.2.126|Ladakh presents some unique challenges for development and nature conservation initiatives. Since opening to tourism in 1974, its unique landscapes, biodiversity, and culture have attracted adventure-seeking tourists from all over the world. Tourism, especially in the past few decades, has developed very rapidly, bringing many economic and social changes with adverse environmental impacts. By recognizing the threats posed by unplanned tourism, a number of organizations and institutions working in the area felt the urgency to initiate sustainable community-based tourism projects that would protect the local wildlife and natural resources and offer alternative livelihood opportunities to the local population. The homestay model in Ladakh is designed on the principle of equitable access and hence is available for adoption by households across economic classes. This article uses the particular case of Korzok homestays, implemented by the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF-India) near the Ramsar wetland Tsomoriri, to illustrate how community development needs can be integrated with conservation goals. It elaborates on the evolution of the initiative, some early impacts, and how the initiative might evolve in the future. A general list of recommendations is also presented.
4540650|Best conservation results are achieved when maximum attention is given to local participation through appropriate communication and education. In the western Karakorum, Pakistan-where religious institutions and leaders enjoy the respect of the local communities and the Islamic perception of the environment is traditionally congelation oriented-communication and education regarding conservation were found be very successful when enabled by religious leaders. This article presents examples of conservation interventions attempted with local community groups and traditional institutions. The mediation of local religious teachers enhanced community participation in collecting knowledge about and protecting biodiversity in a region under population pressure. The leaders' support for conservation education and their mediation between traditional beliefs and practices on the one hand, and new insights and trends from the world at large on the other, also made it possible to address conflict-laden issues emerging from the tourism industry in this fascinating mountain region.
3674232|The use of nontimber forest products (NTFPs) in tropical forest management is currently receiving greater attention. Use of NTFPs starts with extraction from natural forests but may gradually be intensified to cultivation of domesticated trees. In order to enhance understanding of the evolutionary processes in NTFP production, this article analyzes the different management systems of timur (Zanthoxylum armatum) production in Nepalese forests. Products of this medicinal plant are regularly traded with India. Four different management regimes on open-access state lands, two different types of community-controlled lands, and private lands are described, each being characterized by a specific set of access regimes, organizational rules for collecting and managing timur, and management practices. A gradual increase in management intensity takes place from public lands to private lands as a result of various socioeconomic and politico-legislative factors. In contrast to earlier Nepalese studies, increased market price rather than increased scarcity was found to be the most important factor inducing intensification. It is concluded that the effects of supply and demand factors on management intensity of NTFPs cannot be generalized; these effects depend on both the management and marketing characteristics of specific NTFPs.
3674277|The Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve (NDBR) in the western Himalaya has a high level of biological and cultural diversity. The Bhotiya community, whose livelihood is highly dependent on local natural resources, inhabits the buffer zone of NDBR. Bhotiya practice seasonal and altitudinal migration and stay inside the buffer zone of NDBR for only 6 months (May-October). A survey was conducted in 1996 in 5 villages in Pithoragarh District of the buffer zone, where Bhotiya cultivate medicinal plants on their agriculture fields. The aim of the survey was to understand the socioeconomics of medicinal plant cultivation and evaluate the future prospects of this practice in promoting sustainable development among the local community. Of a total of 71 families, 90% cultivated medicinal plants on 78% of the total reported cultivated area (15.29 ha). At the time of the survey, a total of 12 species of medicinal plants were under cultivation, of which 6 were being marketed while the remaining 6 were still under nursery plantation for future propagation. On average, a family earns about Rs.2423  376.95 per season from the sale of medicinal plants (Rs.38 = US$1 in 1996). Based on the average productivity (kg/ha/y), we estimated that an average family could earn between Rs.4362 and Rs.86,500 from the sale of medicinal herbs. Encouragement of medicinal plant cultivation at high altitudes in the Himalayas would help to generate better monetary returns as well as conserve these herbs in the wild and preserve traditional ethnomedicinal knowledge among local people.
mounresedeve.36.4.475|Tourismwith its social, economic, and ecological dimensionscan be an important driver of sustainable development of alpine communities. Tourism is essential for local peoples incomes and livelihoods, but it can also have a major impact on the local environment, landscape aesthetics, and (mainly through tourist transport) global climate change. A project currently underway is developing the Austrian mountain municipality of Alpbach into a role model for competitive and sustainable year-round alpine tourism using an integrated and spatially explicit approach that considers energy demand and supply related to housing, infrastructure, and traffic in the settlement and the skiing area. As the first outcome of the project, this article focuses on the development of the Model of Alpine Tourism and Transportation, a geographic information systembased tool for calculating, in detail, energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions resulting from travel to a single alpine holiday destination. Analysis results show that it is crucial to incorporate both direct and indirect energy use and emissions as each contributes significantly to the climate impact of travel. The study fills a research gap in carbon impact appraisal studies of tourism transport in the context of alpine tourism at the destination level. Our findings will serve as a baseline for the development of comprehensive policies and agendas promoting the transformation toward sustainable alpine tourism.
25164032|The new paradigm that emerged in the 1980s regarding rural development was based partially on the belief that land users ought to be more involved in research and development. In the hilly terrain of Kabale District, southwestern Uganda, a wide range of indigenous soil and water conservation (ISWC) practices have been uncovered, both on the hillsides and in the valleys. A partnership between farmers, researchers, and extensionists has validated the effectiveness of two local ISWC methods. Best practice and improvements have been identified, and constraints to ISWC have been highlighted. It has been shown that, on its own, ISWC cannot sustain soil fertility in the long term. Farmers have taken part in study visits outside the field area and this has encouraged the testing and adoption of further land husbandry ideas. A series of methodological steps for such research, development, and dissemination processes has been refined. There is a new focus within the current project phase on the dynamic of farmer innovators. Whatever achievements are made within the spatial and temporal confines of a project, a sustained process can be realized only if the approach is institutionalized.
10.2307/3673268|Distribution of the West Himalayan forest types dominated by Pinus roxburghii, P. wallichiana, and Quercus semecarpifolia is discussed within the pattern of forest distribution in the eastern, humid part of the Nepal Himalaya. All of the principal zonal forests of the western Himalaya are found in the wet eastern Himalaya, where they occur as relict patches on local dry habitats, such as south-facing convex slopes. The successional status of these western Himalayan species changes along the west-to-east gradient of the Himalaya: in the western Himalaya they persist as climax species; from the central to the eastern Himalaya they are pioneer trees in disturbed sites; and in the wet eastern Himalaya they comprise relict patches. The pioneer trees found in the eastern Himalaya are classified into four ecological types according to their nature: the habit pioneer, the habitat pioneer, the undifferentiated canopy component, and the understory component. The three western Himalayan elements discussed in this study are included in the habitat pioneer type. Species corresponding to each of the four pioneer types can be found throughout wet Southeast Asia, including Japan and tropical Asia. /// La rpartition des types de fort himalayens occidentaux, domins par les espces Pinus roxburghii, P. wallichiana, et Quercus semecarpifolia, est examine dans le cadre des formes de rpartition des forts dans la partie orientale humide de l'Himalaya npalais. Toutes les forts zonales principales de l'Himalaya occidental se retrouvent dans l'Himalaya oriental humide, sous la forme de relictes sur des habitats locaux secs, tels que les versants convexes orientes vers le Sud. Le caractre successif de ces espces himalayennes occidentales change le long de la pente d'Ouest  l'Est: dans l'Himalaya occidental, elles persistent sous forme d'espces climax; de l'Himalaya central  l'Himalaya oriental, ce sont des arbres pionniers dans des sites perturbs; dans l'Himalaya oriental humide, elles comprennent des relictes. Les arbres pionniers que l'on trouve dans l'Himalaya oriental sont classifis selon quatre types cologiques, selon leur nature: le pionnier habitus, le pionnier habitat, le composant indiffrenci de l'tage suprieur, et le composant du sous-tage. Les trois lments himalayens occidentaux examins dans cette tude font partie du type pionnier habitat. Les espces correspondant  chacun des quatre types d'arbres pionniers se trouvent sur l'ensemble de l'Asie du Sud-Est humide, y compris le Japon et l'Asie tropicale. /// Es wird die Verteilung der fr den westlichen Himalaya typischen Baumarten diskutiert, von denen innerhalb des Verteilungsschemas im stlichen, feuchten Nepal Himalaya die Arten Pinus roxburghii, P. wallichiana und Quercus semecarpifolia dominieren. Alle wichtigen, ihrer Zone entsprechenden Baumarten des westlichen Himalaya findet man auch im stlichen, feuchten Himalaya, wo sie als einzelne Waldstcke an trockenen Standorten, wie konvexen Sdhngen, auftreten. Die sukzession Stellung der fr den westlichen Teil typischen Baumarten wechselt mit dem Geflle des Himalaya von Westen nach Osten: Im westlichen Himalaya bestehen sie als klimaxarten, vom Zentralhimalaya nach Osten sind sie Pionierpflanzen an geschdigten Stellen und im feuchten stlichen Himalaya kommen sie in einzelnen Waldstcken vor. Die Pionierpflanzen im stlichen Himalaya werden, entsprechend ihrer Eigenart, in vier kologische Gruppen eingeteilt: bliche Pionierpflanzen, ortsbezogene Pionierpflanzen, undifferenzierbarer Waldbestand und Unterholz. Die drei fr den westlichen Himalaya typischen Waldarten, die in dieser Studie diskutiert werden, gehren zur Gruppe der ortsbezogenen Pionierpflanzen. Baumarten, die diesen vier Pionierpflanzentypen entsprechen, findet man berall im feuchten Sdostasien einschlielich Japan und im tropischen Asien.
mounresedeve.31.4.315|Communities living near protected forests rely on these areas to supply fuelwood among other extractive resources. This research was conducted in Kiang'ondu sublocation, within the eastern buffer zone of Mount Kenya Forest Reserve, and it addresses 2 research questions. (1) What is the diversity of fuelwood resources that communities extract from the forest reserve and enrich in their home areas? (2) What are the perceptions of community residents about the opportunities for a sustainable fuelwood supply? Mixed participatory exercises revealed 32 fuelwood plants, native and nonnative, which are acquired from the forest reserve or from people's homes and farmlands. These plants differ by their other material uses, attributes as a fuelwood, and ease of propagation. Use practices and perceptions vary with distance from the reserve, but people are not fuelwood limited at either location. Adaptive resource management can build from a local understanding of fuelwood that enhances conservation practices toward a sustainable supply.
90013239|This study explored the resilience of mountain forests in a protected area in Alaknanda River basin, Western Himalaya, to various disturbance scenarios. The resource dependency of village communities in the Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary Landscape was studied through a questionnaire survey in 10 villages situated along an elevational gradient. Vegetation sampling was done in government-owned sanctuary forests and community-owned forests, both visited by villagers. Forest community composition, regeneration status, and tree population structure were studied to understand the impact of disturbance on forests and their resistance to anthropogenic alterations. Results indicated a reduction in both fuelwood and fodder consumption with decreasing elevation, with villages at higher elevations and located inside the sanctuary depending more on forest resources. Forests showed evidence of disturbance in the form of lower basal cover, mean canopy cover, regeneration, and disturbance-influenced distribution of shrubs. However, despite the signs of secondary succession,
mounresedeve.33.3.332|Mountains and the sea are an ideal combinationnot just for tourists but also for second homes and main homes of people who appreciate the amenities of both types of natural spaces. In the case of the ValparasoVia del Mar agglomeration, the short distance to the Chilean capital, Santiago; access to a World Heritage Site (the city center of Valparaso); and access to the leisure facilities of Chile's most attractive coastal spa (Via del Mar) complement the amenities offered by nature. This paper provides information on the dynamic real estate market and the growth of the commercial sector in this agglomeration. It shows that high prices for domiciles with a sea view have led to new urban development farther inland. Thus mountain amenities are becoming more attractive to people moving to the Pacific Coast; however, the ongoing housing development can hardly be considered to correspond to the objectives of sustainable urban development.
10.2307/3672997|A procedure for the systematic evaluation of the impacts that are to be expected from the construction and operation of hydroelectric power plants on an alpine environment is presented and discussed. This consists of an iterative elaboration of a matrix which confronts all possible impact areas affected by construction and operation of the plant. The natural, social, cultural, and economic environment that could be influenced by the plant is subdivided according to hierarchical principles; the activities are subdivided chronologically. First, the impact areas directly influenced are identified; secondly, the effects on these areas are examined; these in turn are examined for tertiary effects. This procedure is continued until the effects are negligible, or so great that they cannot be tolerated. The generalized procedure does not allow a quantitative assessment which would only be possible if the procedure were applied to a specific case and if it were possible to quantify the individual impacts. The "Environmental Evaluation System" (EES) of the Battelle Memorial Institute represents an acceptable formulation in this direction and allows calculation of a global trade-off. /// Ce procd repose principalement sur l'itration d'une matrice, dans laquelle le systme "complet" des domaines d'influence possibles et le spectre des activits relies  la construction et au fonctionnement du barrage sont confronts. Ce procd repose principalement sur l'itration d'une matrice, dans laquelle le systme "complet" des domaines d'influence possibles et le spectre des activits relies  la construction et au fonctionnement du barrage sont confronts. La rpartition de l'environnement social, culturel et conomique d'un tel dispositif en ensembles et sous-ensembles influencables est effectu selon des critres hirarchiques, l'agencement des activits selon leur chronologie. Dans un premier pas les domaines d'influence directement touchs par les activits sont dtermins. On analyse ensuite quels effets d'ordre secondaire ou suprieur sont entrans par ces changements. Cette dmarche de rpte dans la pratique jusqu' ce que chaque activit induite engendre soit un effet intolrable ou alors un effet ngligeable. Les conditions sous lesquelles le procd diverge ou converge ne peuvent tre discutes que de manire gnrale. La vrification des conditions de convergence doit se faire dans des cas particuliers concrets. Par contre, il est trs important qu'une divergence sur le papier corresponde bien  une divergence dans la ralit! Pour pouvoir passer d'un jugement purement qualitatif  une valuation quantitative des effets, le procd doit tre appliqu  un projet concret, ce qui signifie que les domaines d'influence doivent tre pralablement relevs et valus quantitativement. L' "Environmental Evaluation System" (EES) du Batelle Memorial Institute reprsente  notre avis un bon pas dans cette direction, car il permet un bilan des effets estims  l'environnement. /// Es wird ein Verfahren zur systematischen Erfassung der Umweltwirkungen einer Stauseeanlage im Hochgebirge (Alpen) vorgestellt und diskutiert. Dieses besteht im wesentlichen aus der Iteration einer Matrix, in welcher dem "vollstndigen" System der mglichen Einflussbereiche das Spektrum der mit dem Bau und Betrieb zusammenhngenden Aktivitten gegenbergestellt wird. Die Gliederung der natrlichen, sozialen, kulturellen und wirtschaftlichen Umwelt einer solchen Anlage in beeinflussbare Bereiche und Teilbereiche erfolgt nach hierarchischen, die Aufteilung der Aktivitten nach chronologischen Gesichtspunkten. In einem ersten Schritt werden die durch die Aktivitten direkt betroffenen Einflussbereiche ermittelt. Die festgestellten Vernderungen werden dann in den folgenden Schritten auf Wirkungen zweiter und hherer Ordnung untersucht. Dieser Vorgang wird in der Praxis so lange fortgesetzt, bis auf smtliche induzierte Aktivitten entweder eine nicht tolerierbare oder aber vernachlssigbare Auswirkung eintritt. Die Voraussetzungen, unter welchen das Verfahren konvergiert bzw. divergiert, knnen nur allgemein diskutiert werden. Die Ueberprfung der Konvergenzbedingungen muss im konkreten Einzelfall erfolgen. Wichtig ist hingegen die Feststellung, dass Divergenz auf dem Papier auch Divergenz in der Realitt bedeutet! Um von der rein qualitativen Beurteilung zur quantitativen Bewertung der Auswirkungen zu gelangen, muss das Verfahren auf ein konkretes Einzelprojekt angewandt werden, setzt dieser Schritt doch eine Bewertung und quantitative Erfassung der Einflussbereiche voraus. Das "Environmental Evaluation System" (EES) des Battelle Memorial Institute stellt unseres Erachtens einen guten Ansatz in dieser Richtung dar, und gestattet eine Bilanzierung der abgeschtzten Umweltwirkungen.
mounresedeve.36.4.465|Mountain and upland regions provide a wide range of ecosystem services to residents and visitors. While ecosystem research in mountain regions is on the rise, the linkages between sociocultural benefits and ecological systems remain little explored. Mountainous regions close to urban areas provide numerous benefits to a large number of individuals, suggesting a high social value, particularly for cultural ecosystem services. We explored and compared visitors valuation of ecosystem services in the Pentland Hills, an upland range close to the city of Edinburgh, Scotland, and urban green spaces within Edinburgh. Based on 715 responses to user surveys in both study areas, we identified intense use and high social value for both areas. Several ecosystem services were perceived as equally important in both areas, including many cultural ecosystem services. Significant differences were revealed in the value of physically using nature, which Pentland Hills users rated more highly than those in the urban green spaces, and of mitigation of pollutants and carbon sequestration, for which the urban green spaces were valued more highly. Major differences were further identified for preferences in future land management, with nature-oriented management preferred by about 57% of the interviewees in the Pentland Hills, compared to 31% in the urban parks. The study highlights the substantial value of upland areas in close vicinity to a city for physically using and experiencing nature, with a strong acceptance of nature conservation.
3674580|Despite abundant wild edible plant resources with immense potential for economic development, Uttaranchal, a newly created hill state situated in the Central Indian Himalaya, remains underdeveloped, owing primarily to inaccessibility and poor infrastructure. Development initiatives show little concern for mountain perspectives. Yet the region is rich in resources and underutilized plant species with potential food value, about which there is little knowledge. For the present study, 13 potentially exploitable wild fruit species and 1 semidomesticated species with good potential for exploitation were selected; 6-Aegle marmelos (bael or Bengal quince), Berberis asiatica (barberry), Hippophae rhamnoides (sea buckthorn), Myrica nagi (box myrtle), Rubus ellipticus (yellow Himalayan raspberry), and Prunus armeniaca (apricot)-were examined closely in terms of economic potential. A variety of value-added edible products such as jam, jelly, juice, and squash were made to generate income from these wild fruits, particularly for poor rural people. This was demonstrated locally to encourage people to engage in small-scale village-level cottage industries.
3674339|Why would a telecommunication provider consider investing in telecommunications infrastructure services in remote mountainous areas? Population is sparse; installation costs are especially high given the poor road conditions, the distance from the main grid, and the frequent lack of reliable electricity; economies tend to operate at a subsistence level; villagers are often illiterate and unskilled in the use of even the most basic telecom services; and many mountain people are from minority groups, isolated as much by geography as by their language and culture. Often, too, isolated mountain communities have a disproportionately high population of women, children, and the elderly, on account of the common and ever-increasing out-migration by men of the household for seasonal employment. The women left behind are generally already overburdened with the responsibilities of family and home as well as subsistence farming and microeconomic activities. Why also should governments or donor agencies choose to invest limited resources in information and communication technologies (ICTs) when basic human needs-food, health, clean water, and education-urgently require improvement? How have ICTs ever benefited the poor? This article gives examples of successful ventures in mountain regions.
10.2307/3673618|The hydrological regime of the catchment area of Lesser Himalayan Gaula River in south-central Kumaun is seriously affected by the deforestation of hillslopes. This has caused accelerated erosion, particularly in areas of intense faulting and thrusting, and where human activities have induced drastic changes in the land-use pattern. Responses include the drying up of some springs and the reduced discharge of others. This has occurred in over 40% of the villages of the catchment area. Consequently, there is a decline in the flow of the main Gaula River; the discharge was reduced by 29.2% between 1951-1960 and 1961-1970, and by about 38.5% between 1971 and 1981. The diminished discharge of springs and streams may be attributed partly to lower rainfall receipts in several catchments - the decreases ranging from 9.7% to 76% between 1958 and 1986. Eight types of springs emanating from four categories of aquifers have been identified. The water yield of these aquifers varies greatly. Stream discharge, likewise, shows a strongly periodic annual rhythm, suggesting marked response to rainfall. This implies that only 24% of the rainwater recharges the groundwater that sustains steady year-round discharge of springs and streams. /// Le rgime hydrologique du bassin hydrographique du Gaula, dans la partie centrale sud du Kumaun, est srieusement affect par la dforestation des versants. Cela  entran une rosion rapide, en particulier dans les zones de dislocation et de charriage intenses, et l o les activits humaines ont provoqu des changements violents dans les modes d'exploitation des terres. L'un des effets a t le tarissement de certaines sources et la rduction du dbit de certaines autres. Ce phnomne s'est produit pour plus de 40% des villages situs dans le bassin hydrographique. Pour cette raison le dbit du Gaula principal a diminu de 29,2% en 1951-1960 et 1961-1970, et d'environ 38,5% en 1971-1981. On peut partiellement attribuer la rduction du dbit des sources et des cours d'eau  une diminution de la pluviosit dans plusieurs bassins hydrographiques, de 9,7  76% entre 1958 et 1986. Huit types de sources alimentes par quatre catgories de nappes aquifres ont t identifis. L'apport d'eau de ces nappes aquifres varie beaucoup. De mme, le dbit des cours d'eau est caractris par un rythme annuel fortement priodique, indiquant une rponse marque  la pluviosit. Cela implique que seulement 24% des eaux de pluies alimentent les nappes qui assurent un dbit annuel constant des sources et des cours d'eau. /// Das hydrologische System im Einzugsgebiet des Gaula Flusses im sdlichen Zentralkumaun, Kleiner Himalaya, ist durch Entwaldung der Berghnge stark beeintrchtigt. Dies fhrte zu beschleunigter Erosion, besonders in Gebieten mit intensiven Verwerfungen und Schben, sowie an Orten, an denen menschliche Aktivitten drastische Vernderungen am Landnutzungssystem bewirkt haben. Die Folgen sind Austrocknen der Quellen und verminderter Abflu von anderen. Dies war der Fall in ber 40% der Gemeinden im Einzugsgebiet. Daraus ergibt sich ein Rckgang der Wassermenge im Gaula Flu: zwischen 1951-60 und 1961-70 um 29,2% und in den Jahren zwischen 1971 und 1981 um 38,5%. Teilweise kann der verminderte Abflu aus Quellen und Flssen auch niedrigerem Regenfall in verschiedenen Einzugsgebieten zugeschrieben werden - der Rckgang liegt bei 9,7% bis 76% in den Jahren zwischen 1958 und 1986. Acht Quellarten, die auf vier verschiedene Wasserlaufkategorien fallen, wurden identifiziert. Der Ertrag dieser Wasserlufe ist sehr unterschiedlich. Ebenso zeigt der Abflu der Flsse als Folge des Regenfalls starke saisonbedingte jhrliche Schwankungen. Daraus lt sich schlieen, da nur 24% des Regenwassers das Grundwasser auffllen, was eine gleichbleibende Abflumenge der Quellen und Flsse whrend des ganzen Jahres aufrechterhlt.
3674367|Hundreds of plant species are harvested in the Himalaya and traded at local, regional, and international levels. Recent studies indicate that the annual trade in medicinal plants and related products from the Himalaya amounts to thousands of tons of roots, rhizomes, tubers, fruits, leaves, etc, with an annual value of millions of USD. It is difficult, however, to analyze and understand trade and markets on the basis of available studies, as these do not employ common terminology or methodology. The present paper aims to enhance understanding of the Himalayan plant trade by developing a typology of economic agents. The typology is based on fieldwork conducted in Nepal and India, including interviews with 639 harvesters, 149 traders and 143 wholesalers involved in trade with medicinal plants. These are the 3 main groups of economic agents distinguished. They are further divided into 6 sub-types and 13 specific types. Distinction among economic agents is made on the basis of key features. Basic data on agents are presented. The typology is developed to be applicable across the countries in the Himalayan range.
10.2307/3672993|Rural development - as a goal for enlightened governments in Asia, Africa, and Latin America - stands for a very particular policy. It reflects the attempt to achieve harmonious and comprehensive development of rural areas in the Third World, including the promotion of all relevant sectors and fields of activity. Rural development in mountainous areas is determined by several complementary factors which are only partly applicable to those areas in the lowlands which also require sustained development aid. /// Le dveloppement rural - un but pour des gouvernements clairs d'Asie, d'Afrique et d'Amrique latine - signale une politique bien particulire. Il reflte la volont d'atteindre un dveloppement rural harmonieux et ample dans le Tiers Monde, ce qui inclut la promotion de tous les secteurs importants et de tous les champs d'activits. Le dveloppement rural en montagne est dtermin par un certain nombre de facteurs qui ne s'appliquent qu'en partie aux bas pays qui ont eux aussi besoin d'une aide au dveloppement soutenue. /// Die Entwicklung des lndlichen Raumes - ein Ziel fr aufgeschlossene Regierungen in Asien, Afrika und Lateinamerika - verlangt eine ganz besondere Politik. Diese versucht, eine harmonische und begreifbare Entwicklung in den lndlichen Gebieten der Dritten Welt zu erreichen, einschliesslich der Forderung aller relevanten Sektoren und Aktivitten. Lndliche Entwicklung in Gebirgsrumen ist bestimmt durch zahlreiche weitere Faktoren, die nur zum Teil auf die umgebenden Tieflnder bertragbar sind, die auch eine nachhaltige und langfristige Entwicklung verlangen.
4096452|Upland communities in Laos have the benefit of access to relatively large tracts of land, compared with neighboring countries. Yet these communities use their resources mainly for subsistence production (Figure 1). Adding value to agricultural and forest products remains difficult: replacing products that are depleted in the wild with plantations takes time-often requiring a considerable initial investment in land preparation and maintenance-and there is little capital to invest in technology that could add value to products. In addition, poor road access keeps transport costs high and often it is difficult to store products and benefit from seasonal price changes. Underlying all these difficulties is a lack of information on markets: who are the customers, where are they based, how is the price set, what are the quality standards, how can we process, store, package, and handle products? Market awareness projects in northern Laos are showing that these sorts of challenges can be overcome.
3674630|In July 1979, the world's largest wind turbine was dedicated on Howard's Knob, a mountain overlooking Boone, North Carolina. NASA and the Department of Energy's selection of this site confirmed the wind resource, and the windmill's striking presence above town sparked a great deal of imagination. But a newly elected President Reagan removed solar panels from the White House, and along with them went public investment in renewable energy. Nearly 3 decades later the converging threats of peak oil and global warming are compelling reasons to reconsider the wind in Appalachia. Howard's Knob is a poignant reminder of a comparative advantage that could spawn vital new industries and sustainable livelihoods. Appalachia's coal and timber helped to underwrite America's 20th century growth, but the process left a legacy of poverty and environmental destruction. Most recently, free trade agreements have sparked a wave of unemployment prompting citizens, business, and local government to look for a better way forward.
10.2307/3673164|The responses of animals to possible land-use changes are discussed in the context of two selected ecosystems in the high montane and subalpine belts near Grindelwald in the Bernese Oberland. One study plot is situated within a range of Picea forest, the other includes various meadows. In both communities characteristic birds, mammals, butterflies, and grasshoppers are investigated. On the meadows the numbers of species, particularly of insects, are considerably higher than in the Picea forest, but larger animals, including grouse, which are typical of undisturbed habitats, are lacking. These differences are related to the different successional stage of the two communities. The Picea forest plot is a relatively mature, almost natural ecosystem; the meadow plot is in an early successional stage, maintained in this aspect by traditional land-use activity. The permanent artificial environmental constancy has favoured the development of a diverse meadow-community, virtually of a "pseudo-climax" character. Possible land-use changes will have more severe effects on the meadows than on the forest. Finally some principles for development strategies are introduced. /// En prenant deux surfaces d'tude dans l'espace haut-montagnard/subalpin de Grindelwald (Oberland Bernois, Suisse) nous discutons la rponse probable de divers espces d'animaux au changement de la manire d'exploitation par l'homme. L'une des surfaces contient un typique secteur d'herbe verte, l'autre essentiellement une fort compacte d'pica. Les oiseaux, les mammifres, les papillons et les sauterelles caractristiques des deux espaces vitaux sont contempls. Le nombre d'espces est bien plus lev sur la prairie que dans la fort, surtout celui des insectes, alors que les animaux plus grand, attachs aux habitats plus grand et non drang, y font dfaut, par exemple des ttraonids. Cette circonstance est attribue  l'tat divers de succession des cosystmes compars. Alors que la fort correspond essentiellement au climax, la prairie - sous cet aspect - reprsente un stade de succession prmature, qui a t maintenu par l'influence continue de l'agriculture traditionelle. Les conditions favorables de cet emplacement pionnier, ainsi que son existence  travers les sicles, ont permit aux prairies d'accumuler un grande nombre d'espces, elles sont devenues un cosystme matur et complexe; ainsi l'on peut parler d'un "pseudoclimax". Bas sur le systme actuel d'utilisation, de futurs changements dans l'exploitation vont avoir de plus profonds effects sur la prairie, que sur la fort. En conclusion nous essayons de formuler des directives biologiques pour des conceptes de dveloppements dans le sens de la Stratgie Mondiale de la Conservation de l'UICN. /// Ausgehend von zwei Probeflchen im hochmontan-subalpinen Bereich von Grindelwald (Berner Oberland, Schweiz) werden wahrscheinliche Antworten von Tierarten auf Aenderungen der Nutzungsweise durch den Menschen errtert. Die eine Probeflche umfasst einen Ausschnitt des typischen Grnlandes, die andere mehrheitlich geschlossenen Fichtenwald. In beiden Lebensrumen werden charakteristische Vgel, Suger, Tagfalter und Heuschrecken betrachtet. Die Artenzahlen sind auf der Wiesenflche bedeutend hher als im Wald, besonders jene der Insekten, whrend umgekehrt die an grossrumige, ungestrte Habitate gebundenen grsseren Tiere hier fehlen, z.B. Rauhfusshhner. Dieser Umstand wird mit dem verschiedenen Sukzessionsstand der verglichenen Oekosysteme in Verbindung gebracht. Whrend der Wald weitgehend der Klimax der lokalen Vegetationsentwicklung entspricht, stellt die Wiese unter diesem Aspekt ein frhes Stadium dar, bewahrt durch den fortwhrenden Einfluss der traditionellen Landwirtschaft. Die gnstigen Bedingungen des Pionierstandorts zusammen mit der jahrhundertelangen Existenz erlaubten den Wiesen, eine grosse Artenzahl auf sich zu versammeln und zu einem entsprechend komplexen, gewachsenen Oekosystem zu werden, sodass von einer "Pseudoklimax" gesprochen werden kann. Auf Grund des bisherigen Nutzungssystems denkbare, zuknftige Aenderungen in der Bewirtschaftungsweise werden sich in der Wiese tiefergreifend auswirken als im Wald. Abschliessend wird versucht, im Sinne der "World Conservation Strategy" der IUCN biologische Richtlinien fr Entwicklungskonzepte zu formulieren.
10.2307/3673788|The plant cover of the Polish Tatra Mountains and its relation to the main environmental factors (climate, geomorphology, soils) is described and illustrated with the use of numerous figures and maps. Five climatic-vegetation belts (lower montane, upper montane, dwarf pine, alpine, and subnival) as well as the floral and vegetation units, distinguished according to the Braun-Blanquet school, are described. In spite of the small area (22,000 ha), the Polish Tatra are rich in flora. Over 1,000 vascular plant species, about 450 mosses, 200 liverworts, 700 lichens, 900 fungi, 70 myxomycetes, and about 1,000 algae have been reported so far. The role of the Tatra as a center of Western Carpathian endemism and an important refuge for numerous relic species is emphasized. /// La couverture vgtale des Tatras polonaises et sa relation avec les facteurs environnementaux principaux (climat, gomorphologie, sols) sont dcrites dans cet article et illustres  l'aide d'un grand nombre de figures et de cartes. Cinq tages altitudinaux de climat et de vgtation (montagnard infrieur, montagnard suprieur, pins nains, alpin et subnival), ainsi que les units de flore et de vgtation, diffrencies selon l'cole de Braun-Blanquet, sont dcrits. En dpit de la modeste surface qu'elles recouvrent (22.000 ha), les Tatras polonaises possdent une flore abondante. Plus de 1.000 espces de plantes vasculaires, environ 450 mousses, 200 hpatiques, 700 lichens, 900 champignons, 70 myxomyctes et environ 1.000 algues ont t identifis jusqu' prsent. Cet article met l'accent sur le rle des Tatras en tant que centre d'endmisme des Carpates occidentales et un refuge important pour de nombreuses espces reliques. /// Die Pflanzendecke der Polnischen Tatra und ihr Zusammenhang mit den wesentlichen Umweltfaktoren (Klima, Relief, Bodendifferenzierung) wurden beschrieben und mit zahlreichen Abbildungen und Karten illustriert. Fnf Klima-Vegetationsstufen (untere montane, obere montane, subalpine, alpine und subnivale Stufe) sowie die Flora und die Vegetationseinheiten wurden nach der Schule von Braun-Blanquet unterschieden und charakterisiert. Trotz des kleinen Areals der Polnischen Tatra (22.000 ha), ist ihre Flora relativ reich. Bisher wurden dort ber 1.000 Gefssplanzenarten, rund 450 Moose, 200 Lebermoose, 700 Flechten, 900 Pilze, 70 Myxomyceten und 1000 Algen-Arten gefunden. Es sind unter denen die verschiedenen geographischen, edaphischen und Hhenelemente vertreten. Die Rolle der Tatra als ein Zentrum des Endemismus in den West-Karpathen und ein wichtiges Refugium fr die zahlreichen Relikt-Arten wurde betont.
mounresedeve.31.1.54|With its mandate to work on natural resource management; food security; and livelihoods; and its attention to the social, economic, and environmental dimensions of sustainable development, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has played a leading role in sustainable mountain development for many years. In 1992, the FAO was appointed Task Manager for Chapter 13 of Agenda 21 (Managing Fragile Ecosystems: Sustainable Mountain Development) and acted as the lead agency for the International Year of Mountains in 2002. The FAO hosts the global Secretariat of the Mountain Partnership and, from 2003 onward, has also been mandated by the United Nations General Assembly to lead observance of the International Mountain Day, every year on 11 December. Over time, the FAO has progressively built up a conceptual and operational framework that links sustainable mountain development to forest hydrology and watershed and risk management. This Platform Statement provides an update on the FAO's regular program on sustainable mountain development, watershed management, and forest hydrology, which includes normative work, a strong field program, and support to international processes. Further, it summarizes the latest achievements of the Mountain Partnership.
10.2307/3673444|Soil resources in the highlands of Uganda have the potential for high agricultural production. They offer a diversity of opportunities for human survival. However, due to lack of conservation, productivity has been reduced drastically. Currently, major problems include many types of soil degradation: erosion, leaching, and biological degradation, including the reduction and degradation of vegetation, humus, and soil organisms. Causes include severe population pressure and lack of appropriate strategies for soil management, for policy implementation, and for development planning. To restore and improve soil resources in the highlands of Uganda a positive approach and an urgent attempt to put an end to the above causal factors are needed. A well-planned soils policy is an essential first step. /// Les sols des hautes terres de l'Ouganda sont trs favorables  la production agricole, et il existe donc de nombreuses possibilits de peuplement humain. Nanmoins, par manque de mesures de conservation des sols, la productivit a normment baiss. A prsent, les problmes majeurs consistent en diffrents types de dgradation du sol: rosion, lessivage et dgradation biologique, y compris la rduction et la dgradation de la vgtation, de l'humus et des organismes du sol. Les causes en sont une forte pression dmographique et un manque de stratgies effectives pour la gestion des terres, la mise en oeuvre d'une politique approprie et la planification du dveloppement. Pour remettre en tat et amliorer les sols des hautes terres de l'Ouganda, une approche positive est ncessaire, ainsi que des mesures immdiates destines  lminer les causes ci-dessus. Une politique de conservation des sols bien planifie est indispensable pour commencer. /// Die Bden in Uganda sind potentiell sehr produktiv und bieten verschiedene Mglichkeiten fr das Ueberleben des Menschen. Wegen Nichtanwendung von Konservierungs-massnahmen bei ihrer Ausbeutung wurde aber ihre Produktivitt drastisch reduziert. Gegenwrtig bestehen die Hauptprobleme aus vielen Typen von Bodendegradation, wie Bodenerosion, Auswaschung und biologischer Degradierung von Vegetation, Humus und Bodenorganismen. Urschliche Faktoren dieser Degradation sind Bevlkerungsdruck, das Fehlen einer Bodenpolitik zur Anleitung der Bodennutzung sowie das falsche Vorgehen beim Verwirklichen der Politik und der Organisation der Planung. Die Erhaltung und Verbesserung der Bodenressource im Hochland Ugandas braucht ein positives Vorgehen bei der Lsung der oben erwhnten urschlichen Probleme. Eine wohldefinierte Bodenpolitik bietet einen vielversprechenden Ansatz dazu.
3674369|Planning for recreational activities in protected areas involves an understanding of multiple and complex factors. Segmentation of the recreational supply and demand in natural areas, together with identification of the main conditioning factors of recreational use, are useful for park management. In this study, the recreational supply (trails) and demand (visitor characteristics), as well as some other features of a recreational system, were typologically studied in the Aigestortes i Estany de Sant Maurici National Park (Lleida, Spain). Through the application of a Multiple Correspondence Analysis (when dealing with demand) and Cluster Analysis (when dealing with both supply and demand), 4 groups of visitors and 3 groups of trails were identified. A positive relationship was observed between the difficulty of the trails and the visitors' educational level, sex, and time spent in the park; and a negative relationship between trail difficulty and the age of the visitors, conservationist perceptions, and demand for accommodation (hotels, mountain lodges, etc). Visitors who were inclined to take either the easiest or the most difficult trails (about 65% of all visitors) showed group characteristics with the greatest differences. Suggestions for managers of protected areas are discussed, including direct application of information generated by this approach in the recreational management of the Aigestortes i Estany de Sant Maurici National Park and other natural areas.
10.2307/3673795|Energy management practices in the Imlil region of the High Atlas were investigated, and household surveys determined inputs of food, fuel, fodder, fertilizer, and human and animal power. An energy system approach was used to model and analyze the man-environment equilibrium by calculating annual flows of energy, matter, and money for the Ait Mizane tribe. Resource use is characterized by the presence of disproportionate energy hardships due to historical patterns of extraction, the emergence of compensatory intensification strategies on private lands, and a rapidly expanding recourse to market energy alternatives. The results show the potential of an energy system approach to assess the multiple aspects of sustainable resource management and indicate the need for further micro-level research. /// Les pratiques de gestion de l'nergie dans la rgion de l'Imlil, Atlas suprieur, ont t tudies, et des enqutes auprs des mnages ont permis de dterminer l'intrant de nourriture, de combustible, de fourrage, d'engrais, et de force humaine et animale. Une approche systmatique au regard de l'nergie a t utilise pour modliser et analyser l'quilibre population-environnement, en calculant les flux annuels d'nergie, de matire et d'argent au sein de la tribu des Ait Mizane. L'utilisation des ressources est caractrise par des carences disproportionnes d'nergie causes par des modes historiques d'extraction, l'mergence de stratgies compensatoires d'intensification sur des terres prives, et un recours sans cesse croissant  des nergies de remplacement disponibles sur le march. Les rsultats dmontrent le potentiel d'une approche systmatique au regard de l'nergie, pour valuer les aspects multiples d'une gestion viable des ressources, et indiquent le besoin de recherches additionnelles au niveau local. /// Die Art und Weise des Energieverbrauchs im Imlil Gebiet des Hohen Atlas wurde untersucht, und Haushaltsumfragen bestimmten den Energieaufwand fr Nahrungsmittel, Treibstoff, Viehfutter, Dngemittel sowie fr menschliche und tierische Leistung. Ein Energiesystem-Ansatz wurde benutzt, um das Gleichgewicht zwischen Mensch und Umwelt im Modell darzustellen und zu analysieren; dabei wurden die jhrlichen Energie- und Materialmengen, sowie die Geldmittel des Ait Mizane Stammes bercksichtigt. Auergewhnliche Energieknappheiten bestimmen die Nutzung der Ressourcen. Sie sind Folge der seit langem blichen Extraktion und der ausgleichenden Bemhungen, die privaten Landflchen intensiver zu nutzen, sowie des immer hufiger gewhlten Auswegs, alternative Energiequellen zu vermarkten. Der Energiesystem-Ansatz liefert Ergebnisse, die es erlauben, die vielfltigen Aspekte eines bestndigen Ressourcenmanagements zu beurteilen und weisen auf die Notwendigkeit von weiteren, detaillierten Untersuchungen hin.
10.2307/3673774|Upland agriculture in northern Thailand has been claimed to cause declining soil fertility and to lead to sedimentation and water shortages in the lowlands. Research was undertaken in a Yao community of Chiang Rai province to identify the extent of soil degradation and to what extent physical changes in soil properties were perceived by farmers. GIS was used to classify land susceptibility and the distribution of cultivation in historic times. Historic soil erosion was measured using the Cesium-137 technique. Farmers were questioned to identify the perceived importance of erosion. Results indicate that erosion of between 28 and <tex-math>$64\ {\rm t}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math> occurred on steep slopes during the period 1963-1991; these amounts are consistent with those measured on land underlain by granite elsewhere in the world. Farmers perceive erosion as a hazard and have generally avoided cultivating on steep slopes. In addition, much erosion apparently results from naturally-occurring gullies. Evidence therefore suggests that the influence of upland agriculture on erosion is overstated. However, frequent cultivation is still resulting in declining soil fertility in the uplands. /// L'agriculture des hautes terres du Nord de la Thalande est souvent considre comme la cause du dclin de la fertilit du sol, ainsi que la sdimentation et le manque d'eau dans les basses terres. Des recherches ont t menes dans une communaut Yao de la province de Chiang Rai, afin d'valuer l'ampleur de la dgradation du sol et la mesure dans laquelle les changements physiques des proprits du sol sont perus par les fermiers. Le SIG a t utilis pour classifier la sensibilit des terres et la rpartition des cultures dans le pass. L'rosion historique du sol a t mesure  l'aide de la technique du csium-137. Les fermiers ont t interviews afin d'valuer leur perception de l'importance de l'rosion. Les rsultats indiquent qu'une rosion comprise entre 28 et <tex-math>$64\ {\rm t}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm an}^{-1}$</tex-math> s'est produite sur les versants escarps entre 1963 et 1991; ces valeurs sont cohrentes avec celles obtenues pour des terres avec soubassement de granite situes dans d'autres parties du monde. Les fermiers peroivent l'rosion comme un danger et, en gnral, ils vitent de cultiver les pentes escarpes. De plus, une bonne partie de l'rosion semble provenir de rigoles  formation naturelle. Les faits observs suggrent donc que les effets de l'agriculture des hautes terres sur l'rosion sont exagrs. Nanmoins, une culture frquente entrane le dclin de la fertilit du sol dans les hautes terres. /// Die Landwirtschaft in den Hochlanden des nrdlichen Thailand soll die Ursache fr sich verschlechternde Bodenfruchtbarkeit sein und zu Sedimentation und Wasserknappheit in den Tieflanden fhren. In einer Yao Gemeinde der Chiang Rai Provinz wurden Untersuchungen angestellt, um das Ausma der Bodenverschlechterung zu bestimmen und festzustellen, inwiefern physikalische Vernderungen der Bodeneigenschaften von den Bauern wahrgenommen werden. Die Verteilung der Landbestellung in der Vergangenheit und die sie bestimmenden Einflsse wurden mit der GIS Methode erfat. Bodenerosion in historischen Zeiten wurde mit Hilfe der Csium 137 Methode gemessen. Eine Umfrage unter den Bauern gab ihnen Gelegenheit, die Wichtigkeit der Erosion zu identifizieren. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da im Zeitabschnitt zwischen 1963 und 1991 an steilen Hngen die Erosionsrate 28 bis 64 t/ha/Jahr betrug; diese Werte stimmen mit denen berein, die auf Landflchen mit Granituntergrund an anderen Pltzen der Welt gemessen wurden. Die Bauern vermeiden gewhnlich die Bestellung auf steilen Hngen, um der Erosionsgefahr zu entgehen. Erhebliche Erosion entsteht in naturgeschaffenen Rinnen. Das Beweismaterial lt den Schlu zu, da die von der Landwirtschaft in den Hochlanden hervorgerufene Erosion berbewertet wird. Fest steht, da intensives Bestellen zu verminderter Bodenfruchtbarkeit in den Hochlanden fhrt.
10.2307/3672994|The destabilizing effects of soil erosion resulting from agricultural activities cannot be evaluated by soil erosion process studies alone. The rate of soil formation must be known so that maximum tolerable soil loss for cultivated slopes can be assessed. Two case studies, one in the Ethiopian high mountains and one in the mountains of Northern Thailand, are used to demonstrate the role of the various factors that influence stability. Despite moderate erosion rates, the Simen ecosystems in Ethiopia have suffered the greatest ecological damage through soil degradation processes. This threatens the food security of the present-day inhabitants. Reasons for this can be found in the inaccurate perception of soil erosion as a problem, and in the low soil loss tolerances of this high mountain environment. In contrast, high soil erosion rates on cultivated swiddens in Huai Thung Choa, Northern Thailand, have been clearly recognized by the local people; this is reflected in their shifting or swidden cultivation practices. Recent trends of reduced fallow periods, however, have resulted in accelerated soil degradation. Soil formation rates, nevertheless, are high enough for recovery once fields are abandoned. Use of a soil degradation ratio, defined as the soil loss divided by the soil loss tolerance, was found to be a practical method of evaluating the destabilizing potential of soil erosion in agricultural ecosystems. /// Il n'est gure possible d'valuer les effets dstabilisants de l'rosion des sols qui rsulte des activits agricoles en se servant d'tudes consacres exclusivement  l'rosion des sols. Il faut galement connatre le taux de la formation des sols afin de pouvoir faire l'tat de la perte maximum de terre acceptable pour les pentes cultives. Pour dmontrer le rle des diffrents facteurs qui influent sur la stabilit, on a tudi deux cas: l'un dans les montagnes leves de l'Ethiopie et l'autre dans les montagnes de la Thalande septentrionale. En dpit des taux d'rosion modrs, du Simen en Ethiopie les sols sont trs srieusement dgrads ce qui constitue une menace  la scurit alimentaire des habitants actuels. Les causes de ceci sont double: d'une part, il existe une perception rrone de l'rosion des sols en tant que problme; d'autre part, la tolrance en perte de terre dans cet environnement de montagnes leves est basse. Par contraste, on remarque chez des habitants indignes de Huai Thung Choa en Thalande septentrionale une nette conscience de la nature leve des taux d'rosion des sols qui existent sur les brlis cultivs, ce qui se trouve confirm dans leur pratique de brlis. Toutefois, les tendances rcentes vers une rduction des priodes friches ont eu comme consquence une dgradation acclre des sols. Les taux de formation de sols sont, nanmoins, suffisamment levs pour permettre un rtablissement une fois que les champs sont abandonns. Afin d'arriver  une dtermination du potentiel dstabilisant qui dcoule de l'rosion des sols dans les cosystmes agricoles, on a trouv utile d'employer une proportion de dgradation des sols, celle-ci ayant t dfinie comme la perte de terre divise par la tolrance de la perte de terre. /// Prozestudien ber Bodenerosion allein gengen nicht, um die destabilisierende Wirkung von Bodenerosion in Oekosystemen, ausgelst durch landwirtschaftliche Aktivitten zu erfassen. Es ist notwendig, Bodenbildungs-Raten auf angebauten Hngen zur Abgrenzung maximal tolerierbarer Bodenverluste heranzuziehen. Zwei Fallstudien aus dem Hochland von Aethiopien und dem nordthailndischen Berggebiet werden aufgefhrt, um die Rolle der oben beschriebenen Faktoren zu analysieren. Trotz verhltnismssig bescheidener Bodenverluste weisen die Semien-Berge in Aethiopien grsste Degradierungs-Erscheinungen auf, so dass heute die Ernhrungsbasis der lokalen Bevlkerung in Frage steht. Fehlende Perzeption des Problemkreises Bodenerosion, sowie niedrige maximal tolerierbare Bodenverluste mssen zur Erklrung der hohen Schdigung herangezogen werden. Hohe Bodenverlustmengen von bebauten Hngen in Huai Thung Choa in Thailand spiegeln sich gut in lokalen Anbausystemen von Wanderhackbau als Beispiele umweltgerechter Landwirtschaft wider. Leider wird auch hier wegen krzer werdenden Bracheperioden der Boden zunehmend degradiert, obschon seine Regenerierfhigkeit auf aufgelassenen Feldern gross ist. Die Definition eines Degradierungs-Quotienten von Bodenverlust und maximal tolerierbarem Bodenverlust erweist sich als ntzlich, um die destabilisierende Wirkung von Bodenerosion in landwirtschaftlichen Oekosystemen zu analysieren.
3674436|Global warming is likely to lead to a variety of changes in local climatic conditions, including potential increases in the frequency and intensity of extreme climatic events such as drought, floods, and storms. Present capacity to respond to and manage climatic variability, including extreme events, is an important component of adjustments to climatic changes. In particular, identifying and addressing constraints on local adaptation mechanisms-whether political, economic or social in nature-is critical to developing effective adaptation policies. The drylands of Kenya present great survival challenges to the people living in these areas. The hilltops in the drylands provide favorable climate and resources for adapting to climate change. The present paper examines the role that one particular hilltop, Endau in Kitui District, eastern Kenya, plays in processes of local adaptation to climatic variability and drought. The project presented here investigated how conflict and exclusion from key hilltop resources constrain adaptation among the population groups living around the hilltop, and how these constraints are negotiated, addressed, or even exacerbated through institutional arrangements and development activities.
90001381|Toward the goals of returning the landscape of Jiuzhaigou National Nature Reserve to a perceived natural state and protecting the environment, the Reserve in 19982002 implemented forest preservation policies that included restrictions on forestry, agriculture, and animal herding practiced by resident Tibetans. To document the effects of these land use changes on landscape diversity and on human vulnerability to natural hazards, we mapped and characterized topographic parameters of anthropogenic treeless areas from 1973, 2004, and 2013 satellite images. Results showed that, in addition to a previously documented overall loss of cleared land, the distribution of treeless area elevation, aspect, and slope has changed. In 1973, treeless areas were distributed approximately uniformly across all elevations and a wide range of slopes, but now they are concentrated on relatively flat slopes in the valley bottoms (~2400 m) and high, subalpine elevations (~3800 m). These changes are decreasing the topographic diversity of landscapes people use and likely also decreasing the biodiversity of the Reserve, where plant communities are highly stratified based on both elevation and aspect. In addition, many 1973 treeless areas were located on deep-seated landslides, while many 2004 and 2013 treeless areas were located on landslide deposits and alluvial fans, suggesting that relocation may not be reducing the risk of natural hazards for residents. These effects combine with the previously documented decline in overall area of montane meadows and associated losses to cultural heritage, ecosystem services, and biodiversity.
3674346|This study evaluated changes in land cover in the Chemoga watershed, headwater to the Blue Nile. Two sets of aerial photographs (1957 and 1982) and a multispectral Spot image (1998) were used as inputs to produce 3 GIS-based land cover maps of the area. The results show that during the last 41 years, forest cover increased at a rate of about 11 ha per annum in the 36,400-ha watershed. Woodlands and shrublands decreased between 1957 and 1982 but increased between 1982 and 1998, approximately to their previous levels. Farmland and settled areas gained from the other cover types (13% increase) in the first period but lost around 586 ha (2% decrease) in the second. Grassland and degraded land decreased, accounting for 4.8% of the total area of the watershed in 1982 and 3.5% in 1998, as against 9.6% in 1957. Riverine trees suffered the greatest destruction, shrinking by 79% over the 4 decades; much of this decline was due to cultivation. Marshlands increased in the first period and decreased in the second. A new pond emerged amid the marshlands between 1982 and 1998. Population growth and the associated demand for land and trees was the major driving force behind the changes. This study shows that the deforestation trend was reduced and even partly reversed in the area because local people planted trees as a source of fuel and income. This trend ought to be encouraged through appropriate interventions-in particular by promoting planting of local species rather than eucalyptus-to increase not only economic but also ecological benefits. Indeed, the current state of land cover and its dynamics have environmental implications at the local scale and beyond. Hence, environmental management for sustainable development requires interregional and international cooperation.
10.2307/3673807|Forest destruction in the Lesser Himalayan region of Kumaun presents a serious danger to the sustainability of village communities. The present-day situation results in part from forest policies initiated in the colonial period when neither administrators nor contractors paid much heed to the needs of the villagers. After independence, exploitation of various kinds continued. In addition to Forest Department policies that are directed toward production rather than local needs, the villagers suffer from the depredations of the "Timber Mafia" assisted by corrupt officials. Women, who do most of the labor of gathering fuel, fodder, and water, as well as farming, must travel farther to find many necessities, and suffer a variety of ills. Deforestation has resulted in the drying up of natural springs which has reduced the area of irrigated land, causing a decline in crop productivity. This in turn forces men to migrate elsewhere in search of livelihood. Women are left behind to fill the traditional male roles as well as their own. The Van (Forest) Rajis, a tribal group that relied on forests for their survival, are now on the edge of economic and physical disaster. The dilemma of deforestation faced by planners today results from the fact that no action was taken when danger signals first appeared. Even after the problems were recognized, there was no integrated land management strategy that sought to unify agricultural and forest-related uses. Recommendations are made to remedy the situation. /// La destruction des forts dans la rgion du Kumaun, Himalaya central, prsente un danger srieux pour la viabilit des communauts villageoises. La situation prsente rsulte en partie de la politique forestire applique au cours de la priode coloniale, une poque pendant laquelle ni les administrateurs ni les entrepreneurs n'ont tenu compte des besoins de la population locale. Aprs l'indpendance, diffrentes formes d'exploitation ont continu. En plus de la politique du Service des eaux et forts oriente vers la production au dtriment des besoins locaux, la population a souffert du pillage de la "Mafia forestire" aide par les dignitaires corrompus. Les femmes, qui font la plupart du travail de collecte du bois de chauffage, du fourrage et de l'eau, ainsi que les travaux agricoles, doivent se dplacer de plus en plus loin pour trouver un grand nombre de ncessits, et souffrent d'une multiplicit de maladies. La dforestation a produit un tarissement des sources naturelles, qui  son tour a rduit la superficie des terres irrigues et une baisse de la productivit agricole. Les hommes sont ainsi forcs  migrer pour assurer la subsistance de leur famille; les femmes restent et doivent assumer les rles masculins traditionnels ainsi que leurs propres rles. Les Van (fort) Rajis, une tribu dpendant de la fort pour sa survie sont maintenant menacs d'un dsatre conomique et physique. Le dilemme de la dforestation auquel les planificateurs doivent maintenant faire face provient en grande partie du fait qu'ils n'ont pas ragi lorsque les premiers signes de danger sont apparus. Mme une fois les problmes reconnus, aucune stratgie unifie de gestion des terres, visant  unifier les utilisations agricoles et forestires, n'a t dveloppe. Des recommandations sont faites pour remdier  la situation. /// Zerstrung von Waldgebieten im Zentralhimalaya von Kumaun ist eine ernsthafte Gefhrdung fr den Weiterbestand der drflichen Gemeinden. Die gegenwrtige Situation ist zum Teil Folge der zur Kolonialzeit eingefhrten Forstwirtschaft, bei der weder Administratoren noch Unternehmer den Bedrfnissen der einheimischen Bevlkerung viel Beachtung schenkten. Nach der Unabhngigkeit ging die Ausbeutung auf verschiedenen Ebenen weiter. Neben den Richtlinien des Forest Departments, die mehr auf Produktion als auf Bercksichtigung lokaler Bedrfnisse ausgerichtet sind, wurden die einheimischen Belange auch noch durch den Raubabbau der von korrupten Beamten untersttzten "Nutzholz-Mafia" miachtet. Bauersfrauen, deren Hauptarbeitsaufgaben das Sammeln von Brennholz und Viehfutter sowie das Wasserholen waren, mssen nun auch die Feldbestellung bernehmen. Weitere Wege und viele andere Nachteile mssen von ihnen in Kauf genommen werden, um das Ntigste zu leisten. Entwaldung fhrte dazu, da natrliche Quellen versiegten. Die Folge war eine Verringerung der bestellten Flchen, was zum Rckgang der Feldfruchtproduktion fhrte. Dadurch werden die Mnner gezwungen, abzuwandern, um eine neue Existenzgrundlage zu finden. Die Bauersfrauen werden zurckgelassen und bernehmen zustzlich die traditionellen Mnnerarbeiten. Die Van (Forest) Rajis, ein Volksstamm, dessen Existenz von Waldertrgen abhngt, stehen unmittelbar vor dem konomischen und physischen Untergang. Das Dilemma der Entwaldung, dem die Planer heute gegenberstehen, ergibt sich direkt aus der Tatsache, da sie die ersten Alarmsignale ignoriert hatten. Auch nachdem die Probleme erkannt sind, gibt es keine gezielte Managementstrategie, die landwirtschaftliche und forstwirtschaftliche Nutzungen einheitlich regelt. Empfehlungen werden gegeben, wie die erkannten Mistnden beseitigt werden knnen.
3674237|Protection is of vital importance to human populations and activities in the European Alps. In the short to medium term, failure to manage alpine protective forests leads to intolerable risks for people who live and make a living in alpine valleys. The most important features of a protective forest are its stability properties, that is, its ability to carry out its protective function reliably and continuously and, if this is achieved, its ability to maintain its structure and vitality in the face of internal and external influences. Since maintaining and improving stability properties is costly and labor intensive, the objective of interventions should be an acceptable-rather than an ideal-degree of stability in order to ensure the functions required of the protective forest over a 20-50 year period. Such interventions are collectively referred to as minimal tending. A case study of the Ban de Ville forest in Courmayeur (Aosta Valley, Italy) illustrates aspects of silvicultural planning. Only one third of the Ban de Ville forest was found to be acceptably stable. The main causes of instability were unsuitable species composition, simplified vertical structure and cover, presence of lps typographus and Heterobasidion annosum, and presence of high densities of wild ungulates. Measures to improve stability properties aimed to increase the presence of larch among a homogenous stand of Norway spruce and gradually establish a multilayered, small group structure.
3674203|In the winter of 1911, a massive earthquake-induced landslide in the Pamir Mountains of eastern Tajikistan completely blocked the valley of the Bartang (Murgab) River, a headwater tributary to the Amu Darya River basin. A lake began to grow behind this natural dam and has now reached a length of 60 km. In a worst-case scenario that assumes collapse of the dam, a catastrophic outburst flood from Lake Sarez would destroy the villages and infrastructure in the Amu Darya basin between the lake and the Aral Sea, affecting an area inhabited by more than five million people across a distance of over 2000 km. But local populations in the mountain valleys face further, more immediate and pressing hazards; the annual cycle of rockfalls, debris flows, avalanches, and flooding constantly impinges on human activities. Development assistance is thus needed on a small, participatory scale in the form of enhancing existing local emergency response infrastructure. Moreover, monitoring Lake Sarez and designing an early warning system seem more appropriate measures than extremely costly engineering solutions to stabilize the dam, especially since collapse of the dam was assumed to be extremely unlikely.
10.2307/3673570|In the interpretation of ecological relations problems of understanding frequently occur between scientists or experts educated in the West and the local population. As a basis for ecologically sound environmental planning, one that does not bypass the needs of the population, the ways the environment is perceived and evaluated must therefore also be elucidated. A line of research that sets itself the task of analyzing ethnospecific knowledge of the environment and the resulting behavior of traditional societies can be set within the context of geographical "man-environment" concepts, as well as within "studies in ethnoscience," in particular ethnoecological and classificatory approaches. Two examples of knowledge and evaluation of the natural environment are presented in the following: I) The soils in Gorkha from the perspective of the local population (Middle Hills of Nepal); II) Knowledge and evaluation of the environment among the Chitawan Tharus: the example of the forests and grasslands (Rapti Dun, Churia Range). /// Des diffrences d'interprtation des relations cologiques existent souvent entre la population locale et les chercheurs et experts duqus en Occident. Il est indispensable d'lucider les diffrentes manires dont l'environnement est peru et valu si l'on veut tablir une base solide pour une planification environnementale qui soit cologiquement saine, c'est--dire une planification qui n'ignore pas les besoins de la population locale. On peut dfinir une stratgie de recherche qui vise  analyser la connaissance ethno-spcifique de l'environnement et le comportement rsultant des socits traditionnelles, dans le cadre de concepts gographiques "homme-environnement" aussi bien que d'"tudes ethnoscientifiques," en particulier les approches ethno-cologiques et classificatoires. Les tudes suivantes fournissent deux exemples de connaissance et d'valuation du milieu naturel: I) Les sols du Gorkha du point de vue de la population locale (Moyen Pays central du Npal); II) Connaissance et valuation de l'environnement parmi les Chitawan Tharu: L'exemple des forts et des prairies (Rapti Dun, Chane du Churia). /// Bei der Interpretation kologischer Zusammenhnge bestehen hufig Verstndigungsprobleme zwischen westlich gebildeten Wissenschaftlern oder Experten und den Bewohnern eines ihnen fremden Kulturraums. Als Grundlage fr eine kologische Umweltplanung, die nicht an den Bedrfnissen der Bevlkerung vorbeigehen soll, mssen daher auch ihre Vorstellungen und Bewertungen von der natrlichen Umwelt offengelegt werden. Programmatisch lt sich ein Forschungsansatz, der sich die Analyse der ethnospezifischen Kenntnis der Umwelt und das daraus resultierende Verhalten traditioneller Gesellschaften zur Aufgabe macht, in den Kontext geographischer "Mensch-Umwelt" Konzepte stellen, aber auch den "Studies of Ethnoscience," insbesondere ethnokologischen und klassifikatorischen Anstzen zuordnen. Zwei Beispiele zur Umweltkenntnis und Umweltbewertung werden im folgenden dargestellt: I) Die Bden in Gorkha aus der Sicht der lokalen Bevlkerung (zentrales Bergland von Nepal); II) Umweltkenntnis und Bewertung bei den Chitawan-Tharu am Beispiel des Waldes und der Hochgrasfluren (Rapti Dun, Churia-Kette).
mounresedeve.35.3.240|Tropical mountain regions contain the main headwaters of important rivers in Central America. We selected 2 contrasting catchments located in a mountainous region to evaluate the precision of daily flow estimates based on the Hydrological Land Use Change (HYLUC) and Nedbr-Afstrmnings Model (NAM) hydrological models. A second objective was to simulate the impact of expected climate change for the year 2050 on stream flows and seasonal distribution of rainfall. We studied the catchments of the Tempisquito and Cucaracho streams, located in the Guanacaste volcanic mountain range of Costa Rica, from April 2008 to October 2010. Modeling of discharge using the NAM and HYLUC models suggested difficulties in their calibration due to intrinsic catchment characteristics because of their volcanic origin. The climate change scenario applied in both catchments depicted a strong reduction in discharge. However, the Cucaracho catchment, on the Caribbean slope, is predicted to experience a smaller reduction in discharge than the Tempisquito catchment, located on the Pacific slope.
3674363|This paper examines the changing conditions, including accelerating environmental degradation and the influence of modernism, and the impact that these are having on Tibetan architecture and the Tibetan building tradition. Examples of architectural design and resource management projects throughout the region are used to explore how the cultural significance of building traditions and environmental resource management can provide a methodology to promote preservation of traditional architecture and the natural environment. The issues examined and solutions explored could easily apply to other rapidly changing mountain regions of the world where the deterioration of natural resources calls for a richer understanding of the connection between environmental and cultural sustainability. The growth of ecotourism as an industry in many mountain regions gives greater weight to the issues discussed.
mounresedeve.35.2.171|The broad-leaved Korean pine (
3674268|Andean landscapes are rich with examples of traditional land uses that have proven sustainable over centuries, contribute to biodiversity and other natural values, and are living examples of cultural heritage. These landscapes and the diverse array of values they represent are, however, exceedingly vulnerable. As countries in the region strengthen existing national systems of protected areas, protection of these working landscapes-places where people live and work (Figure 1)-deserves greater attention and requires new and innovative approaches to conservation. Emerging trends in conservation and protected areas management are creating new opportunities to engage local people in the stewardship of the natural and cultural heritage of working landscapes. This type of community-based approach builds on years of experience yet extends conservation strategies in new ways and holds great promise as a foundation for sustainable land stewardship.
mounresedeve.36.3.355|The objective of this study was to determine a reliable and effective way to visually assess pastures under the site conditions that prevail in the Kyrgyz Republic, in particular the mountainous terrain. Such a method should make a visual evaluation of pasture conditions in the field possible and help build awareness among land users of soil and pasture degradation and the need for sustainable use of pasture areas. To this end, the Visual Soil Assessment (VSA) method was applied and verified in a research area in the Naryn district in the Kyrgyz Republic. This process included the application of 2 additional visual site assessment methodsthe Muencheberg Soil Quality Rating and the method described in the
3674444|Using twenty years of statistical data and household survey data from 1998 to 2001, this paper examines the link between socioeconomic factors and conservation of agrobiodiversity in fallow agroecosystems in two small rural villages, Daka and Baka, in Xishuangbanna, southwest China. These communities have long practiced traditional fallow field, or swidden agriculture, which has maintained a high degree of agrobiodiversity. However, we found that the area of fallow fields is dropping annually by 0.008 ha per capita in Daka and 0.001 ha in Baka. This loss seems to be driven by population increase and the loss of fallow lands to rubber plantation, paddy field, and other high-yield, income-generating crops that are strongly affected by market trends and government policy. In addition, many farmers are reducing the duration of fallow and increasing the amount of time that land is under cultivation. The loss of fallow agriculture means a loss in agrobiodiversity, as the traditional variety of crops and plants is replaced by exotic varieties with great ecological tolerance. In Baka in 1999 there were 20 upland rice varieties; by 2001 this number had dropped to 14 varieties. There is an urgent need to maintain the diversity and knowledge tied to fallow agroecosystems. Practical innovations by the expert farmers that conserve agrobiodiversity are particularly valuable and need to be encouraged.
mounresedeve.31.3.220|The present paper focuses on the distribution of
10.2307/3673422|This paper provides an introduction to the 1-6 October 1989 Conference on the Transformation of Mountain Environments. An overview is presented of the evolution of mountain research over the last quarter century and of some of the main lines of organizational development during the same period. The year 1973 was chosen as the starting point because it was the year in which the Unesco Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Project 6 (study of the impact of human activities on mountain ecosystems) was initiated. This is followed by a review of the development and application of modeling as an integral part of mountain studies. The modeling efforts originated with the International Biological Program (IBP), the Obergurgl Models of MAB-6, and their enlargement through Swiss MAB-6 research. Parallel to this were the MAB-Man-at-High-Altitude models, concentrating especially on studies in the Central Andes. Organizational developments include the United Nations University project - Highland-Lowland Interactive Systems, and especially its Himalayan Mountain Hazards Mapping project; the founding of the International Mountain Society in 1980, together with the establishment of this journal; and the establishment of the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development in Kathmandu in 1984/85. These events have led into the ongoing efforts to create an international mountain network and tie in with the work of the Commission on Mountain Geoecology and Resource Management of the International Geographical Union. The interplay between both the theoretical and applied mountain research and the organizational endeavors is outlined. Finally, major future needs are discussed both in terms of the essential requirement that modeling efforts be much more fully developed and that a much stronger international cooperation be attained. /// Cet article fournit une introduction pour le Congrs sur le transformation des environnements montagnards (1-6 octobre 1989). Il donne un aperu de l'volution de la recherche sur la montagne au cours des vingt cinq dernires annes, et de certaines directions principales du dveloppement au niveau des organisations au cours de la mme priode. L'anne 1973 a t prise comme point de dpart, car elle a vu natre le Projet 6 "Etude de l'impact des activits humaines sur les cosystmes", dans le cadre du programme de l'Unesco "L'Homme et la Biosphre" (MAB). L'article passe ensuite en revue le dveloppement de la modlisation et son application  l'tude de la montagne. L'utilisation des techniques de modlisation a commenc avec le Programme biologique international, les modles Obergurgl de MAB-6 et leur extension dans le cadre des recherches de MAB-6 en Suisse. Des travaux parallles, les modles MAB de l'Homme  haute-altitude, se sont concentrs principalement sur l'tude des Andes centrales. Au niveau des organisations, on peut mentionner le Projet de l'Universit des Nations Unies "Systmes interactifs hautes terres-basses terres", et, en particulier, le projet de reprage des dangers de la montagne himalayenne, la cration de la Socit internationale d'tude de la montagne en 1980, accompagne de la naissance de cette publication, et la cration du Centre international de dveloppement intgr de la montagne,  Kathmandou en 1984/85. Ces ralisations ont donns naissance aux efforts actuels visant  crer un rseau international d'tude de la montagne et  tablir une liaison avec les travaux de la Commission sur la go-cologie montagnarde et la gestion des ressources, dans le cadre de l'Union gographique internationale. Cet article passe en revue les changes entre la recherche pure et la recherche applique concernant la montagne, ainsi que les entreprises au niveau des organisations. Finalement, les besoins futurs les plus importants sont identifis, en termes de la ncessit absolue d'amplifier les travaux de modlisation et du dveloppement d'une coopration internationale plus troite. /// Diese Verffentlichung gibt eine Einfhrung zur Konferenz ber "Die Transformation der gebirgigen Umwelt" (1.-6. Okt. 1989). Es wird ein berblick ber die Evolution der Gebirgsforschung in den vergangenen 25 Jahren gegeben und ber die Hauptrichtungen der organisatorischen Entwicklung whrend des gleichen Zeitraums. Das Jahr 1973 wurde als Ausgangsjahr gewhlt, da zur gleichen Zeit das Unesco Projekt 6 "Mensch und Biosphre" (MAB) (eine Studie ber die Einwirkungen menschlicher Aktivitten auf des Gebirgskosystem) initiiert wurde. Es folgt eine bersicht der Entwicklung und Anwendung von Modellen, die ein wesentlicher Bestandteil von Gebirgsstudien sind. Die Modellbemhungen begannen mit dem International Biological Program (IBP), dem Obergurgl Modell von MAB-6 und ihren Erweiterungen durch die schweizer Forschung am MAB-6. Parallel dazu liefen die MAB - Mensch in extremer Hhe - Modelle, die sich besonders auf Untersuchungen in den Zentralanden konzentrierten. Organisatorische Entwicklungen schlieen das Projekt der United Nations Universitt (Hochland - Tiefland Wechselwirkungssysteme) und besonders das Projekt zur Kartierung der Berggefahren im Himalaya ein; auerdem die Grndung der International Mountain Society im Jahre 1980 zusammen mit der Einfhrung dieses Journals und der Grndung des Centre for Integrated Mountain Development in Kathmandu in den Jahren 1984/85. Diese Ereignisse fhrten zu den derzeitigen Bemhungen, einen internationalen Gebirgsverband zu schaffen, und ihn mit der Arbeit der Commission on Mountain Geoecology und Resource Management der International Geographical Union zu verbinden. Wechselwirkungen zwischen theoretischer und angewandter Gebirgsforschung und die organisatorischen Bemhungen werden umrissen. Abschlieend werden die zuknftigen Haupterfordernisse daraufhin diskutiert, da Modellformulierungen kompletter gemacht werden mssen und da strkere internationale Kooperation erreicht werden mu.
mounresedeve.35.4.374|Assessing the impact of threats, identifying favorable growing conditions, and predicting future population scenarios are vital for the conservation and management of threatened species. This study investigated the availability, microhabitat characteristics, threat status, and community associations of
10.2307/3673448|In semi-arid highlands west and northwest of Mt. Kenya, the recent immigrant farmers are facing problems of limited water resources; they originated from densely populated areas with a more plentiful annual rainfall and lack appropriate water conservation methods for the rain-fed farming of their much drier new land. Recurrent crop failure and low production on grazing land show the dangers of lack of water conservation measures. Since 1985 the Laikipia Research Programme has carried out a study on water conservation in two agro-ecological zones (semi-humid to semi-arid and semi-arid). Two small research stations have been established on the most common soil type and typical gentle slope in both areas. The aim is to test the influence of different land-use methods on water loss, soil erosion, and plant production on crop and grazing land. In addition to meteorological records, data are collected on different land-use testplots. The aim of water conservation is both short and long term: short term, for increasing yields in each growing period; long term, for sustaining natural resources such as soil fertility. Therefore, in semi-arid areas the strategy for water and soil conservation must be "produce and protect". /// Les fermiers qui ont rcemment immigr sur les hautes terres semi-arides de l'ouest et du nordouest du mont Kenya doivent surmonter les problmes prsents par des ressources en eau limites. Ils viennent de rgions densment peuples et plus humides, et ne possdent pas les techniques de conservation de l'eau ncessites par l'agriculture dpendante des pluies pratique sur ces terres beaucoup plus sches. Des mauvaises rcoltes priodiques et une basse productivit des pturages signalent les dangers prsents par ce manque de mesures de conservation de l'eau. Depuis 1985, le programme de recherche de Laikipia a effectu une tude de conservation de l'eau dans deux zones agro-cologiques (semi-aride  aride, et semi-aride). Un petit poste de recherche a t tabli dans chaque zone, sur des pentes faibles typiques ayant un type de sol commun. Le but tait d'valuer l'effet de diffrentes mthodes d'utilisation des terres sur les pertes d'eau, l'rosion du sol, et la productivit des cultures et des pturages. En plus des donnes mtorologiques, d'autres donnes ont t collectes sur diffrentes parcelles d'essai d'utilisation des terres. Les mesures de conservation de l'eau ont des objectifs  court terme et  long terme. A court terme, elles cherchent  augmenter la productivit pour chaque saison de production, alors qu' long terme, elles essaient de prserver les ressources naturelles telles que la fertilit du sol. Pour cela, la stratgie de conservation de l'eau et du sol dans les zones semi-arides doit tre de "produire et protger". /// In der semi-ariden Fusszone westlich und nordwestlich des Mount Kenya sind die neu eingewanderten Bauern vor das Problem Wasserknappheit gestellt. Da sie aus Gegenden mit einem hheren landwirtschaftlichen Potential stammen, kennen sie keine wasserkonservierenden Anbaumethoden. Bestndige Missernten und niedrige Produktion auf Grasland unterstreichen die Notwendigkeit derartiger Massnahmen. Seit 1985 fhrt das "Laikipia Research Programme" ein angewandtes Projekt fr Wasserkonservierung in zwei agro-kologischen Zonen durch. Zwei kleine Stationen wurden zu diesem Zweck auf den Hauptbodentypen und geringen Hangneigungen in diesen Zonen etabliert. Es soll dort der Einfluss verschiedener Landnutzungsarten auf Wasserverlust, Bodenerosion und Pflanzenproduktion fr Anbaukulturen und Grasland untersucht werden. Neben meteorologischer Datenerfassung werden Bodenfeuchtigkeit, Abfluss, Erosion und Produktion auf verschiedenen Testflchen gemessen. Wasserkonservierung beinhaltet ein kurz- und ein langfristiges Ziel. Kurzfristig soll die Produktion jeder Anbauperiode verbessert werden. Langfristig sollen natrliche Ressourcen nachhaltig genutzt werden. Deshalb lautet in semi-ariden Gebieten die Strategie fr Wasser- und Bodenkonservierung "Produziere und schtze" und nicht umgekehrt.
mounresedeve.31.3.201|Indiscriminate extraction of
mounresedeve.29.2.153|Many forested areas in industrial countries are exposed to excess deposition of airborne nitrogen (N) and sulfur (S). Biodiversity decline is one of many observed effects. Unlike N deposition, S loads have been decreasing continuously over the last 25 years. In this paper, we evaluated the use of species diversity in 4 taxonomic groups (vascular plants, lichens, bryophytes, birds) as indicators of N and S deposition. Long-term monitoring data from 1992 to 2005 were taken from an intensively monitored site in Austria. Both temporal changes and determinants of diversity were explored. On average, diversity declined from the beginning of the 1990s until the year 2005, but there was a considerable variation among the organisms and the diversity indicators. Few changes in diversity were statistically significant. Strongest changes occurred at the level of single species, as an increase or decrease of their abundance. Factors other than N and S depositionparticularly historical forest management and natural disturbanceswere significant, complicating interpretation of the observed diversity changes. We conclude that species diversity alone is not a reliable indicator of N and S impacts on forests, particularly if few indicator species groups are used and the observation period is short.
10.2307/3672962|Landslides and floods are viewed as serious problems by the inhabitants of a densely populated area on the edge of Kathmandu Valley. Pilot field research indicates a close connection between farmers' assessments of landslide hazards and their land-use decisions. Two opposed tendencies appear to operate, one resulting in a decline in agricultural output and another in agricultural intensification. In the first case, the perception of landslide hazard often leads farmers to shift to lower intensity uses, such as from irrigated (khet) to rain-fed (bari) terraces. In the second, pressing household needs for food lead farmers to make every possible effort to maintain and even expand valuable cropland by adopting all practicable hazard control measures. The field study also suggests that hazard knowledge and control strategies are shared across ethnic and caste boundaries. However, although knowledge is shared, losses are not borne equally. The Tamang who inhabit the marginal lands at the higher elevations are more subject to risk than the Brahmins and Chetris who cultivate the gentler, lower slopes. /// Selon les habitants d'une rgion populeuse sur les bords de la Valle du Kathmandu, les boulements de terre et les inondations constituent un problme grave. Des travaux pratiques indiquent un rapport troit pour les fermiers entre leurs valuations des hasards lis aux boulements et leurs dcisions lies  l'utilisation des terres. Deux tendances opposes semblent oprer ici, l'une qui rsulte dans un dclin de la production agricole, l'autre dans une intensification agricole. Dans le premier cas, la perception des risques d'eboulement amne souvent les fermiers  changer  des utilisations de moindre intensit, par example  des terrasses arroses par la pluie plutt qu' irrigues. Dans le deuxime cas, les besoins domestiques pressants de nourriture amnent les fermiers  faire tous les efforts possibles pour maintenir et mme amplifier les terres de rcolte par l'adoption de toutes les mesures practicables de contrle des hasards. L'enqute a indiqu aussi que les connaissances des hasards et les stratgies de contrle sont partages  travers les frontires d'ethnic et de caste. Cependant, bien que toutes les connaissances soient partages, les pertes ne sont pas assumes de facon gale. Les Tamang qui habitent les terres marginales aux lvations plus hautes sont davantage sujets au risque que les Brahmins et les Chetris qui cultivent les pentes plus douces  des lvations plus basses. /// Erdrutsche und berschwemmungen sind fr die Einwohner eines dicht besiedelten Gebietes am Rande des Kathmandutals ein grosses Problem. Erste Untersuchungen vor Ort weisen auf eine enge Verbindung zwischen der Einschtzung der Erdrutschgefahr seitens der Bauern und ihren Entscheidungen ber Bodennutzung hin. Zwei gegenlufige Tendenzen scheinen zu existieren: Eine fhrt zu einer Minderung der wirtschaftlichen Produktivitt, die andere zu deren Intensivierung. Im ersten Fall fhrt das Wissen um Erdrutschgefahr die Bauern dazu, zu verminderter Bodennutzung berzugehen, z.B. von knstlich bewsserten Terrassen (khet) zu Regen bewsserten (bari). Im zweiten Fall fhren Versorgungszwnge die Bauern dazu, den Gefahren durch alle mglichen Massnahmen vorzubeugen, um ertragreichen Boden zu erhalten oder sogar auszudehnen. Untersuchungen zeigen, dass Gefahrenkenntnis und Vorbeugungsmassnahmen ber ethnische Gruppen- und Kastengrenzen hinaus ausgetauscht werden. Trotz dieses Wissensaustauschs werden Verluste nicht gleichmssig getragen. Das Tamangvolk, das die wenig ertragreichen Gebiete in hheren Lagen bewohnt, ist grsserem Risiko ausgesetzt als die Brahmanen und Chetris, die die tieferliegenden und sanfteren Hnge bestellen.
10.2307/3673515|The available climatological record for Papua New Guinea is studied. Rainfall records are longer, more numerous, and less broken than those for temperature, and frost is clearly associated with periods of low rainfall. Longer records from lowland stations are examined against shorter highland records in order to extrapolate the highland data into the past. A method is devised for identifying anomalously 'dry' years in PNG and is compared to four different measures of the Southern Oscillation. Probable frost-event years are identified from patched-together records of extreme screen minimum temperatures and are compared to the 'dry-year' index. /// Cet article examine les donnes climatologiques disponibles pour la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine (PNG). Les donnes sur les chutes de pluies couvrent des priodes plus longues, elles sont plus abondantes et plus continues que celles concernant la temprature, et le phnomne de gele est clairement li aux priodes de pluies insuffisantes. Les donnes recueillies dans les stations situes dans les basses terres sont compares  celles des hautes terres qui portent sur des priodes plus courtes, dans le but d'extrapoler ces dernires dans le pass. Une mthode d'identification des annes anormalement 'sches' en PNG est prsente, et elle est compare  quatre mesures diffrentes de l'Oscillation Sud. Les annes de gele probable sont identifies  partir de donnes diverses relatives aux tempratures minimales, et sont compares  l'index des annes sches. /// Bestehende klimatologische Aufzeichnungen fr Papua Neu-Guinea werden untersucht. Eintragungen ber Niederschlag, im Vergleich zu denen fr Temperatur, sind langzeitiger, zahlreicher und weniger lckenhaft. Der Zusammenhang zwischen Frost und Zeitrumen von geringem Niederschlag ist eindeutig. Um Hochlandswerte in die Vergangenheit zu extrapolieren, werden langzeitige Aufzeichnungen von Stationen im Tiefland mit kurzzeitigen Hochlandberichten verglichen. Ein Verfahren wird vorgeschlagen, nach dem auergewhnlich 'trockene' Jahre in PNG identifiziert und mit vier unterschiedlichen Mewerten der Southern Oscillation verglichen werden. Aus lckenhaften Aufzeichnungen der Zeitrume mit extrem niedrigen Temperaturen werden 'Frost'-Jahre bestimmt und mit dem 'Trockenindex' des Jahres verglichen.
mounresedeve.36.4.443|Although climate warming is generally expected to facilitate upward advance of forests, conifer seedling regeneration and survival may be hindered by low substrate moisture, high radiation, and both low and high snow accumulation. To better understand substraterelated factors promoting regeneration in the alpine treeline ecotone, this study compared 2 substrates supporting conifer seedlings: rotten downed wood and adjacent soil. Study locations, each with 3 levels of incoming radiation, were randomly selected at forest linealpine meadow borders in Pacific Northwest wilderness areas extending along an eastwest precipitation gradient. Associations among substrate type, seedling density, radiation, site moisture, site temperature, plant water potential, and plant stomatal conductance were assessed. Wood microsites, flush with the ground and supporting Abies spp conifer seedlings, extended up to 20 m into alpine meadows from the forest line. Although wood microsites thawed later in the spring and froze earlier in the fall, they had warmer summer temperatures, greater volumetric water content, and more growing degree hours, and seedlings growing on wood had higher water potentials than seedlings growing on adjacent soil. At drier eastern sites, there was a positive relationship between seedling density and volumetric water content. Further, there was a positive relationship between seedling stomatal conductance and volumetric water content. Our study indicates that in the Pacific Northwest. and likely elsewhere, seedlings benefit from wood microsites, which provide greater water content. Given predictions of increased summer drought in some locations globally, wood microsites at forest linealpine meadows and forest linegrasslands borders may become increasingly important for successful conifer regeneration.
3674049|Much of El Salvador's crop production is in mountainous areas with gradients over 15%. The main crops are shade-grown coffee, sugar cane, citrus and other fruit trees, and staples for local consumption, including maize, beans, rice, and sorghum. The latter are produced on small-scale subsistence farms in mountainous zones (0.3-2 ha per farmer) characterized by intensive use of the soil and a lack of conservation practices (Figures 1, 2). Until now, most rural development projects have used incentives to mitigate the effects of the resulting environmental degradation. Records for Central America show that approximately 86% of soil and water conservation projects use incentives. Nevertheless, it is rare to observe spontaneous diffusion and medium- or long-term adoption of the technologies promoted through incentives on a significant number of farms or larger areas. Most technologies are implemented locally by a few farmers and are abandoned as soon as the project terminates. Therefore, efforts are now being made in Central American countries to institute payment for environmental services (PES).
10.2307/3673060|As part of a hazard mapping and evaluation study of the Kathmandu-Kakani area in the Middle Hills, Nepal, conducted as a United Nations/Unesco project, channel conditions at 43 stations on Thulo Khola and Ghatte Khola have been measured and peak discharges for the 1979 monsoon (a season of approximately normal precipitation) have been estimated. The results show that variations in the channels and the flows they carry in this tropical, high-relief area conform to the patterns established by other studies. This should allow hydrologic concepts and models that are derived from the long records and widespread studies of mid-latitude regions to be used in tropical mountains, where there are few direct observations. Flood hazards in the Kathmandu-Kakani area appear to be limited to those riparian zones which consist of constructed agricultural terraces. Damage to these terraces by channel expansion could provide a large influx of sediment to the fluvial system with consequent downstream siltation. /// Dans le cadre d'un projet des Nation-Unies/Unesco comprenant un relev des zones dangereuses et un tude prospective de la rgion de Kathmandou-Kakani au centre du Npal, des donnes sur le lit des torrents Thulo Khola et Ghatte Khola ont t releves en 43 postes et les dbits de pointe de la mousson de 1979 (une saison avec une pcipitation  peu prs normale) ont t estims. Les rsultats indiquent que dans cette rgion tropicale  haute relief, les variations du lit des torrents et de leur dbit sont conformes aux rsultats d'autres tudes. Ceci devrait permettre d'appliquer aux montagnes tropicales, o peu d'observations directes ont t faites, les concepts et modles hydrologiques drivs des donnes abondantes et des tudes nombreuses sur les rgions de latitude moyenne. Les risques d'inondation dans la rgion de Kathmandou-Kakani semblent tre confis aux zones riveraines constitues de terrasses amnages pour l'agriculture. La dtrioration de ces terrasses par l'largissement du lit des torrents pourrait provoquer un afflux de sdiments dans le systme fluvial et par consquent, un envasement vers l'aval. /// Zur Erstellung einer Gefahrenkarte und zugleich fr auswertende Studien der Gegend um Kathmandu-Kakani in den Middle Hills, Nepal, wurde die Beschaffenheit der Flulufe in 43 Stationen entlang der Flsse Thulo Khola und Ghatte Khola berprft, und die maximalen Abflsse fr die Monsunsaison 1979 (einem Jahr mit durchschnittlichen Niederschlgen) abgeschtzt. Diese Untersuchungen wurden als Projekt fr die Vereinten Nationen/Unesco durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da Vernderungen in den Flulufen und den Wassermengen mit den Ergebnissen anderer Studien bereinstimmen, die in dieser tropischen, ausgeprgten Berggegend gemacht wurden. Damit sollte eine Anwendung hydrologischer Konzepte und Modelle auf tropische Bergregionen ermglicht werden, fr die es bisher nur wenige direkte Beobachtungen gibt. Solche Modelle, die auf langfristigen Aufzeichnungen und ausgedehnten Studien fr Gebiete mittlerer Breiten beruhen, liegen vor. Die Gefahr der berflutung in der Kathmandu-Kakani Region scheint sich auf die terrassenfrmig angelegten und landwirtschaftlich genutzten Ufergebiete zu beschrnken. Schdigungen dieser Terrassen wrden zu erhhter Sedimentzufuhr im Flusystem mit folgender Verschlammung fluabwrts fhren.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r98|     ,     2002 .   ,   2008-2010 .    ,       24   3      - .   ,         2001 .,   ,       ,  1      .                    .                  . ,               ,      ,             . ,       ,           .   ,     ,     ,   ,     ,               .
25164155|This quantitative study assesses the ecological impacts of varying degrees of forest use, describing community structure, population structure, and regenerative capacity of the understudied but much utilized Quercus semecarpifolia Sm. in a mixed oak and Rhododendron arboreum Sm. forest. The Middle Hills of the Himalayas have long traditions of mixed farming, with animal husbandry and agriculture as interdependent components. Major biomass demands come from grazing and collection of fodder and fuelwood. In forested areas lopped fodder is one of the main components, and as elevation increases, so does its importance. Human impact has been used to explain low regeneration of these evergreen oaks. The anthropogenic disturbance gradient spanned from highly disturbed savannalike sites to minimally disturbed shaded sites dominated by rhododendron. The population structure showed a bell-shaped distribution with a pronounced under-representation of saplings throughout the forest. Data indicated the best regeneration in the least disturbed sites. The degree of lopping was the best explanatory variable for the distribution of recruits. Factors preventing trees from surviving the sapling phase may inhibit long-term regeneration more than factors causing high seedling mortality. Results indicate that regeneration of Q. semecarpifolia may suffer to the benefit of rhododendron, which escapes biotic stress due to its poor fodder and fuelwood qualities.
10.2307/3673231|A century of study suggests many common characteristics in the geomorphic nature of high mountain areas. These include important structural influences in the landscape, usually on a variety of spatial scales, and contrasting climatic conditions (often confounded with vegetation distributions) which also exhibit a wide spatial variability. Most high mountain terrain also shows evidence of ancient erosion surfaces as well as that of past glacial action and other, less direct, consequences of late-Pleistocene environmental changes. The resulting landscape is one of high relief and highly variable potential energy. This is reflected in a history of recent erosion by large catastrophic events and a high potential for accelerated erosion where mountain terrain is impacted by man's activity. Such common characteristics suggest that mountain geomorphology be considered as a "regional" component within geomorphology. /// Pendant un sicle de nombreuses analogies de formes et de processus gomorphologiques ont t mis en vidence. Ce sont les influences et les donnes structurales (Tektovarianz) et les variations des conditions climatiques avec l'altitude, qui sont les plus importantes. Les tages climatiques sont visibles dans la rpartition de la vgtation, qui montre une enorme variabilit spatiale. A ct de la dynamique rcente, les stades anciens de l'volution du relief (Reliefgenerationen), par example les restes d'anciennes surfaces d'rosion, les formes glaciaires du Pleistocne et les temoins tardiglaciaires, moins visibles, de l'volution du paysage, ont une grande influence sur le physionomie des hautes montagnes. La dynamique rcente est aussi fonction de la raideur de pente. C'est pour cela qu'on trouve ici des vnements gomorphologiques catastrophiques et aussi une tendance vers une rosion acclre cause souvent par l'homme. La gomorphologie des hautes montagnes peut tre considre comme une composante rgionale de la gomorphologie gnrale. /// In mehr als einem Jahrhundert Hochgebirgsforschung sind viele Gemeinsamkeiten in der Gestalt und in der geomorphologischen Formung der Hochgebirge der Erde erkannt und bearbeitet worden. Dazu gehren neben den wichtigen strukturellen Einflssen und Gegebenheiten (Tektovarianz) vor allem die recht wechselhaften klimatischen Bedingungen, die sich meist im Vegetationsmuster widerspiegeln und die Ausdruck einer enormen rumlichen Variabilitt sind. Von groem Einflu auf die heutige Gestalt der Hochgebirge sind auerdem die frheren Reliefzustnde (Reliefgenerationen). Hierher gehren neben den meist hochliegenden Relikten alter Erosionsflchen vor allem der fossile pleistozne glazigene Formenschatz wie auch die meist weniger aufflligen Zeugen des sptpleistoznen Landschaftwandels. Das Hochgebirgsrelief is so durch Steilheit und durch eine hohe, von Punkt zu Punkt jedoch hufig schnell wechselnde potentielle Energie gekennzeichnet. Ausdruck dieser Verhltnisse ist das Auftreten grerer, katastrophaler geomorphologischer Ereignisse und eine hohe Bereitschaft zu akzelerierter Erosion bei unsachgemen anthropogenen Eingriffen. Alle diese gemeinsamen Charakteristika besttigen, da die Hochgebirgsgeomorphologie als eine regionale Komponente der Allgemeinen Geomorphologie anzusehen ist.
3674225|Many decisions taken during the process of planning conservation interventions in tropical forests are influenced by scientists and politicians. Although local people may be strongly affected by these decisions, there are problems related to external professionals' understanding of how such decisions might affect the livelihoods of local residents. And despite the worldwide move towards more 'participatory' methods, there are still problems in finding ways to consult local people to find out which areas they themselves would like to conserve.
3674601|The Hindu Kush-Himalayan Mountains extend 3500 km, cover 3.5 million km<sup>2</sup>, and include parts of 8 countries. They are home to many spectacular lakes and wetlands, a major source of water and regulators of water storage. Eighty-four peaks above 7300 m and innumerable others over 6000 m are interspersed with thousands of lakes and wetlands, some of which are rich in biodiversity and are home to rare species. Whereas the mountains have attracted attention, there is very little documentation on water bodies in the region. Some lakes are above 5000 m. Conservation of these fragile ecosystems is important, particularly in an era of international tourism, climate change, and megaprojects in the region.
3674609|In the past, transhumant pastoralists in the Indian Himalaya used resources available in various subsystems for their livelihoods. Recent sedentarization of a section of the transhumant pastoralist population resulted in competition with the existing sedentary population for resources in some areas. Resources such as grazing areas and forests are becoming less productive and can no longer cover growing demand (both human and livestock). In the Niti valley (Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve [NDBR] buffer zone), changes in government policies during the past 50 years have produced a land-use system that is not conducive to traditional transhumant pastoralism. The present article analyzes the impact of loss of grazing area on transhumant pastoralism, the current state of monetary return from livestock rearing, and the output-input ratio in terms of energy currencies in villages inhabited by transhumant pastoralist populations and villages now practicing sedentarized lifestyles. Although small ruminant-dominated animal husbandry is providing monetary benefits to local populations, the system is consuming more resources than it produces in terms of energy currencies. The prospects for transhumant pastoralism in the buffer zone villages of NDBR are discussed.
mounresedeve.29.2.169|A static stand density management diagram was constructed for Douglas fir (
mounresedeve.32.4.456|MRI continually explores new avenues to promote global change research in mountains. Since the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) renewed its funding for the initiative in 2010, MRI has pursued its program of global and regional networking activities, synthesis workshops, and new communication modes, but is now going beyond them to investigate more sustained efforts.
10.2307/3673479|The development of second homes that are occupied only seasonally or for periods of leisure is not an unusual phenomenon in countries with a socialistic form of government. In 1981 there were 332,800 second homes in Yugoslavia and they represent an important component of the cultural landscape, especially in the Slovenian Alps where the income of inhabitants is five times higher than the national average. Many of these new homes are in the traditional resort areas but holiday homes are also expanding into what were formerly small agricultural villages. This paper outlines some significant results of a statistical study of the distribution of second homes and discusses changes brought about during the last twenty years. /// La prolifration des maisons secondaires qui ne sont occupes que pendant la bonne saison et les priodes de loisirs ne constitue pas un phnomne exceptionnel dans les pays sous rgime socialiste. En 1981, la Yougoslavie comptait 332.800 maisons secondaires reprsentant un lment important du paysage culturel, en particulier dans les Alpes slovnes o le revenue des habitants est cinq fois plus lev que la moyenne nationale. Ces nouvelles maisons sont situes principalement prs des centres de villgiature connus, mais aussi dans les zones d'agriculture, l o auparavant se trouvaient de petits villages. Cet article prsente les rsultats d'une tude statistique de la distribution des rsidences secondaires et passe en revue les changements qui se sont produits au cours des vingt dernires annes. /// Zweitwohnsitze der stdtischen Bevlkerung Jugoslawiens sind erst seit zwanzig Jahren ein raumbeanspruchendes Phnomen. Die Alpen samt der Adriakste sind die bevorzugten Gebiete fr private, hauptschlich Einfamilienhuser der Besitzer aus Ljubljana - der Hauptstadt der "Alpenrepublik" Slowenien. Rund viertausend Zweitwohnsitze wurden bei der Volks- und Wohnungszhlung im Jahre 1981 in den Slowenischen Alpen registriert. Die Standortfaktoren werden durch den Typ des Fremdenverkehrsortes, bzw. von der Stufe der Deagrarisierung der lndlichen Gebiete bedingt. Die Einflussintensitt und -art dieser Neubauten auf die hiesige Kulturlandschaft ist recht unterschiedlich. In Wintersportorten (z.B. Kranjska gora und Bovec) ist die Zahl solchen privaten Eigentums zwar gross, doch durch Zweitwohnungen in Hochhusern gekennzeichnet. Diese entstanden am Ortsrand (Ghetoisierung?) womit das ehemalige idyllische Dorfbild verloren ging. Die traditionalen Alpenkurorte (z.B. Bled und Bohinj) zeigen eine Vielzahl von Bauten dieser Art. Es berwiegt jedoch das Ferienhaus (ortsblich "vikend" genannt). Man findet sie hauptschlich innerhalb des schon vorzeitig ausgeprgten Ortsbildes: auf Flchen der ehemaligen Grten, oder anstelle ehemaliger Viehstallungen... fters sind sie aber ein Bindeglied der dicht aneinander liegenden ehemaligen lndlichen Siedlungen. Der dritte Typus von Zweitwohnsitzen entstand in peripheren lndlichen Gebieten die seit 1960 stark durch Abwanderungen gekennzeichnet sind. Durch die Zweitwohnsitzbauttigkeit werden lndliche Siedlungen (z.B. im Trenta-Tal) baulich revitalisiert und wenigstens zeitweilig bewohnt. Auf Almen der alpinen Hochplateaus entstanden vllig neue Zweitwohnsitzsiedlungen, die die bestehende Ortshierarchie intensiv beeinflussen.
mounresedeve.32.1.4|The high Alpine landscape is significantly shaped by glacial and periglacial processes. It is sensitive to effects caused by global warming, such as glacier retreat and permafrost degradation. Trails and mountain huts form the infrastructure basis for hiking and mountaineering in the Alps. This infrastructure is a decisive factor for summer mountain tourism. This article presents a classification of phenomena describing the effects of global warming on high Alpine trails and routes. The classification was developed based on an in in-depth study in the Austrian Alps. The examples collected show that in the context of global warming, numerous different types of phenomena can affect both the occurrence of natural hazards along high Alpine trails and routes, and the accessibility of the terrain. Depending on the specific situation, threats and difficulties can increase or decrease. Trail holders have to adapt the high Alpine trail network to these changes. The classification presented here can serve to support maintenance of the Alpine trail network in the future.
10.2307/3673808|Inaccessibility and the high cost of systematic survey have made remote sensing the most appropriate monitoring technique to study the glaciers in the high Central Andes. The sparse information that is available on the glaciers of the Argentine Central Andes is mainly concentrated on the Plomo River headwaters. Through digital processing of satellite images, the positions of glacier fronts in the Plomo catchment were updated for the 1974-1992 period; this completed the mapping of the frontal positions that began in 1909. Digital processing included histogram equalization and normalization, as well as color composites; the images were first geometrically corrected. The results indicate that during recent years most of the glaciers have been advancing, within a long-term trend of generalized retreat. /// L'inaccessibilit et le cot lev d'un lev systmatique font en sorte que la tldtection constitue la technique de surveilance la mieux approprie  l'tude des glaciers dans les hautes Andes centrales. Le peu d'informations disponibles sur les glaciers des hautes Andes argentines est concentr sur le cours suprieur du Plomo. Le traitement numrique d'images-satellite a permis de mettre  jour la position des fronts glaciaires du bassin versant du Plomo pour la priode 1974-1992; cette opration a complt la cartographie des positions frontales qui a commenc en 1909. Le traitement numrique a couvert l'galisation et la normalisation d'histogrammes, ainsi que les composites couleur, les images ayant d'abord t gomtriquement corriges. Les rsultats indiquent qu'au cours du pass rcent, la plupart des glaciers ont progress dans le cadre d'une tendance  long terme de retrait gnralis. /// Gletschergebiete in den hohen Zentralanden werden wegen ihrer Unzugnglichkeit und dem hohen Kostenanteil von systematischen Vermessungen, am besten durch Fernerkundung studiert. Die wenigen Daten, die fr Gletscher in den argentinischen Zentralanden existieren, konzentrieren sich hauptschlich auf die Quellflsse des Plomo. Topographische Informationsextraktion von Satellitenbildern brachte fr den Zeitraum von 1974-1992 die Lagedaten der Gletscherzungen im Plomo Einzugsgebiet auf den neusten Stand. Damit war die Kartierung der Gletscher, die 1909 begonnen hatte, abgeschlossen. Die digitale Daten-Auswertung von geometrisch restituierten Satellitenbildern umfate Eichung und Normierung der Histogramme, sowie der Farbzusammensetzung. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da sich die meisten Gletscher in den letzten Jahren vorgeschoben haben, dies jedoch innerhalb eines langzeitigen Trends des allgemeinen Rckzugs.
10.2307/3673571|The soils of a barley producing area in the Andean highlands of Tungurahua province in Ecuador were investigated for their nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) supplying power. Phosphorus was found to be more limiting to barley production than N, possibly because crop rotations included legumes and additions of livestock manures which maintained adequate N levels in these high organic matter soils. A series of field studies were established in farmers' fields to assess the predictive capability of soil tests for barley yield response to added fertilizer N and P. Of the methods evaluated at six locations, a mineralization incubation for N and soil solution P were best correlated with the relative yield increase to applied nutrients. The estimated critical N mineralization level was <tex-math>$9\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ \text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> to achieve a barley yield that was 80 to 90% of the potential yield at each site when both N and P supply were sufficient. The critical P concentration in soil solution was estimated to be <tex-math>$0.03\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm L}^{-1}$</tex-math>. A multiple regression equation including soil test N and P levels accounted for 81% of the variation in yield across nine experimental sites. Although further studies that include several cropping seasons and more sites will be required to establish soil fertility recommendations, the results from this study indicate the potential for predicting the severity of nutrient limitations on these Andean highland soils. /// Les sols de la rgion productrice d'orge, dans les hautes terres andines de la province de Tungurahua en Equateur, ont t tudis du point de vue de leur capacit d'apport de azots (N) et de phosphore (P). Il en est ressorti que le phosphore est plus limitatif que l'azote en ce qui concerne la production d'orge, probablement  cause de l'utilisation de lgumineuses pour l'assolement et de fumier de btail pour la fertilisation, maintenant des concentrations en azote suffisantes dans ces sols riches en matire organique. Une srie d'tudes a t effectue dans des champs cultivs pour valuer la valeur prdictive de certains tests daphiques en ce qui concerne la variation de la rcolte d'orge en fonction de l'apport d'engrais azots et phosphors. Parmi les diffrentes mthodes values  six endroits diffrents, une incubation de minralisation pour N et la concentration en P d'une solution daphique fournissent la meilleure corrlation avec l'augmentation de la rcolte due  l'apport de substances nutritives. La concentration critique de minralisation pour N a t estime  <tex-math>$9\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ {\rm jour}^{-1}$</tex-math> pour obtenir une rcolte d'orge de l'ordre de 80  90 pourcent de la rcolte potentielle pour chaque site quand les apports de N et P sont suffisants. La concentration critique en P dans une solution daphique a t estime  <tex-math>$0,03\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm L}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Une quation de rgression multiple incorporant les concentrations en N et P des tests daphiques a rendu compte de 81 pourcent de la variation de la rcolte pour neufs sites exprimentaux. Bien que des tudes supplmentaires couvrant plusieurs saisons de rcolte et un plus grand nombre de sites sont ncessaires pour laborer des recommandations concernant la fertilit des sols, les rsultats de cette tude indiquent qu'il est possible de prdire la svrit des limitations de substances nutritives pour ces sols des hautes terres andines. /// In Gerstenanbaugebieten der Anden-Hochtler in der Provinz Tungurahua, Ecuador, wurden die Bden auf ihren N- und P-Gehalt untersucht. Der Phosphorgehalt schrnkte den Gerstenanbau mehr ein als der Stickstoff-(Nitrogen-)Gehalt weil, mglicherweise, die Wechselwirtschaft mit Gemseanbau und die Anwendung von Tierdnger fr ausreichende N-Substanz in diesen hochgradig organischen Bden sorgen. Auf bestelltem Land wurden Untersuchungen vor Ort durchgefhrt, um die Vorhersagechancen von Bodenuntersuchungen fr Ertragsverbesserungen beim Gerstenanbau durch zustzlich verwendeten N- und P-haltigen Kunstdnger abzuschtzen. Von an sechs Orten gewonnenen Ergebnissen waren die beiden Analysiermethoden "Mineralausfllung" fr N und "Bodenlsung" fr P am besten korreliert mit dem relativen Ertragszuwachs bei Zusatzdngung. Der abgeschtzte, kritische N-Mineralisationsgehalt betrug <tex-math>$9\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ \text{Tag}^{-1}$</tex-math> - damit wurden, unter der Bedingung, da die N- und P-Zugaben ausreichend waren, Gerstenertrge erreicht, die 80-90% der an jedem Untersuchungsort mglichen Werte entsprachen. Der kritische P-Bodenlsungwert wurde auf <tex-math>$0,03\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm L}^{-1}$</tex-math> abgeschtzt. Eine auf Testwerten fr N- und P-Konzentration basierende Annherungsgleichung beschrieb 81% der Flle von Ertragsunterschieden an neun Orten. Vorhersagen des Bodenertrags erfordern umfassendere Untersuchungen, die mehrere Erntezeiten und unterschiedliche Lagen bercksichtigen; dennoch zeigen die Ergebnisse dieser Studie die Grundlagen auf, die notwendig sind, Ertrge in den Anden-Hochtlern mit Hilfe von Grenzwerten der Bodennhrstoffe vorherzusagen.
3674479|The Maloti-Drakensberg bioregion is the highest part of the southern African grassland biome shared by the Kingdom of Lesotho and South Africa. This bioregion is dominated by the Maloti-Drakensberg mountain range, which forms the eastern boundary between Lesotho and 3 of South Africa's provinces, namely, the Orange Free State, Kwa-Zulu/Natal, and the Eastern Cape. The combination of topographical, geological, altitudinal, and climatic variations has resulted in a dramatic landscape characterized by extraordinary natural beauty and rich biodiversity. Although the alpine and subalpine grassland vegetation types in the region are relatively well conserved in relation to other grassland types in the biome, they have been severely affected by a combination of injudicious range management regimes, the spread of alien plants, the establishment of agricultural monocultures, poor infrastructure development and maintenance, and the political engineering of human demographics. Because these grasslands form the most important component of the bioregion's ecosystems and related services such as maintenance of water catchment integrity, it is critical to derive innovative strategies that ensure sustainable solutions to the problems affecting them. The Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Program seeks to find natural resource and conservation management solutions by integrating biodiversity conservation and socioeconomic growth strategies.
10.2307/3673604|Space-use patterns and rhythms of daily activity of cattle and sheep summering in the Western Pyrenees are described and the ecological factors that affect them are discussed. Differences among ruminants in relation to fiber tolerance and protein needs determine the preferred grazing areas. These and other morpho-physiological features (such as body size) lead to spatial stratification of animals along mountain slopes. Cattle need a high volume of forage intake so they graze on the lower ranges where availability is greatest and they avoid steep slopes and rocky outcrops. The pattern of space use by cattle throughout the summer season follows a concentration-expansion-concentration sequence determined by forage abundance and availability. The distribution of grazing cattle is affected by plant cover and the resting distribution by flatness and proximity to water. The grazing distribution of sheep is determined by shepherd strategy to allow the flock to benefit continually from optimum grass production. Bimodal distribution of daily grazing behavior occurs in both cattle and sheep activity. Two peaks of maximum grazing occur, in early morning and at evening, but that trend may vary according to environmental conditions, especially temperature. /// Cet article dcrit les diagrammes d'utilisation de l'espace et les rythmes de l'actvit quotidienne des bovins et des moutons qui sjournent en t dans les Pyrnes occidentales, et examine les facteurs cologiques qui les affectent. Les diffrences parmi les ruminants en ce qui concerne la tolrance aux fibres et les besoins en protines dterminent les zones de paissance favorites. Ces diffrences ainsi que d'autres caractristiques morpho-physiologiques (telles que la taille du corps) entranent une stratification spatiale des animaux sur les versants de montagnes. Les bovins ncessitent de grosses quantits de fourrage et ils paissent donc dans les pturages  plus basse altitude, l o ils trouvent plus de fourrage et vitent les pentes raides et les affleurements roucheux. Le diagramme d'utilisation de l'espace par les bovins au cours de l't suit la squence concentration-expansion-concentration dtermine par l'abondance et la disponibilit du fourrage. La rpartition spatiale des bovins en paissance est affecte par la couverture vgtale et celle des bovins au repos par la planit du terrain et la proximit de l'eau. La rpartition des moutons est dtermine par la stratgie des bergers qui consiste  permettre au troupeau de bnficier continuellement de la production optimale d'herbe. La rpartition bimodale du comportement journalier en matire de paissance se manifeste  la fois dans l'activit des bovins et des moutons. Deux pointes de paissance maximale se produisent, tt le matin et le soir, mais cette tendance peut varier selon les conditions environnementales, en particulier la temprature. /// In dieser Verffentlichung werden Flchennutzung und tgliche Weideroutine beim bersommern der Rinder- und Schafherden in den westlichen Pyrenen beschrieben. Die kologischen Faktoren, die beides beeinflussen, werden diskutiert. Die von Wiederkuern bevorzugten Weidepltze ergeben sich aus artspezifischen Unterschieden in Fasertoleranz und Proteinbedrfniss. Diese und zustzliche morpho-physiologische Eigenheiten (z.B. Krpergre) fhren zu rumlicher, hauptschlich horizontaler Verteilung der Tiere entlang der Berghnge. Rinder brauchen groe Futtermengen, daher weiden sie auf niedriger gelegenen Flchen, wo reichlich Futter zur Verfgung steht, whrend steile Hnge und Felsen gemieden werden. Die Flchennutzung whrend des Sommers folgt einem ausgeprgten Verhaltensmuster der Tiere, die sich versammeln, verteilen, und wieder zusammenkommen, je nach Futtermenge und -verfgbarkeit. Die Art and Weise, in der sich weidende Rinder verteilen, hngt vom Pflanzenbewuchs ab; whren Ebenheit des Gelndes und Wassernhe die Ruhepltze bestimmen. Die Verteilung weidender Schafe wird durch die Fhrung der Schfer bestimmt, die darauf achten, da die Herde stndig optimalen Bewuchs vorfindet. Die ueren Verhltnisse bestimmen bimodale Verteilungen im tglichen Weideverhalten der Rinder und Schafe. Es gibt zwei besonders intensive Weidezeiten: Am frhen Morgen und am Abend, jedoch kann sich dies je nach Umweltbedingungen, insbesondere der Temperatur, ndern. /// Se describen los usos del espacio y los ritmos de actividad del ganado vacuno y el ovino durante el verano en los Pirineos Occidentales, al mismo tiempo que se especula sobre los factores ecolgicos que rigen tales utilizaciones. Las diferencias de tolerancia entre rumiantes, respecto a la fibra y por otro lado las necesidades de nitrgeno, inciden en las preferencias por las reas pastorales. Los indicados y otros aspectos, morfofisiolgicos, tales la talla, priman en la distribucin altitudinal y topogrfica del espacio utilizado en ladera. El vacuno requiere gran volumen forrajero y por ello pasta en depresiones, donde tales recursos alcanzan valores mximos de disponibilidad, evitando en cambio, pendientes acusadas y crestones rocosos. El vacuno durante su permanencia en estivas sigue una pauta estacional de: concentracin - expansin - concentracin, consecuencia de las disponibilidades forrajeras. Sobre la distribucin del vacuno en pasto incide la densidad de la hierba; mientras reposa en cambio, elige superficies suaves y proximidad al agua. La distribucin del ovino en pasto queda en manos del pastor. Una conduccin correcta del rebao, permite la utilizacin ptima de la produccin herbcea. En la actividad de ambas especies - vacuno y ovino - se observa comportamiento bimodal diario. Se manifiestan as dos picos de mxima actividad pastoral: por la maana temprano y al anochecer; sin embargo, dicha tendencia vara de acuerdo con las condiciones ambientales; muy especialmente la temperatura.
25578204|This article considers the effects of forests on the hydrology of a Mediterranean mountain area. Variations of climate factors, discharge, interception, and water table depth in the San Salvador forested experimental catchment in the Central Spanish Pyrenees were studied and the results compared with those from two deforested catchments. The hydrological response of the San Salvador catchment had the following properties: 1) it had both smaller peak flows and smaller low flows than the deforested catchments; 2) most rainstorm events produced almost no discharge response; 3) the intensity of precipitation had no influence on the magnitude of peak flows; and 4) depth to the water table was the most important factor in the relationship between precipitation and discharge. These results confirm that forest conservation reduces floods and soil erosion, particularly on steep slopes.
3674503|The District Roads Support Program (DRSP) in Tanzania has been addressing a long-standing problem of accessibility to the fertile and productive Uluguru mountains in the Morogoro region. Challenges are technical (steepness of slopes and wet climate), financial (lack of national resources and high maintenance costs), and social (ensuring that improved access to markets will benefit all social groups). Project support has focused on addressing all of these issues: it has introduced soil stabilization and alternative pavement methods, helped construct a new type of pedestrian bridge, promoted low-cost and durable road improvement involving the local population, taken into account the whole area instead of focusing only on a few roads, provided reliable access to markets in the region and outside markets, supported income generating activities for the poor, as well as disseminated information about the spreading and prevention of HIV/AIDS.
3674526|The catchment area of the Nile-the longest river in the world at 6695 km-links 10 African countries: Egypt, Sudan, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, and Tanzania (Figure 1). A treaty regulating water use was signed in 1929 (revised in 1959) between Egypt and Sudan, which greatly favors Egypt. But more and more water is being claimed by countries upstream. Altogether, some 300 million people share the water of the Nile. The question of use represents an enormous potential for conflict, and water issues are now being addressed by the Nile Basin Initiative.
3674489|As a follow-up to the International Year of Ecotourism (IYE 2002) and the International Year of Mountains (IYM 2002), scholars and practitioners need to continue to address the challenges inherent in building pilgrim tourism on principles of sustainable tourism that reconcile cultural, developmental, conservational, and commercial interests. This article begins by reasoning that the increasing use of mechanical transport to pilgrim sites in the Central Himalayas erodes the cultural notions that have underpinned the Himalayan pilgrimage for centuries. Then, it seeks to demonstrate in two respects the relevance of insights into how sacred journeying interconnects persons, places, and time. The first insight concerns the travel patterns of and income potential from pleasure and pilgrim tourists in Nepal in the current situation of unstable national and international security. The second insight relates to local perceptions of sociocultural, economic, and environmental risks involved in the opening of cable car service to a famed pilgrimage site in Nepal. Finally, the article reasons that the cultural dimension must be included as a crosscutting concern in environmental, social, and economic impact assessments of transport projects to heritage sites. The study uses a combination of qualitative ethnographic methods, traffic and sociodemographic surveys, as well as official tourism statistics.
mounresedeve.35.1.57|Families living on transhumance farms (Stufenbetriebe) in the Swiss Alps may move with their cattle up to 12 times a year between as many as 4 altitudinal levels. Transhumance farms have come under increasing political pressure to improve their economic performance, which has been hampered by a number of factors, such as rising infrastructure costs for meeting animal welfare regulations at multiple farm locations, lack of access roads, and restrictions on the creation of new transhumance farms. Little is known about transhumant farming practices and the role they play in mountain regions. In this exploratory anthropological study, we interviewed 39 transhumance farm family members in 7 Swiss cantons about their history, present situation, and visions of the future. A special focus was the risk perceptions upon which decisions and management strategies are based. The semistructured interviews were analyzed according to principles of content analysis and risk network analysis, with a focus on social, cultural, economic, and political risks as well as natural hazards. The results show that many transhumance farms are undergoing a process of adaptation to a changing social, political, economic, environmental, and cultural context. Transhumance farming has allowed individuals to survive as mountain farmers despite often difficult conditions. This study offers important insights into the risk perceptions and strategies of adaptation to ongoing changes developed by the families on these farms.
mounresedeve.31.2.78|A landscape simulation was designed and tested in Viengkham, a mountainous district in the north of Lao PDR. This social learning process was introduced by researchers affiliated with national research institutions to improve land use planning practices and increase the ownership of local people in the planning process. Twelve members of the village land management committees participated in the role play called PLUP Fiction, which is part of a stepwise process of participatory land use planning (PLUP). This article introduces the principles of land zoning, the sequence of events presented during the role play session, and the lessons learned from a series of experiments conducted in remote upland villages. The villagers gained an increased understanding of the issues at stake during a zoning process, thus demonstrating the relevance of this learning simulation tool. They were able to explore different zoning options, assess their respective advantages and constraints, and gradually improve their understanding of the consequences of land zoning on the environmental and economic values of the resulting landscape. The villagers also felt empowered by their newly acquired knowledge and well disposed toward negotiations to improve their current land use through more realistic plans. Long-term environmental concerns (ie biodiversity and carbon values) were fully integrated with shorter-term economic considerations in the collective decision-making process. Furthermore, PLUP Fiction has become a key tool for fully involving local communities in Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) through negotiations that are taking place during a land use planning process.
10.2307/3673141|Spruce-fir forest is widespread in Eurasia and is characterized by the genera Abies and Picea. The distribution of this forest type is described and interpreted in relation to floristic history and temperature and moisture conditions. The upper altitudinal limit of spruce-fir forest decreases regularly with increasing latitude and also is influenced by distance from oceans as reflected by longitude. To examine the variation in the upper altitudinal limit of this forest type, distributional data were collected from 76 wide-spread sites in Eurasia. Four quantitative models, one based solely on latitude and three also including longitude, are developed for predicting the upper altitudinal limits of coniferous forest over much of its geographical range. A model of the temperature distribution of the warmest month for Eurasia was also developed and compared with the models of upper forest limits. When moisture conditions are adequate, the upper limit of spruce-fir forest coincides with the 12C isotherm of the warmest month. /// Les forts de conifres sont trs tendues en Eurasie, et sont caractrises par les genres Abies et Picea. La rpartition de ce type de fort est dcrite et interprte par rapport  l'histoire floristique et aux conditions de temprature et d'humidit. La limite altitudinaire suprieure des forts de conifres descent progressivement au fur et  mesure que la latitude augmente; elle est aussi affecte par la situation par rapport aux ocans, reprsente par la longitude. Dans le but d'tudier la variation de la limite altitudinaire suprieure de ce type de fort, des donnes ont t collectes sur 76 sites bien rpartis en Eurasie. Quatre modles quantitatifs, dont l'un est bas uniquement sur la latitude et les trois autres sur la latitude et la longitude, ont t labors dans le but de prdire la limite altitudinaire suprieure des forts de conifres sur la plupart de leur tendue gographique. Un modle de la temprature atmosphrique au cours du mois le plus chaud a t galement labor pour le Chine, et il est compar aux modles prcdents. Lorsque les conditions d'humidit sont satisfaisantes, la limite altitudinaire suprieure des forts de conifres concide avec l'isotherme 12C du mois le plus chaud. /// Dichter Nadelwald ist in Eurasien weitverbreitet und durch folgende Baumarten charakterisiert: Abies und Picea. Die Verteilung der Arten wird beschrieben und in Bezug auf Wachstumsbedingungen und den Zusammenhang zwischen Temperatur und Niederschlag interpretiert. In der Regel nimmt die obere Hhengrenze des Nadelwaldes mit zunehmendem Breitengrad ab und hngt ausserdem von der Entfernung zum Meer ab, was durch die geographische Lnge bercksichtigt wird. Verteilungsdaten von 76 weit auseinanderliegenden Gebieten in Eurasien wurden gesammelt, um die Artenverteilung an der oberen Hhengrenze zu untersuchen. Vier quantitative Modelle wurden entwickelt, um die Hhengrenze des Nadelwaldes in seiner geographischen Verteilung fr den grssten Teil des Gebietes vorherzusagen. Von diesen vier Modellen basiert eines ausschliesslich auf geographischer Breitenangabe, die drei anderen schliessen auch geographische Lnge mit ein. Ein Modell der Temperaturverteilung des wrmsten Monats fr China wurde aufgestellt und mit den Waldgrenzen-modellen verglichen. Die obere Grenze des Nadelwaldes stimmt, wenn die Niederschlagsmenge ausreichend ist, mit der 12C Isotherme des wrmsten Monats berein.
mounresedeve.31.4.380|Mountains are one of few ecosystems little affected by plant invasions. However, the threat of invasion is likely to increase because of climate change, greater anthropogenic land use, and continuing novel introductions. Preventive management, therefore, will be crucial but can be difficult to promote when more pressing problems are unresolved and predictions are uncertain. In this essay, we use management case studies from 7 mountain regions to identify common lessons for effective preventive action. The degree of plant invasion in mountains was variable in the 7 regions as was the response to invasion, which ranged from lack of awareness by landmanagers of the potential impact in Chile and Kashmir to well-organized programs of prevention and containment in the United States (Hawaii and the Pacific Northwest), including prevention at low altitude. In Australia, awareness of the threat grew only after disruptive invasions. In South Africa, the economic benefits of removing alien plants are well recognized and funded in the form of employment programs. In the European Alps, there is little need for active management because no invasive species pose an immediate threat. From these case studies, we identify lessons for management of plant invasions in mountain ecosystems: (i) prevention is especially important in mountains because of their rugged terrain, where invasions can quickly become unmanageable; (ii) networks at local to global levels can assist with awareness raising and better prioritization of management actions; (iii) the economic importance of management should be identified and articulated; (iv) public acceptance of management programs will make them more effective; and (v) climate change needs to be considered. We suggest that comparisons of local case studies, such as those we have presented, have a pivotal place in the proactive solution of global change issues.
mounresedeve.32.2.235|After a long period of emigration from the rural areas in the European Alps, a trend reversal can be observed in the last quarter of the 20th century. However, this new immigration affects the Alpine countries unevenly in terms of both timing and intensity. Furthermore, growing spatial mobility and consequential transformation of settlements involve several population segments with diverse motives for their movements. This article sketches the temporal development and the extent of the diverse immigration and circulation patterns for the individual countries of the Alps and identifies knowledge gaps. Furthermore, opportunities and risks of the new immigration for both the new highlanders as well as the indigenous communities are briefly discussed. The authors conclude with an outline of further needs for basic research in this field and an appeal to leverage the new immigration for rural development.
mounresedeve.30.3.192|With well-preserved nature and a geographical location at the border of the West Carpathian and the East Carpathian biogeographical regions, the Poloniny National Park (NP) ranks among the most valuable areas for biodiversity in Slovakia. The territory is a typical region with mountain agriculture (12% of the study area), where grasslands dominate in an agricultural landscape. Grasslands became the basis of traditional farming many years ago, when extensive agriculture was mainly focused on hay production and grazing, representing the lifestyle of the local people. This kind of sensitive human management contributed to the maintenance of valuable grassland communities and their rich biodiversity. In particular, the mountain poloniny meadows are characterized by large numbers of rare and threatened East Carpathian species. Intensification of agriculture from the 1970s and its decline after the massive political and socioeconomic changes of 1989 have caused substantial damage to species-rich grasslands in the region. Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is now providing greater financial support to restart agricultural activities in the Poloniny National Park. Nonetheless, there is still concern about maintenance of the biodiversity of mountain grassland communities, where access is limited, and which require specific extensive management. This paper aims to identify the driving forces of agrobiodiversity change and the implications for habitats and species, and to predict possible future trends in the region. Emerging from the assessment of these trends, several recommendations are made regarding appropriate management measures for the maintenance of agrobiodiversity together with sustainable development in Poloniny National Park.
10.2307/3673848|An analysis of cattle farming and its impact on vegetation between 3,000 and 4,500 m was conducted in paramo farming communities dedicated to cultivating tuber crops in the Cordillera of Merida, Venezuela. Spatial variation of natural forage, vegetation selection by cattle, the grazing range, and farming practices were studied. The short-term impact of grazing on natural vegetation was investigated using experimental plots in short grassland and rosette-shrub communities. In the highlands of the paramo, the grazing patterns were characterized by intensive use of short grassland on the valley floor and extensive use of rosette-shrub communities on the hillsides which, in turn, were related to the spatial distribution of forage and acceptable ecological conditions for the cattle. The greatest impact on the vegetation was the concentration of grazing in short grasslands and the current grassland composition and distribution may be due to these grazing patterns. However, long-term studies are necessary to evaluate the magnitude of this impact. There is little forage available for recently introduced cattle in the high paramo, especially in the dry period, and fodder is acquired from diverse alternative sources in the agricultural belt. This factor and the need for animal labor in agriculture result in grazing patterns characterized by a great variety of animal movements between ecological zones depending on the resource availability of each family which confers greater spatial-temporal dynamics on grazing patterns. Finally, it is recommended that emphasis is placed on cattle management rather than on the elimination of pastoralism, in order to conserve these fragile ecosystems and to maintain the economy of the agropastoral communities. /// Une tude de l'levage du btail et de son impact sur la vgtation entre 3 000 et 4 500 mtres a t mene dans des collectivits agricoles du paramo cultivant des plantes tubreuses dans la Cordillre de Merida, Venezuela. La variation spatiale du fourrage naturel, la slection de la vgtation par le btail, le terrain de parcours et les pratiques agricoles ont t tudies. L'impact  court terme du pturage sur la vgtation naturelle a t tudi  l'aide de parcelles exprimentales dans la prairie  herbe courte et des communauts d'arbrisseaux rosette. Dans le haut paramo, les habitudes de pturage sont caractrises par l'usage intensif de la prairie  herbe courte au fond de la valle et par l'usage extensif des communauts d'arbrisseaux rosette  flanc de coteau. Ces habitudes sont lies  la rpartition spatiale du fourrage et aux conditions cologiques acceptables pour le btail. Le plus fort impact sur la vgtation rside dans la concentration du pturage dans la prairie  herbe courte, et la composition et la rpartition actuelles de la prairie peut dcouler de ces habitudes de pturage. Nanmoins, des tudes  long terme sont ncessaires pour valuer l'amplitude de cet impact. Peu de fourrage est disponible pour le btail rcemment introduit dans le haut paramo, en particulier pendant la saison sche, et le fourrage est obtenu  partir d'autres sources de la bande agricole. Ce facteur et le besoin de btes de somme en agriculture a men  des habitudes de pturage caractrises par une grande varit de dplacements d'animaux entres les zones cologiques dpendant des ressources disponibles  chaque famille, ce qui donne une dynamique spatiale-temporelle accrue aux habitudes de pturage. Finalement, il est recommand de se concentrer sur la gestion du btail plutt que sur l'limination du pastoralisme, afin de prserver ces cosystmes fragiles et la fondation conomique des collectivits agro-pastorales. /// Eine Analyse der Rinderzucht und ihrer Auswirkungen auf die Pflanzenwelt in 3000 bis 4000 m Hhe wurde in lndlichen, hauptschlich von Wurzelgemsezucht lebenden Gemeinden im Paramo-Hochland in den Cordilleren von Merida in Venezuela durchgefhrt. Rumliche Variationen in natrlich vorkommenden Futterpflanzen, Vegetationsselektion durch die Rinder, Beweidungsraten, Ausma der Weideflchen, sowie landwirtschaftliche Praktiken wurden untersucht. Kurzeitige Auswirkungen der Beweidung auf die heimische Vegetation wurde in experimentellen Flchen mit Kurzgras- und mit Rosettenbusch-Pflanzengemenschaften untersucht. Im "Paramo"-Hochland wird die Beweidung durch intensive Nutzung der Kurzgrasflchen am Talgrund und durch extensive Nutzung der Rosettenbusch-Gemeinschaften an den Hngen gekennzeichnet. Dies wiederum steht im Zusammenhang mit der rumlichen Futterpflanzenverteilung und akzeptablen kologischen Bedingungen fr die Rinder. Die konzentrierte Beweidung der Kurzgrasflchen hatte die grte Auswirkungen auf die Vegetation, und die heutige Artenzusammensetzung und -verteilung innerhalb der Kurzgrasgemeinschaften ist mglicherweise auf diese Beweidungsmuster zurckzufhren. Um das Auma ihres Einflusses zu beurteilen werden jedoch Langzeitstudien bentigt. Futterpflanzen fr die erst vor kurzem in das "Paramo"-Hochland eingefhrten Rinder sind vor allem in der Trockenzeit knapp. Daher werden zustzlich alternative Futterquellen in der landwirtschaftlichen Zone genutzt. Dieser Umstand, sowie der Einsatz der Rinder bei der Feldarbeit, fhrt zu Beweidungsmustern die vom vielfltigen Umtrieb der Tiere zwischen verschiedenen kologischen Zonen geprgt sind. Dies hngt wiederum von den jeder Familie zur Verfgung stehenden Ressourcen ab, was zu verstrkter rumlicher und zeitlicher Dynamik in den Beweidungsmustern fhrt. Abschlieend wird empfohlen die Aufmerksamkeit mehr auf effektiv geplante Viehhaltung als auf die Aufgabe der Weidewirtschaft zu lenken, um so sowohl die leicht zu zerstrenden kosysteme als auch die wirtschaftliche Grundlage der weide- und landwirtschaftlich orientierten Gemeinden zu erhalten. /// En communidades campesinas de pramo dedicadas a la agricultura de tubrculos se analiza el manejo de la ganadera vacuna y su impacto sobre la vegetacin entre los 3,000 y 4,500 m en la Cordillera de Mrida (Venezuela). Se investigan las variaciones espaciales del forraje natural, la seleccin de vegetacin que realizan los vacunos, los movimientos en pastoreo extensivo y las prcticas campesinas. Mediante parcelas experimentales instaladas en cspedes y rosetales-arbustales se estudia a corto plazo el impacto del pastoreo sobre la vegetacin natural. En las altas tierras de pramo los patrones de pastoreo, caracterizados por uso intensivo en cspedes de fondos de valle y muy extensivo sobre rosetales arbustales de laderas, se relacionan a la distribucin espacial del forraje y a las condiciones ecolgicas adecuadas para los vacunos. El mayor impacto sobre la vegetacin se produce como consecuencia de la concentracin de los animales en zonas de cspedes, cuya composicin y distribucin actual podran deberse a los patrones de pastoreo. Sin embargo, se requieren estudios a largo plazo para conocer la magnitud del impacto debido al pastoreo. La ganadera vacuna de reciente introduccin debe afrontar la escasa disponibilidad de forraje en estos ambientes, especialmente en la poca seca, que es superada por diversas fuentes alternativas en el piso agrcola. La bsqueda de estos forrajes alternativos y los requerimientos de fuerza animal para la agricultura configuran patrones de pastoreo caracterizados por una gran variedad de movimientos de animales entre pisos ecolgicos. La elaboracin de estas prcticas de acuerdo a la disponibilidad de recursos de cada familia, le confiere una mayor dinmica espacio-temporal a los movimientos de los animales. Finalmente, para una conservacin mas efectiva del ambiente, especialmente sobre algunas regiones frgiles del piso Altandino, que no perjudique a las economas agropastorales, se recomienda hacer mas nfasis sobre el manejo del ganado que sobre la eliminacin del pastoreo.
10.2307/3673435|Of the African continent, 45 percent of the land has slopes of at least 8 percent; more than 55 percent is higher than 500 m, more than 20 percent is higher than 1,000 m, and about one percent is higher than 2,000 m. Mountain ranges and massifs, deeply-incised gorges or escarpments, and highlands are huge resource areas of great importance for Africa's growing population. An integrated methodological approach is proposed as a basis for common research and development strategies and for comparative studies in Africa's differing mountain ecosystem. Generally adopted Resolutions opened the way for the foundation of an Association for Research and Development on African Mountains and Highlands or, in short, the African Mountain Association (AMA). /// Sur le continent africain, 45 pour cent des terres ont une pente d'au moins 8 pour cent; plus de 55 pour cent d'entre elles se trouvent  plus de 500 m d'altitude, plus de 20 pour cent  plus de 1.000 m et environ 1 pour cent  plus de 2.000 m. Les chanes de montagne et les massifs, les gorges profondes ou escarpements, et les hautes terres constituent de vastes ressources d'une importance primordiale pour la population croissante de l'Afrique. Une approche mthodologique intgre est propose comme base pour des statgies communes de recherche et dveloppement, et pour des tudes comparatives des diffrents cosystmes montagnards de l'Afrique. Des rsolutions adoptes en majorit ont permis d'tablir l'Association pour la recherche et le dveloppement dans les montagnes et hautes terres africaines, ou tout simplement l'Association pour les montagnes africaines (AMA). /// 45% des afrikanischen Kontinents besteht aus einem Relief mit Hangwinkeln ber 8%; mehr als 55% ist hher als 500 m, mehr als 20% hher als 1000 m und 1% ist hher als 2000 m. Gebirge im weitesten Sinne und Hochlnder sind Gebiete mit Ressourcen, die fr die rasch wachsende Bevlkerung Afrikas von hchster Bedeutung sind. Ein methodisch integraler Ansatz wird postuliert als Grundlage fr knftige Forschungs- und Entwicklungsstrategien, aber auch fr vergleichbare Untersuchungen in den sehr verschiedenen Gebirgskosystemen dieses Kontinents.
mounresedeve.34.4.344|This study investigated summer farming in the Chornohora and the adaptation strategies practiced in summer pasturelands, using field observations, in-depth interviews with local inhabitants, and official data from Ukrainian institutions. The indigenous Hutsul people have developed organizational forms of animal husbandryoften based on family farmingthat they try to follow despite the lack of support from the state. Which of the summer farming types practiced in the Chornohora adapts well to modern challenges? What can be learned from the Chornohora's example for the protection of traditional landscapes shaped by seasonal grazing in other mountain regions? We approach these problems through 5 case studies, chosen from more than 40 farms that were investigated during visits to the study area over 5 years, illustrating a range of practices from traditional transhumance to agritourism and including both private and collective farms, some within protected areas. Chornohora's 40 working farms present a unique contrast to the common pattern of grassland abandonment and afforestation in the Ukrainian Carpathians.
10.2307/3672963|The impact of trampling upon herbaceous vegetation was tested on the west slope of the Andes Range in central Chile at two sites near the ski resorts of Farellones and La Parva, located at 2,300 and 2,800 m above sea level. During the snow-free season, walking upon areas with herbaceous vegetation, caused displacement of stones and compaction of soils, along with a significant decrease in the number and density of species. This damage was slightly greater when the disturbance occurred during the period of maximum vegetative activity. Some effects, mainly reduction in the number of individuals, were still visible a year later. Conservation measures are discussed. /// Les effets des pitinements sur la vgtation herbace a t vrifi sur la pente ouest de la Cordillre des Andes dans le Chili central  deux sites prs des stations de ski de Farellones et de la Parva, situes  2,300 et 2,800 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer. Pendant la saison sans neige, les pitinements sur les endroits couverts de vgtation herbaces ont provoques de dplacements de cailloux et de compactage du sol accompagns d'une diminution importante du nombre et de la densit des espces. Cette dgradation a t lgrement plus importante lorsque le drangement s'est produit pendant une priode d'activit vgtative maximum. Quelques effets, particulirement la rduction dans le nombre des habitants, ont t observs quelques annes plus tard. Des mesures de protection sont prsentes. /// An den westlichen Hngen der Anden in Zentral-Chile wurde untersucht, welche Folgen sich aus dem Zertreten des Krautbewuchses ergeben. Die Untersuchungen wurden in zwei Gegenden nahe den Skigebieten von Farellones und La Parva in Hhen von 2.300 m und 2.800 m .M. vorgenommen. Das Gehen auf bewachsenen Flchen whrend der schneefreien Jahreszeit verursachte ein Loslsen von Steinen und ein Verdichten des Erdreichs. Gleichzeitig ging die Zahl und die Dichte der Pflanzenarten zurck. Der Schaden war noch grer, wenn die Zerstrung whrend der Hauptwachstumsperiode geschah. Einige Folgen, hauptschlich die des Rckganges von Pflanzenarten waren noch nach einem Jahr sichtbar. Massnahmen zur Erhaltung werden diskutiert.
mounresedeve.33.4.463|Glacier tourism, a multimillion-dollar industry in New Zealand, is potentially under threat by ongoing glacial retreat. Surface morphology changes associated with retreat and thinning result in increasingly difficult access for guided walks on the Franz Josef Glacier, but simultaneously, an enlarging proglacial lake is increasing tourism opportunities at Tasman Glacier. Steepening ice slopes, increased debris cover, and an increase in the rockfall hazard are just some of the challenges glacier tourism operators face as glaciers around the world retreat. To date in New Zealand, glacier tourism has kept pace with ongoing glaciological change, often by increasing mechanized access. Focusing scientific research on short-term process studiesfor example, determining thinning rates and assessing hazardswill help tour operators and policy-makers make decisions about future glacier utilization and accessibility.
10.2307/3673435|Of the African continent, 45 percent of the land has slopes of at least 8 percent; more than 55 percent is higher than 500 m, more than 20 percent is higher than 1,000 m, and about one percent is higher than 2,000 m. Mountain ranges and massifs, deeply-incised gorges or escarpments, and highlands are huge resource areas of great importance for Africa's growing population. An integrated methodological approach is proposed as a basis for common research and development strategies and for comparative studies in Africa's differing mountain ecosystem. Generally adopted Resolutions opened the way for the foundation of an Association for Research and Development on African Mountains and Highlands or, in short, the African Mountain Association (AMA). /// Sur le continent africain, 45 pour cent des terres ont une pente d'au moins 8 pour cent; plus de 55 pour cent d'entre elles se trouvent  plus de 500 m d'altitude, plus de 20 pour cent  plus de 1.000 m et environ 1 pour cent  plus de 2.000 m. Les chanes de montagne et les massifs, les gorges profondes ou escarpements, et les hautes terres constituent de vastes ressources d'une importance primordiale pour la population croissante de l'Afrique. Une approche mthodologique intgre est propose comme base pour des statgies communes de recherche et dveloppement, et pour des tudes comparatives des diffrents cosystmes montagnards de l'Afrique. Des rsolutions adoptes en majorit ont permis d'tablir l'Association pour la recherche et le dveloppement dans les montagnes et hautes terres africaines, ou tout simplement l'Association pour les montagnes africaines (AMA). /// 45% des afrikanischen Kontinents besteht aus einem Relief mit Hangwinkeln ber 8%; mehr als 55% ist hher als 500 m, mehr als 20% hher als 1000 m und 1% ist hher als 2000 m. Gebirge im weitesten Sinne und Hochlnder sind Gebiete mit Ressourcen, die fr die rasch wachsende Bevlkerung Afrikas von hchster Bedeutung sind. Ein methodisch integraler Ansatz wird postuliert als Grundlage fr knftige Forschungs- und Entwicklungsstrategien, aber auch fr vergleichbare Untersuchungen in den sehr verschiedenen Gebirgskosystemen dieses Kontinents.
mounresedeve.34.4.344|This study investigated summer farming in the Chornohora and the adaptation strategies practiced in summer pasturelands, using field observations, in-depth interviews with local inhabitants, and official data from Ukrainian institutions. The indigenous Hutsul people have developed organizational forms of animal husbandryoften based on family farmingthat they try to follow despite the lack of support from the state. Which of the summer farming types practiced in the Chornohora adapts well to modern challenges? What can be learned from the Chornohora's example for the protection of traditional landscapes shaped by seasonal grazing in other mountain regions? We approach these problems through 5 case studies, chosen from more than 40 farms that were investigated during visits to the study area over 5 years, illustrating a range of practices from traditional transhumance to agritourism and including both private and collective farms, some within protected areas. Chornohora's 40 working farms present a unique contrast to the common pattern of grassland abandonment and afforestation in the Ukrainian Carpathians.
10.2307/3672963|The impact of trampling upon herbaceous vegetation was tested on the west slope of the Andes Range in central Chile at two sites near the ski resorts of Farellones and La Parva, located at 2,300 and 2,800 m above sea level. During the snow-free season, walking upon areas with herbaceous vegetation, caused displacement of stones and compaction of soils, along with a significant decrease in the number and density of species. This damage was slightly greater when the disturbance occurred during the period of maximum vegetative activity. Some effects, mainly reduction in the number of individuals, were still visible a year later. Conservation measures are discussed. /// Les effets des pitinements sur la vgtation herbace a t vrifi sur la pente ouest de la Cordillre des Andes dans le Chili central  deux sites prs des stations de ski de Farellones et de la Parva, situes  2,300 et 2,800 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer. Pendant la saison sans neige, les pitinements sur les endroits couverts de vgtation herbaces ont provoques de dplacements de cailloux et de compactage du sol accompagns d'une diminution importante du nombre et de la densit des espces. Cette dgradation a t lgrement plus importante lorsque le drangement s'est produit pendant une priode d'activit vgtative maximum. Quelques effets, particulirement la rduction dans le nombre des habitants, ont t observs quelques annes plus tard. Des mesures de protection sont prsentes. /// An den westlichen Hngen der Anden in Zentral-Chile wurde untersucht, welche Folgen sich aus dem Zertreten des Krautbewuchses ergeben. Die Untersuchungen wurden in zwei Gegenden nahe den Skigebieten von Farellones und La Parva in Hhen von 2.300 m und 2.800 m .M. vorgenommen. Das Gehen auf bewachsenen Flchen whrend der schneefreien Jahreszeit verursachte ein Loslsen von Steinen und ein Verdichten des Erdreichs. Gleichzeitig ging die Zahl und die Dichte der Pflanzenarten zurck. Der Schaden war noch grer, wenn die Zerstrung whrend der Hauptwachstumsperiode geschah. Einige Folgen, hauptschlich die des Rckganges von Pflanzenarten waren noch nach einem Jahr sichtbar. Massnahmen zur Erhaltung werden diskutiert.
mounresedeve.33.4.463|Glacier tourism, a multimillion-dollar industry in New Zealand, is potentially under threat by ongoing glacial retreat. Surface morphology changes associated with retreat and thinning result in increasingly difficult access for guided walks on the Franz Josef Glacier, but simultaneously, an enlarging proglacial lake is increasing tourism opportunities at Tasman Glacier. Steepening ice slopes, increased debris cover, and an increase in the rockfall hazard are just some of the challenges glacier tourism operators face as glaciers around the world retreat. To date in New Zealand, glacier tourism has kept pace with ongoing glaciological change, often by increasing mechanized access. Focusing scientific research on short-term process studiesfor example, determining thinning rates and assessing hazardswill help tour operators and policy-makers make decisions about future glacier utilization and accessibility.
3674205|The Arctic is a region of spectacular and diverse mountain environments. One example is the Svalbard Archipelago in the Norwegian high arctic. Despite its remote location in the Arctic Ocean, Svalbard has an astonishingly diverse economy based on coal mining, arctic research, and the island's geostrategic importance. In recent years, tourism has become increasingly important, with more than a fourfold increase in tourists from the 1970s to the 1990s. This development poses serious threats to the island's highly vulnerable arctic-alpine environment. A management plan for tourism and outdoor recreation has been prepared in recent years, with a view to safeguarding the unique environment and keeping tourism development within environmentally sustainable and commercially acceptable boundaries.
mounresedeve.36.4.484|Using 2 models, this article illustrates different forms of in-migration in the Alps, the motivations for relocation, and effects of newcomers on their destination areas. Since the 1990s, more and more communities in the European Alps, which had suffered from depopulation for many decades, have become in-migration destinations. This new demographic trend is particularly pronounced in the French and Italian western Alps and on the periphery of the central Alps. Up to the end of the millennium, the western and southern Alps were considered the major demographic problem areas within the Alpine arc. During the past decade, however, the picture has changed significantly: while communities in the western Alps have gradually recovered from massive outmigration, the situation now appears precarious in the eastern Alps. Even though many regions in the eastern Alps are still characterized by depopulation, we can find demographic processes similar to those in the western Alps, where in-migration contributes to population gains in peripheral mountain villages. This article demonstrates 2 models developed to explain these trends by applying the models to 2 villages in the Italian Alps. Model 1 outlines the diverse composition and dynamics of the population, potential migration flows, and the main motivations for relocation. Model 2 depicts the impacts of amenity migrants on socioeconomic, cultural, and infrastructural aspects in a mountain village as well as on the cultural landscape and building stock. In order to allow regional comparisons of individual hamlets, villages, or valleys, the degree of the models abstraction was kept low; this also enables their application to other mountain areas.
mounresedeve.29.3.250|The Atacora Mountain range is an important mountain chain in the West African landscape. It extends from northern Benin to Togo and Ghana. More and more cattle are starting to graze on the Beninese part of this range, although there is a critical lack of basic data on its ecological function. The present study assesses the effects of topography and aspect on the grassland biomass production of these mountains. The results show that annual grassland biomass production averages 5.29 tonnes dry matter (DM)/ha. This biomass production is significantly impacted by aspect (east facing versus west facing). Biomass is lower on east-facing sides (4.97 tonnes DM/ha) than on west-facing sides (6.10 tonnes DM/ha) and hilltops and valleys (6.24 tonnes DM/ha). This effect may be explained by direct exposure of east-facing sides to the harmattan, a northeast dry wind blowing from the Sahara Desert. No significant impact of topography on biomass production is observed.
10.2307/3673600|This paper presents a general account of geomorphic processes effective above timberline in the Spanish Pyrenees with emphasis on the central section of the range. Climatic and environmental factors are discussed in detail as well as the geomorphic responses to lowering of the upper timberline, especially between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries. During this period expansion of livestock grazing reduced the forest cover extensively and caused a substantial lowering of the lower altitudinal limit of periglacial activity. Relic periglacial forms are attributable to the Late Quaternary Period, although many active forms are present today. These include rock glaciers, solifluction lobes and terracettes, and various types of patterned ground. Altitude, exposure, slope gradient, and lithology are shown to be important determinant factors, together with the increasing degree of continentality in the Central Pyrenees compared with areas further west and east respectively. The high mountain region is divided into two altitudinal belts with the 2,400 m level forming the general boundary. /// Cet article donne un aperu gnral des processus gomorphiques qui se produisent au-dessus de la limite des arbres dans les Pyrnes espagnoles, en particulier dans la partie centrale de la chane. Les facteurs climatiques et environnementaux sont examins en dtail, ainsi que les rponses gomorphiques  la descente de la limite suprieure des arbres, en particulier entre le seizime et le dix-neuvime sicles. Au cours de cette priode, l'expansion du pturage de btail a considrablement rduit la converture forestire et a caus une descente sensible de la limite altitudinale infrieure de l'activit priglaciaire. Les formes priglaciaires hrites peuvent tre attribues  la fin de l're quaternaire, bien qu'un grand nombre de formes vives soient prsentes de nos jours. Ces formes comprennent des coules de rocailles, des lobes et terrassettes de solifluxion, et diffrents types de models du terrain. Il est dmontr que l'altitude, l'exposition, l'inclinaison des versants et la lithologie sont des facteurs dterminants, ainsi que le degr croissant de continentalit dans les Pyrnes centrales, compar aux zones plus  l'est ou  l'ouest. La rgion de hautes montagnes est divise en deux zones altitudinales, le niveau 2.400 m constituant la ligne de sparation gnrale. /// Dieser Beitrag gibt eine allgemeine Beschreibung von geomorphischen Vorgngen oberhalb der Baumgrenze in den spanischen Pyrenen, wobei das Zentralgebiet der Gebirgskette besonders hervorgehoben wird. Klimatische-und Umweltfaktoren werden detailliert errtert, ebenso die geomorphischen Reaktionen auf das Absinken der oberen Baumgrenze besonders im Zeitraum zwischen dem 16. und 19. Jahrhundert. Whrend dieser Zeitspanne reduzierte gesteigertes (Vieh-)Weiden die Bewaldung der Hnge nachhaltig, was zu einem betrchtlichen Absinken der unteren Hhengrenze von glazialen Aktivitten fhrte. berreste glazialer Formen werden dem spten Quartr zugeschrieben, obwohl viele aktive Formen auch heute noch vorhanden sind; sie umfassen Gesteinsflsse, durch langsames Abrutschen des Erdreichs geformte Aufstauungen und Terrassen, sowie verschiedene Arten von Bodenoberflchenstrukturen. Es wird gezeigt, da in den Zentralpyrenen Hhe, Lage, Hanggradient und Gesteinsart zusammen mit zunehmenden nderungen zum Kontinentalklima wichtige Bestimmungsfaktoren sind, wenn man diese Region mit Gebieten vergleicht, die weiter westlich oder stlich davon liegen. Die Hochgebirgsregion wird in zwei Hhengrtel unterteilt, wobei die 2.400 m Hhenlinie die Trennungsgrenze bildet. /// El artculo expone un sumario relato sobre los procesos geomrficos operando a nivel supraforestal en el Pirineo espanol, con especial referencia al sector central de la Cordillera. Se discuten con detalle los factores climticos y ambientales, tanto como las respuestas geomrficas causa del descenso del lmite superior del bosque, especialmente del XVI al XIX. Durante dicho periodo de acentuada carga ganadera, se redujo la extensin del bosque y se produjo un substancial descenso del lmite inferior de la actividad periglaciar. Las formas relictas periglaciares se atribuyen al Cuaternario tardo, no obstante hay todava hoy formas activas. Entre ellas: glaciares rocosos, lbulos de solifluccin, terracillas o gradines y varios tipos de suelos poligonales. Altitud, exposicin, lo acusado de la pendiente y la litologa, son los principales factores, agudizados por la continentalidad en el sector central de la Cordillera y atenuandose hacia ambos extremos oriental y occidental. De forma general cabra concluir que la cota de 2.400 m. S/M., constituye un lmite de dos niveles de alta montaa.
10.2307/3673294|The vegetation of the highlands of Papua New Guinea is reviewed. Varied montane rainforests are extensive, but have been (and continue to be) cleared over large areas. Much forest variation can be related to altitude; past disturbances may also have been important. After clearance, forests are replaced by a range of non-forest vegetation types including gardens, both actively used and fallow. Over larger areas, especially in more densely populated parts of the highlands, frequently-burned grasslands also occur, and soils and vegetation are probably becoming progressively degraded. Mountain grasslands occur at high altitudes and their range has been extended by fire. The effects of stress and disturbance upon vegetation (as opposed to individual plants) are discussed. Vegetation responses to stress, disturbance, and combinations of both, involving reduction in stature and structural simplification, are described for the area above 3,300 m on Mt. Wilhelm. /// Cette tude passe en revue les diffrents types de vgtation dans les rgions montagneuses de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine. Les forts tropicales humides y sont tendues et varies, mais elles continuent  tre extensivement dfriches. Les variations sont en grande partie lies aux diffrences d'altitude, mais peuvent aussi rsulter de perturbations passes. Aprs dfrichement, les forts sont remplaces par diffrents types de vgtation non-forestire, y compris les jardins cultivs et en jachre. Des prairies frquemment brles couvrent de grandes tendues, en particulier dans les zones les plus peuples des rgions montagneuses; probablement, les sols et la vgtation s'y dtriorent progressivement. On trouve galement des prairies  haute altitude, gagnes sur la fort en y mettant le feu. Les effets des contraintes de l'environnement et des perturbations sur la vgtation ( l'oppos des plantes particulires) sont discuts. La rponse de la vgtation  ces contraintes et perturbations, et aux combinaisons des deux, mettant en jeu la rduction de stature et la simplification structurelle, est dcrite pour la zone situe au-dessus de 3.300 m sur le mont Wilhelm. /// Es wird die Vegetation in den Hochebenen von Papua, Neu-Guinea, untersucht. Die Berggebiete werden von verschiedenartigen Regenwldern beherrscht, die groflchig gerodet wurden (und weiterhin werden). Die Vielgestaltigkeit des Waldes kann der Hhe zugeschrieben werden, zum Teil ist die Vielfalt auch das Ergebnis frherer Strungen. Nach dem Roden werden die Waldgebiete als baumlose Flchen, teilweise als Grten belassen, die kultiviert werden oder brachliegen. Ausgedehnte Gebiete sind hufig, besonders in den dichtbesiedelten Teilen der Hochebenen, abgebrannte Grasfluren. Hier verschlechtert sich wahrscheinlich die Qualitt der Bden und der Vegetation zunehmend. In noch hheren Lagen haben sich Grasflchen ebenfalls durch Niederbrennen des Waldes vergrert. Auswirkungen von Belastungen und Strungen auf die Gesamtvegetation (im Gegensatz zu einzelnen Pflanzenarten) werden diskutiert. Als Folge von Belastung und Strung und dem Zusammenspiel beider Faktoren werden Vegetationsverhalten, einschlielich verringertem Wachstum und struktureller Vereinfachung beschrieben, so wie es auf dem Mt. Wilhelm oberhalb von 3.300 m beobachtet wurde.
25164159|The government of Colombia has taken a leadership role in facilitating research in high mountain ecosystems to provide a scientific base for understanding climate change and land use impacts on water and carbon cycles. With support from the World Bank and GEF, the Colombian Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology, and Environmental Studies (IDEAM) has undertaken a national pilot project on integrated adaptation to climate change (INAP). A key component of this project has been the development of a protocol for the characterization of carbon and water cycles in high mountain ecosystems. The protocol is designed for use by government, university, and NGO partners interested in climate change impacts, with IDEAM leading the project and consolidating data and results. The present article provides an overview of the protocol design.
mounresedeve.31.4.363|In almost 2 decades of existence the Consorcio para el Desarrollo Sostenible de la Ecorregin Andina (CONDESAN) has experienced institutional innovations in response to the economic, social, environmental, and institutional dynamics of Andean countries and territories. As a result, interinstitutional interventions have been promoted in strategic spaces of the Andean region through local and regional projects in order to contribute to knowledge about the Andes, its provision of natural resources, and the strategies of Andean inhabitants to profit from these resources in a sustainable fashion.
mounresedeve.34.2.131|Household surveys were conducted in 2 representative rural settlements in central and western Bhutan to evaluate differences in cattle raising practices and seasonal variation in the physical characteristics of cattle, and to project future trends in herd management and forest grazing. Results indicated that cattle owners' perceptions, aptitudes, and attitudes are changing and that rural interventions need to take these changes into account. The proportion of households without cultivated pasture was greater in the central Bhutan study village. The settlements also differed in cattle owners' opinions on forest selection and grazing pressure. The only outstanding similarity between settlements was the preference for crossbred cattle, revealing a strong orientation toward small but productive dairy herds and suggesting that a future reduction in forest grazing was likely. Although both settlements rely on forest grazing, there are considerable differences in cattle production practices and type of cattle reared, primarily driven by access to market, topography, and domestic forage resources. Our results suggest that management decisions should be based on site-specific information rather than generic guidelines.
3674581|Bhutan, a mountainous country where 79% of the population depends on agriculture, has a relatively short history of government intervention in the agricultural sector. The first research and extension activities began only 4 decades ago. Developments over this period are generally seen as positive, although it is impossible to separate the influence of social change and the road network from the influence of activities carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture or by development agencies. Despite positive results, farmers are often seen as resistant to change or slow to adopt new technologies. Researchers and extensionists disappointed by low adoption rates often blame cultural barriers, lack of interest by farmers in economic betterment, or, in the worst case, lack of academic training among farmers. Mountain environments are inherently fragile, leaving farmers less room to experiment with risky innovations. Yet this patronizing approach is not limited to agents working with mountain farmers or subsistence agricultural systems. The present article describes 3 examples in which farmers have adopted new technologies at surprisingly fast rates, mainly for economic reasons: 1) potato production, 2) the use of draft animals for mechanized potato production, and 3) fodder pumpkin cultivation. The author's experience, supported by recent research findings and data from published and unpublished records, is used to describe the technologies, the rate of adoption, and factors affecting adoption. The analysis of potato development covers several decades, while the other examples are limited to periods of a few years.
3674320|A comparative study on the impact of pine plantations on soil and vegetation development was conducted in the Ecuadorian Andes (3000-4000 m). Pine plantations of different ages under different types of management were compared with extensively grazed pramo grassland (the most common former land use) and natural forest (the formerly dominant vegetation in much of the life zone). No general impact of plantations was found, although some tendencies were identified that show that soils under pine plantations are drier and less organic. Moreover, the vegetation under pine plantations was similar to pramo grassland, though some examples of regeneration of Andean woody species were observed, as well as examples of plantations where understory was completely lacking. We concluded that the impact of pine plantations cannot be generalized but should be evaluated case by case while care is taken in implementing plantations until more knowledge is obtained about the effects on the ecosystem as a whole, especially considering their ecological importance.
mounresedeve.35.1.16|In the tropical Andes, uncontrolled urban growth and the loss of agricultural land severely affect periurban smallholders who depend on the lease of farmland. In this context, the hinterland of Huancayo, Peru, represents a case in point, given that the urbanization of irrigated land resources on the valley floor endangers agricultural production during the dry season and thus forces agriculturalists to adapt their land usea problem largely attributed to policy failures. If smallholder farmers had been policy-makers in the past, what type of urban growth would have taken place? Which future settlement structure would they prefer? To answer these questions, an easy-to-use and practice-oriented method for visualizing smallholder views on urbanization and landscape change was developed and tested. A combination of photomontage-based visualization exercises and interviews revealed that the interviewees mostly agreed that agricultural areas should remain between a mix of low and high buildings along the existing road. Hence, to a certain degree, their perception toward dispersed urban development seems not to be as negative as one could suppose. Additionally, some peasants argue that urban expansion should be on the steep and nonirrigated slopes adjacent to the city in order to conserve the fertile and irrigated land on the valley floor. Finally, the results of this study point to the potential of landscape visualizations for enabling mountain smallholders to participate in periurban land use planning and lead to the conclusion that photomontages, visualization exercises, and interviews should increasingly be used to improve understanding of smallholders' views, for this method includes an important emotional component that is rarely considered by planners and policy-makers.
mounresedeve.35.3.220|The Chilean water model has been described as a textbook example of a free-market water system. This article contributes to the critiques of this model by showing the effect of its implementation in the Atacameo community of Chiu-Chiu, located in the Atacama Desert in the south-central Andes. In this community, the privatization of water rights ignored local water management practices that had produced a high-altitude wetland (known as a
25164047|Surveys of small farmers in the Bolivian highlands have shown that moisture stress and soil erosion are the two major factors limiting wheat crop productivity. This paper discusses results of the research conducted to increase system water-use efficiency and so help increase productivity. Research began in two highland departments in 1994 to assess the effects of crop residue retention on increasing water infiltration and crop yields. In the Cochabamba high valley, yields consistently have been increased significantly by residue retention, and initial water infiltration rates are considerably higher in plots with ground cover. In contrast, at two sites in Chuquisaca the effects of ground cover have been small or occasionally negative. Direct seeding of wheat into the crop residues was originally undertaken with small single-row ox-drawn no-till seeders brought from Brazil. Although these seed the crop adequately, operator control is difficult. A prototype three-row animal-drawn small grain no-till seeder, therefore, was developed in cooperation with the DFID-funded PROMETA project and the Bolivian research institution, IBTA. Initial results of seeding efficiency and farmer acceptance are positive.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r39|      ,     ()    ,    ,       .           .  2006 .         .         ,     ,        159   2008 .   ,        ,    ,   ,   2010  2011 .,    ,  ,  20- 30%   .   ,              .    ,      ,       -       .               .
10.2307/3673829|Transplant survivorship, growth, and reproductive performance of several indigenous high-elevation legume species grown in unamended spoil were studied at three coal mines in the Canadian Rocky Mountains. Survivorship varied with species but was highest for Astragalus aboriginum (62%), Astragalus alpinus (73-57%), Astragalus vexilliflexus var. nubilus (73-63%), and Oxytropis sericea (77-62%). Mortality was greatest during the first two years for most species. The causes of transplant mortality are considered to be drought stress, deep-seated 'forst-popping'/root exposure, and damage, for example, root exposure and destruction of meristematic tissues by foraging mammals such as bighorn sheep, mountain goats, grizzly bears, and marmots. Survivorship, growth, and reproductive activity were greatest at the two subalpine disturbances. Growth varied with species, but the greatest growth increments (height and diameter) were recorded during the first and second years. Reproductive activity for the Astragalus species began during the first year at one location but, in general, flowering and seed set did not begin until the second or third years. Recruitment from seed was small (<10/year). Several of these species appear to be suitable for revegetation of subalpine and alpine surface mine disturbances. /// La survie, la croissance et l'activit procratrice d'espces lgumineuses indignes de haute altitude, repiques dans des striles non amends, ont t tudies pour trois mines de charbon des Rocheuses canadiennes. La survie a vari selon les espces, la plus haute tant celle d'Astragalus aboriginum (62%), d'Astragalus alpinus (73  57%), d'Astragalus vexilliflexus var. nubilus (73  63%) et d'Oxytropis sericea (77  62%). La mortalit tait la plus leve au cours des deux premires annes pour la plupart des espces. Les causes de la mortalit lie au repiquage sont vraisemblablement le stress de scheresse, l'clatement ou l'exposition des racines par le gel, ainsi que les dommages tels que l'exposition des racines et la destruction des tissus mristmatiques par les mammaires fourrageurs tels que le mouflon d'Amrique, les chvres de Rocheuses, les grizzlis et les marmottes. La survie, la croissance et l'activit procratrice taient les plus leves pour les deux perturbations subalpines. La croissance a vari selon les espces, mais la plus leve en termes de hauteur et de diamtre a t enregistre au cours des deux premires annes. L'activit procratrice des espces Astragalus a commenc au cours de la premire anne  un emplacement, mais en gnral la floraison et la production de semence n'a commenc qu'au cours de la deuxime ou de la troisime anne. Le recrutement  partir des semences tait faible (moins de 10 par an). Plusieurs des espces semblent tre appropries  la restauration de la couverture vgtale des perturbations causes par les exploitations minires  ciel ouvert aux niveaux subalpin et alpin. /// In dieser Studie wurden berlebensfhigkeit, Wachstum und Vermehrung von verschiedenen einheimischen, an Hochlagen angepassten Leguminosenarten, die auf ungedngten Abraumhalden in drei Kohleabbaugebieten in den kanadischen Rocky Mountains angepflanzt wurden, untersucht. Die berlebensraten unterschieden sich von Art zu Art. Am hchsten waren sie fr Astragalus aboriginum (62%), Astragalus alpinus (73-57%), Astragalus vexilliflexus var. nubilis (73-63%), und Oxytropis sericea (77-62%). Die Sterblichkeit war bei den meisten Arten in den ersten zwei Jahren am hchsten. Als Grnde fr die Setzlingssterblichkeit kommen Drre- und Frostschden ('frost-popping'), bloliegende Wurzeln, sowie durch Bergziegen, Grizzly-Bren, Murmeltiere und andere Tiere verursachte Schden wie zum Beispiel Blolegen des Wurzelwerks und Zerstrung des meristematischen Gewebes in Frage. Die hchsten berlebens-, Wachstums- und Vermehrungsraten wurden in den beiden subalpinen Kohleabbaugebieten gemessen. Die Wachstumsraten waren artenspezifisch. Allgemein bewiesen die Pflanzen die grte Wuchskraft (in Hhe und Umfang) in den ersten zwei Jahren. In einem Untersuchungsgebiet setzte Vermehrung bei den Astragalus-Arten bereits im ersten Jahr ein. Im allgemeinen wurden Blten und Samen jedoch erst im zweiten und dritten Jahr erzeugt. Der Vermehrungserfolg durch Samen war gering (<10/Jahr). Einige der untersuchten Arten erwiesen sich als geeignet fr die Wiederbegrnung von durch Tagebau beeintrchtigten subalpinen und alpinen Gebieten.
10.2307/3673090|The northern Andean region has retrogressed from a pre-Columbian state of surplus food production oriented toward domestic consumption to its present status as an extensively worked, predominantly export-oriented area of chronic rural malnourishment. Adequate human nutritional levels were achieved during the pre-Conquest era through the utilization of virtually all suitable land for crop plant production and through the specialized adaptation of a multiple variety of staple food crops to the myriad of local microenvironments. Although the Spanish conquerors introduced numerous Old World crop plants which subsequently were very important in the combined agricultural complex, they stressed an elitist, urban-oriented life-style dependent upon the possession of large, extensively-grazed cattle estates. Intensive, small-scale farming came to be associated with social and economic inferiority. The development of petroleum reserves led to further declines in food production. The small, prosperous, family-operated coffee farms of Antioquia long constituted the principal exception to prevailing land-use patterns. The forested lowlands are being developed rapidly through colonization by highland people and through the introduction of exotic fodder crops and cattle. Green Revolution technologies are transforming large-scale agriculture but the subsistence sector remains largely untouched. /// La rgion des Andes nu Nord est tomb d'un tat pr-colombien de production alimentaire excdentaire visant la consommation domestique  son tat actuel caractris par une exploitation extensive des cultures destines  l'exportation et par une population rurale soumise  des conditions de sous-alimentation chroniques. Des niveaus de nutrition suffisants ont t atteints pendant la priode avant la Conqute par la mise en oeuvre de presque toutes les terres pour la production des cultures et par une adaptation spcialise d'une grande varit des cultures alimentaires de base  une myriade de micro-environments de la rgion. Bien que les conqurants espagnols aient introduit de nombreuses cultures de l'ancien monde, qui par la suite ont jou un rle trs important dans l'agriculture, ils ont men un style de vie citadin de classe lite imposant qu'ils soient propritaires de vastes domaines d'levage de bovins  pturage extensif. Les cultures intensives  petite chelle ont t associes  des classes conomiques et sociales infrieures. Le dveloppement des rserves en ptrole a provoqu des baisses supplmentaires de la production alimentaire. Les petites exploitations familiales de caf prospres reprsentent dupuis longtemps l'exception principale aux modes currents d'exploitation des terres. Les plaines basses en forts sont en voie de dveloppement rapide par une colonisation des montagnards et par l'introduction de cultures fourragres exotiques et de btails. Des technologies de Rvolution des Cultures Vertes sont en train de transformer l'agriculture de grandechelle, mais le secteur de subsistance reste inchang. /// Die nrdlichen Anden produzierten in pr-kolumbianischer Zeit Nahrungsmittel im berschuss; haben sich jetzt aber vorwiegend auf ein Export-orientiertes und extensiv bewirtschaftetes Gebiet zurckentwickelt. Frher war die Produktion fr den Eigenbedarf bestimmt, heute leidet die Landbevlkerung unter chronischer Unterernhrung. Vor der spanischen Eroberung wurde angemessene Ernhrung durch Ausnutzung praktisch aller zum Feldfruchtanbau geeigneter Flchen gesichert. Ausserdem wurde die Auswahl der wichtigsten Erzeugnisse den vielfltigen Bedingungen lokaler Mikro-Umweltsysteme angepasst. Obwohl die spanischen Eroberer zahlreiche Feldfrchte "aus der alten Welt" einfhrten, die in der Folgezeit in der Gesamtlandwirtschaft an Bedeutung gewannen, betonten sie einen elitren, stadtorientierten Lebensstil, bei dem man vom Besitz grosser Lndereien und ausschliesslich zur Rinderzucht benutzter Landflchen abhing. Intensive Landwirtschaft in kleinem Umfang wurde sozialer und konomischer Unterlegenheit gleichgesetzt. Die Erschliessung von Erdlreserven fhrte zu einem weiteren Absinken der Nahrungsmittelproduktion. Die kleinen, erfolgreichen, Familien-betriebenen Kaffeeplantagen von Antioquia waren lange Zeit die einzige Ausnahme von der grossflchigen Bodennutzung. Heute werden die bewaldeten Niederungen von Hochlandbewohnern urbar gemacht und durch den Anbau von besonderem Viehfutter und durch Rinderzucht erschlossen. Agrartechnologie (grne Revolution) verndert die Landwirtschaft im grossen, dennoch bleiben die Kleinbauern davon grsstenteils unberhrt. /// La regin de los Andes del norte ha retrocedido de un estado pre-colombino de produccin alimenticia excedente orientada a la consumicin domstica hasta convertirse en su presente estado en una zona de malnutricin rural crnica con un cultivo extensivo predominantemente orientado hacia la exportacin. Durante la poca anterior a la conquista se alcanzaron niveles adecuados de nutricin humana al utilizarse prcticamente toda la tierra disponible para producir plantas cultivables y gracias a la adaptacin especializada de una variedad mltiple de cosechas de plantas que contienen algodn a los mil y un microambientes locales. Si bien los conquistadores espaoles introdujeron numerosas plantas cultivables del viejo mundo que ms adelante fueron muy importantes en el complejo agrario combinado, enfatizaron un estilo de vida elitista y orientado hacia las ciudades que se basaba en la posesin de grandes propiedades dedicadas extensivamente a pastos para la cra de ganado. El cultivo intensivo de pequea escala se vino a asociar con inferioridad social y econmica. El desarrollo de las reservas petrolferas contribuy todava ms a la disminucin de la produccin alimenticia. Las pequeas y prsperas haciendas de caf de Antioqua cultivadas por familias individuales constituyeron por mucho tiempo la excepcin principal a los modelos de uso de la tierra predominantes. Las tierras bajas forestales se estn desarrollando rpidamente por la colonizacin de la gente de las tierras altas y por la introduccin de cosechas exticas de pasto y ganado. Las tecnologas de la Revolucin Verde estn transformando la agricultura en-gran-escala pero el sector de subsistencia sigue en su mayor parte sin modificarse.
10.2307/3673555|This paper reviews the findings of a field study carried out in the southwest corner of the Arabian Peninsula, known as Arabia Felix or "Lucky Arabia" in ancient times. Despite limited agricultural resources, the Yemenis managed to turn even the steepest mountains, at first glance hostile to any settlement, into a remarkable agricultural landscape. The unique characteristic of this mountainous agro-ecosystem is its terraced arable fields. Millions of conservation bench terraces were erected to keep the artificially accumulated soil in place and to optimize the limited water supply. Today, these man-made terraces, which have been cultivated for several thousand years, still form the basis for much of the country's production of food grains. However, due to the emigration of rural labour, they are no longer maintained over wide stretches of land. Given the severe hazard of natural erosion in these areas, terrace abandonment inevitably leads to accelerated soil erosion and it is very unlikely that terraces, once they have become eroded, can ever be economically restored. /// Cet article passe en revue les rsultats d'une tude effectue dans le coin sud-ouest de la pninsule arabique, rgion dnomme Arabia Felix ou "Arabie Heureuse" dans le pass. En dpit de ressources agricoles limites, les Ymnites ont russi  transformer les montagnes les plus escarpes,  priori impropres au peuplement, en un domaine agricole remarquable. La caractristique unique de cet co-systme montagnard rside dans les cultures en terrasses. Des millions de terraces ont t ralises pour maintenir en place le sol accumul artificiellement et pour optimiser l'utilisation des ressources en eau trs limites. Ces terrasses, cultives pendant plusieurs milliers d'annes, forment toujours une base importante de la production de crales du pays. Nanmoins,  cause de l'migration de la main-d'oeuvre rurale, ces terrasses ne sont plus entretenues sur une grande partie du territoire. Si l'on considre les grands risques d'rosion naturelle dans cette rgion, l'abandon des terrasses va invitablement acclrer l'rosion du sol et il est peu probable qu'une fois rodes ces terrasses puissent tre conomiquement remises en tat. /// Der vorliegende Artikel fat die Resultate einer Feldstudie in der Sdwest-Ecke der arabischen Halbinsel, die seit altersher unter dem Namen "Arabia felix" bekannt war, zusammen. Trotz eingeschrnkter landwirtschaftlicher Ressourcen ist es der jemenitischen Bevlkerung gelungen, selbst an steilen, besiedelungsfeindlichen Hngen eine bemerkenswerte Landwirtschaft zu etablieren. Wichtigstes Merkmal dieses Gebirges sind die terrassierten Felder. Millionen Nutzterrassen wurden errichtet, um den knstlich akkumulierten Boden zu stabilisieren und das beschrnkt verfgbare Wasser aufzufangen. Heute bilden diese Terrassen, die ber Jahrtausende kultiviert wurden, die Grundlage der Getreideproduktion des Landes. Als Folge der Emigration der lndlichen Arbeitskrfte werden sie jedoch ber weite Landstriche nicht mehr gepflegt. Wegen der groen natrlichen Erosionsgefahr in diesen Gebieten, fhrt die Vernachlssigung der Terrassen unweigerlich zu beschleunigter Bodenerosion, und es ist fraglich, ob derart degradierte Terrassen je wieder instandgesetzt werden knnen.
3674177|Approximately 70% of Serbia consists of rolling, hilly and mountainous regions that are prone to erosion. Other natural factors, such as an unstable geological basis, intense rainfall, and poor vegetation cover also contribute to this predisposition to erosion. But the principal factor in accelerated erosion is human activity. The period up to the mid-1950s was characterized by great agrarian pressures and the resulting accelerated erosion. This was followed by rural depopulation and changes in the structure of agricultural production. As younger household members migrated, arable fields were left uncultivated, were invaded by weeds, and were then converted into pastures. Out-migration thus led to reduced pressure on the land, which contributed to diminishing erosion. But this cannot be called development. The revival of degraded regions should be based on people remaining in the area and being able to have decent livelihoods. Sustainable land use can make this possible, as illustrated by the example of the cooperative venture involving the Porecje Company and local farmers in the Porecje region. This venture involves cooperation between farmers and the company, reducing erosion by establishing terraces on steep slopes, improving soil characteristics, and promoting profitable fruit production. Land resources and environmental values are thus preserved without jeopardizing the profitability necessary to keep people in the region.
10.2307/3674006|In the Hindukush, Karakorum, and northwest Himalaya the struggle for subsistence by mountain farmers is based on agriculture and animal husbandry in the form of mixed mountain agriculture. This study analyses the seasonal pastoral migrations to alpine pastures as a strategy for utilizing the natural resources in the Rupal Valley, south of Nanga Parbat (8,126 m). Traditionally, this strategy of resource management was sustainable, but increases of population and livestock as well as external innovations are rapidly effecting change throughout the region. However, the results of this development vary according to the potential for off-farm employment and access to modern infrastructure in each valley. In Hunza, approximately 100 km north of Rupal, the utilization of alpine pastures decreased following a significant reduction of the male workforce and, after the introduction of cash crops and fodder cultivation, cropping patterns changed. Agriculture in the Rupal Valley during the last 20 years is characterized by an increase in animal husbandry and pastoral movements. Although there is also off-farm employment, it is more likely that animal husbandry will remain an important part of the agro-pastoral economy and there is potential for its commercialization. /// Dans l'Hindoukush, Karakorum et l'Himalaya du nord-ouest, la lutte pour la subsistance des fermiers de montagne est base sur l'agriculture et l'levage, sous la forme d'une agriculture mixte de montagne. Cette tude analyse les migrations pastorales saisonnires en tant que stratgie d'utilisation des ressources naturelles de la valle de Rupal, au sud du Nanga Parbat (8 126 m). Cette stratgie de gestion des ressources tait viable dans le pass, mais la croissance de la population et du btail, ainsi que le progrs  l'extrieur, ont entran des changements rapides dans la rgion. Cependant, les rsultats de ce dveloppement varient selon le potentiel d'emploi non rural et l'accs  l'infrastructure moderne de chaque valle. Dans l'Hunza,  environ 100 km au nord de Rupal, l'utilisation des pturages alpins a diminu par suite d'une rduction importante de la main-d'uvre mle, et les modes de culture ont chang aprs l'introduction de cultures commerciales et de la culture du fourrage. L'agriculture dans la valle de Rupal au cours des 20 dernires annes est caractrise par une augmentation de l'levage des animaux et des dplacements pastoraux. Bien qu'un l'emploi non rural existe, il est probable que l'levage des animaux continuera  tenir une place importante dans l'conomie agro-pastorale et qu'un potentiel existe pour sa commercialisation. /// Autochthone Handlungsstrategien zur Existenzsicherung im Hochgebirgsraum von Hindukusch, Karakorum und Nordwest-Himalaya kombinieren den Bewsserungsfeldbau auf Talniveau mit almwirtschaftlicher Nutzung alpiner Hochweiden. Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Formen der Hochgebirgslandwirtschaft und ihre jngere Entwicklung im Rupal-Tal, sdlich des Nanga Parbat (8126 m). Die traditionelle Hochgebirgslandwirtschaft hat bislang eine nachhaltige Nutzung der natrlichen Ressourcen gewhrleistet. Bevlkerungswachstum und die Zunahme der Viehbestnde sind typisch fr den gesamten Hochgebirgsraum. Doch in Abhngigkeit von der Mglichkeit zu aueragrarer Erwerbsttigkeit zeigen sich verschiedene Vernderungen. In Hunza (etwa 100 km nrdlich von Rupal) erfolgte ein Rckgang der Hochweidenutzung infolge einer Arbeitskraftverknappung sowie vernderter Anbauschwerpunkte durch marktorientierten Anbau und Futterbauwirtschaft. Im Rupal-Tal ist fr die vergangenen 20 Jahre jedoch eine zunehmende Bedeutung von Tierhaltung und Almwirtschaft festzustellen. Trotz der einsetzenden aueragraren Einkommensmglichkeiten wird die Viehwirtschaft hier auch weiterhin eine hohe Bedeutung behalten, zumal noch Potentiale zur marktorientierten Viehhaltung erschlossen werden knnen.
mounresedeve.32.3.324|This paper deals with the relations between grazing practices, pasture potential, and property rights in the Eastern Pamirs of Tajikistan 10 years after the privatization of 1999. It provides an overview of the spatiotemporal variability of current pasture use and livestock numbers. Assumptions about pasture potential are reconsidered inrelation to animals' forage needs in order to draw field-based conclusions regarding over- or underuse in particular areas. Data are derived from interdisciplinary research on post-Soviet pastoralism and associated humanenvironment interactions.We show that pastoralists in the Eastern Pamirs face several problems: As the land cover resources are meager and variable and hay meadows for winter fodder are rare, herd mobility or external forage inputs are necessary to compensate for weather-related shortages. The current multiseasonal pastureusea change from the mono-seasonal use of Soviet state farmsdiscourages plant regeneration. Competition between pastoralist groups is exacerbated by unresolved questions about formal user rights. Conflicts seem inevitable, limiting the sustainable use of natural resources. Based on 2 telling examples, we show that pastures close to villages are used year round, particularly in winter, and are heavily overgrazed. There is less grazing pressure on summer pastures, but some distant and hardly accessible summer pastures show high livestock numbers in summer, contradicting former opinions about their underuse.
25578201|The Altos de Chiantla in the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes represents an economic and environmental anomaly compared with areas surrounding it in highland Guatemala and Mesoamerica in general. For example, this cold and remote plateau region is dominated by sheep and potato production instead of maize, with maize being synonymous with surrounding Maya ethnolinguistic groups. Floristically, the area is also unique compared with surrounding areas. The Altos de Chiantla plateau is dominated by pramo grasslands and scattered groves of juniper, pines, and fir forests. Therefore, economically and environmentally, this area resembles Andean South America more than northern Central America. And while long-standing activities such as sheep ranching persist in this region, cultural, economic, and environmental changes are also taking place. The present article discusses general landscape changes in this region, with an emphasis on the various impacts that modernization such as remittances and agricultural development projects have brought.
mounresedeve.32.3.337|Transhumant agropastoralism is a major concern in debates about economic development and food security in Kyrgyzstan. Using the concept of the agropastoral system, this study emphasizes the diversity of existing family farming systems and agropastoral livelihoods at the regional level and their various economic perspectives in a constantly evolving environment. Qualitative and empirical research conducted in the eastern part of Chuy oblast led to establishment of a typology of household farming systems, based on their resources and strategies, showing the agro-economic logic in the increasing socioeconomic inequalities in rural areas. Four farming systems were identified: deprived households involved in kitchen gardening and daily farm labor, risky small crop farming systems that increasingly rely on offfarm jobs to secure their livelihoods, sustainable dairy farming systems, and dynamic meat producers. In the context of increasing demand for animal products in urban areas, the position of each farming system in dairy and beef marketing reveals its ability to seize economic opportunities in the agricultural sector and in competition with off-farm activities.
25163993|Preliminary estimates of the air pollution conditions in a mountainous region can be made by relating features shown on a large-scale topographic map to the climatic peculiarities of valleys, slopes, saddles, and peaks. The inferences must then be verified by a survey of botanical and soil features and, for greater assurance, by collecting meteorological measurements on occasions when the air is calm and danger is high. Crucial factors are the vertical extent and duration of cold air that tends to accumulate in valleys on calm nights and the related night-time and daytime slope and valley winds. /// On peut faire des valuations prliminaires de la pollution d'air dans les rgions montagneuses en comparant les caractristiques montrs sur une carte topographique  grande chelle avec les caractristiques climatriques des valles, des pentes, des crtes, et des sommets. On peut vrifier les interfrences par une tude des caractristiques botaniques et du sol et on peut avoir une vrification plus prcise en faisant des msures mtorologiques aux moments o l'air est calm et le danger de pollution sont leves. Les facteurs essentiels sont l'tendu vertical et la dure de l'air froid qui a tendance  s'accumuler dans les valles par des nuits tranquilles et les vents de jour et de nuit sur les pentes et dans les valles. /// Um die Verteilung der Luftverschmutzung in einer Berggegend in erster Annherung zu skizzieren, knnen mit einer gross-masstblichen Karte der Topographie die klimatischen Besonderheiten von Tlern, Abhngen, Stteln, und Gipfelkuppen zusammengesetzt werden. Die daraus gezogenen Schlsse mssen dann durch eine Bestandaufnahme von botanischen und anderen lokalklima-bedingten Indizien, und durch meteorologische Probemessungen in stagnierenden Wetterlagen mit verschrften Luftverschmutzungsproblemen gesichert werden. Die wesentlichsten Faktoren dafr sind die Dicke und Andauer der Kaltluft, die sich im Laufe von windlosen klaren Nchten in den Tlern ansammelt, und die damit verbundenen Tag- und Nachtwindsysteme an den Hngen und, auf grsserem Masstabe, ber den Tlern und Kmmen.
10.2307/3673220|Small-scale agro-pastoral production in the Central Andes is oriented toward guaranteeing a subsistence livelihood by efforts to attain self-sufficiency in food production and to reduce environmental risks. Production strategies involve the simultaneous use of several ecological zones each with characteristic crops or types of pasture. Households are the basic units of production which allocate land, labour, and capital at their disposal to meet short-term production goals. Supra-household mechanisms support the households within particular communities by limiting access to some lands, managing communal pastures, scheduling agro-pastoral activities, enforcing rotation schedules, and maintaining communal infrastructure (roads, terraces, irrigation canals). Ethnographic research in the last decade permits a detailed description of the workings of these forms of organization in a variety of ecological and economic conditions. Both the complementarity and the tension between household and supra-household claims on land and labour are discussed and some recent changes are reviewed. /// La production agro-pastorale  petite chelle dans les Andes centrales cherche  assurer la subsistance des peuples en orientant les efforts vers la ralisation d'une production agricole autosuffisante et la rduction des risques au regard de l'environnement. Les stratgies de production mettent en jeu l'exploitation simultane de plusieurs zones cologiques, chacune avec ses rcoltes caractristiques ou types de pturages. L'enterprise familiale est l'unit productrice de base qui alloue les terres, la main-d'oeuvre et le capital disponibles pour atteindre les objectifs de production  court terme. D'autres mcanismes particuliers  certaines communauts soutiennent les entreprises familiales en limitant l'accs  certaines terres, en grant les pturages communaux, en dressant le programme des activits agro-pastorales, en faisant observer les programmes de rotation, et en entretenant l'infrastructure communale (routes, terraces, canals d'irrigation). La recherche ethnographique au cours des dix dernires annes a produit une description dtaille du fonctionnement de ces formes d'organisation pour diffrentes conditions cologiques et conomiques. L'aspect complmentaire aussi bien que la tension entre les revendications respectives des entreprises familiales et des mcanismes rgulateurs sur les terres et la main d'oeuvre sont discutes et des changements rcents sont passs en revue. /// Die Produktion in der Land- und Weidewirtschaft in den Zentral-Anden ist darauf ausgerichtet, die Existenz zu sichern. Alle Anstrengungen gehen dahin, in der Nahrungsmittelproduktion unabhngig zu sein und Umweltrisiken zu verringern. Produktionsstrategien basieren auf dem gleichzeitigen Nutzen mehrerer kologischer Zonen zum gezielten Feldfruchtanbau oder als bestgeeignetes Weideland. Husliche Gemeinschaften stehen im Mittelpunkt; sie teilen Land, Arbeit und Kapital nach ihrem Gutdnken zu, um kurzfristige Produktionsziele zu erreichen. Grofamilire Verbnde untersttzen in einigen Gemeinden die Familienbetriebe, indem sie den Zugang zu bestimmten Landflchen einschrnken, das gemeinschaftliche Weideland verwalten, die Bettigungen auf den Land- und Weideflchen planen, den Fruchtwechsel durchsetzen, und die gemeinschaftliche Infrastruktur aufrechterhalten (Straen, Terrassen, Bewasserungskanle). Ethnographische Forschung der vergangenen 10 Jahre lat eine detaillierte Beschreibung der Wirkungsweise dieser Organisationsart unter verschiedenen kologischen und konomischen Bedingungen zu. Die Ansprche an Landflchen und Arbeitskrfte, die zwischen der Klein- und der Grofamilie bestehen, ergnzen sich, knnen aber auch zu Spannungen fhren. Beides wird diskutiert und einige neuere Vernderungen werden beschrieben. /// La produccin agropecuaria en pequea escala en los Andes centrales est orientada para asegurar el mantenimiento de subsistencia atravs de los esfuerzos para obtener autosuficiencia en la produccin de alimentos y para disminuir los riesgos ambientales. Las estrategias de produccin consisten en el uso simultneo de mtiples zonas ecolgicas. Las unidades domsticas constituyen los elementos bsicos de la produccin. Aprovechan las tierras, la mano de obra y el capital a su disposicin para satisfacer sus metas de corto plazo. Mecanismos sociales a nivel extradomstico apoyan a las unidades domsticas dentro de comunidades especficas atravs de la limitacin del acceso a la tierra, el manejo de pastos comunales, la programacin de actividades agropecuarias, la imposicin de programas de rotacin y el mantenimiento de la infraestructura comunal (carreteras, terrazas y canales de riego). Investigaciones etnogrficas en la ltima dcada nos permiten una detallada descripcin de los procedimientos de estas formas de organizacin en una variedad de condiciones ecolgicas y econmicas. Se examina la tensin y la complementariedad entre las unidades domsticas y las unidades extradomsticas sobre el control de la tierra y la mano de obra. Se repasan ciertos cambios recientes.
3674599|The tropical Andes region has extraordinary biological diversity with considerable endemism. The complex topography, climate, geology, and biogeographic history of the Andes have helped create a high turnover in species over distance and along steep environmental gradients. The humid montane and premontane forests of the tropical Andes compete with the lowland Amazonian forests in species richness. Long-term maintenance of diversity in the tropical Andes requires a management strategy that takes account of landscape patterns. Especially in heterogeneous regions such as Andean forests, management of the landscape is more appropriate for biodiversity conservation than management of local sites.
10.2307/3673853|The authors interviewed adults and children in the subtropical montane forests of northwestern Argentina, in an attempt to assess their degree of botanical knowledge. Four localities, representing a gradient of progressive geographic isolation were sampled. One hundred and eighty-one species of different categories of use were mentioned (72 cultivated and 109 wild). The isolation gradient did not show any effect on the number of species mentioned. Except for medicinal plants, children mentioned at least as many species as did adults. The results suggest that the less isolated villages may be as important for conservation of ethnobotanical knowledge as very isolated ones. Children should be considered in ethnobotanical studies because of their potential for obtaining high quality botanical information, with a relatively low sampling effort. /// Les auteurs ont interview des adultes et des enfants dans les forts alpestres subtropicales du nord-ouest de l'Argentine, afin d'valuer leur niveau de connaissance de la botanique. Quatre collectivits reprsentant un gradient d'isolement gographique ont t chantillonnes. Cent-quatre-vingt-une espces appartenant  diffrentes catgories d'usage ont t mentionnes, dont 72 cultives et 109 sauvages. Le gradient d'isolement n'a pas affect le nombre d'espces mentionnes. Les enfants ont mentionn autant d'espces que les adultes,  l'exception des plantes mdicinales. Les rsultats suggrent que les villages moins isols peuvent tre tout aussi importants pour la conservation des connaissances ethnobotaniques que les villages trs isols. Les enfants doivent tre considrs dans les tudes ethnobotaniques du fait qu'ils sont capables de fournir d'excellents informations botaniques sans mettre en jeu de gros efforts d'chantillonnage. /// Die Verfasser fhrten Interviews mit Erwachsenen und Kindern in subtropischen Bergwldern Nordwestargentiniens durch, um das Ausma ihrer Pflanzenkenntnis festzustellen. Die vier in diese Studie einbezogenen Ortschaften lagen auf einem Gradienten zunehmender geographischer Isolation. 181 Pflanzenarten in verschiedenen Nutzungskategorien (72 kultivierte sowie 109 wilde Arten) wurden genannt. Kinder erwhnten mindestens so viele Arten (mit Ausnahme von Heilpflanzen) wie Erwachsene. Die Ergebnisse lassen darauf schlieen, da die weniger isolierten Drfer ebenso wichtig fr die Erhaltung ethnobotanischen Kenntnisse sind wie stark isolierte Drfer. Kinder sollten in ethnobotanische Untersuchungen einbezogen werden, da von ihnen bei relativ geringem Erhebungsaufwand qualitativ hochwertige botanische Informationen gewonnen werden knnen. /// Con el objetivo de explorar su grado de conocimiento botnico se entrevistaron adultos y nios de los bosques subtropicales de montaa del Noroeste Argentino. Se consideraron cuatro localidades que representan un gradiente de progresivo aislamiento geogrfico. Durante el estudio fueron mencionadas 181 especies (72 cultivadas y 109 silvestres) categorizadas bajo distintos tipos de uso. El grado de aislamiento no mostr efecto alguno sobre el numero de especies mencionadas. Los nios, excepto en lo referente a plantas medicinales, mencionaron tantas o mas plantas que los adultos. Los resultados sugieren que poblaciones menos aisladas en esta regin pueden conservar el conocimiento etnobotnico en el corto plazo. Asimismo, el estudio destaca el valor de los nios que deben considerarse en los estudios etnobotnicos por su alto potencial como informantes con relativamente poco esfuerzo de muestreo.
25164151|Poppy production in Guatemala has been embraced by a growing number of people since the end of the civil war in 1996 as one avenue out of poverty. Most cultivation occurs in the department of San Marcos, one of the least developed regions with one of the highest rates of malnutrition and other health issues associated with poverty. While poppy production has led to increased profits for some farmers, there are many direct and indirect negative impacts on the health of local people as well as increased pollution associated with eradication efforts. Defoliant spray to eradicate poppies contaminates soil and water and destroys intercropped licit crops. Illicit production causes deforestation and indirectly leads to a change in people's diet. Additionally, poppy production is accompanied by escalating violence. All these factors are increasing the vulnerability of the local people and jeopardizing their health and well-being. Increased poppy production has to be understood as a symptom of development failures. Only re-establishing faith in the long-term viability of licit development initiatives will encourage local farmers to abandon illicit poppy production and increase the overall security and well-being of the local population.
mounresedeve.35.1.66|Climate changes are having dramatic ecological impacts in midto high-latitude mountain ranges where growth conditions are limited by climatic variables such as duration of growing season, moisture, and ambient temperature. We document patterns of forest vegetative response for 5 major alpine forest communities to current climate variability in the central Himalayas of Nepal to provide a baseline for assessment of future changes, as well as offer some insight into the trajectory of these changes over time. We used mean monthly surface air temperature and rainfall and the monthly averaged normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) to compare relative vegetation productivity among forest types and in relation to both climatic variables. Because changes in temperature and precipitation are directly manifested as changes in phenology, we examined current vegetative responses to climate variability in an effort to determine which climate variable is most critical for different alpine forest types. Our results show that correlations differ according to vegetation type and confirm that both precipitation and temperature affect monthly NDVI values, though more significant correlations were found with temperature data. The temperature response was more consistent because at the maximum increased temperatures, there was still an ongoing increase in vegetative vigor. This indicates that temperature is still the major limiting factor for plant growth at higherelevation sites. This part of the Himalayas has abundant moisture, and some forest types are already saturated in terms of growth in relation to precipitation. Clear increases in productivity are documented on the upper treeline ecotones, and these systems are likely to continue to have increasing growth rates.
25164100| Although the European Union has invested important subsidies in European mountain areas since the 1980s, the influence of these subsidies on the economy and society of these regions has so far not been analyzed. For this reason, we conducted a quantitative analysis of the effects of public policies on the development of the Central Pyrenees from 1986 to 2001. During this period, around 170 million (US$ 226.3 million) was invested in development of the Central Pyrenees through the Common Agricultural Policy and Regional Policy. However, in our analysis of correlations between several socioeconomic factors, we found that the number of inhabitants, farms, and employees in the primary and secondary sectors had decreased, while the tourist sector was becoming a major part of the economy. These findings seem to indicate that public policies had little effect; but although our analyses revealed that the various subsidies did little to promote structural improvement, they were important for supporting inhabitants (for example farmers) in the Pyrenees, because they are a form of complementary income, they allow communities to maintain farming activities, and they favor small enterprises linked to tourist activities-thus preventing depopulation. As the Pyrenees have little capacity for endogenous development, we argue that the current public policies should be maintained for the foreseeable future. 
10.2307/3673066|A stochastic, one-species model of plant establishment on disturbed alpine sites has been constructed in order to gain a better understanding of the natural recovery process and improve predictive capabilities for management purposes. The model is based on life history data for Arenaria groenlandica, a pioneering species of alpine disturbances in the northern Appalachian Mountains. The model closely simulates the age structure and cover values observed at our field sites after three years of recovery. Predictions of natural revegetation over a longer period indicate that the time required to establish 50 percent ground cover on an initially bare plot may exceed 15 years for "average" site conditions. Steps taken to facilitate natural processes in the revegetation of disturbed alpine areas reduce predicted recovery time by as much as 50-70 percent. Management implications of these simulations are discussed. /// Un modle stochastique de l'implantation d'une espce vgtale sur des sites alpins perturbs, a t ralis dans le but d'acqurir une meilleure comprhension du processus naturel de rtablissement et d'amliorer les moyens de prdiction  des fins de contrle. Le modle est bas sur les donnes historiques concernant l'Arenaria groenlandica, une espce volontaire que l'on trouve dans les zones perturbes des Appalaches septentrionales. Le modle simule de prs la structure chronologique et la capacit de couverture observes dans nos champs d'exprimentation aprs trois ans de rtablissement. Des prdictions de re-vgtation naturelle  longue chance indiquent que le temps requis pour rtablir 50 pour cent de la couverture sur une parcelle initialement dnude peut excder 15 ans dans des conditions "moyennes" de site. Les initiatives prises en vue de favoriser les processus naturels de re-vgtation des rgions alpines perturbes rduisent de 50  75% termes de contrle sont discutes. /// Es wurde ein stochastisches Modell zur Wiederbepflanzung zerstrter alpiner Stellen mit einer Pflanzengattung entworfen, um die natrliche Restauration besser zu verstehen, und verbesserte Vorraussagen zu liefern. Das Modell basiert auf Informationen ber die Entwicklungsstadien der Arenaria groenlandica, einer bei alpiner Zerstrung in den nrdlichen Appalachen versuchsweise benutzten Pflanzenart. Das Modell simuliert genau die Altersstruktur und die berwachsung, die man an unserer Teststelle nach drei Jahren Wiederherstellungszeit beobachtet hat. Vorraussagen ber die natrliche Regeneration der Pflanzenwelt ber einen lngeren Zeitraum zeigen, da es unter "normalen" Bedingungen lnger als 15 Jahre dauern kann, bis eine anfangs kahle Stelle zu 50% bewachsen ist. Manahmen, die den natrlichen Pflanzenwuchs frdern, verringern die vorrausgesagte Wiederherstellungszeit u. U. um 50-70%. Die Konsequenzen dieser Simulation werden diskutiert.
10.2307/3673202|Several serious problems impede the task of determining the biophysical impacts of deforestation in the mountainous uplands on the lower reaches of major river systems. Three of these are discussed: (1) the ambiguity of the term "deforestation", which really renders it useless to describe land-use changes so that impacts can be assessed; (2) the prevalence of misunderstanding, or even myth, concerning the role of trees and forests with respect to soil, water, and climate; and (3) the problem of extrapolating or translating observation and research from small plots or small catchments to large river basins. It is suggested, as a small but important step, that use of the term "deforestation" be discontinued in order to reduce uncertainty and imprecision. /// De gros problmes s'opposent  la dtermination de l'impact biophysique de la dforestation dans les rgions montagneuses sur les valles infrieures de systmes fluviaux importants. Trois problmes sont examins: (1) l'ambiguit du terme "dforestation" qui rduit l'utilit de celui-ci pour dcrire les changements de modes d'exploitation du sol et ainsi pour valuer l'impact biophysique; (2) la prdominance d'une conception errone, voire d'un mythe, concernant le rle des arbres et des forts vis--vis du sol, de l'eau et du climat; et (3) l'extrapolation ou l'adaptation des observations et des recherches effectues sur de petites parcelles ou de petites zones de captation aux bassins de fleuves importants. Un premier pas important consisterait  ne plus utiliser le terme "dforestation" afin de rduire les incertitudes et le manque de prcision. /// Die Aufgabe, biophysikalische Auswirkungen der Entwaldung in den bergigen Hochlndern an den Unterlufen grerer Flusysteme zu bestimmen, ist durch mehrere schwierige Probleme erschwert. Drei solcher Probleme werden diskutiert: (1) Die Zweideutigkeit des Wortes "Entwaldung", das ungeeignet ist, Landnutzungsnderungen so zu beschreiben, da man die Auswirkungen beurteilen kann; (2) das gelufige Miverstndnis, oder sogar der Mythos ber die Rolle der Bume und Wlder hinsichtlich Boden, Wasser und Klima und (3) die Schwierigkeit, Schlsse auf groe Flubecken aus Beobachtung und Untersuchung von kleinen Landund Wasserflchen zu ziehen. Als ein erster, aber wichtiger Schritt wird vorgeschlagen, das Wort "Entwaldung" nicht mehr zu benutzen, um Unsicherheit und Ungenauigkeit zu reduzieren.
25164048|The mid-elevation hillsides of the Cochabamba region of Bolivia between 2,500 and 4,000 m asl are characterized by a multitude of microclimates for crop production. Poor productivity of food crops in the Cochabamba region has been associated principally with declining soil fertility. The time for natural fallow has declined steadily as more land for crop production is required. The use of legume cover crops, therefore, to improve the restoration of soil fertility during the brief natural fallow period offers considerable possibilities for improvement. Potential legume cover crops were identified that can germinate, flower, and set seed within the possible growing season constrained by temperature, photoperiod, and rainfall patterns. A photothermal model was calibrated for each of twelve cover crops. Simulations were run using the climate records for three hillside sites near Cochabamba. Six of the more temperate cover crops investigated could mature and provide seed from any sowing date at 2,600 m, and from most sowings at 3,220 m, but few were adapted to 3,490 m. Potential cover crops, not currently grown locally, and adapted for this cropping system, were identified and recommended for further field trials.
10.2307/3673062|The term "Krummholz" is applied to the bush-like growth-forms of Pinus mugo prostrata, Alnus viridis, and some other species which are genetically determined. The term has also long been used by English-speaking botanists to refer to the climatically stunted and distorted trees in the forest-tundra ecotone. Thus, distinct ecological and plant-geographical differences are disguised which, in a more precise differentiation of the mountain plant cover, ought to be accentuated. The author tries to explain this by observation and field studies in the European high mountains and in the Rocky Mountains and suggests restricting the German term "Krummholz" to the genetically controlled shrub-like species; the timberline species shaped by climatic influences should be called cripple-trees. Thus, the elfin wood is nothing but a cripple facies of the upper montane forest. /// En allemand, on appelle "Krummholz" les espces de bois comme Pinus mugo prostrata et Alnus viridis qui sont d'une pousse tordue par voie d'hrdit. En anglais, on appelle "Krummholz" depuis quelque temps aussi les formes des arbres  la limite forestire suprieure qui sont occasiones par le climat. Avec ce transfert, des diffrences importantes en vue de l'cologie et de la gographie floristique sont effaces qui devront tre soulignes pour obtenir la diffrenciation la plus exacte de la vgtation de haute montagne. Cela, l'auteur essaye de dmontrer au moyen des observations comparatives dans les hautes montagnes europennes et dans les montagnes rochenses. Il suggre de rserver le terme "Krummholz" pour les espces de pousse tordue fixe genetiquement et d'appeler arbres deforms les formes de pousse tordue forces par les constraints du climat. Alors, le "elfin wood" n'est qu'une forme tordue de la fort prs de sa limite suprieure. /// Als Krummholz werden im Deutschen die erblich krummwchsigen Holzarten wie Pinus mugo prostrata und Alnus viridis bezeichnet. Im Englischen ist es seit geraumer Zeit blich geworden, auch die klimatisch bedingten Wuchsformen im Waldgrenzbereich "Krummholz" zu nennen. Mit dieser bertragung werden aber wesentliche kologische und pflanzengeographische Unterschiede verwischt, die im Hinblick auf eine mglichst genaue Differenzierung der Hochgebirgsvegetation eigentlich hervorgehoben werden mten. Dies versucht der Autor anhand vergleichender Beobachtungen und Studien in europischen Hochgebirgen und in den Rocky Mountains zu begrnden. Er schlgt vor, den Terminus "Krummholz" den Arten mit genetisch fixierter Krummwchsigkeit vorzubehalten und die klimatisch induzierten Zwangswuchsformen als Krppelwuchsformen oder Baumkrppel zu bezeichnen.
3674209|In the High Andes of Bolivia, sectoral fallow systems are a common from of land use. Fields in the study area (Japo, Department of Cochabamba) are cultivated for 3 years with potatoes as the first crop and then lie fallow for 9 years. Despite the low nutrient content of the soil and the high elevation of the area (between 4000 and 4500 m above sea level), farmers achieve relatively high yields. This is explained by traditional knowledge about soil fertility management. The study focuses on nutrient dynamics over a 12-year cycle. A participatory research approach was applied to obtain information about indigenous knowledge. Soil nutrient content, phytomass, and yields were measured in 72 fields together with the farmers. Subterranean phytomass was identified as the key factor in nutrient storage during the fallow period. A multiple linear regression model shows three main factors that determine potato yields on cultivated fields. Farmers know about the nutrient dynamics of the fields; hence, cultivation measures show an impressive rationality. New elements such as mineral fertilizer have been incorporated in the system in a sustainable way. Participatory research intensifies these processes, stimulating farmers to reflect about their own land use system.
90001376|The 2015 magnitude 7.8 Gorkha earthquake and its aftershocks weakened mountain slopes in Nepal. Co- and postseismic landsliding and the formation of landslide-dammed lakes along steeply dissected valleys were widespread, among them a landslide that dammed the Kali Gandaki River. Overtopping of the landslide dam resulted in a flash flood downstream, though casualties were prevented because of timely evacuation of low-lying areas. We hindcast the flood using the BREACH physically based dam-break model for upstream hydrograph generation, and compared the resulting maximum flow rate with those resulting from various empirical formulas and a simplified hydrograph based on published observations. Subsequent modeling of downstream flood propagation was compromised by a coarse-resolution digital elevation model with several artifacts. Thus, we used a digital-elevation-model preprocessing technique that combined carving and smoothing to derive topographic data. We then applied the 1-dimensional HEC-RAS model for downstream flood routing, and compared it to the 2-dimensional Delft-FLOW model. Simulations were validated using rectified frames of a video recorded by a resident during the flood in the village of Beni, allowing estimation of maximum flow depth and speed. Results show that hydrological smoothing is necessary when using coarse topographic data (such as SRTM or ASTER), as using raw topography underestimates flow depth and speed and overestimates flood wave arrival lag time. Results also show that the 2-dimensional model produces more accurate results than the 1-dimensional model but the 1-dimensional model generates a more conservative result and can be run in a much shorter time. Therefore, a 2-dimensional model is recommended for hazard assessment and planning, whereas a 1-dimensional model would facilitate real-time warning declaration.
10.2307/3673670|A cooperative U.S.A.-China ecological study took place at the Xujiaba Nature Sanctuary on the northern crest of the Ailao Shan (mountains) in central-west Yunnan. By making forest access difficult and keeping human immigration low, the mountainous topography of Yunnan has assisted in protecting forest cover. This project studied the vegetational and bird structure and composition of an old growth and a secondary evergreen broad-leaved forest. The study found that the old growth had better developed layers, canopy stems were wider and taller, and there was a greater diversity of bird species. The secondary forest had a higher stem density in the canopy, more even-aged stems in the canopy, more coppiced stems in the canopy, and a greater canopy and overall basal area. Both forest types maintained a high diversity of woody species, but different species were dominant in each forest type and in the canopy and subcanopy of the forests. Natural forests are rare in China and are dwindling quickly. Most natural forest is found in frontier regions and it is here where research and management efforts are needed most urgently. In the nature reserves more ecological research, conservation education, and greater efforts to understand local demands, use, and knowledge about the forests are needed. /// Une tude cologique a t effectue par les Etats-Unis et la Chine dans le sanctuaire naturel de Xujiaba sur la crte septentrionale des monts Ailao (Ailao Shan), au centre-ouest de la province du Yunnan. La topographie montagneuse du Yunnan a aid  protger la couverture forestire en rendant l'accs aux forts difficile et en limitant ainsi l'immigration humaine. Ce projet a tudi la structure de la vgtation et des populations d'oiseaux, ainsi que la composition d'une fort primaire et d'une fort secondaire compose d'arbres  larges feuilles persistantes. Cette tude a montr que la fort primaire avait des couches mieux dveloppes, que les tiges de la couronne taient plus larges et plus hautes et que les espces d'oiseaux taient plus diverses. La fort secondaire avait une plus haute densit de tiges dans la couronne, plus de tiges d'ge uniforme dans la couronne, plus de tiges en taillis dans la couronne, ainsi qu'une plus grande surface de couronne et de base. Les deux types de fort ont maintenu une grande diversit d'espces ligneuses, mais diffrentes espces taient dominantes dans chaque type de fort et dans la couronne et la sous-couronne des forts. Les forts naturelles sont rares en Chine et disparaissent rapidement. La plupart des forts naturelles se trouvent dans les rgions frontalires et c'est donc l o le besoin de travaux de recherche et de gestion sont les plus urgents. Un accroissement de la recherche cologique et de l'ducation sur la conservation, ainsi que de plus gros efforts visant  comprendre les besoins, l'utilisation et la connaissance des forts au niveau local sont ncessaires dans les rserves naturelles. /// Im Xujiaba Naturschutzgebiet am nrdlichen Kamm der Ailao Berge in Zentralwest Ynnan wurde in Zusammenarbeit zwischen den USA und China eine kologische Studie durchgefhrt. Die bergige Topographie von Ynnan half, den ursprnglichen Waldbestand zu erhalten; der Zugang zu Waldgebieten ist schwierig und menschlicher Einflu blieb gering. Dieses Projekt untersuchte die Vegetationsstruktur und die Vogelbestnde fr den Urbewuchs und fr gemischt bewachsene Waldgebiete mit altem Baumbestand und mit immergrnen Laubbumen als Sekundrbewuchs. Die Studie ergab, da die Flche des alten Baumbestandes eine besser entwickelte Struktur des Laubwerkes hatte, die Stmme waren dicker und hher, und es gab eine grere Vielfalt unter den Vogelarten. Im Sekundrwald standen die Stmme dichter, der Wuchs war gleichaltriger, es gab mehr Unterholz, Blattdcher und ihre Grundflchen waren allgemein grsser. Beide Waldarten hatten viele unterschiedliche Baumsorten, jedoch die Hauptsorte war verschieden fr jede Waldart. Primrwlder sind in China selten und verringern sich stndig. Die meisten Primrwlder sind in Grenzgebieten und hier sind Forschungs-und Managementbemhungen am ntigsten. In den Schutzgebieten sind kologische Forschung und Schulung auf dem Gebiet des Naturschutzes ntig, ebenso mu es verstrkte Bemhungen geben, lokale Bedrfnisse, wirtschaftliche Nutzung und die forstwissenschaftliche Erkenntnis zu interpretieren.
10.2307/3673549|Pressure on land caused by an increase in human and livestock population, particularly since the early twentieth century, has had serious ecological effects in the Mbeya Highlands and surrounding lowlands. Forests and woodlands have been cleared indiscriminately for cultivation, and overgrazing and extensive wood cutting have occurred. The clearing of steep, unstable slopes has caused increased surface runoff, soil erosion, and land degradation. The concentration of people in Ujamaa villages seems to have aggravated the problem and there is annual flooding in the lowlands of Kyela due to increased surface runoff and silting of rivers. The degradation of land has forced many people to migrate to the surrounding lowlands and to other areas where arable land is still available. While efforts have been made by the government to protect the vegetation and conserve the soil, there is still need for more careful and active land management. This calls for the formulation and implementation of strict environmental protection policies, together with a comprehensive plan for development of mountain environments and greater emphasis on integrated scientific research. /// La pression exerce sur les terres par une augmentation de la population, humains et btail, surtout depuis le dbut du vingtime sicle, a eu des rpercussions cologiques srieuses sur les Monts Mbeya et les basses terres environnantes. Les forts et zones boises ont t dfriches en toute libert; un surpturage et un abattage d'arbres extensifs se sont produits. Le dfrichage de pentes raides et instables a entrn une augmentation du ruissellement, de l'rosion du sol et de la dgradation des terres. La concentration de la population dans les villages Ujamaa semble avoir aggrav la situation; les basses terres de Kyela sont inondes annuellement  cause de l'augmentation du ruissellement et de l'envasement des rivires. La dgradation des terres a forc une bonne partie de la population  migrer vers les basses terres environnantes et d'autres zones o la terre arable est encore disponible. Bien que le gouvernement ait fait certains efforts pour protger la vgtation et conserver le sol, une gestion des terres plus soigneuse et plus active est indispensable. Cela ncessite la formulation et l'application de strictes mesures de protection de l'environnement, de concert avec un plan d'ensemble pour le dveloppement des environnements montagnards et une plus grande insistance sur la recherche scientifique intgre. /// Zu Beginn des 20. Jahrhunderts haben in den Mbeya Bergen und den umliegenden Tieflndern Bevlkerungsdruck und erhhter Viehbestand einschneidende Vernderungen im kosystem hervorgerufen. Wlder wurden zwecks Gewinnung von Ackerland, Brenn- und Bauholz wahllos abgeholzt. Der grte Teil des Graslands ist zudem berweidet. Daneben wurden steile, instabile Hanglagen umgepflgt, was zu erhhtem berflchenabflu, Bodenerosion und Landzerstrung fhrte. Die Ballung der Bevlkerung in den Ujamaa Drfern hat das Problem verschlimmert und in den Kyela Tieflanden kommt es zu alljhrlichen berschwemmungen, hervorgerufen durch ungehemmten Oberflchenabflu und Verschlammung der Flsse. Die Verschlechterung des Siedlungslandes hat viele Bewohner gezwungen, in benachbarte Tieflande umzusiedeln, wo Ackerland noch verfgbar ist. Trotz Bemhungen der Regierung, die Vegetation zu schtzen und die Bodenqualitt zu erhalten, bleibt es weiterhin notwendig fr sorgfltiges und aktives Landmanagement zu sorgen. Die Gesetzgebung fr Umweltschutz mu verbessert und ihre Beachtung schrfer berwacht werden. Umfassende Plne fr die Entwicklung der Berggebiete mssen erstellt werden, und zusammenfassende wissenschaftliche Forschung mu strker bercksichtigt werden.
10.2307/3673423|Mountains and highlands account for 26 percent of the territory of the USSR. Over 20 percent of its total population live in these regions. Centralized planning for more than half a century has produced inappropriate mountain resource-use policies leading to serious environmental deterioration, disruption of local cultures, and ethnic unrest. The first part of this paper expands this thesis and provides several examples. The second part gives an overview of the development of Soviet mountain research from the large interdisciplinary expeditions of the 1920s and 1930s, to the introduction of I. P. Gerasimov's "constructive geography" in 1966, to the absorption of MAB-6 principles and approaches in the 1970s and early 1980s. The most recent stage has seen the beginnings of international and interdisciplinary collaboration through close working relationships with the United Nations University, the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, the International Mountain Society, the East-West Center, and the Commission on Mountain Geoecology of the International Geographical Union. The paper concludes with an outline of the new organizational structures required, and an indication of some of the essential approaches, particularly Geographical Information Systems and modeling applications, together with worldwide research collaboration. These approaches will fall within the new spirit of glasnost. The aim will be to achieve fully integrated mountain research and to apply the results to the solution of mountain resource-use problems. /// Les montagnes et hautes terres constituent 26 pourcent du territoire de l'U.R.S.S. Plus de 20 pourcent de la population totale vit dans ces rgions. La planification centralise, applique pendant plus d'un demi-sicle, a engendr une politique inapproprie d'exploitation des ressources de la montagne, qui a entran une dtrioration srieuse de l'environnement, une dislocation des cultures locales, et des troubles ethniques. La premire partie de cette article dveloppe cette thse et fournit plusieurs exemples. La deuxime partie donne un aperu du dveloppement de la recherche sovitique sur la montagne, depuis les grandes expditions interdisciplinaires des annes 1920 et 1930, jusqu' l'introduction de la "gographie constructive" de I. P. Gerasimov en 1966, et l'absorption des principes et approches de MAB-6 dans les annes 1970 et le dbut des annes 1980. L'tape la plus rcente a vu la naissance d'une collaboration internationale et interdisciplinaire, sous la forme de relations de travail troites avec l'Universit des Nations Unies, le Centre international pour le dveloppement intgr des montagnes, la Socit internationale d'tude de la montagne, le Centre est-ouest et la Commission sur la gocologie de l'Union gographique internationale. Cette article conclut avec une esquisse des nouvelles structures requises au niveau des organisations, et une indication de certaines approches essentielles, en particulier les systmes de traitement des informations gographiques et les applications de la modlisation, ainsi qu'une collaboration scientifique  l'chelle mondiale. Ces approches pourront tre mises en oeuvre grce au nouvel esprit de glasnost. Le but est d'arriver  compltement intgrer les recherches sur la montagne et d'appliquer les rsultats  la solution des problmes d'exploitation des ressources de la montagne. /// Das Staatsgebiet der UdssR besteht zu 26% aus Gebirgen und Hochlanden. ber 20% der gesamten Bevlkerung leben in diesen Gegenden. Unzweckmige Politiken zur Nutzung der Gebirgsressourcen durch die zentralisierte Planung der vergangenen 50 Jahre fhrten zu schwerwiegender Umweltverschlechterung, zum Zerfall der ortsgebundenen Kulturen und zu ethnischen Unruhen. Der erste Teil dieses Beitrages erhrtet anhand einiger Beispiele diese Behauptung. Der zweite Teil gibt eine bersicht ber die Entwicklung der sowjetischen Gebirgsforschung von den groen interdisziplinren Expeditionen der 20er und 30er Jahre bis zur Einfhrung der "konstruktiven Geographie" von I. P. Gerasimov im Jahre 1966 und zur Annahme der Grundstze des MAB 6 Projekts und ihren Ausfhrungen in den 70er und frhen 80er Jahren. Die jngste Entwicklungsphase lt den Anfang von internationaler und interdisziplinrer Zusammenarbeit durch ein enges Arbeitsverhltnis mit der United Nations Universitt, dem International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, der International Mountain Society, dem East-West Center und der Commission on Mountain Geoecology of the International Geographical Union erkennen. Abschlieend umreit der Beitrag die neuen, organisatorischen Strukturen, die notwendig sind und weist auf einige wesentliche Lsungsschritte hin, insbesondere die Anwendung von geographischen Informationssystemen, die Benutzung von Modellen und weltweite Zusammenarbeit in der Forschung. Diese Zielsetzungen tragen der neuen Idee von glasnost Rechnung. Die Absicht ist, eine vollstndig integrierte Gebirgsforschung und, die Anwendung ihrer Ergebnisse fr Problemlsungen bei der Gebirgsressourcennutzung zu realisieren.
25164072|More than a decade after the breakdown of a very severe communist regime, Albania is still facing the challenges of a difficult transition to democracy. The lack of a democratic tradition and a rather inequitable redistribution of resources have enabled a minority-often politicians-to thrive, whereas the majority of Albanians are struggling to survive. This is particularly the case in the remote northern mountain areas, where people are dependent mainly on agricultural and other types of land. Poor infrastructure and very weak police and judicial systems have made the region vulnerable to the revival of a centuries-old tradition: the blood feud. This severely hampers development, particularly tourism, and is undermining the country's social fabric.
10.2307/3673204|The population of the Himalayan region has tripled between 1901 and 1981 (from 11 to 33 million) and the rate of increase accelerated after about 1951 (from 1.26 to 2.7 percent per annum). These generalized figures, however, conceal significant sub-regional differences. It is argued that aid and development programmes have so far paid insufficient attention to local socio-cultural institutions and environmental conditions, and especially to the status of women. /// La population de la rgion himalayenne a tripl entre les annes 1901 et 1981, de 11  33 millions d'habitants, et la croissance dmographique s'est acclre aprs 1951, de 1,26  2,7 pour-cent par an. Nanmoins, ces statistiques globales masquent les diffrences marques au sein de la rgion. Cette tude dmontre que jusqu' prsent les programmes d'aide au dveloppement n'ont pas suffisamment tenu compte des institutions socio-culturelles locales et des conditions de l'environnement, en particulier le statut des femmes. /// Die Bevlkerung des Himalaya Gebietes hat sich zwischen 1901 und 1981 verdreifacht (von 11 auf 33 Millionen) und nach 1951 beschleunigte sich die Wachstumsrate (von 1,26 auf 2,7% pro Jahr). Diese allgemeinen Zahlen verbergen jedoch bedeutende Unterschiede zwischen den einzelnen Gebieten. Die Argumentation geht dahin, da bisher Hilfs- und Entwicklungsprogramme den lokalen sozio-kulturellen Institutionen, den Umweltbedingungen und besonders der Rolle der Frau ungengende Beachtung geschenkt haben.
10.2307/3673067|The vegetation of the Andean Cordillera changes its physiognomy with elevation. Seasonal patterns of leaf area increment and annual biomass production were analysed in dominant shrub species growing at foothill matorral (1,000 m a.s.l.) and the montane matorral (2,000 m a.s.l.). Shoot growth occurs in each species within a characteristic period and at a specific rate. In most species shoot growth followed the typical sigmoid curve; however, in Kageneckia oblonga and Kageneckia angustifolia, the leaf area growth curve exhibited two periods of more intensive growth. The growth rates of leaf area varied from <tex-math>$0.06\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{day}$</tex-math> for Valenzuelia trinervis to <tex-math>$1.05\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{day}$</tex-math> for Kageneckia oblonga. In species located at higher altitudes the growth period takes place later in the season and lasts longer. /// La physionomie de la vgtation de la Cordillre des Andes change avec l'altitude. Les cycles saisonniers de l'accroissement du feuillage et de la production annuelle de biomasse ont t analyss auprs des espces dominantes d'arbustes poussant sur le matorral des contre-forts (1.000 mtres au-dessus du niveau de la mer) et sur le matorral montagnard (2.000 m.a.d.n.m.). La croissance de pousses survient pour chaque espce,  un moment prcis et selon un rythme spcifique. Pour la plupart des espces, la croissance de pousses suit la courbe sigmode typique; cependant, pour le Kageneckia oblonga et le Kagenekia angustifolia, la courbe de croissance du feillage prsente deux priodes de croissance plus intensives. Les taux de croissance du feuillage varient de <tex-math>$0,06\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math> par jour pour le Valenzuelia trinervis  <tex-math>$1,05\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math> par jour pour le Kageneckia oblonga. Pour les espces situes  plus haute altitude, la priode de croissance commence plus tard dans la saison et dure plus longtemps. /// Die Vegetation in den Anden verndert ihr Erscheinungsbild mit der Hhe. Saisonbedingter Blattwuchs und der jhrliche Gesamtwuchs wurden fr die vorherrschenden Buscharten, die im Matorral der Vorberge (bei 1,000m .M.) und im gebirgigen Matorral (bei 2,000m .M.) wachsen, untersucht. Die Schlinge jeder Pflanzenart wachsen innerhalb gewisser Zeitrume und mit bestimmten Wachstumsraten. Bei den meisten Arten folgt dieses Wachstum der typischen S- Kurve, bei der Kageneckia oblonga und der Kageneckia angustifolia jedoch zeigte der Wachstumsverlauf der Bltter zwei Zeitabschnitte besonders intensiven Wuchses. Die Wachstumsraten schwankten zwischen <tex-math>$0.06\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{Tag}$</tex-math> fr die Valenzuelia trinervis und <tex-math>$1.05\ {\rm cm}^{2}/\text{Tag}$</tex-math> fr die Kageneckia oblonga. Bei Pflanzenarten, die in hheren Lagen zu finden sind, ist die Wachstumzeit spter im Jahr und dauert lnger.
10.2307/3673701|Indirect estimates of flood magnitude may be useful for resource management along ungauged stream channels. Such estimates may be developed either from statistical analyses of regional hydrologic data or from physical measurements of channel characteristics. Channel characteristics that record flood magnitude include erosional and depositional features indicative of peak stage. These peak stage estimates may be converted into discharge estimates using step-backwater hydraulic procedures if channel geometry at the time of the flood can be determined. Discharge estimates from scour lines along five study reaches in ungauged mountain channels in Nepal are presented as examples of this methodology. /// Les estimations indirectes de l'ampleur des inondations peuvent tre utiles pour la gestion des ressources le long de chanaux de cours d'eau non jaugs. De telles estimations peuvent tre effectues  partir d'analyses statistiques des donnes hydrologiques rgionales ou de mesures physiques des caractristiques des chenaux. Les caractristiques tmoignant de l'ampleur des inondations incluent les signes d'rosion et de dpt qui indiquent la phase de crue maximale. Ces estimations de phase de crue maximale peuvent tre converties en estimations de dbit  l'aide de procdures hydrauliques indirectes si la gomtrie du chenal au moment de la crue peut tre dtermin. Les estimations de dbit bases sur les lignes d'affouillement le long de cinq tronons de chenaux non jaugs du Npal sont prsentes en tant qu'exemples de cette mthodologie. /// Indirekte Schtzwerte des berflutungsausmaes entlang ungemessener Gebirgsflsse knnen beim Ressourcenmanagement hilfreich sein. Diese Schtzwerte knnen aus statistischen Analysen der regionalen, hydrologischen Daten oder aus den physikalischen Abmessungen der Flurinne abgeleitet werden. Kennzeichen fr die Hhe des Wasserstandes sind die Erosions- und Ablagerungsmarkierungen, die nach berschwemmungen zurckbleiben. Die so bestimmten Wasserstnde konnen unter Anwendung indirekter hydraulischer Vorgnge in Durchfluwerte umgerechnet werden, wenn die Flugeometrie zur Zeit der berschwemmung bestimmbar ist. Schtzwerte der Abflulraten entlang Schwmmlinien von ungemessenen Gebirgsflssen in fnf Untersuchungsbereichen in Nepal werden als Beispiele fr die beschriebene Methode angegeben.
10.2307/3672960|Huai Thung Choa in the Southeast Asian "Golden Triangle" is a typical tropical mountain region which is known for opium poppy cultivation. In addition it is engulfed by problems of deforestation, intensified swidden <tex-math>$\text{agriculture},^{1}$</tex-math> and in consequence, accelerated soil degradation. Several projects, among them the Agro-forestry Project of Chiang Mai University in association with United Nations University, Tokyo, are being undertaken in the region to assist in the solution of the pressing environmental problems. Soil erosion plays a critical role on the actual swidden fields that in this upland region are frequently developed on steep slopes. The analysis of soil erosion damages and a quantitative estimate of their extent in different cultivated fields indicated the occurrence of annual soil losses in the order of 100 metric tons per hectare. Process studies on micro-test plots during the 1980 monsoon are analysed in order to evaluate parameters of the Universal Soil Loss Equation. Soil losses predicted from these analyses are 100 to 150 tons per hectare per year from an average cultivated swidden. This indicates that a 10-20 year fallow period for each year of cultivation is absolutely necessary if adequate soil regeneration is to occur. Alternatives for modification of the swidden systems are discussed critically, and new experiments set up to test their ecological validity in the long term. /// Huai Thung Choa au "Triangle d'or" de l'Asie du Sud-Est, forme une rgion montagneuse tropicale typique, o on trouve les problmes connus de culture de pavot  opium. D'autres problmes viennent de la dforestation par une agriculture  la houe intensifie qui provoque une dgradation acclre des sols. Dans cette rgion plusieurs projets, parmis eux le Projet Agroforestier de l'Universit de Chiang Mai en association avec l'Universit des Nations Unies  Tokyo, s'occuppent de la rsolution des problmes d'environnement.  cause du relief extrme des terres cultives, l'rosion des sols joue un rle central comme rgulateur de la technique de cultivation traditionelle. Des analyses des dgts causs par l'rosion et des estimations quantitatives dans plusieurs champs montrrent des pertes annuelles d'environ 100 tonnes de terre par hectare. Pour valuer des paramtres de l'quation Universelle de la Perte de Terre, des mesurages faits en 1980 pendant la mousson sont analyss. L aussi, les montants de perte de terre annuelle d'un champ moyen vacillent entre 100 et 150 tonnes par hectare. Ceci montre qu'aprs une seule anne de cultivation, le sol a besoin de 10  20 ans de friche afin qu'il se rgnre suffisamment. Pour les annes suivantes on discute et on teste plusieurs alternatives possibles qui permettraient une amlioration de la cultivation, comme par exemple la construction de terrasses irrigues, l'intensification des drainages, ou l'introduction de systmes agroforestiers. /// Huai Thung Choa im sdost-asiatischen "Goldenen Dreieck" ist eine typische tropische Bergregion, in der neben dem bekannten Opium-Anbau vor allem die Probleme der Entwaldung durch intensivierte Hackbau-Landwirtschaft und der dadurch ausgelsten beschleunigten Degradierung des Bodens existieren. Mehrere Projekte, darunter das Agro-Forstwirtschafts-Projekt der Chiang Mai Universitt in Verbindung mit der UN Universitt Tokyo beschftigen sich im Gebiet mit der Lsung der Umweltprobleme. Bodenerosion nimmt auf den aktuellen Anbauflchen wegen des ausserordentlichen Reliefs eine zentrale Stellung als Regler der traditionellen Anbautechnik ein. Schadenanalysen und quantitative Abschtzungen in verschiedenen Anbauflchen ergaben jhrliche Bodenverluste von rund 100 Tonnen pro Hektare. Prozessmessungen auf Mikro-Testflchen im Monsun 1980 werden fr die Evaluation von Parametern der universellen Bodenverlustgleichung analysiert. Auch hier liegen berechnete Erosionsbetrge pro Jahr zwischen 100 und 150 t pro ha fr eine durchschnittliche Anbauflche. Dies zeigt, dass pro Anbaujahr 10-20 Jahre Brache und Sekundrwald erfolgen mssen, damit die Bden gengend regenerieren. Mgliche Alternativen, wie z.B. Nassreis-Terrassen, intensivierte Entwsserungsrinnen, oder agro-forstwirtschaftliche Systeme werden kritisch diskutiert und entsprechende Experimente zur Erprobung in den nchsten Jahren vorbereitet.
10.2307/3673865|Resources of mountain environments are often held and used as commons. This paper examines the use of mountain commons in two villages in the Manali area, Kulu Valley, Himachal Pradesh, India, where the land settlement of 1886 provided the local people with well defined resource rights and allowed a degree of local control. Each village had a resource area which included a series of zones from agricultural land at about 2,000 m to the highest pastures at about 4,000 m. Within this area, ten categories of land use were identified: three kinds of private property agricultural land; four kinds of common-property grazing land; and three kinds of forest land, two of which had elements of common-property. Diversity of land use was due to a diversity of interests based on gender, caste, and ethnicity. Village-based social institutions, mahila mandals and mimbers, allowed these diverse interests a voice in resource management. /// Les ressources des rgions montagneuses sont souvent rserves et utilises comme communaux. Cet expos examine l'utilisation des communaux en montagne dans deux villages de la rgion de Manali, Valle de Kulu,  Himachal Pradesh, Inde, o la colonisation des terres en 1886 a apport  la population locale des droits bien dfinis sur les ressources et lui a permis d'exercer un certain contrle au niveau local. Chaque village possdait une rgion de ressources divise en une srie de zones allant des terres agricoles  2000m d'altitude environ aux pturages les plus levs  4000m environ. Dans cette rgion, dix catgories d'utilisation des terres ont t identifies: trois types de terres agricoles prives, quatre types de terres de pture communes et trois types de terres forestires dont deux possdaient des biens communs. La diversit d'utilisation des terres provenait d'une diversit des intrts en fonction du genre, de la caste et de l'appartenance ethnique. Des institutions sociales organises en villages, mahila mandals et mimbers, ont permis  ces divers intrts de participer  la gestion des ressources. /// Die Rohstoffquellen in Bergregionen werden hufig als Allgemeinbesitz betrachtet und entsprechend genutzt. Im vorliegenden Text wird die Nutzung von Gemeindeland in zwei Bergdrfern der Manali-Region im Kulu-Tal in Himachal Pradesh in Indien betrachtet, wo die Einwohner seit der Landbesiedelung 1886 ber gut definierte Rechte an den Rohstoffquellen verfgten und hierdurch eine gewisse lokale Steuerung mglich war. Jedem Dorf stand ein Nutzungsgebiet zur Verfgung, das aus einer Reihe unterschiedlicher Zonen von landwirtschaftlich nutzbarem Land in 2000 m Hhe bis hin zu Weideland in 4000 m Hhe bestand. Innerhalb dieses Gebietes war die Landnutzung in zehn Kategorien eingeteilt: drei Arten von landwirtschaftlich nutzbarem Land in Privatbesitz, vier Arten von Weideland in Gemeinschaftsbesitz und drei Arten von Land mit Waldbestand, zwei davon mit Elementen des Gemeinschaftsbesitzes. Die Vielfalt der Landnutzung war auf die Vielfalt der Interessen zurckzufhren, die auf Geschlecht, Kastenzugehrigkeit und ethnischer Zugehrigkeit basieren. Durch die im Dorf bestehenden sozialen Institutionen, mahila mandals und mimbers, erhielten diese unterschiedlichen Interessen ein Stimmrecht bei der Bewirtschaftung der Rohstoffquellen.
10.2307/3674020|In Tucuman Province of Argentina, the subtropical moist montane forests, known as Yungas, reach their southern-most limit, occurring between 400 and 2,800 m. The study area is located on the eastern slopes of the Sierra de San Javier where the forest is strongly affected by human pressure. Eighty percent of the annual rainfall in Tucuman falls largely during thunderstorms between October and March. Three recording rain gauges and two fog catchers were installed at 730, 950, and 1,350 m, respectively, to study the effect of altitude on the intensity, duration, distribution, and influence of horizontal precipitation. A stream-gauging station has been constructed to measure discharge, floods, and bed load in a small experimental basin in the basal forest. To measure the amount of surface runoff and soil erosion in the basal forest and piedmont area three experimental test plots were installed. The results confirm that deforestation has notably increased hydrological and erosion risk in summer, but also has led to a reduction of water volumes in winter. It was confirmed that the Tucuman montane forests are actual subtropical montane cloud forests. The additional moisture obtained from passing low clouds during the long dry winter season is important and has not yet been considered in the hydrological budget. /// Dans la province de Tucuman en Argentine, les forts alpestres humides subtropicales, connues sous le nom de Yungas, atteignent leur limite sud entre 400 et 2 800 mtres. La zone d'tude est situe sur les versants est de la Sierra de San Javier o la fort est fortement affecte par l'anthropisation. Quatrevingt pour cent de la prcipitation annuelle du Tucuman provient d'orages entre octobre et mars. Trois pluviographes et deux appareils capteurs de brouillard ont t installs  730, 950 et 1 350 mtres, afin d'tudier l'effet de l'altitude sur l'intensit, la dure, la rpartition et l'influence de la prcipitation horizontale. Une station de jaugeage de cours d'eau a t construite afin de mesurer le dbit, les crues et le charriage dans un petit bassin exprimental situ dans la fort de base. Pour mesurer le ruissellement et l'rosion du sol dans la fort de base et le pimont, trois parcelles exprimentales ont t amnages. Les rsultats confirment que la dforestation a sensiblement augment les risques hydrologiques et d'rosion en t, mais a galement rduit les volumes d'eau en hiver. Il a t confirm que les forts alpestres du Tucuman constituent des forts alpestres ombrophiles subtropicales. L'humidit additionnelle dcoulant du passage de nuages bas pendant la longue saison sche en hiver est importante et n'a pas encore t considre dans le bilan hydrologique. /// In der Provinz Tucuman, Nordwestargentinien, erreicht der subtropische Feuchtwald-auch 'Yungas' genannt-seine sdlichste Verbreitungsgrenze in Hhenlagen zwischen 400 und 2,800 m. Das Untersuchungsgebiet befindet sich am stlichen Abhang der Sierra de San Javier, wo der Feuchtwald einem starken Bevlkerungsdruck ausgesetzt ist. In Tucuman fallen 80% des Jahresniederschlags berwiegend in Form von Starkregen zwischen Oktober und Mrz. Um den Einflu der Hhenlage auf die Niederschlagsintensitt, die Niederschlagsdauer, die Niederschlagsverteilung sowie auf den Wolkenniederschlag zu untersuchen wurden 3 Niederschlagsschreiber in Hhen von 730, 950, und 1350 m sowie zwei Nebelfnger in Hhen von 730 und 1350 m installiert. Zur Messung von Abflu, Hochwassern und Grundfracht wurde ein Abflumekanal mit vorgeschalteter Sedimentfalle in einem kleinen, vollstndig bewaldeten hydrologischen Versuchsgebiet aufgebaut. Um den Oberflchenabflu und den Bodenabtrag whrend Starkregenereignissen im Feuchtwald und zum Vergleich auf landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen am Bergfu zu quantifizieren wurden 3 Erosionsmeparzellen aufgebaut. Die ersten Ergebnisse zeigen zum einen das durch die Entwaldung das Hochwasserrisiko und die Bodenerosion am Bergfu erheblich angestiegen sind und zum anderen, da die Abflsse im Winterhalbjahr zurckgegangen sind. Es kann besttigt werden, da es sich bei dem subtropischen Feuchtwald an den Ostabhngen der Gebirge in der Provinz Tucumn um einen Wolkenwald handelt. Der zustzliche Feuchteeintrag beim Auskmmen der Wolkentrpfchen durch die Vegetation whrend des langen trockenen Winters ist erheblich und wurde bisher noch nicht im Wasserhaushalt bercksichtigt. /// En la provincia de Tucumn, en el noroeste de la Argentina, el bosque hmedo subtropical desarrolla entre los 400 y los 2800 m. Esta zona tambien es conocida como 'Las Yungas'. El rea del estudio del presente trabajo se ubic en la ladera oriental de la sierra de San Javier, donde el bosque esta sometido a una alta influencia antrpica. El 80% de la lluvia anual de Tucumn cae casi en su totalidad en forma de tormentas durante el verano del hemisferio sur, es decir entre octubre y marzo. Para determinar la influencia que ejerce la altura con la intensidad, duracin y distribucin de la precipitacin, asi como con relacin a la precipitacin horizontal fueron instalados 3 pluvigrafos a los 730, 950, y 1350 m y 2 atrapanieblas a los 730 y 1350 m. Con el objeto de efectuar mediciones del caudal, crecidas y carga de fondo se construy, en una pequea cuenca piloto, una estacin de aforo con trampa de sedimentos. Para cuantificar la escorrentia superficial y la erosin del suelo durante las tormentas se demarcaron 3 parcelas experimentales dentro del bosque mismo y en zonas bajo cultivo en la zona pedemontana. Los resultados preliminares muestran que el proceso de deforestacin no slo aumenta el riesgo hidrolgico y erosivo en la estacin deverano sino tambin da lugar a una disminuacin de los caudales en la estacin de invierno. Se puede tambin verificar que el bosque subtropical hmedo de Tucumn es un verdadero bosque nublado subtropical. El aporte de agua por medio de la precipitacin horizontal juega un papel muy importante hasta ahora no considerado en el balance hdrico.
10.2307/3673603|The general biogeographic features of the Pyrenean range are reviewed with particular reference to the distribution of flowering plants, amphibians, and reptiles. The role of the Pyrenees in the past, as a barrier to, or as a channel for, the migration of species between Europe and the Iberian Peninsula is described. The present distribution of species can be related to past climates, especially glacial and interglacial periods. When conditions were inhospitable mountain plants, reptiles, and amphibians achieved physiological adaptations, and in many cases mountain habitats became important refuges. Today the Pyrenean reptiles and amphibians are controlled to a large degree by altitude, especially as it determines climatic variability and temperature ranges. /// Les caractristiques biogographiques gnrales de la chane des Pyrnes sont passes en revue, en particulier en ce qui concerne la distribution des plantes  fleurs, des amphibiens et des reptiles. Le rle des Pyrnes dans le pass, en tant que barrire ou passage pour la migration des espces entre l'Europe et la Pninsule ibrique, est examin. La distribution actuelle des espces peut tre rapporte au climat du pass, en particulier les priodes glaciaires et interglaciaires. Quand les conditions taient dfavorables, les plantes de montagne, les reptiles et les amphibiens se sont adapts physiologiquement, et dans beaucoup de cas les habitats montagnards sont devenus des refuges importants. De nos jours, les populations de reptiles et d'amphibiens des Pyrnes sont en grande partie sous la dpendance de l'altitude, principalement du fait que celle-ci dtermine la variabilit climatique et les amplitudes thermiques. /// In dieser Verffentlichung werden allgemeine biogeographische Merkmale der Pyrenenkette untersucht, besonders im Hinblick auf Verteilungen von Bltenpflanzen, Amphibien und Reptilien. Die Rolle der Pyrenen in der Vergangenheit als Schranke gegen und als Wegweiser fr Artenmigrationen zwischen Europa und der Iberischen Halbinsel wird beschrieben. Die heutige Artenverteilung entwickelte sich aus vergangenen Klimata, besonders whrend der glazialen und interglazialen Perioden. Wenn unwirtliche Bedingungen herrschten, paten sich die Gebirgspflanzen, Reptilien und Amphibien physiologisch an und in vielen Fllen waren Gebirgshabitate wichtige Schutzpltze. Die derzeitige Verteilung von Reptilien- und Amphibienarten in den Pyrenen ist hauptschlich durch die Hhenlage bestimmt, insbesondere da diese klimatische Variationen und Temperaturbereiche bestimmt. /// Les caractristiques biogographiques gnrales de la chane des Pyrnes sont passes en revue, en particulier en ce qui concerne la distribution des plantes  fleurs, des amphibiens et des reptiles. Le rle des Pyrnes dans le pass, en tant que barrire ou passage pour la migration des espces entre l'Europe et la Pninsule ibrique, est examin. La distribution actuelle des espces peut tre rapporte au climat du pass, en particulier les priodes glaciaires et interglaciaires. Quand les conditions taient dfavorables, les plantes de montagne, les reptiles et les amphibiens se sont adapts physiologiquement, et dans beaucoup de cas les habitats montagnards sont devenus des refuges importants. De nos jours, les populations de reptiles et d'amphibiens des Pyrnes sont en grande partie sous la dpendance de l'altitude, principalement du fait que celle-ci dtermine la variabilit climatique et les amplitudes thermiques.
10.2307/3673524|This paper discusses the occurrence of mudflows in the Baksan River basin during the last thousand years. Lichenometric studies indicate several periods of more intense mudflow activity which correlate with patterns of climatic and glacier fluctuations. The data are presented in graphic form. The cessation of mudflow activity in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries coincides with a prolonged cold period. Climatic warming and deglaciation are most conducive to mudflow occurrence. There has been a significant increase in mudflow activity during the present century, which may be due to anthropogenic activities such as mining, tourism, and the intensification of agriculture and, as a result, soil erosion and overgrazing. It is predicted that mudflow activity will continue at its present rate into the next century. /// Cet article examine la frquence des coulements boueux dans le bassin du Baksan au cours des mille dernires annes. Les tudes lichnomtriques rvlent plusieurs priodes plus actives en termes d'coulements boueux, qui corrlent avec des rgimes de fluctuations climatiques et glaciaires. Les donnes sont prsentes sous forme graphique. L'arrt des coulements boueux aux quatorzime et quinzime sicles concident avec une longue priode de froid. Un rchauffement du climat et une dglaciation reprsentent les conditions les plus favorables aux coulements boueux. Le nombre d'coulements boueux a augment sensiblement au cours de ce sicle, probablement par suite d'activits anthropogniques telles que l'exploitation minire, le tourisme et l'intensification de l'agriculture et, par consquent, l'rosion du sol et le pturage excessif. On peut prdire que des coulements boueux continueront  se produire  la mme frquence le sicle prochain. /// Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert die Intensitt von Sedimentflu im Baksan Flubecken whrend der vergangenen 1000 Jahre. Lichenometrische Untersuchungen deuten auf verschiedene Zeitrume mit verstrktem Sedimentflu hin, die mit klimatischen und glazialen Vernderungen in Wechselbeziehung stehen. Die Daten werden graphisch dargestellt. Der Stillstand im Sedimentflu whrend des 14. und 15. Jahrhunderts fllt mit einer anhaltenden Klteperiode berein. Klimatische Erwrmung fhrte dann zu glazialem Abschmelzen, das den Sedimentflu begnstigte. Im derzeitigen Jahrhundert ist ein betrchtlicher Anstieg in der Sedimentfluaktivitt zu beobachten, mglicherweise als Folge anthropogener Unternehmungen wie Bergbau und Tourismus, sowie der Intensivierung der Landwirtschaft, die Bodenerosion und berweidung nach sich zieht. Es wird vorausgesagt, da Sedimentfluvorgnge im gegenwrtigen Ausma bis ins nchste Jahrhundert anhalten werden.
10.2307/3673462|Landslides are a major hazard along Himalayan highways and there is a need for better methods of hazard evaluation. This case study of a 6-km section of the Kilbury Road, Nainital, seeks to select variables that may be used to describe the frequencies of three classes of landslide activity: slumping, landslides involving the deformation and perhaps rotation of mobilized debris, affect 38 percent of the roadbed but no significant environmental correlates for slumping were determined; rockfalling, involving the movement of undeformed blocks of debris, affects 39 percent of the Kilbury Road and is more severe in areas of high road-cuts and roadward-dipping rocks; it is associated with sites of more intense geomorphological activity (the undermining of the roadbed by erosional processes) and with areas where road-derived debris has seriously reduced the forest cover downslope; and debris chutes, of which there are about 24 per kilometre, arise from amphitheatre-shaped scars and involve the disaggregation of mobilized debris; higher frequencies of debris chutes are associated with lower densities of ground vegetation upslope, and with deeper regolith, a favourable rock dip, and topographic sites where water concentrates. /// [Abstract in Hindi. Transliteration and Unicode values will be provided at a later date.] /// Les glissements de terrain prsentent de gros dangers pour les routes himalayennes et il est ncessaire de dvelopper de meilleures techniques pour valuer les risques. Cette tude de cas portant sur une section longue de 6 kilomtres de la route Kilbury, Nainital, essaie de slectionner des variables pouvant tre utilises pour dcrire la frquence de trois types de glissements de terrain: affaissement, mettant en jeu la dformation et parfois la rotation de dbris mobiliss, affecte 38% de la route, mais aucun corrlat naturel important n'a pu tre dtermin; boulement, mettant en jeu le mouvement de blocks de dbris non dforms, affecte 39% de la route, en particulier dans les zones  hautes coupures et roches inclines vers la route; ce type est associ avec les sites o l'activit gomorphologique est plus intense (l'affouillement de la chausse par des processus d'rosion) et les zones o les dbris drivs de la route ont srieusement rduit la couverture d'arbres vers le bas; et couloirs  dbris, environ 24 au kilomtre, qui rsultent de murailles en forme d'amphithatre et mettent en jeu la dsagrgation de dbris mobiliss; les plus grandes frquences de couloirs  dbris correspondent  une densit moindre de la vgtation vers le haut, et  une rgolite plus profonde, une inclinaison favorable de la roche, et des sites topographiques o l'eau s'accumule. /// Entland den Straen des Himalaya sind Erdrutsche eine groe Gefahr, und es ist notwendig, bessere Methoden zur Gefahrenabschtzung zu finden. Diese Fallstudie versucht, an einem 6 km langen Abschnitt der Kilbury Strae, Nainital, Kenngren zu bestimmen, die dazu dienen knnten, das Auftreten von drei verschiedenartigen Erdrutschvorgngen zu beschreiben: Abrutsche, bei denen Erdmassen bewegt und mglicherweise umgewlzt werden. Davon sind 38% der Straenfhrung betroffen, aber keine eindeutigen Umweltwechselbeziehungen lassen sich fr Abrutsche angeben; Steinschlag, bei dem ganze Gesteinsblcke abgehen, beeintrchtigt 39% der Kilbury Strae. Steinschlag tritt hufiger in Gebieten mit Trassen und Felsberhngen auf und hngt mit intensiven geomorphologischen Vorgngen (Untergrabung des Straenbettes durch Erosionsprozesse) zusammen, besonders in Gebieten, in denen Gesteinsschutt von der Strae den Waldbewuchs bergab entscheidend vermindert hat; daneben gibt es ungefhr 24 Gerllhalden pro km mit halbkreisfrmigen Abhngen, die Gestein abrutschen lassen. Gerllhalden bilden sich begnstigt durch sprliche Vegetation bergauf und wenn eine dicke Schuttschicht vorhanden ist, wenn der Neigungswinkel vom Fels gnstig ist und wenn sich Wasser in topographischen Stellen ansammelt.
3674361|According to even the most conservative estimates, at least half of the world's 6500 languages are expected to become extinct in the next century. While the documentation of endangered languages has traditionally been the domain of academic linguists and anthropologists, international awareness of this impending linguistic catastrophe is growing, and development organizations are becoming involved in the struggle to preserve spoken forms. The death of a language marks the loss of yet another piece of cultural uniqueness from the mosaic of our diverse planet, and is therefore a tragedy for the heritage of all humanity. Language death is often compared to species extinction, and the same metaphors of preservation and diversity can be invoked to canvas support for biodiversity and language preservation programs. The present article addresses language endangerment in the Himalayas, with a focus on Nepal, and presents the options and challenges for linguistic development in this mountainous region.
mounresedeve.32.4.390|Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation and enhancing forest carbon stocks in developing countries (REDD+) is heavily promoted in Laos. REDD+ is often perceived as an opportunity to jointly address climate change and poverty and, therefore, could come timely for Laos to combine its prominent national target of poverty eradication with global climate mitigation efforts. Countrywide planning of the right approaches to REDD+ combined with poverty alleviation requires knowledge of the spatial combination of poverty and carbon stocks at the national level. This study combined spatial information on carbon stored in vegetation and on poverty and created carbon-poverty typologies for the whole country at the village level. We found that 11% of the villages of Laos have high to very high average village-level carbon stock densities and a predominantly poor population. These villages cover 20% of the territory and are characterized by low population density. Shifting cultivation areas in the northwestern parts of the country have a higher carbon mitigation potential than areas in the central and eastern highlands due to a more favorable climate. Finally, we found that in Laos the majority (58%) of poor people live in areas with low carbon stock densities without major potential to store carbon. Accordingly, REDD+ cannot be considered a core instrument for poverty alleviation. The carbon-poverty typologies presented here provide answers to basic questions related to planning and managing of REDD+. They could serve as a starting point for the design of systems to monitor both socioeconomic and environmental development at the national level.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s7|The concept of commons is complex; it may relate to property regimes, rules of use and access, recognition of collective importance, or a mixture of these. This paper explores the argumentsdeveloped by a growing epistemic communityto promote mountains as global common goods within the third category. This process may be viewed as starting with the UN Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) in 1992, and continuing, in particular, through the International Year of Mountains 2002. It has been supported and advanced by focused publications, the establishment of global networks, and advances in technology. Specific arguments state that mountains are important because they provide ecosystem services that are vulnerable to climate change, are home to a significant part of humanity, including many who are disadvantaged, and are centers of cultural, religious, and ethnic diversity. Nevertheless, this proposal has been contested within the scientific community, and the implications for mountain people remain to be discussed.
25164178|Tibetan grasslands constitute one of the most important grazing ecosystems in the world. Distributed widely across the high plains and mountains of the Tibetan plateau, these grasslands encompass the source areas of many major Asian rivers. Around 40 percent of the world's population depends on, or is influenced by, these rivers. Tibetan grasslands also support a unique assemblage of flora and fauna with many rare and endemic species. A variety of government policies have been applied in recent years to protect the ecology and biodiversity of China's grasslands. There is growing concern, though, that national and global economic considerations have overshadowed emerging conservation agendas. Additionally, the social dimensions of these policies deserve more attention than they have received to date. The present article critically reviews several key policies affecting pastoralists, with special attention given to the Sanjiangyuan region of Qinghai Province. Plateau Perspectives, an international NGO, has worked in this region for nearly a decade, promoting a more people-centered approach to conservation and development, thus giving a voice to local Tibetan pastoral communities.
10.2307/3673761|Advances in the determination of surface net radiation in mountainous terrain have mostly been directed at the computation of shortwave and longwave irradiance. In general, lack of adequate information regarding the surface variables of albedo and thermal exitance have been the major impediments to mapping the net radiation load at the surface. These variables are typically measured during field campaigns at sites of relatively easy access. These point observations are rarely representative of the diversity of the study area. Remotely sensed data have the potential to provide these fluxes with the necessary spatial resolution. Approaches to the determination of the components of the radiation balance in mountainous terrain are reviewed herein. Each component of the radiation balance, namely shortwave and longwave irradiance (i.e., insolation and atmospheric emittance) as well as surface albedo and thermal exitance, is examined. Current limitations towards more precise estimates of the components of the radiation balance are also given. The review concludes with a series of recommendations for future research. /// Les progrs dans la dtermination du rayonnement net en surface des terrains montagneux ont surtout port sur le calcul de l'clairement nergtique de grandes et de courtes longueurs d'onde. En gnral, le manque de donnes acceptables sur les variables de surface du rayonnement d'albdo et de l'exitance thermique constitue l'obstacle majeur au lev de cartes reprsentant la dose nette de rayonnement en surface. Ces variables sont en gnral mesures dans le cadre de campagnes sur le terrain, pour des sites relativement accessibles. Ces observations ponctuelles reprsentent rarement la diversit de la zone de recherche. Les donnes tldtectes sont susceptibles de fournir ces flux avec la rsolution spatiale ncessaire. Les diffrentes approches visant  dterminer les composants du bilan radiatif des terrains montagneux sont examines dans cet article. Chaque composant du bilan radiatif, c'est--dire l'clairement nrgtique de grandes et de courtes longueurs d'onde (insolation et mittance atmosphrique), ainsi que le rayonnement d'albdo et l'exitance thermique, est examin. Les contraintes actuelles  l'estimation plus prcise des composants du bilan radiatif sont galement examines. L'article conclut par une srie de recommandations pour les futures recherches. /// Fortschritte bei der Bestimmung von Oberflchenstrahlung in gebirgigem Gelnde wurden hauptschlich bei der Berechnung von kurz- und langwelliger Abstrahlung erzielt. Unzureichende Informationen ber die Variablen der Albedo und der thermischen Abstrahlung verhindern im allgemeinen eine Kartierung der Oberflchenstrahlungsintensitt. Diese Variablen wurden typischerweise im Gelnde an leicht zugnglichen Stellen gemessen; wobei die Einzelpunkte aber selten die Vielgestaltigkeit des untersuchten Gebietes reprsentieren. Fernerkundungsdaten dagegen knnen Strahlungs= flsse mit der ntigen rumlichen Auflsung liefern. Fr gebirgiges Gelande wird ein kritischer berblick der Anstze zur Bestimmung der Beitrge zum Strahlungsgleichgewicht gegeben. Jede Komponente im Strahlungsgleichgewicht, besonders lang- und kurzwellige Abstrahlung (z.B. Sonnenbestrahlung und atmosprische Emission) ebenso wie Oberflchenalbedo und thermische Abstrahlung werden untersucht. Derzeitige Einschrnkungen hinsichtlich genauer Schtzungen der Beitrge zum Strahlungsgleichgewicht werden ebenfalls untersucht. Die bersicht schliet mit Empfehlungen fr knftige Forschung.
mounresedeve.29.4.308|This case study explored forest resource-use patterns to understand villagers' dependency on forests in four temperate villages situated in two forested sites in Garhwal Himalaya: Mandal and Khalla in the Mandal area, Chamoli District, and Chaundiyar and Dikholi in the Chaurangikhal area, Uttarkashi District. Although the literacy rate in the villages was quite high, due to lack of employment opportunities people still invariably depend on forests for their livelihood. In all the study villages more than 75% of fodder and fuelwood were extracted from the forest. The pressure exerted by human and bovine populations, coupled with unsustainable management policies, has resulted in the destruction of forest cover and ecological degradation. Agriculture (which is 70% rainfed in the Mandal area and 90% rainfed in Chaurangikhal) and employment as laborers were the main occupations of people in the study areas; in addition, remittance income (8.6% in the Mandal area and 21.3% in Chaurangikhal) and dairy faming accounted for a major portion of total household income. The study revealed a positive relationship between income and livestock population (0.995), which reveals the strong role of animal husbandry in the rural economy. The equally positive relationship between income and fodder consumption (0.930) can be attributed to extraction of large quantities of fodder to sustain dairy farming for commercial purposes. The correlation between income and fuelwood consumption was found to be negative (0.882), the likely reason being poor economic conditions, leading to dependency on the forest for fuelwood as a free source of energy.
25164052|This paper attempts to place indigenous soil and water conservation (ISWC) within overall land management by exploring interactions between ISWC, cropping, and crop protection practices. A diagnostic field study was conducted in Mbeere District, located on the semi-arid footslopes of Mount Kenya. A wide range of land management practices was identified where synergistic effects between ISWC and cropping were exploited. However, a serious drawback with many ISWC techniques is the survival and spread of insect pests and disease pathogens in preserved crop residues. Trash lines, for example, can exacerbate problems with stalk rots and stem borers. Nevertheless, there is a wealth of indigenous crop protection practices that can be combined with ISWC. The study highlights the fact that farmers do not always consider soil erosion to be the chief biophysical problem in hillside environments and it is indicated that the way forward to improve land management lies at the interface between ISWC, cropping, and crop protection.
3674527|The signing of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project treaty in 1986 between Lesotho and the then apartheid government of the Republic of South Africa triggered mixed feelings. In Lesotho and several other countries in the region, the project was seen as a sellout that compromised the struggles of the oppressed, tantamount to Lesotho becoming a province of South Africa. Additional objections grew more vociferous during project implementation. These came especially from the communities affected, where people were removed from their original homes or their pastoral and agricultural lands were swallowed up by the immense water reservoir that now covers valleys and steep slopes of the Maluti Mountains. Lesotho has begun selling water to South Africa, earning about US$44 million annually (October 2001), and Lesotho is now self-sufficient in electricity. The present hydropower output is 72 MW. Major infrastructure has also been put in place, including roads, hydropower plants, administrative centers, and engineering masterpieces such as the 18-m-high Katse Dam and related tunnels through the mountains.
10.2307/3673585|In northernmost Andean Patagonia land use is characterized by the extensive exploitation of high and low altitude seasonal grasslands. Sheep and goat pastoralism, in the form of transhumance, has been structured based on production strategies mainly oriented towards meeting subsistence needs and, most recently and to an increasing extent, market transactions. This European-derived migratory livestock industry resembles practices in the Mediterranean region where little or no cultivation at all is directly associated with goat and sheep breeding. Land remains public, and access to summer pastures needs to be authorized each season anew after payment of a grazing fee. Whereas in northern Patagonia transhumance appears to be under an increasing pressure for change towards a more sedentary, intensive-oriented mode of production, the survival of this long-time successful land-use practice is directly linked to aspects of land tenure, grazing strategies with native and non-native grasses, and livestock diversification. This paper also emphasizes the need for the establishment of cooperatives of producers operating at the production and commercialization levels, as well as for the active participation of pastoralists and regional communities in the decision-making process. /// Dans la partie la plus au nord des Andes patagoniennes, l'utilisation des terres est caractrise par une exploitation extensive de pturages saisonniers  haute et basse altitudes. Les activits pastorales portant sur le mouton et la chvre, sous forme de transhumance, sont bases sur des stratgies de production orientes principalement vers la satisfaction des besoins d'auto-consommation, mais plus rcemment et  une chelle croissante, vers des transactions commerciales. Cette industrie saisonnire mene par les descendants de peuples europens ressemble  des coutumes mditerranennes qui ne ncessitent que trs peu de culture, ou aucune, pour soutenir un levage de moutons et de chvres. Les terres restent publiques, et l'accs aux pturages estivaux ncessite chaque anne une nouvelle autorisation moyennant paiement d'une redevance. Bien que la transhumance dans le nord de la Patagonie semble tre soumise  une pression croissante pour voluer vers un mode de production plus sdentaire et intensif, la prservation de ces vieilles coutumes d'utilisation des terres semble tre directement lie  des aspects du rgime foncier, des stratgies de pturage sur prs d'herbes indignes ou non, et la diversification du btail. Cette article met galement l'accent sur le besoin de coopratives fonctionnant au niveau de la production et de la commercialisation, ainsi que de la participation active des leveurs de btail et des communauts rgionales dans le processus de dcision. /// Im nrdlichsten Andengebiet von Patagonien ist die Landnutzung durch intensive Inanspruchnahme des jahreszeitlich bedingten Graswuchses in den Hoch- und Tieflagen charakterisiert. Schaf- und Ziegenwirtschaft als Wanderwirtschaft basiert auf Produktionsstrategien, die in der Vergangenheit hauptschlich der Selbstversorgung dienten, neuerdings aber mehr und mehr als Ertragsunternehmen betrieben werden. Diese - ursprnglich europische - nomadische Viehwirtschaft hnelt dem System im Mittelmeerraum, wobei mit der Ziegen- und Schafzucht wenig oder berhaupt keine Landkultivierung direkt verbunden ist. Das Land bleibt in ffentlicher Hand, und die Nutzung der Sommerweide wird jedes Jahr nach Entrichten einer Weidegebhr neu genehmigt. Dagegen scheint die nomadische Viehzucht im nrdlichen Patagonien unter stndig wachsendem Druck zu einer sehaften, auf intensive Bewirtschaftung ausgerichteten, Produktion zu stehen. Das berleben dieser langzeitlichen und erfolgreichen Landnutzungsweise hngt direkt mit den Gesichtspunkten des Landbesitzes, der Weidestrategie auf einheimischen und ortsfremden Grasflchen und der Vielfalt des Viehbestandes zusammen. Diese Verffentlichung betont die Notwendigkeit fr die Zusammenarbeit der Erzeuger, die an der Produktion und Vermarktung beteiligt sind und unterstreicht die Notwendigkeit von aktiver Teilnahme der Weidepchter und der regionalen Gemeinden bei der Beschlufassung. /// El uso de la tierra en el norte de la Patagonia andina se encuentra caracterizado por migraciones estacionales de pastores trashumantes, los que, dinamizando los recursos naturales de dos ambientes ecolgicos complementarios, han dado lugar a una peculiar organizacin del espacio agrario. Tanto los campos de veranada, en las tierras altas, como los de invernada, en la estepa patagnica, asientan sobre tierras fiscales, destinadas, casi exclusivamente, al pastoreo extensivo de caprinos y ovinos. Las crisis cclicas que afectan la actividad pecuaria en la Argentina como las polticas de desarrollo implementadas por el gobierno federal han generado situaciones conflictivas comprometiendo el futuro de la trashumancia en el norte de la Patagonia. En este trabajo se describen y analizan estas circunstancias y se presenta una serie de propuestas para el corto y mediano plazo alentando las actividades pastoriles. Entre ellas: la implementacin de estudios que permitan evaluar en detalle la composicin forrajera de los campos, y as, mejorar el manejo de pastizales sobre la base de especies nativas; incentivar la complementacin caprino-ovino-bovino en el sistema de produccin como asi tambin la revitalizacin gentica de los planteles mediante la introduccin de reproductores; mejorar el estado sanitario de los planteles; y fomentar la construccin de instalaciones que posibiliten el manejo de los rebaos en potreros rotativos. Una mayor participacin del criancero en el proceso de toma de decisiones se lograra a travs del establecimiento de cooperativas agropecuarias de productores que operen tanto en las etapas de produccin como de comercializacin.
10.2307/3672990|This paper defines stability or instability for agricultural systems and by introducing "key processes" the evaluation procedure of stability is discussed. The long-term sustainability of yield (2-3 generations) is the predominant criterion of stability in agricultural systems and this is different from natural ecosystems. Between input and output (yield) a balance has to be maintained. This ranges from the closed cycle of matter in traditional self-sustaining agriculture to the spatially dislocated flow of substances in industrialized agro-systems. /// Dans cet xpos est propose une dfinition pour la "stabilit" des cosystmes agraires et est discut un procd pour l'valuation de cette stabilit. A la diffrence des cosystmes naturels, une production constante (au minimum pendant 2-3 gnrations) est le critre principal pour les systmes agraires. Dans le cas des systmes de subsistance cette production est lie  un cycle ferm de matires et, pour les systmes agro-industriels,  des flux ouverts de substances. /// Der Begriff der "Stabilitt" agrarisch genutzter Oekosysteme wird definiert und die Mglichkeit der Stabilittsbeurteilung mit Hilfe von Schlsselgrssen errtert. In Abweichung zu natrlichen Oekosystemen wird hierbei Nachhaltigkeit der Nutzungsmglichkeit und der Ertrge ber mindestens 2-3 Generationen als wesentliches Stabilittskriterium beigezogen. Dabei ist je nach Agrosystem ein Gleichgewicht zwischen Input und Output aufrechtzuerhalten, das variiert zwischen einem rumlich weitgehend geschlossenen Kreislauf in der Subsistenzwirtschaft und einem rumlich weitgehend desintegrierten Substanzfluss (Input/Output) einer industrialisierten Landwirtschaft.
10.2307/3673849|In the tropical Andes, a long tradition exists in the utilization and mobilization of rural resources. In certain periods, agriculture and settlement patterns were well adapted to the specific local environmental conditions; at other times, constraints of the natural environment, of historical burdens, and of current social, economic, and political problems contributed to widespread conditions of poverty and underdevelopment. This paper examines the development issues and the activities of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and a number of affiliated agencies in two representative regions of highland Bolivia: the northern Altiplano and the eastern Cordillera region in the Departamento de Cochabamba. Based on documentation of the agencies and on numerous talks and formal interviews with representatives of the NGOs and the campesinos, an attempt was made to identify the major problems and constraints of specific micro-regions, as well as the perceived development priorities, and the strategies of the agencies and local communities to implement the development process. Although the NGOs may use different approaches and methods, it became obvious that the key to successful and sustained development lies in programs and projects that take into account the specific local environmental conditions, the cultural traditions of the indigenous communities, and the felt needs of the local people. Based on these premises, an effective partnership may be established between NGOs and the campesinos which can lead to a mobilization of local human and material resources and to appropriate sustainable forms of rural development. /// Dans les Andes tropicales, l'utilisation et la mobilisation des ressources rurales constituent une ancienne tradition. Pendant certaines priodes historiques, les modes d'agriculture et de peuplement taient bien adapts aux conditions particulires de l'environnement local; pendant d'autres priodes, les contraintes du milieu naturel, le fardeau historique et les problmes sociaux, conomiques et politiques du moment ont contribu aux conditions prvalentes de pauvret et de sous-dveloppement. Cet article examine les problmes de dveloppement, ainsi que les activits des organisations non gouvernementales (ONG) et d'un certain nombre d'organismes affilis, dans deux rgions reprsentatives des hautes terres boliviennes,  savoir l'Altiplano du Nord et la rgion est de la Cordillre, dans le Dpartement de Cochabamba. Sur la base de la documentation fournie par ces organismes et de nombreuses conversations et interviews officielles avec des reprsentants des ONG et les campesinos, on a essay d'identifier les problmes majeurs et les contraintes des micro-rgions particulires, ainsi que la perception des priorits de dveloppement, et les stratgies des organismes et des collectivits locales pour la mise en uvre du processus de dveloppement. Bien que les ONG utilisent parfois diffrentes approches et mthodes, il s'est rvl que la cl d'un dveloppement fructueux et soutenu se trouve dans les programmes et projets qui tiennent compte des conditions particulires de l'environnement local, des traditions culturelles des collectivits indignes et des besoins perus par la population locale. Sur cette base, un partenariat efficace peut tre tabli entre les ONG et les campesinos, pouvant mener  une mobilisation des ressources humaines et matrielles locales et  des formes viables de dveloppement rural. /// In den tropischen Anden besteht eine lange Tradition in der Nutzung und Mobilisierung lndlicher Ressourcen. Zu gewissen Zeiten waren die Landwirtschaft und Siedlungen gut an die lokalen Bedingungen der Umwelt angepat; zu anderen Zeiten jedoch hat die Verbindung von naturgeographischen Hindernisfaktoren, historischen Erblasten und jngeren sozialen, wirtschaftlichen und politischen Problemen zu weitverbreiteter Armut und Unterentwicklung gefhrt. Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Entwicklungsbemhungen von zwei hauptschlichen NROs und einer Reihe von affiliierten bolivianischen Organisationen in zwei reprsentativen Regionen der bolivianischen Anden: im nrdlichen Altiplano und in der Ostkordillere im Departamento von Cochabamba. Auf der Grundlage einer umfangreichen Dokumentation dieser Organisationen, von zahlreichen Gesprchen und Interviews mit Vertretern dieser NROs und den Campesinos der untersuchten Regionen, werden die hauptschlichen Probleme, die wahrgenommenen Entwicklungsprioritten und die Entwicklungsstrategien der Organisationen und der lokalen Gemeinschaften diskutiert. Obwohl die NROs teilweise unterschiedliche Zielvorstellungen und Methoden haben, wird offenkundig, da der Schlssel zu einer erfolgreichen und nachhaltigen Entwicklung in Programmen liegt, die den spezifischen regionalen Umweltbedingungen, den kulturellen Traditionen der lokalen Gemeinschaften und ihren empfundenen Bedrfnissen Rechnung tragen. Auf dieser Grundlage kann eine wirksame Partnerschaft zwischen den Organisationen und den Campesinos aufgebaut werden. Eine solche gut funktionierende Partnerschaft bietet die Voraussetzung fr eine Mobilisierung der menschlichen und materiellen Ressourcen und fr eine nachhaltige lndliche Entwicklung. /// Existen en los Andes tropicales tradiciones muy antiguas en la utilizacin y movilizacin de los recursos rurales. En tiempos passados, la agricultura y las poblaciones estaban muy bien adaptadas a las condiciones especiales del medio ambiente; sn embargo, en otros tiempos, un conjunto de restricciones impuestas por la naturaleza del medio ambiente, por los obstaculos histricos y adems por los problemas sociales, econmicos y polticos que han contribuido a condiciones de pobreza y subdesarrollo muy extendidas. En este artculo se intenta examinar los problemas de desarrollo rural y las actividades de dos organizaciones no-gubernamentales (ONGs) en asociacin con varias otras agencias en dos regiones representativas de Bolivia: la parte norte del Altiplano, y la regin de la Cordillera Oriental en el Departamento de Cochabamba. En base de la documentacin obtenida de las agencias en cuestin, de numerosas conversaciones y entrevistas formales con los representantes de las ONGs y los campesinos, se ha intentado identificar los problemas y las restricciones de micro-regiones distintas, la percepcin de prioridades de desarrollo y, adems, las estrategas utilizadas por las agencias y las comunidades locales para facilitar el proceso de desarrollo. Es cierto que las ONGs utilizan diferentes mtodos, sn embargo, lo evidente es que la clave para un desarrollo sostenible y prspero est en programas y proyectos que tengan en cuenta las distintas condiciones locales del medio ambiente, las tradiciones culturales de las comunidades indgenas y las necesidades expresadas por las poblaciones locales. En base de estas premisas, se puede establecer una cooperacin eficaz entre los ONGs y campesinos y, en cambio, esta asociacin podr facilitar la movilizacin de los recursos humanos y materiales y una forma apropiada y sostenible del desarrollo rural.
3674649|The appropriateness of targeting conservation landscapes that include biodiversity sanctuaries within a matrix of agricultural and other land uses is being increasingly recognized as a method for achieving both biodiversity conservation and livelihood improvement. An assessment of on-farm tree diversity in the Kigezi Highlands in a transect from Kabale town to Bwindi Impenetrable National Park in southwestern Uganda reveals the current contribution of farming systems to landscape tree diversity and raises questions about various constraints and opportunities for enhancing the role of agroforestry in landscape-based biodiversity conservation.
25164134|Geo-referenced archive databases on mountain organisms are very promising tools for achieving a better understanding of mountain biodiversity and predicting its changes. The Global Mountain Biodiversity Assessment (GMBA) of DIVERSITAS, in cooperation with the Global Biodiversity Information Facility, encourages a global effort to mine biodiversity databases on mountain organisms. The wide range of climatic conditions and topographies across the world's mountains offers an unparalleled opportunity for developing and testing biodiversity theory. The power of openly accessible, interconnected electronic databases for scientific biodiversity research, which by far exceeds the original intent of archiving for mainly taxonomic purposes, has been illustrated. There is an urgent need to increase the amount and quality of geo-referenced data on mountain biodiversity provided online, in order to meet the challenges of global change in mountains.
10.2307/3673401|Recreational developments are occurring in the Rocky Mountains of Canada at an ever-accelerating pace. Kananaskis Country, in the Eastern Slopes region, was developed by the Province of Alberta on public land, using public funds, within a period of five years. It now contains three provincial parks and numerous recreational facilities. The awarding of the 1988 Winter Olympic Games to Calgary and the impacts of the development of sites for the downhill and Nordic ski events in Kananaskis Country have exacerbated landscape change. This paper describes the development and construction that has ensued and the positive and negative effects. Increased use has brought economic prosperity and has relieved pressure on adjacent national parks; however, the environmental impacts may endanger wildlife, especially bighorn sheep. The long-term implications and proposals for the future have yet to be assessed, but attention must be focused on the question of how much development is desirable and how it should be guided and controlled. /// Le dveloppement touristique des Rocheuses canadiennes procde  un rythme acclr. La zone "Kananaskis Country", sur le versant oriental, a t amnage par la province d'Alberta sur des terres publiques et  l'aide de fonds publics, sur une priode de cinq ans. Cette zone comporte maintenant trois parcs provinciaux et de nombreux amnagements rservs aux loisirs. L'adjudication des jeux Olympiques d'hiver de 1988  la ville de Calgary et l'impact de l'amnagement des sites pour les preuves de ski alpin et de ski nordique dans Kananaskis Country ont exacerb la modification du paysage. Cet article dcrit les travaux de mise en valeur et de construction qui ont suivi, ainsi que les effets positifs et ngatifs. Un plus haut niveau d'utilisation a engendr une certaine prosprit conomique et a soulag la pression sur les parcs nationaux avoisinants, mais l'impact sur l'environnement risque de menacer la faune, en particulier le mouflon des Rocheuses. Les implications  long terme et les propositions concernant le futur n'ont pas encore t values, mais toute l'attention ncessaire doit tre porte sur la question de savoir quel niveau d'exploitation est souhaitable et de quelle manire celle-ci doit tre guide et mene. /// In den Rocky Mountains geht heutzutage die Entwicklung der Sport- und Freizeitanlagen in beschleunigtem Tempo vor sich. Das der Provinz angehrende Kananaskisgebiet, an den Abhngen der Rockies gelegen, ist in den letzten fnf Jahren von der Regierung Albertas mit ffentlichen Mitteln entwickelt worden. Es enthlt zur Zeit drei von der Provinz verwaltete Parks und verschiedene Sport- und Freizeitanlagen. Die Auswahl Calgarys als Ort der Olympischen Winterspiele 1988 und die Auswirkung der Entwicklung der Abfahrtspisten und Langlaufstrecken haben das Landschaftsbild negativ beinflusst. Diese Arbeit befasst sich mit der Entwicklung und dem Ausbau dieser Sportanlagen und weist auf die negativen und positiven Einflsse hin. Eine zunehmende Benutzung dieses Gebietes hat einerseits wirtschaftliche Vorteile mit sich gebracht, und den Druck auf die benachbarten Nationalparks verringert, andererseits knnte aber die Auswirkung auf die Umwelt das Wild, vor allen die Dickhornschafe gafhrden. Die langfristigen Folgen und Vorschlge fr die Zunkunft mssen noch bewertet werden, aber man muss sich fragen, inwieweit eine solche Entwicklung wnschenswert ist, und auf welche Weise diese gehandhabt und beaufsichtigt werden soll.
3674047|Mountain areas are faced with a range of new problems in the context of rapid globalization and economic liberalization. There are visible incompatibilities between the driving forces and operational mechanisms of market-driven globalization and the imperatives of mountain conditions. Thus, selective overextraction of resources in response to market signals and narrow specialization that disregard local diversity are incompatible with the fragility, inaccessibility, diversity, and marginality of mountain regions. The negative impacts of globalization and new trade policies on local production systems are already visible in many parts of the Hindu Kush-Himalayan region, and niche markets with comparative advantages for mountain regions are disappearing. There is a need to adapt to the changes brought by globalization. A few key areas in which new approaches could minimize the negative impacts and harness the positive opportunities associated with globalization are outlined below for the attention of policymakers.
mounresedeve.36.4.549|The diversity of membership in the Mountain Research Initiative (MRI) is one of its principal assets. This diversity is now exemplified in MRIs Science Leadership Council, composed of active mountain researchers from around the world and charged with leading the MRI. The first major task of the Science Leadership Council was the development of MRIs Strategic Plan, a document that makes explicit what has been implicit for years in MRIs activities. The Strategic Plan provides a common vision, a focused mission, a set of guiding principles, long-term goals, and more specific and measurable objectives. It provides the framework for MRIs most recent grant application to the Swiss National Science Foundation and similarly guides the progress of the MRI toward its vision.
mounresedeve.35.3.254|The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) can usually be used as a good proxy for evaluating potential variability in regional ecosystems and under climate change. We used 16-day MODIS-NDVI composite satellite data with 250-m resolution for the period 2000 to 2013 to assess the temporal and spatial variation of the NDVI among different alpine grassland classes and groups in northern Tibet. The annual average NDVI of the whole alpine grassland area in northern Tibet generally increased slightly from 2000 to 2003, and the annual average NDVI values ranged from 0.112 to 0.492 across all alpine grassland groups and years. The NDVI clearly decreased from the southeastern to the northwestern areas, with 22.50% of total grasslands significantly having increased or decreased, while 77.50% presented little change during 20002013. Both temperature and precipitation were key factors that controlled the NDVI variations of the entire alpine grassland. However, for different alpine grassland classes and groups, the NDVI displayed different correlation patterns with temperature and precipitation. Our results demonstrate that the NDVI variations of alpine grassland generally increased slightly but differed among different classes and groups. Although temperature and precipitation were the driving forces influencing the NDVI of the entire alpine grassland, it was more difficult to define the driving forces for the individual classes and groups, and more detailed analyses covering prolonged observation periods are still needed.
10.2307/3673197|Before 1961 the isolated Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan had little contact with the outside world. With bilateral (Indian) and international aid, a series of five-year plans has been adopted during the past 25 years. Developments in road construction, education, agriculture, and health care at first led to the "Perpetual Aid Syndrome" but in the mid-1970s changes in the administrative structure have led to development based on self-reliance whereby local districts are responsible and accountable for progress. Recommendations for sustainable, holistic development are given. /// Le royaume du Bhoutan dans l'Himalaya a eu peu de contacts avec le monde extrieur avant 1961. Une srie de plans quiquennaux ont t approuvs au cours des 25 dernires annes, dans le cadre d'un programme d'aide internationale et bilatrale (Inde). Le dveloppement sous forme de construction de routes, ducation, agriculture et sant publique a d'abord induit le "syndrome de l'aide perptuelle", mais au milieu des annes 70 un changement de structure administrative a produit une forme de dveloppement base sur l'indpendance, de telle sorte que les districts locaux sont responsables et doivent rendre compte du progrs. Des recommandations sont faites pour soutenir un dveloppement harmoniuex de la rgion. /// Bis zum Jahre 1961 hatte das isolierte, himalaische Knigreich Bhutan wenig Kontakt zur Auenwelt. Durch bilaterale (indische) und internationale Hilfe wurde in den vergangenen 25 Jahren eine Reihe von 5-Jahresplnen durchgefhrt. Entwicklungen im Straenbau, Erziehungswesen, in der Landwirtschaft und im Gesundheitswesen fhrten zuerst zu dem "Ewigen Hilfssyndrom"; aber nderungen in der Verwaltungsstruktur whrend der 70er Jahre fhrten dann zu einer eigenstndigen Entwicklung, wobei die Bezirke selbst fr den Fortschritt verantwortlich und rechenschaftspflichtig sind. Empfehlungen zur anhaltenden, ganzheitlichen Entwicklung werden gegeben.
mounresedeve.34.1.48|Rainfall erosivity (R-factor) is an important variable used in soil erosion estimation models. In Costa Rica, the R-factor was computed for 106 stations across the country by Wilhelm- Gunther Vahrson in 1990. These results provided the main input information for this study, which used them to estimate the R-factor for Costa Rica. Regression equations were computed to estimate the R-factor for the Caribbean slope, the Pacific slope, and the country as a whole. Forward stepwise analysis and multiple regression analysis were employed to determine the regression coefficients for each developed equation. Elevation and monthly rainfall had a strong influence on the definition of the R-factor equations. The Modified Fournier Index variable was included only in the national-scale equation as a good proxy for the mean annual precipitation effect at each site. Inclusion of elevation in all equations reflects the importance of the transitional effect of high-intensity convective rainfall in the lowlands and low-intensity orographic rainfall in the highlands. This study provides an easy way to estimate the R-factor using regression equations that require only simple and readily available geophysical information. The use of these equations in conjunction with soil and land-use maps as well as digital elevation models will allow the estimation and evaluation of soil erosion on a watershed scale in Costa Rica. This will also improve the application of other hydrological models that require soil erosion as an input variable to estimate sediment yields.
10.2307/3673519|This paper brings together some of the main conclusions from the other papers in the collection. The debate about 'famine relief' is re-examined in the context of changing attitudes, and it is unlikely that the over-reaction of 1972 would be repeated; indeed, new conditions may make it much more difficult for distressed mountain people to obtain aid in the future. Second, it is then argued that exceptional events-not all of which arise from frost and/or drought-need to be clearly separated from the lesser events, which are more frequent. The highland production and social systems in Papua New Guinea are well adapted to the latter, but major events create subsistence crises. In order to be prepared for future crises, a monitoring programme is suggested, together with close attention to the greatly improved reporting on the ENSO phenomenon. The question of 'global warming' and its effects is then briefly reviewed, and it is argued that whatever amelioration might occur at higher altitudes could well be offset by extreme events, at least in the short term. The paper concludes with some discussion of frost, and cultural adaptations to frost, in other montane areas of the low-latitude tropics, particularly in South America. Much less is known about the effects of frost in Africa. There is little literature on the frequency and variability over time of the frost hazard in either area, and it is suggested that information from the three long-settled highland areas of the low-latitude tropics needs to be brought together in a comparative framework. /// Cet article rassemble certaines des conclusions majeures auxquelles les autres articles de cette collection ont abouti. Le dbat concernant le "secours aux victimes de la disette" est examin dans le cadre d'un changement d'attitudes, et il est peu probable que la raction dmesure de 1972 se rptera de nouveau; en effet, de nouvelles conditions peuvent faire en sorte que dans le futur les populations affectes ne pourront obtenir de l'aide que beaucoup plus difficilement. L'opinion est avance que les cas exceptionnels, qui ne sont pas tous causs par la gele et/ou la scheresse, doivent tre clairement distingus des cas moins importants qui se produisent plus frquemment. Les systmes agraires et sociaux des hautes terres sont bien adapts  ces derniers cas, mais les cas majeurs produisent des tats de crise. Dans le but d'anticiper sur les crises futures, un programme de surveillance est propos, qui serait combin avec une utilisation rationnelle des donnes de plus en plus fiables sur le phnomne d'El Nio/Oscillation Sud. La question du 'rchauffement global' et de ses effets est ensuite passe en revue, et l'opinion est avance que toute amlioration possible  haute altitude serait susceptible d'tre rduite  nant par des vnements exceptionnels, tout au moins dans l'avenir proche. Cet article se termine par une discussion de la gele, et des adaptations culturelles  la gele, dans d'autres rgions montagneuses des tropiques de basse altitude, en particulier en Amrique du sud. Les connaissances sont beaucoup moindres sur les effets de la gele en Afrique. La littrature scientifique est peu abondante sur la frquence et la variabilit en fonction du temps du risque de gele dans ces deux rgions, et il est propos que les informations disponibles sur les trois rgions de hautes terres des tropiques de basse altitude, peuples depuis longtemps, soient rassembles dans le cadre d'une tude comparative. /// Diese Verffentlichung fat die wichtigsten Folgerungen von allen Berichten dieser Reihe zusammen. Die Debatte ber das 'Hunger-Hilfsprogramm' wird unter dem Blickwinkel der revidierten Einstellungen neu aufgenommen. Es ist kaum anzunehmen, da sich die berreaktion von 1972 wiederholen wird; vielmehr knnten die neuen Bestimmungen es in Zukunft fr die Bergbewohner schwieriger machen, Hilfe zu bekommen. Auerdem wird darauf hingewiesen, da katastrophale Ereignisse-und zwar nicht nur solche durch Frost oder Drre-eindeutig von hufiger vorkommenden, unterschieden werden mssen. Solch weniger einschneidenden Vorfllen kann sich die Produktion im Hochland und das gesellschaftliche System gut angepassen, nur drastische Vorkomnisse fhren zu Existenzkrisen. Um fr zuknftige Krisenflle gerstet zu sein, wird ein Beobachtungsprogramm vorgeschlagen, das besonders der verbesserten Berichterstattung ber das ENSO Phnomen Beachtung zollt. Dann wird das Problem der globalen Erwrmung und ihrer Auswirkungen kurz besprochen. Es wird argumentiert, da jede Wendung zum Besseren in den hheren Lagen, zumindest kurzzeitig durch extreme Ereignisse berschattet wird. Die Verffentlichung schliet mit Errterungen ber Frost, und ber kulturelle Anpassungen an Frost in anderen tropischen Bergregionen in sdlichen Breiten, insbesondere in Sdamerika. ber Frostauswirkungen in Afrika ist wenig bekannt, und es gibt kaum Literatur ber ihre Hufigkeit und zeitlichen Schwankungen in beiden Gebieten. Es wird vorgeschlagen, von den drei am lngsten besiedelten tropischen Berggebieten in sdlichen Breiten Information zu einer vergleichenden Studie zusammenzutragen.
25164125|The Mt Elgon ecosystem straddles the international boundary between Kenya and Uganda and is a watershed of international importance, feeding the waters of Lake Victoria, the Nile River system, and Lake Turkana. The core ecosystem in the Mt Elgon area is characterized by large montane forest landscapes; it comprises several protected areas. Adjacent is a vast, heavily populated agricultural landscape supporting up to 2 million people, whose livelihoods and economic activities are largely dependent on the ecosystem goods and services of the highlands. The mountain ecosystem of Mt Elgon is thus vital to the social and economic functioning of the surrounding areas, both in the highlands and in the lowlands. To manage this important ecosystem and sustain the multiple functions and services it offers local people and visitors, there is a need for a regional transboundary ecosystem management approach and strengthened institutional collaboration between all stakeholders concerned at different levels. The Mt Elgon Regional Ecosystem Conservation Programme (MERECP) aims to secure the multifunctionality of the Mt Elgon ecosystem and enhance sustainable development in the long term, in order to secure livelihoods and alleviate poverty, both of which are priorities of the governments of Uganda and Kenya. The present article provides insights from experience and lessons learned to date regarding the planning and implementation of such a transboundary regional ecosystem approach.
3674528|The Kullu District is a typical high-mountain environment with valley bottom elevation in the Manali area of about 2000 m and major summits that rise to 6500 m. This topography offers vast potential for hydroelectric development. In recent years the demand for power in India has exceeded supply, especially in the northern region, resulting in rapid exploitation of the hydropower potential of Himachal Pradesh (HP). The government of HP established the HP Energy Development Agency to encourage private sector investment in small hydro projects (3 MW and less) and to assist proponents by smoothing the process of project approval. The present study makes conclusions relevant to environmental asessment (EA) screening based on several cases in the Kullu District.
25164124|The Kangchenjunga landscape in the transboundary region of Nepal, Bhutan, and India has rich forest resources offering a wide range of ecosystem services to local people and habitats for many rare plant and animal species. Despite conservation efforts in several fragmented protected areas in the past, forest ecosystems and their multiple functions have been affected by over-extraction of resources, haphazard land use practices, intensive agriculture, overgrazing, unmanaged tourism, and unplanned infrastructure development. We describe a multi-level and multi-stakeholder transboundary process initiated in 2002 with the overall objective of restoring fragmented and deteriorating forest resources through development of conservation corridors and adaptation of conservation measures, moving from a species approach to a landscape approach. In collaboration with governmental and non-governmental organizations, academics, and communities, the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) has been addressing the conservation issue by promoting participatory reforestation and transboundary collaboration, and linking conservation with sustainable use of resources by local communities.
10.2307/3673646|This paper describes changes in forest condition and forest management practices in a Nepali village between 1980 and 1990, and attempts to identify the factors behind these changes. In 1980-81 the author spent a year studying forest-use practices and forest products in a village in the Middle Hills of central Nepal. Species composition, density (tree/ha), and tree size (basal area) were described. The quantity of forest products collected from forest lands was measured. Weekly accounts were kept from a sample of households on the amount of firewood and fodder collected, and the number of hours animals were grazed. In 1990 the author returned to the same village to resurvey forest lands and to assess changes in forest-use practices. Despite an annual population growth rate of 2.5%, forests were found to be in much better condition in 1990 than they were in 1980. /// Cet article dcrit les changements qui se sont produits entre 1980 et 1990 dans un village npalais, du point de vue de la condition des forts et des pratiques de gestion de celles-ci, et essaie d'identifier les factors qui ont contribu  ces changements. En 1980-81, l'auteur a pass une anne  tudier les pratiques d'exploitation des forts et les produits forestiers dans un village du Moyen Himalaya dans le Npal central. La distribution des espces, la densit en nombre d'arbres par hectare et la taille des arbres (zone basale) sont dcrites dans cet article. La production des terres forestires a t mesure  l'aide de registres tenus pour un certain nombre de familles. Ces registres indiquent la quantit de bois de chauffage et de fourrage rcolte chaque semaine, ainsi que le nombres d'heures pendant lesquelles le btail tait au pturage. En 1990, l'auteur est retourn dans le mme village dans le but d'examiner de nouveau les terres forestires et d'valuer les changements de pratiques d'exploitation des terres. En dpit d'une croissance dmographique de 2,5 pour cent par an, les forts taient en bien meilleure condition en 1990 qu'elles ne l'taient en 1980. /// Dieser Artikel beschreibt Vernderungen in der Waldbeschaffenheit und im Waldmanagement eines nepalesischen Dorfes in den Jahren zwischen 1980 und 1990; und versucht, die den Vernderungen zugrunde liegenden Faktoren zu identifizieren. Der Autor verbrachte 1980/81 ein Jahr in einem Dorf der Middle Hills in Zentralnepal, um Methoden der Waldnutzung und die Waldprodukte zu untersuchen. Die Artenzusammensetzung, Dichte (Bume/ha) und der Baumumfang (an der Basis) werden beschrieben. Auerdem wurden die Waldprodukte, die auf den bewaldeten Flchen gesammelt wurden, quantitativ erfat. Ausgewhlte Haushaltungen legten wchentlich Rechenschaft darber ab, wieviel Feuerholz und Viehfutter gesammelt wurden und wie lange das Vieh weidete. Im Jahre 1990 kehrte der Autor in dasselbe Dorf zurck, um die Waldflchen neu zu inspizieren und Vernderungen in der Waldnutzung zu beurteilen. Trotz einer jhrlichen Bevlkerungswachstumsrate von 2,5%, fand er die Waldgebiete 1990 in besserem Zustand als im Jahre 1980.
3674673|This article presents an empirical interdisciplinary study of an extensive participatory process that was carried out in 2004 in the recently established World Natural Heritage Site "Jungfrau-Aletsch-Bietschhorn" in the Swiss Alps. The study used qualitative and quantitative empirical methods of social science to address the question of success factors in establishing and concretizing a World Heritage Site. Current international scientific and policy debates agree that the most important success factors in defining pathways for nature conservation and protection are: linking development and conservation, involving multiple stakeholders, and applying participatory approaches. The results of the study indicate that linking development and conservation implies the need to extend the reach of negotiations beyond the area of conservation, and to develop both a regional perspective and a focus on sustainable regional development. In the process, regional and local stakeholders are less concerned with defining sustainability goals than elaborating strategies of sustainability, in particular defining the respective roles of the core sectors of society and economy. However, the study results also show that conflicting visions and perceptions of nature and landscape are important underlying currents in such negotiations. They differ significantly between various stakeholder categories and are an important cause of conflicts occurring at various stages of the participatory process.
mounresedeve.36.4.528|The Global Network of Mountain Observatories (GNOMO) is an international initiative seeking to increase communication and collaboration and align methodologies to assess commonalities and differences across the worlds mountain landscapes. Oriented toward sustainable mountain development, GNOMO requires the integration of social and natural sciences, as well as a diverse array of stakeholder perspectives. This paper highlights challenges associated with integrating social sciences because of the inherent paradigmatic differences within the social sciences. The value orientations of mountain researchers, as well as the divergent societal and institutional values regarding mountains, create a need for new approaches to observing mountain landscapes. A framework is presented to organize complex information about mountain socialecological systems based on human conditions (from vulnerability to wellbeing), environmental actions (from degradation to stewardship), and environmental conditions that vary across time, space, and scales. A multiparadigmatic, multimethod approach is proposed to combine theory-driven quantitative indicators, qualitative perspectives from diverse knowledge standpoints, and critical inquiries into power relationships to fully represent dynamic mountain systems.
25164128|Secondary forests in the Lower Mekong Basin (LMB) are increasingly recognized as a valuable component of land cover, providing ecosystem services and benefits for local users. A large proportion of secondary forests in the LMB, especially in the uplands, are maintained by swidden cultivation. In order to assess the regional-scale status and dynamic trends of secondary forests in the LMB, an analysis of existing regional land cover data for 1993 and 1997 was carried out and forms the basis of this paper. To gain insight into the full range of dynamics affecting secondary forests beyond net-change rates, cross-tabulation matrix analyses were performed. The investigations revealed that secondary forests make up the largest share of forest cover in the LMB, with over 80% located in Laos and Cambodia. The deforestation rates for secondary forests are 3 times higher than the rates for other forest categories and account for two-thirds of the total deforestation. These dynamics are particularly pronounced in the less advanced countries of the LMB, especially in Laos, where national policies and the opening up of national economies seem to be the main drivers of further degradation and loss of secondary forests.
mounresedeve.35.4.328|Permafrost conditions in mountain ranges are sensitive to regional land surface temperature (LST), among other factors. To explore that relationship, this study carried out 3 steps: (1) validated Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer 1-km daily LST data using data measured in situ, (2) used the Harmonic Analysis of Time Series (HANTS) algorithm for fitting and removing the influence of clouds, and (3) analyzed the spatial and temporal characteristics of LST dynamics in the central Tien Shan mountain range based on remote-sensing data improved by covariance and empirical orthogonal function analysis. The results indicate that the in situ data present a basic reference for rebuilding invalid values in the retrieved data, and the data gap in daily LST products can be logically reconstructed with the HANTS algorithm. Major long-term and large-scale patterns can be well extracted with the reconstructed LST data. The most dynamic and sensitive LST areas occurred in the buffers around the periglacial areas. Areas above the periglacial line mainly exhibited a decrease in LST, while areas below it showed an increase. This suggests that the periglacial line of the central Tien Shan region has risen during the past decade. These findings can provide a reference for how periglacial areas respond to climate change and how this may affect hydrological and ecological processes.
10.2307/3673454|The Menagesha State Forest is one of the few protected natural forests in central Ethiopia. In this paper, the floristic composition of the forest which is representative of an afromontane forest is compiled, the need to conserve such forests is discussed, and some recommendations on how best to implement forest conservation policies are made. /// La fort domaniale Menagesha est l'une des rares forts naturelles qui soient sujettes  des mesures de protection en Ethiopie centrale. Cette tude passe en revue la composition floristique de cette fort typique des forts montagnardes africaines, illustre le besoin de protger de telles forts en Ethiopie, et prconise certaines mthodes pour mettre en oeuvre une politique rationnelle de conservation des forts. /// Der Menagesha-Staatswald ist einer der wenigen, geschtzten Naturwlder in Zentralaethiopien. Im vorliegenden Beitrag wird die Zusammensetzung der Flora dieses afromontanen Waldes beschrieben. Die Notwendigkeit der Konservierung solcher Wlder in Aethiopien wird diskutiert, und einige Wege werden vorgeschlagen, wie Waldkonservierungsmassnahmen am besten durchgefhrt werden.
10.2307/3674256|Peasant communities in the northwestern Andean Cordillera of Peru utilize an effective tree management strategy which helps to satisfy their principal needs. Trees provide many material goods for the peasants, including wood for home and furniture construction, glue, cords, medicines, soap, and poison. However, weakness of the communal organization means that control of access to forest areas is inadequate, resulting in over-exploitation of forest resources, over-grazing, and soil erosion. An inventory of the major arboreal and shrubbery species in the area was compiled to provide a base for more sustainable management, as well as for better planning of future reforestation in the region. Priority was given to description of each species in terms of its local use, applicability for agroforestry, and position in the soil and landscape context in which it has developed. The genera Acacia, Alnus, Cordia, Erythrina, and Prosopis are proposed as the most effective for improvement of those forest areas that are used for grazing. /// Las comunidades campesinas del nor-oeste de la Cordillera Andina en el Per llevan a cabo una estrategia efectiva en el manejo de los recursos arbreos para satisfacer sus principales necesidades. Los rboles proveen materiales y bienes a los campesinos, incluyendo madera para construccin, goma, cuerdas, medicinas, jabn y veneno. Sin embargo, la debilidad de las organizaciones comunales determina la falta de reglas de acceso en las reas de bosque. Esta situacin causa una sobreexplotacin de los recursos arbreos, sobrepastoreo y erosin de suelos. Un inventario de las principales especies arbreas y arbustivas fue realizado en el rea para proveer una base para un manejo sustentable as como para planificar mejor los futuros programas de reforestacin. En la descripcin de cada especie se enfatiz en su uso, su aptitud agroforestal y el contexto morfoedafolgico. Los gneros Acacia, Alnus, Cordia, Erythrina y Prosopis son propuestos para mejorar las reas de bosque utilizadas como zonas de pastoreo.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r51|          ,              .         ,       ,            .                             .  ,  ,  ,             ,    ,     .          ,        ,      .
10.2307/3673445|The highlands of Uganda, areas above 1,500 m, have a tropical, humid climate and a fragile environment. Although the terrain is steep, historical factors and favourable climate and soils have led to high population densities in certain areas. Increased pressure of the land has caused vegetation denudation and increased cultivation on steep slopes with no appropriate conservation strategies. The natural slope processes have been disrupted giving rise to increased soil erosion and mass wasting problems, especially between 1,500 and 2,500 m. A preliminary case study of Rukiga in the southwestern highlands shows that most slopes are seriously affected by all forms of soil erosion and that conservation measures are needed to prevent irreversible calamity. /// Les hautes terres de l'Ouganda, au-dessus de 1.500 m, ont un climat tropical humide et un environnement fragile. Bien que le terrain soit en pente, des facteurs historiques, ainsi qu'un climat et des sols favorables, se sont traduits par des zones densment peuples. Cette pression dmographique a caus la dnudation du terrain et l'accroissement des cultures sur de fortes pentes, sans politique rationnelle de conservation des sols. Les processus naturels agissant sur les pentes ont t perturbs, entranant un accroissement des problmes lis  l'rosion et au gaspillage de terrains, surtout entre 1.500 et 2.500 m. Une tude prliminaire de Rukiga, dans les hautes terres du sud-ouest, a dmontr que la plupart des pentes sont srieusement atteintes par toutes les formes d'rosion du sol, et que des mesures de conservation sont indispensables pour viter un dsastre irrversible. /// Die Hochlnder von Uganda sind tropisch humid und hatten immer schon eine fragile Umwelt. Mit zunehmender menschlicher Besetzung und Bevlkerungsdruck wird rationale Nutzung zu einer unabdingbaren Forderung. Als Hochland werden die Regionen oberhalb 1500 m .M. definiert, wo zwar reliefiertes Gelnde vorherrscht, aber trotzdem aus historischen, klimatischen und bodenphysikalischen Grnden die Bevlkerungsdichte sehr hoch ist. Diese Situation stellt ein hohes Risiko fr Degradation sowohl von Vegetation als auch von Boden durch Bodenerosion und Massenverschiebungen dar, weil steile Hnge ohne Bercksichtigung von Konservierungsstrategien zunehmend bebaut werden. Gebiete mit hoher Erosion liegen in Hhenstufen zwischen 1500 und 2500 m .M., weil darber das Klima fr menschliche Besiedlung zu kalt wird. Alle Formen von Bodenerosion und Massenbewegungen wurden in einem Testgebiet in Rukiga im Sdwesten Ugandas an fast allen Hngen beobachtet. Wenn nicht sofort geeignete Gegenmassnahmen durchgefhrt werden, kann dieser gefhrliche Prozess, der unmittelbar irreversible Schdigung bewirken kann, zu enormen Kosten fhren.
mounresedeve.31.4.293|The carbon-offsetting scheme Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) has evolved into one of the most important instruments for the funding of renewable energy projects in mountain regions in developing and newly industrializing countries. The CDM allows industrialized states to compensate for greenhouse gas emissions by investing in climate change mitigation activities abroad. These offsetting projects are intended to avoid emissions while simultaneously contributing to sustainable development at the local level. The most common project type under the CDM is hydropower, with the majority of projects being located in the mountain areas of China and India. However, doubts about the scrutinizing methods of the CDM as well as the often controversial impacts of dam building on mountain environments and communities raise questions about the ability of these clean development dams to serve as a sustainable means of mitigating climate change. The objective of the present article is to assess the effectiveness of large CDM hydropower projects in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. Analysis of planning documents and expert interviews revealed that clean development dams in the Himachal Himalaya fall short of achieving the goals of the CDM. Most projects are not in a position to compensate for emissions because they would have been built even without CDM support. Furthermore, it is arguable whether CDM dams contribute to sustainable mountain development, because the consequences of their construction are the same as for many other ordinary large dams, that is, environmental damage and conflicts that arise from the reallocation of land and water resources. Our results suggest that the promotion of large hydropower projects through the CDM in its current form is a highly ambivalent strategy. Shortcomings in the regulatory framework of the CDM may be undermining the environmental and social integrity of the CDM at both the global and local levels.
25164153|Micronutrient problems in the food systems of the Himalaya are wide-spread due to bedrock with low nutrient content, high erosion rates, poverty, subsistence agriculture, and increasing cropping intensity. Agriculturally based strategies for the reduction of micronutrient malnutrition will require knowledge of the scale and spatial patterns of soil deficiencies or excesses of some elements. The present article documents current knowledge about the micronutrient status of cultivated soil in Nepal. Most studies have recorded largely the same magnitude of deficiencies in this country. Some 80 to 90% of soil samples were deficient in boron (B), 20 to 50% in zinc (Zn), and 10 to 15% in molybdenum (Mo). These are important micronutrient deficiencies because they limit agricultural production and affect human nutrition directly or indirectly.
mounresedeve.31.2.112|Five years after the 2005 Pakistan earthquake that triggered multiple mass movements, landslides continue to pose a threat to the population of Azad Kashmir, especially during heavy monsoon rains. The thousands of landslides that were triggered by the 7.6 magnitude earthquake in 2005 were not just due to a natural phenomenon but largely induced by human activities, namely, road building, grazing, and deforestation. The damage caused by the landslides in the study area (381 km
10.2307/3673739|This study examined the relative impact of hikers, horses, motorcycles, and off-road bicycles in terms of water runoff and sediment yield from 108 sample plots on existing trails in or near Gallatin National Forest, Montana. A modified Meeuwig drip-type rainfall simulator was used to reproduce natural rainstorm events. Treatments of 100 passes were applied to each plot. The results confirmed the complex interactions that occur between topographic, soil, and geomorphic variables noted by others, and the difficulty of interpreting their impact on existing trails. None of the hypothesized relationships between water runoff and slope, soil texture, antecedent soil moisture, trail roughness, and soil resistance was statistically significant. Five independent variables or cross-products explained 42% of the variability in sediment yield when soil texture was added as a series of indicator variables. Ten variables combined to explain 70% of the variability in sediment yield when trail user was added as a second series of indicator variables. Terms incorporating soil texture (37%), slope (35%), and user treatment (35%) accounted for the largest contributions. Multiple comparisons test results showed that horses and hikers (hooves and feet) made more sediment available than wheels (motorcycles and off-road bicycles) and that this effect was most pronounced on prewetted trails. /// Cette tude examine l'impact relatif des randonneurs  pied, des chevaux, des motocyclettes et bicyclettes tous-terrains, en termes de ruissellement d'eau et de production de sdiments sur 108 parcelles chantillons de sentiers de montagne situes  l'intrieur ou au voisinage de la fort nationale de Gallantin, dans l'tat du Montana. Un simulateur de pluies de Meeuwig modifi, type dgouttement, a t utilis pour reproduire des temptes de pluie naturelles. Les traitements de 100 passes ont t appliqus  chaque parcelle. Les rsultats confirment les interactions complexes entre les variables topographiques, daphiques et gomorphiques qui avaient t observes par d'autres chercheurs, et la difficult d'interprter leur impact sur les sentiers de montagne existants. Aucune des supposes relations entre le ruissellement d'eau et la pente, la texture du sol, l'humidit antrieure, l'ingalit du sentier et la rsistance du sol n'est statistiquement significative. Cinq variables indpendantes ou produits en croix expliquent 42 pour cent de la variabilit de la production de sdiments lorsque la texture du sol est ajoute en tant que srie de variables indicatrices. Dix variables se combinent pour expliquer 70 pour cent de la variabilit de la production de sdiments lorsque l'utilisateur du sentier est ajout en tant que seconde srie de variables indicatrices. Les termes incorporant la texture du sol (37 pour cent), la pente (35 pour cent) et le traitement par l'utilisateur (35 pour cent) rendent compte des contributions les plus importantes. Des comparaisons multiples des rsultats de tests indiquent que les chevaux et les randonneurs (sabots et chaussures) produisent plus de sdiments que les motocyclettes et bicyclettes tous-terrains (roues) et que cet effet est plus prononc sur les sentiers dj humides. /// Diese Studie untersucht an 108 verschiedenen Teststellen in oder nahe dem Gallatin National Forest, Montana, Nutzungsbelastungen auf Bergpfaden anhand von Abflu und Sedimentfreigabe. Ein abgnderter Meeuwig Tropfensimulator wurde benutzt, um natrlichen Regen zu imitieren. Jede Stelle wurde 100 mal belastet. Die Ergebnisse besttigen komplexe Wechselwirkungen zwischen topographischen, bodenbedingten und geomorphischen Variablen. Dies und die Schwierigkeit, ihre Einwirkungen auf bestehende Bergpfade zu erklren, wurde bereits von anderer Seite festgestellt. Keine der angenommenen Beziehungen zwischen Abflu und Hangneigung, Bodenstruktur, vorhandener Bodenfeuchte, Wegoberflche und Bodenwiderstand waren statistisch bedeutsam. Fnf unabhngige Gren oder ihre Crossprodukte erklrten 42% der Variabilitat des Sedimentertrages, wenn man die Bodenstruktur in die Reihe der Anzeigevariablen einschlo. Insgesamt zehn Variablen erklrten 70% der unterschiedlichen Sedimentfreigabe, wenn die Wegbenutzung als zweite Gre einbeschlossen wurde. Die grten Beitrge lieferte die Bercksichtigung der Bodenstruktur (37%), Hangneigung (35%) und Nutzungsart (35%). Vergleicht man viele Testresultate, dann zeigt sich, da Pferde und Wanderer (Huf- und Trittbelastung) mehr Sediment freisetzen als Rder (Motor- und Gelndefahrrder) und dies war auf nassen Wegen besonders auffllig.
3674668|Livestock production is a key livelihood strategy and a way of life for most small-holders in the Hindukush. Depending on ethnicity, access to land, labor force, and ecological conditions, small to large herds of goats, sheep, cattle and buffalo serve as a primary or secondary source of livelihood. Ongoing deterioration of environmental conditions-frequently due to overgrazing-and the depletion of timber and firewood resources-often linked to demographic and economic pressure both in the highlands and the lowlands-increasingly worsen living conditions. Alternative livelihood strategies and pathways to more sustainable natural resource use are needed. A combined research and development project, based on long-standing local research and participatory development efforts, launched in the North-Western Frontier Province of Pakistan (NWFP), aims to better assess and compare the situations in 3 different valleys, and to test concrete options for improving livestock output. Standard de-worming practices are being combined with a novel method of supplementing locally produced, season-specific, critically deficient nutrients for the animals, based on local environmental needs.
3674270|Conservation of agricultural biodiversity has become an important paradigm in efforts to promote sustainable development throughout the world. This is especially the case in Andean countries, where ex situ conservation of crops has been a focus of attention since the 1970s. In Peru in the early 1990s, researchers and development specialists also focused on in situ conservation and the participation of campesino communities in mountain development processes. They designed the Cajamarca model as a result of several years of experience in rural development projects. This model includes so-called seed fairs (Figure 1) and encourages the creation of local seed banks managed by a conservationist campesino association. The HimalAndes Project, which promotes technical cooperation to support exchange of seeds and local knowledge between mountain agriculture ecosystems, is another recent project with a partial focus on agrobiodiversity conservation in Andean and other countries.
mounresedeve.34.2.107|To address the environmental impacts of tourism in protected areas, park managers need to understand the spatial distribution of tourist use. Standard monitoring measures (tourist surveys and counting and tracking techniques) are not sufficient to accomplish this task, in particular for off-road travel. This article predicts tourists' spatial use patterns through an alternative approach: park accessibility measurement. Naismith's rule and geographical information system's anisotropic cost analysis are integrated into the modeling process, which results in a more realistic measure of off-road accessibility than that provided by other measures. The method is applied to a mountainous United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage Site in northwest Yunnan Province, China, where there is increasing concern about potential impacts of unregulated tourist use. Based on the assumption that accessibility tends to attract more tourists, a spatial pattern of predicted off-road use by tourists is derived. This pattern provides information that can help park managers develop strategies that are effective for both tourism management and species conservation.
3674174|Many types of problems caused by land degradation can be documented worldwide. The main natural resources affected are soils, water, natural vegetation, and wildlife; but cultivated plants are exposed to even greater damage, which poses a threat to food security as well. Soil degradation is one of the most crucial processes of land degradation and environmental change. Over a quarter of the world's agricultural land has been damaged by long-term soil degradation, corresponding to one-tenth of the earth's land surface. As is well known, mountain areas are especially vulnerable to land degradation (Figure 1). Because mountains are also water towers, providing water not only for highland areas but also for the surrounding lowlands, land degradation in the mountains has serious impacts on the global supply of freshwater and on growing water-related conflicts. At the same time, there have been many achievements in sustainable land use and in avoiding and combating degradation (Figure 2). Every day land users and soil and water conservation (SWC) specialists evaluate experience and generate know-how related to land management, improvement of soil fertility, and protection of soil resources. Most of this valuable knowledge, however, is not well documented or easily accessible, and comparison of different types of experience is difficult. The World Overview of Conservation Approaches and Technologies (WOCAT) has the mission of providing tools that allow SWC specialists to share their valuable knowledge in soil and water management, assist them in their search for appropriate SWC technologies and approaches, and support them in making decisions in the field and at the planning level.
mounresedeve.36.3.267|Mountain regions are generally seen as depopulating. However, in the European Alps, a new migration trend can be observed that may represent a reversal of out-migration from these regions. The in-migration of so-called new highlanders brings people from lowland urban and peri-urban areas to mountain regions to live and work. Research on the economic and social contributions of these new highlanders is sparse, and there are no studies that focus on their entrepreneurial activities. This study examined the characteristics and contributions of new highlander entrepreneurs and found that they are unlike traditional amenity migrants who migrate because of quality of life. New highlander entrepreneurs migrate not only for quality of life reasons, they moreover follow business opportunities and contribute to the economic and social life of their chosen locations. Based on attributes such as personal circumstances, recognition and exploitation of opportunities, business strategies, and economic and social contributions, we grouped new highlander entrepreneurs into 4 categories and explored their reasons for migrating and other characteristics. We conclude that mountain regions represent viable locations for entrepreneurs, despite the many disadvantages associated with this peripheral context.
mounresedeve.33.4.404|The Northern Uplands of Vietnam form one of the largest ecological regions in the country, characterized by complex biophysical conditions and a high diversity in ethnic minorities, cultures, and farming systems. The Doi moi (renovation) program has, since the early 1980s, resulted in significant changes in agriculture production and related economic trends. However, poverty, low agricultural productivity, and land degradation are still major problems. This article illustrates the factors that drive these problems by analyzing agricultural land use in Suoi Con, a small agroforestry watershed in the Northern Uplands. We first identified the current land-use systems and analyzed constraints on agricultural production. The results indicate that although low soil fertility and land degradation are considerable problems, availability of household capital, low technology levels, and land fragmentation are major constraints on agricultural development. These constraints were analyzed from different points of view to identify mismatches between the implementation of top-down government policies and specific conditions that may explain why actual land-use change in the Northern Uplands deviates from the government's development plans. Results of landuse analysis in the Suoi Con watershed suggest that participatory and bottom-up approaches are needed to better understand problems and opportunities in household agricultural production in order to develop appropriate landuse plans and policies.
10.2307/3673692|The mountains and highlands of East Africa offer opportunities for both development and conservation. Unfortunately, the potential of the resources of the highlands has been severely undermined by the people who occupy them. The human impact on the natural ecosystems has caused imbalances, some of which may be irreversible, and this has led to a heavy dependence on natural resources and on the government for subsistence. Unless the importance of the mountains and highlands as resource reservoirs is realized and their contribution to economic development is re-examined, these critical regions will cease to be the granaries of the East African peoples. This paper assesses the ecological and socioeconomic impacts in the highland environments of East Africa using vegetation deterioration and soil erosion in northeast Tanzania as an example. /// Les montagnes et hautes terres de l'est de l'Afrique prsentent des possibilits aussi bien pour le dveloppement que pour la conservation. Malheureusement, le potentiel des hautes terres en matire de ressources a t srieusement rduit par les habitants de la rgion. L'impact humain sur les cosystmes naturels de l'environnement des hautes terres a produit des dsquilibres dont certains sont probablement irrversibles; cette situation a entran une dpendance norme vis--vis des ressources naturelles et du gouvernement pour la survie de la population. A moins que l'importance des montagnes et des hautes terres en tant que rservoirs de ressources ne soit reconnue et que leur contribution au dveloppement conomique ne soit rexamine, ces rgions importantes risquent de ne plus jouer le rle de grenier pour les habitants de l'est de l'Afrique. Cet article value les impacts, cologique et socio-conomique, sur les environnements des hautes terres de l'est de l'Afrique, en prenant comme exemple la dtrioration de la vgtation et l'rosion du sol dans le nord-est de la Tanzanie. /// Mglichkeiten fr Entwicklung und Erhaltung der Berge und Hochlande in Ostafrika sind vorhanden. Leider wurden bisher die potentiellen Ressourcen des Hochlandes durch die Bewohner in starkem Mae berbeansprucht. Menschlicher Einflu hat das Gleichgewicht im natrlichen kosystem der Hochlandumwelt gestt, und einige Folgen sind wahrscheinlich nicht wieder gutzumachen. Eine starke Abhngigkeit von Naturressourcen zusammen mit Regierungsuntersttzung waren zum berleben notwendig. Wenn die Bedeutung der Berge und Hochlande als Ressourcenquellen nicht erkannt und ihr Beitrag zur konomischen Entwicklung nicht neu untersucht werden, werden in Zukunft diese gefhrdeten Gebiete als Kornkammern fr die ostafrikanische Bevlkerung verloren gehen. Diese Verffentlichung beurteilt die kologischen und sozio-konomischen Einflsse auf die Hochlandumwelt Ostafrikas und benutzt die Vegetationsverschlechterung und Bodenerosion im Nordosten von Tanzania als Beispiele.
10.2307/3673042|The differences between Imperata cylindrica var. africana and var. major are described. The distribution of the former is outlined and the problems it creates for Nigerian agriculture are discussed. I. cylindrica is considered to have several weaknesses which can be exploited for purposes of control. These are discussed under the headings: Seed characteristics. The seeds are small, with little dormacy and require freedom from competition or disturbance for successful establishment. Susceptibility to shading. The grass grows best in full light and, because of its intolerance of shade, can be suppressed by taller growing grasses, cover crops, legumes, or woody species. Rhizome characteristics. Because of its relatively shallow rhizome system, coupled with susceptibility to the effects of fragmentation or dessication, thorough cultivation can be one effective method of control. Susceptibility to grazing. The grass does not withstand heavy cattle-grazing pressure and, in areas where this is practised, grazing management can be used in association with fire as a means of facilitating the introduction of legumes. Possible means of developing I. cylindrica grassland are discussed with reference to the contrasting situations of Nigeria and the highlands of Northern Thailand. /// Les diffrences entre l'Imperata cylindrica, var. africana et var. major sont dcrites dans cette tude. La rpartition de la premire est indique, puis les problmes qu'elle pose  l'agriculture nigrienne sont passs en revue. On considre que l'Imperata cylindrica a plusieurs points faibles que l'on peut exploiter pour la contrecarrer; ils sont prciss sous les rubriques suivantes. Caractristiques des graines: Les graines, petites, et  brve dormance, ne peuvent s'tablir qu'en l'absence de concurrence et de perturbations. Susceptibilit  l'ombre: L'herbe pousse mieux en pleine lumire et, comme elle ne supporte pas l'ombre, elle peut tre supplante par de plus hautes herbes, des plantes de couverture, des lgumineuses ou des espces ligneuses. Caractristiques des rhizomes: En raison de son systme de rhizomes relativement peu profond, en plus de sa susceptibilit aux effets de la fragmentation ou de la dessiccation, la culture peut constituer une mthode de lutte efficace. Susceptibilit au broutage: L'herbe ne rsiste pas au broutage intensif du btail, et dans de telles rgions, la gestion du pturage peut tre utilise conjointement avec le feu pour faciliter l'introduction de lgumineuses. Les moyens possibles de dvelopper les herbages de I. cylindrica sont passs en revue en se rfrant aux situations opposes du Niger et des rgions montagneuses de la Thalande septentrionale. /// Es werden die Unterschiede zwischen Imperata cylindrica var. africana und var. major beschrieben. Das Vorkommen der ersteren wird dargestellt, und die Probleme, die diese fr die Landwirtschaft in Nigeria hervorruft, werden diskutiert. Man nimmt an, da I. cylindrica eine Reihe von Schwchen besitzt, die zu Kontrollzwecken ausgenutzt werden knnen. Diese werden unter den folgenden Kapitelberschriften behandelt: Sameneigenschaften. Die Samen sind klein und ruhelos und erfordern fr ein erfolgreiches Angehen ein Fehlen von Wettbewerb oder anderen Strfaktoren. Empfnglichkeit fr Schatten. Das Gras wchst am besten in vollem Licht und kann wegen seines Nichtgedeihens im Schatten von hher wachsenden Grsern, Feld- und Hlsenfrchten oder hlzernen Spezies unterdrckt werden. Rhizom-Eigenschaften. Wegen seines relativ niedrigen Rhizomsystems, gepaart mit seiner Anflligkeit gegenber Brchigkeit und Austrocknung, kann eine sorgfltige Kultivierung eine effektive Kontrollmethode darstellen. Anflligkeit als Weideland. Das Gras hlt keinem starken Druck durch weidendes Vieh stand und in Gebieten, wo diese Art der Nutzbarmachung mglich ist, kann das Weiden gemeinsam mit dem Abbrennen als ein Mittel verwendet werden, um die Einfhrung von Hlsenfrchten zu erleichtern. Verschiedene Mglichkeiten, I cylindrica-Weideland zu entwickeln, werden diskutiert mit Bezug auf die gegenstzlichen Situationen in Nigeria und in den Hochebenen von Nordthailand.
3674207|This paper evaluates changes in land use/land cover (hereafter land cover) in a specific area in Kalu District, Southern Wello, Ethiopia, by comparing two aerial photographs from 1958 and 1986. An attempt is also made to discuss possible implications of these land cover changes for land degradation. By applying Geographic Information Systems (GIS), two maps of the study area (for the years 1958 and 1986) were produced. The maps show a decrease in coverage by shrublands, riverine vegetation and forests, and an increase in remaining open areas, settlements, floodplains, and a water body. The areal extension of nine categories of land cover was calculated and, by overlaying the two maps, the percentage of each type of land cover that was converted into other categories was computed. Land cover changes were most noticeable for shrublands, with a decrease of <tex-math>$15.5\ km^{2}$</tex-math> (-51%), and for remaining open areas (ie, excluding cultivated areas and settlements), with an increase of <tex-math>$14.3\ km^{2}$</tex-math> (+333%). Areas under cultivation remained more or less unchanged. By and large, land cover changes observed in this study were the result of clearing of vegetation for fuelwood, grazing lands, new cultivation areas, etc., thus contributing to the current problem of land degradation in the country. If coordinated efforts are not made to rehabilitate degraded hillslopes, further deterioration of shrublands, forests, and riverine vegetation into areas with little or no plant cover will adversely affect the hillslopes and eventually those areas that are currently used for crop production.
mounresedeve.32.2.231|The Centre for Development and Environment (CDE) is the University of Bern's center for sustainable development research. Founded in 1988 as a part of the Institute of Geography, CDE became an interdisciplinary university center in 2009. Its current overall aim is to foster sustainable development-oriented research across various institutes and departments of the University of Bern. In view of this new mandate, CDE devised a new strategy focusing on 6 strategic themes. These are explored and advanced by groups of researchers organized in thematic clusters. Three of the 6 clusters address sustainable development from a comprehensive perspective: global change impacts, innovations for sustainable development, and education for sustainable development. These clusters are complemented by 3 clusters that investigate sustainable development with a specialized perspective: natural resources and ecosystem services, multidimensional disparities, and governance of land and natural resources.
mounresedeve.35.4.392|People's attitudes toward wildlife conservation can significantly affect the success of conservation initiatives. Understanding the factors influencing these attitudes is essential for designing strategies to alleviate humanwildlife conflict. Although this topic has been studied extensively across diverse regions, there has been no such study in the Kashmir Division of Jammu and Kashmir state, India. We surveyed 3 administrative units around Dachigam National Park through semistructured interviews (n = 384) to investigate the socioeconomic status of local people, the extent of economic damage caused by wild animals, and people's attitudes toward wildlife conservation. Results, analyzed using a generalized linear model approach, indicated that about 75% of the respondents suffered crop damage, while 23% suffered livestock predation by wild animals. The majority of respondents expressed favorable attitudes toward wildlife, with only about 16% expressing a negative perception. Gender, crop damage, livestock predation, and total livestock holdings were the strongest variables influencing the attitudes of local people in the study area. The study identified the need to use appropriate mitigation measures to minimize economic damage by wildlife in order to reduce negative local attitudes toward wildlife conservation.
mounresedeve.33.1.103|The Centre for Mountain Studies (CMS) is located at Perth College, University of the Highlands and Islands, Scotland. Since its establishment in 2000, staff and students at the CMS have been active in research and knowledge exchange activities at all scales, from the local, in Scotland, to the global. Projects in Scotland have focused mainly on estates, wild land (see below), and forests. Work across part, or all, of Europe has addressed mountain foods (see below), adaptation to climate change, large-scale regional planning, and the characterization of Europe's mountains. At the global scale, the CMS has been involved in activities relating to sustainable mountain development, global change, interdisciplinary research, and biodiversity conservation. The CMS also runs a part-time online MSc in Sustainable Mountain Development. This article summarizes some recent and ongoing activities. More information, including additional published references, is available on the CMS website.
mounresedeve.31.3.229|The winter tourism industry is facing considerable challenges with climate change; it is increasingly responding with investments in snowmaking facilities. We present a study on 3 tourism destinations in the Swiss Alps that addressed resource consumption of snowmaking, snow reliability, and future snowmaking potential in a warmer climate. The energy consumption of snowmaking in the ski resorts was in the lower range of what could be expected from literature values. It comprised ~0.5% of the respective municipality's energy consumption and was moderate compared with other tourism-related activities. Water consumption, however, was in the higher range with regard to what was expected from literature values and was also high compared with other water uses (eg 36% compared with drinking water consumption in one community). Natural snow cover was partly critical for winter sports at low elevations at ~1200 masl, but uncritical at higher elevations above 2000 masl. Snow cover will become even more critical in a warmer climate but will probably still be sufficient above 2000 masl until 2050. Snowmaking may become critical at lower elevations in the early months of the season (November and December) due to warmer temperatures that can be expected in the coming decades. But, at higher elevations, the potential for snowmaking will probably remain sufficient. Our study provides straightforward and feasible approaches to assess resource consumption and snow cover. Careful consideration of resource consumption and snow cover can foster technical and economical advances as well as more sustainable development in mountains regions. Snow production can represent a valuable adaptation strategy at high-altitude destinations. However, given the increasing economic competition and the changing climate, it will be crucial to use specific regional strengths to provide high-quality winter and summer tourism activities.
25164044|Process-based soil erosion models, such as the European Soil Erosion Model (EUROSEM), have the potential for the extrapolation to the catchment scale of plot scale investigations into the effectiveness of soil conservation practices. Results from plot scale studies on the effectiveness of live barriers for soil erosion control on steep mountain sides in the Cochabamba region of Bolivia, are used to evaluate EUROSEM. The model is then applied to a 3 ha catchment in Pairumani, Cochabamba. The catchment consists of 28 fields of varying sizes and slopes (between 20 and 30 percent). The model was parameterized for the existing conditions using parameter values derived from field survey and from existing experiments in the area. A rainstorm, which would have a return period of five years in Cochabamba, was constructed and soil erosion and runoff dynamics were simulated in the catchment. Grass barrier strips were then introduced into the simulation, at a spacing of 9 m; the simulation results were then compared. Results illustrate estimated reductions in soil erosion of 185 kg at the catchment outlet and up to 1,404 kg for individual fields within the catchment. The potential of process-based erosion models for simulating the impact of soil conservation systems in mountain environments is demonstrated.
25164135|Forests are crucial for the well-being of humanity. They provide foundations for life on earth through ecological functions, by regulating climate and water resources and serving as habitats for plants and animals. Forests also furnish a wide range of essential goods such as wood, food, fodder and medicines, in addition to opportunities for recreation, spiritual renewal and other services (FRA 2003). Forestland covers 21,188,746 ha, which corresponds to approximately 27% of the surface area of Turkey (OGM 2007). Forests are among the most popular ecotourism destinations because of their unique values for tourists interested in nature in local values and culture. It is therefore critical to adopt a sustainable development approach in the management of mountains and forests, where biodiversity must be conserved in the long term to minimize the negative impacts of tourism. This is increasingly being acknowledged by governmental institutions and non-governmental organizations in some areas of Turkey. We report here on the development of ecotourism and the support of local communities and other stakeholders in the Kure Mountains, emphasizing awareness-raising activities and benefits to the local economy.
3674206|Slash-and-burn for pluvial rice cultivation (Tavy) is a predominant component in the land use system on the Eastern Escarpment of Madagascar. It causes ecological degradation and subsequent aggravation of rural poverty. After conducting multidisciplinary research resulting in an in-depth diagnosis of the area's agroecological system, the BEMA (Bilans cologiques  Madagascar) project now aims to propose improvements and alternatives to the land use system. The objective of contributing relevant knowledge to stakeholder discussions and enhancing the choice of development priorities has called for a method allowing aggregation of existing knowledge, in order to constitute an integrated overall picture of the local level. The present article illustrates the application of a sensitivity analysis. This method allows exploitation of existing knowledge with a view to setting priorities among key factors with regard to a postulated development objective and discussion of possible strategies for development activities. For this study, intensification and stabilization, which are common concerns among the region's stakeholders, were chosen as development objectives to be analyzed by example. Analysis of the local land use system has revealed that actions aiming to retard degradation caused by the slash-and-burn technique, as well as to promote self-sufficiency of Tavy, have hindered intensification and stabilization. This paper concludes that the key factors in promoting more sustainable development are the intensification and the spatial concentration of permanent crops (irrigated rice and home gardens), cash cropping, and animal husbandry on the valley floors. Interventions at the socio-organizational level (collective conventions, improved access to land, etc.) and efforts to improve the dynamics of the local market are the most important factors in inducing and perpetuating such changes.
90013234|Forests play an important role in the provision of food and livelihoods across the globe. Thus, forest protection contributes to a diverse set of Sustainable Development Goals. The Yayu Coffee Forest Biosphere Reserve in the southwestern Ethiopian mountains (elevation 11002300 m above sea level) hosts an ancient coffee forest with high biodiversity and a large nutritional potential. It is managed in zones, and smallholder farmers can still use forest resources in the buffer and transitional zones in a sustainable manner. The forest is rarely used as a food source, although a large majority of the population in this area suffers from micronutrient deficiencies. This article investigates whether sustainable use of forest resources can contribute to the achievement of different Sustainable Development Goals by looking, through a gender lens, at which forest ecosystem services the community uses; traditional coffee farmers perceptions of wild edible plants, agricultural territories, and labor divisions; and the constraining factors for forest conservation and sustainable agroforestry on private forest plots. Data for this study were collected through ethnography, transect walks, a sex-disaggregated household survey (n = 334), 32 semistructured interviews, 40 focus groups, and 13 key stakeholder interviews. One reason for neglecting the forest as a food source is that forests are considered a male territory, while vegetable raising and nutrition are female responsibilities. In addition, the collection of wild foods is perceived as a last resort during a famine and as a practice of tribal groups. Because coffee production represents the traditional livelihood source, farmers accept the need to conserve the forest, which is necessary to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. While it may have negative implications for food security, the absence of a tradition of collecting wild plants is positive news for forest conservation.
10.2307/3674009|The problems of late-Holocene, or Neoglacial, climate cooling and the advance of glaciers are discussed with case studies from the main mountain systems of the former USSR: Caucasus, Pamiro-Alai, Tien Shan, Altai, Sayan, Polar Urals, mountains of northeastern Yakutia, and Kamchatka. The greatest uncertainty lies in the difference between palynological and geomorphological assessments. Pollen data reveal increased cooling and humidity during the last 3,000-2,000 yrs BP, but the dating of glacial deposits suggests a reduction in the volume and areal extent of glaciers during the same time period. However, in almost all mountain areas, a general cooling trend prevailed 3,000-2,000 yrs BP, and a similar, but less distinctive trend about 1,500 yrs BP. The Middle Ages climate optimum and the following Little Ice Age were identified everywhere. From pollen data the maximum cooling is attributed to the late-Subatlantic (Little Ice Age) everywhere, except in Kamchatka (Subboreal cooling), but glacio-morphological research suggests that the Neoglacial moraines are situated below the Little Ice Age moraines. /// Les problmes de la fin de la priode holocne, ou noglaciaire, le refroidissement du climat et l'activation des glaciers sont examins  l'aide d'tudes de cas portant sur les principaux systmes montagnards de l'ancienne URSS: Caucase, Pamiro-Altai, Tien-Shan, Altai, Sayan, Ural polaire, montagnes du Yakutia du nord-est et Kamchatka. La plus grande incertitude concerne la diffrence entre les valuations palynologiques et gomorphologiques. Les donnes de pollen indiquent une baisse et temprature et une augmentation de l'humidit 3 000  2 000 ans avant le prsent, mais la datation des sdiments glaciaires suggre une rduction du volume et de la superficie des glaciers au cours de la mme priode. Cependant, dans presque toutes les zones montagneuses, une tendance au refroidissement gnral a domin 3 000  2 000 ans avant le prsent, et une tendance similaire, mais moins marque, 1 500 ans avant le prsent. L'optimum climatique du Moyen Age et le petit ge glaciaire qui a suivi ont t identifis dans tous les cas. Les donnes de pollen indiquent que le refroidissement maximal est attribuable  la fin de la priode subatlantique (petit ge glaciaire) dans tous les cas,  part au Kamchatka (refroidissement subboral), mais la recherche glacio-morphologique suggre que les moraines noglaciaires se trouvent au-dessous de celles du petit ge glaciaire. /// Klimatische Abkhlung und Gletscherbildung in den Hauptgebirgsketten der ehemaligen UdssR: Kaukasus, Pamir-Alai, Tien Shan, Altai, Sayan, Polar Ural und den Bergen des nordstlichen Yakutia und Kamtschatka werden fr den Zeitraum des Sptholozn sowie whrend der neoglazialen Periode diskutiert. Unterschiede zwischen palynologischen und geomorphologischen Auswertungen ergeben den grten Unsicherheitsfaktor-einerseits deuten Pollenwerte auf Abkhlung und Feuchtigkeitszunahme vor 3000-2000 Jahren hin, andererseits lt die Datierung von Gletscherablagerungen Annahmen zu, die Volumen und Oberflche der Gletscher whrend der gleichen Zeitspanne schwinden lassen. Alle Gebirgsgegenden unterlagen vor 3000-2000 Jahren einer generellen Abkhlung; vor 1500 Jahren wird eine hnliche, jedoch nicht ganz so deutliche Entwicklung festgestellt. Das Klimaoptimum des Mittelalters und die folgende Kleine Eiszeit wurden berall erkannt. Pollenwerte dagegen datieren die grte Abkhlung berall-auer auf Kamtschatka (Subboreale Abkhlung)-in der Spt-Subatlantik (Kleine Eiszeit) Periode. Glaziale morphologische Untersuchungen deuten darauf hin, da sich neoglaziale Mornen unterhalb der Mornen der Kleinen Eiszeit befinden.
10.2307/3673143|This paper discusses the mobility of labour in high mountain areas and examines its significance for the integration of these peripheral regions into the economy and society of the respective country. The interpretation is based on concepts of development and migration theory, especially on Friedmann's (1966) centre-periphery model, and on the hypothesis of mobility transition by Zelinsky (1971). Both stress the importance of labour migrations in the incipient process of spatial development. The practical application of these models to certain mountain areas, however, reveals their limitations. In the Alps, for example, labour migrations and integration of the periphery started centuries before the beginning of the phase of industrialization, although these processes have been interpreted in both models as transitional. On the other hand, mobilization of labour is a recent phenomenon in the Hindukush, Karakoram, and Western Himalaya. Here it developed as a consequence of the opening of the mountain valleys since the nineteenth century and with rapidly increasing over-population. Finally, four socio-economic types of high mountain regions are proposed. These have different patterns of spatial mobility instead of phase or stage models. The dynamic Type 4 is emphasized; this is characterized by recreational and daily commuting mobility and, contrary to the other three types, by full integration into a national or even international system. /// Cette tude considre la mobilit de la main d'oeuvre en haute altitude, et examine son importance vis--vis de l'intgration de ces rgions priphriques dans l'conomie et la socit des pays concerns. L'interprtation est base sur les concepts de dveloppement et la thorie des migrations, en particulier sur le modle "centre-priphrie" de Friedmann (1966), et sur l'hypothse "transition de mobilit" de Zelinsky (1971). Les deux insistent sur l'importance des migrations de la main-d'oeuvre dans le processus naissant du dveloppement spatial. Nanmoins, l'application pratique de ces modles  certaines rgions montagneuses rvle leurs limitations. Dans les Alpes, par exemple, les migrations de la main-d'oeuvre et l'intgration des rgions priphriques ont commenc plusieurs sicles avant le dbut de la phase d'industrialisation, alors que les deux modles traitent ces processus comme s'ils taient transitionnels. D'autre part, la mobilisation de la main-d'oeuvre est un phnomne rcent dans l'Hindukush, le Karakoram, et l'Himalaya occidental. Elle s'y est dveloppe par suite de l'ouverture des valles montagnardes depuis le dix-neuvime sicle, et du surpeuplement rapide. Finalement, quatre types socio-conomiques sont proposs pour dcrire les rgions en haute altitude, utilisant diffrent schmas de mobilit spatiale  la place des modles de phase ou d'tape. L'accent est mis sur le quatrime type qui est dynamique et caractris par une mobilit lie aux loisirs et aux dplacements journaliers pour aller et revenir du travail. Contrairement aux trois autres, ce type reprsente une intgration totale dans un systme national et mme international. /// Die Arbeitskrftemobilitt in Hochgebirgen wird in ihrer Bedeutung fr die Integration dieser Peripherrume in Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft des jeweiligen Staates interpretiert, und zwar mit Hilfe entwicklungs- und migrationstheoretischer Anstze. Hierzu werden das Zentrum-Peripherie-Modell von Friedmann (1966) und die Hypothese der Mobilittstransformation von Zelinsky (1971) herangezogen. Beide Modelle betonen die Wichtigkeit von Arbeitskrftemigrationen im beginnenden rumlichen Entwicklungsproze. Ihre konkrete Anwendung auf einzelne Gebirge zeigt allerdings Grenzen ihrer Gltigkeit auf. So setzten in den Alpen schon Jahrhunderte vor dem Beginn der industriellen Phase Arbeitskrftewanderungen und eine Integration der Peripherie ein, die den beiden Theorien zufolge eher als transitional interpretiert werden mten. Dagegen ist die Mobilisierung von Arbeitskrften im Hindukusch, Karakorum und Westhimalaya eine junge Erscheinung, sie ging hier mit der ffnung der Gebirgstler seit dem 19. Jahrhundert und mit deren rasch zunehmenden bervlkerung einher. Abschlieend werden anstelle von Phasen- und Stufenmodellen vier soziokonomische Raumtypen mit jeweils unterschiedlichen Mobilittsmustern im Hochgebirge vorgestellt und diskutiert. Hervorgehoben wird der dynamische Typ 4, der durch Erholungsund Tagespendelverkehr gekennzeichnet und im Gegensatz zu den brigen drei Raumtypen voll in ein nationales oder sogar internationales System integriert ist.
10.2307/3673727|There are two important pre-conditions for the occurrence of large rockslides: first, a long period for rock disintegration on a mountain slope; and second, the long-term persistence of a stable, supporting abutment lower on the slope. Without such temporary support, the increasing volume of the disintegrating material would be prevented by small-scale, downslope mass movements. Typical consequences of the large rockslides are their movement on internal sliding planes and the development of secondary rockslides. The occurrence, size, and number of the secondary slides mainly depend on the available kinetic energy of the primary rockslide. These findings are based on fieldwork experience on major rockslides in the Alps, the Chilean Andes, and Mount St. Helens, U.S.A. /// Deux conditions principales doivent tre prsentes pour que des glissements rocheux importants puissent se produire: une longue priode de dsintgration des roches sur un versant de montagne, et la prsence  long terme d'une bute stable plus bas sur le versant. Sans un tel appui, l'accumulation des produits de dsintgration des roches serait empche par de petits mouvements de masse plus bas sur le versant. Les consquences typiques de glissements rocheux importants sont leur dplacement sur des plans de glissement internes et le dclenchement de glissements rocheux secondaires. L'apparition, l'importance et le nombre de glissements secondaires dpend de l'nergie cintique disponible du glissement rocheux principal. Ces rsultats sont bass sur des travaux de recherche effectus sur les sites de glissements rocheux majeurs dans les Alpes, les Andes chiliennes et le mont Sainte-Hlne aux Etats-Unis. /// Fr die Entstehung von massiven Felsrutschen gibt es zwei wichtige Vorraussetzungen: Erstens, Felszersetzung am Berghang ber einen langen Zeitraum, und zweitens, die anhaltende Wirkung einer Barriere hangabwrts. Solch vorlufiger Halt verhindert, da das Gerll in kleinen Einheiten abrutscht, was eine Ansammlung ausschlieen wrde. Typische Folgen massiver Felsrutsche sind Verschiebungen an inneren Gleitflchen und das Auftreten sekundrer Abrutsche. Die Hufigkeit, Gre und Zahl der sekundren Rutsche hngen von der verfgbaren kinetischen Energie des ursprnglichen Felsrutsches ab. Praktische Erfahrung vor Ort an massiven Felsrutschen in den Alpen, den chilenischen Anden und am Mt. St. Helens, USA, besttigten diese Feststellungen.
mounresedeve.35.2.180|Recent developments in hydrological modeling and biomass retrieval in complex mountain areas have heightened the need for accurate precipitation data at high spatial resolution. The Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) provides rainfall estimates for certain climate models in mountain ranges where rain gauges are lacking. TRMM precipitation estimates, however, inherently have large uncertainties because of their coarse spatial resolution. In this study, we investigate a statistical downscaling calibration procedure to derive high-spatial-resolution (1-km) precipitation maps for the Tibetan Plateau using the satellite-based data set Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer, a digital elevation model from the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission, and the TRMM 3B43 product. Spatial downscaling from 0.25 to 1 km was achieved by using the nonparametric statistic relationships between precipitation and EVI, altitude, slope, aspect, latitude, and longitude. An additive method was used to calibrate the downscaled precipitation data. The best 1-km resolution annual precipitation data for 20012012 over the Tibetan Plateau were generated through downscaling and additive calibration for most cases. The results show that the method improves the accuracy of rainfall estimates. Monthly 1-km precipitation data were also obtained by disaggregating 1-km annual downscaled estimates with monthly fractions of annual total precipitation. Monthly precipitation predictions are in good agreement with rain gauge data. The calibration of the monthly product with rain gauge data significantly reduced the bias value. Overall we conclude that the methodology is useful for areas with varied climate conditions and complex topography. These results have practical implications for calculating hydrological balances, mapping aboveground biomass, and assessing regional climate change.
25164179|As Vietnam has become increasingly integrated into the global economy, internal migration to the highland frontier has been a major driving force behind its burgeoning coffee industry. Examination of migrant experiences in the Red River Delta and the Central Highlands-migrant sending and receiving communities, respectively-illustrates that livelihood opportunities for coffee-growing migrants are accompanied by an increased exposure to risks and therefore a potential for greater livelihood insecurity. Risks emerge from fluctuations in international coffee markets, the perils of environmental degradation, and increasing social instability in the Central Highland region. Migrants manage these risks in various ways, often drawing on resources provided through migrant networks. The research indicates that a reliance on non-migrating family members for support can be beneficial for migrants who farm coffee. However, this "safety net" for migrants can ultimately lead to an increase in insecurity for the entire migrant household.
mounresedeve.36.2.203|This study aimed to determine whether debarking of Norway spruce stumps influences the intensity of their colonization by insects. The observed stumps of
10.2307/3673642|Improved accessibility and attempts for integrated rural development in high mountain regions challenge the economic, social and cultural system of mountain societies. An examination of transformations in the Hunza Valley in the Karakoram shows how external interventions change the internal structure and economic conditions. Following a diachronic approach, the political and economic framework is analyzed and some aspects of recent sources of income are discussed. The decline of high pasturing, change in the traditional pattern of gender-related division of labor, and the impact of development projects indicate that the subsistence component of production has declined while diversification and increase of non-agrarian income sources have occurred. The Karakoram Highway enhances geographical mobility and exchange relations between the mountains and the plains. /// Un meilleur accs et des tentatives de dveloppement rural intgr dans les rgions de hautes montagnes prsentent un dfi au systme conomique, social et culturel des socits montagnardes. Une tude des transformations qui se sont produites dans la valle de la Hunza, dans le Karakorum, illustre la manire dont les interventions externes modifient la structure interne et les conditions conomiques. Une approche diachronique est utilse pour analyser le cadre politique et conomique et examiner certains aspects de l'origine des revenus actuels. Le dclin du pturage d'altitude, le changement dans la division traditionelle du travail parmi les sexes et l'impact des projets de dveloppement indiquent que l'autoconsommation cde la pas  la diversification et  une augmentation des sources de revenus non-agricoles. L'autoroute du Karakorum favorise la mobilit gographique et les relations d'change entre les montagnes et les plaines pakistanaises. /// Verkehrserschlieung und Versuche einer integrierten Entwicklung im Hochgebirge stellen eine Herausforderung fr Hochgebirgsgesellschaften dar. In einer Fallstudie zum Hunza-Tal wird dargelegt, wie von auen gesteuerte Entwicklungsprozesse die inneren Strukturen einer Talschaft beeinflussen und auf die Wirtschaftsverhltnisse rckwirken. Ausgehend von einer diachronischen Analyse der polit-konomischen Rahmenbedingungen werden einige Aspekte der gegenwrtigen Zusammensetzung der Erwerbsquellen diskutiert. Fallbeispiele zum Verfall der Almwirtschaft, zur Geschlechterarbeitsteilung und zum Einflu von Entwicklungsprojekten unterstreichen eine Abnahme der Bedeutung der Subsistenzlandwirtschaft zugunsten einer Diversifizierung und Zunahme der nicht-agrarischen Erwerbsquellen. Der Karakorum Highway verstrkt regionale Mobilitt und Austauschbeziehungen zum pakistanischen Vorland.
mounresedeve.35.4.338|Forest cover change is driven by complex processes that depend on political, conservation, and biophysical conditions. At present, mountain areas worldwide are undergoing intense forest cover change. Local-scale studies exist, but policy makers lack reliable and consistent information at the regional scale about long-term trends, controlling factors, and the success of existing policy measures. Long-term forest cover change data based on advanced image preprocessing procedures have recently become available. This study explores the potential of such data for a regional-scale analysis of forest cover change in mountain areas by analyzing forest cover change in the Romanian Carpathian Ecoregion (about 107,000 km
mounresedeve.33.3.314|The black-necked crane (
mounresedeve.29.3.211|Humla, situated in the north-western corner of Nepal on the border with China, is one of the poorest and least developed districts of Nepal. Constraints are imposed by low agricultural productivity in mountainous terrain under harsh climatic conditions. Food subsidies and other forms of external support have created a state of dependency, stifling local initiative and reducing reliance on local resources. Development efforts were hampered until recently by theMaoist insurgency. It was under such conditions that Humla Development Initiatives was formed to identify problems by conducting a needs assessment and work out solutions in close cooperation with local communities. Introducing improved water mills, promoting local food to substitute for subsidized rice, and cultivating nontimber forest products (NTFPs) on marginal farmland are some of the activities recently carried out to increase food security while reducing dependency on external support. Future activities include the establishment of community-based monitoring systems and cooperatives as the basis for the sustainability of the program as well as for transferring ownership to the villagers.
4096458|Landscapes in the mountainous north of Lao People's Democratic Republic (hereafter Lao PDR or Laos) are undergoing rapid transformation as road access is being improved and the area is integrated into the regional economies of Southeast Asia, particularly China. Rural livelihoods in the upland areas, long based on subsistence agricultural production, are changing as more households engage in the market economy. This study assesses land use changes from 1993 to 2000, as well as agricultural production in 4 northern provinces of Laos: Luang Prabang, Oudomxay, Bokeo, and Luang Namtha. The spatial data available for this region are limited, but several trends are apparent from 1993: the area of traditional upland agriculture and swidden farming (ie shifting agriculture) has decreased, while permanent intensive agriculture has increased. There is some evidence that forest cover has increased since 1997, probably as a result of the succession of abandoned swidden areas to secondary forest, but the quality and extent of this forest cover remains unclear. Agricultural sector analysis in the 4 northern provinces supported the land use data, showing a rise in commercial agricultural production of cash crops (including sugar cane, paddy rice, and maize) at the expense of subsistence agricultural production. All these changes reflect the government's policy of reducing shifting cultivation practices in the upland areas and promoting cash crop production. The new exposure to external market forces has begun to bring about changes in Laotian rural communities, with the development of village collectives to manage resources and negotiate with outside traders. However, it is also envisaged that this commercialization will increase the demand for privatization of agricultural land; this will require a renegotiation of current government land allocation policies.
10.2307/3673632|In the High Andes, much of the traditional knowledge related to natural resource utilization and agricultural practices was lost with the arrival of the Spaniards. That which has survived has been transformed, together with the landscape. Based upon ongoing research on the paleoecology and archaeology of the central High Andes, this paper presents the first results of pollen analysis from late-Pleistocene/early Holocene Laguna Seca (latitude 1811 South, longitude 691430 West) in the Chungara-Cotacotani lake district of Lauca National Park. The Laguna Seca record covers two crucial events in the evolution of high Andean puna ecosystems: (1) the period preceding the earliest human occupation, and (2) the period of change from a food-gathering to a food-producing economy. The results, though preliminary, indicate the contribution that these studies can make to the management and preservation of fragile mountain ecosystems. /// Dans les hautes Andes, une grande partie des connaissances traditionnelles relatives  l'utilisation des ressources naturelles et aux pratiques agricoles a disparu par suite de la colonisation espagnole. Ce qu'il en restait s'est transform de la mme manire que le paysage. Cet article s'appuie sur les rsultats de travaux actuels portant sur la palocologie et l'archologie des hautes Andes centrales et prsente les premiers rsultats de l'analyse du pollen datant de la fin du Plistocne/dbut de l'Holocne en provenance de la Laguna Seca (latitude 1811 Sud, longitude 691430 Ouest) situe dans le district lacustre de Chungar-Cotacotani  l'intrieur du parc national de Lauca. Les donnes enregistres pour la Laguna Seca couvrent deux vnements d'une grande importance pour l'volution des cosystmes de la puna des hautes Andes: (1) la priode prcdant la premire occupation humaine et (2) la priode d'volution d'une conomie de cueillette  une conomie de production de denres alimentaires. Bien que prliminaires, les rsultats donnent une ide de la contribution possible de ces tudes pour la gestion et la prservation des fragiles cosystmes de montagne. /// Mit der Ankunft der Spanier gingen viele der berlieferten Erfahrungen bezglich Nutzung der natrlichen Ressourcen und landwirtschaftlicher Methoden in den Hochanden verloren. Was davon erhalten blieb, hat sich, ebenso wie die Landschaft selbst, verndert. Diese Verffentlichung bringt erste Resultate einer Pollenanalyse aus dem Sptpleistozn/Frhholozn Laguna Seca (geogr. Breite 1811 Sd, Lnge 69 1430 West) im Chungar-Cotacotani Seengebiet des Lauca National Parks. Die Ergebnisse bercksichtigen neuere Forschung auf dem Gebiet der Palo-kologie und der Archologie in den zentralen Hochanden. Die Laguna Seca Aufzeichnung schliet zwei entscheidende Vorgnge bei der Entwicklung des Puna-kosystems der Hochanden ein: (1) die Zeit vor der ersten Besiedelung und (2) die Periode, in der sich die Nahrungserzeugung vom Sammeln zur Produktion vernderte. Die ersten Ergebnisse sind geeignet zu zeigen, welchen Beitrag solche Untersuchungen beim Management und bei der Erhaltung eines fragilen Gebirgs-kosystems leisten knnen. /// El presente trabajo resume la informacin obtenida en recientes investigaciones arqueolgicas y paleoecolgicas en la regin de los Andes Centrales. Se presentan los registros polnicos de Laguna Seca (1811S lat., 691430W long.) que se extienden desde la primera ocupacin de cazadores del sector andino de la puna, desde aproximadamente 11,000 aos A.P., abarcando el perodo de transicin hacia una economa pastoril basada en la cria de llamas y alpacas, y el impacto de esta actividad productiva sobre la cubierta vegetal. Los resultados que aqui se presentan, si bien preliminares, integran y aportan informacin para la preservacin y manejo de recursos naturales en ecosistemas de altura.
mounresedeve.30.2.143|Land cover assessment and monitoring of land cover dynamics are important to understand social and ecological processes in mountain protected areas. However, variations in the use of legends and classification systems sometimes pose challenges. The landscape of Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone (SNPBZ) has seen many changes in the past few decades. Mapping of land cover in SNPBZ was carried out to fill gaps in basic databases for the area. A review of past land cover initiatives and existing data revealed differences in methodologies and definitions that made them incompatible for cross-region applications. For the present study, a legend was developed using the standard Land Cover Classification System (LCCS) methodology developed by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the United Nations Environment Programme, a comprehensive and standardized a priori classification system designed for mapping exercises independent of scales or means. The changes in land cover were analyzed using Landsat Thematic Mapper, Landsat Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus, and Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer images from 1992 to 2006. Land cover maps were generated using object-based image analysis supplemented by ancillary information. Extensive fieldwork was carried out for ground truthing and validation. The use of LCCS was instrumental in bringing general understanding of the classification systems and helping to gain greater clarity and accuracy in the results. About 70% of the SNPBZ area is covered by snow and ice, glaciers, bare rocks, and bare soil. Altitude and its influence on climatic conditions have dominated the distribution pattern of vegetation in SNPBZ. The analysis showed that forest is being converted into shrub at elevations between 3000 and 4000 m, while shrub is decreasing between 4000 and 5000 m. A major decrease in snow cover is seen above 5000 m. Harmonization of the classification system helped to gain more reliable information on changes, as comparisons were made between the classes with consistent definitions.
10.2307/3673020|Extensive areas of the High Himalaya are economically backward. Other areas, such as Khumbu Himal, are influenced by tourism and modernization which thereby affects the way of life of the local people. The traditional subsistence agriculture is being replaced by a transitional agricultural system. Tourist trekking is competing with traditional demands for both human and natural resources. The results include significant changes in the traditional agricultural patterns and exploitation of other natural resources, especially forest for firewood and grazing land. Political, social, cultural, and economic factors affect the processes of change. Traditional Buddhist values are exposed to western influence and this leads to internal socio-economic and socio-cultural re-structuring. Relative self-sufficiency in food is giving way to an economic dependence on the external world. /// Des rgions tendues du Grand Himalaya sont conomiquement arrires, alors que d'autres, telles que le Khumbu Himal, sont touches par le tourisme et la modernization qui affectent le mode de vie de la population locale. L'autoconsommation traditionnelle cde le pas  un systme agraire de transition. Le tourisme pdestre fait concurrence  la demande traditionnelle en ce qui concerne les ressources naturelles et humaines, entranant en particulier des changements importants dans les modes agraires traditionnels et l'exploitation d'autres ressources naturelles telles que les forts pour le bois de chauffage et les pturages. Des facteurs politiques, sociaux, culturels et conomiques contribuent au processus d'volution. Les valeurs bouddhiques traditionnelles sont exposes  l'influence occidentale, entranant un ralignement des structures socio-conomiques et socio-culturelles internes. L'indpendance alimentaire relative volue des plus vers une dpendance conomique du monde extrieur. /// Weite Gebiete des Himalaya sind wirtschaftlich rckstndig. Touristikgebiete dagegen wie Khumbu Himal sind Modernisierungseinflssen ausgesetzt. Dadurch verndert sich der Lebensstil der Bevlkerung. Die herkmmliche, auf Selbstversorgung ausgerichtete Landwirtschaft befindet sich in einem bergangsstadium, denn der Tourismus konkurriert mit den traditionellen Anforderungen an personelle und materielle Ressourcen. Die Folgen sind Produktionsrckgnge in der Landwirtschaft, und eine Ausbeutung der Naturschtze. Wald wird als Brennholz abgeschlagen und in Weideland umgewandelt. Eine Reihe politischer, sozialer, kultureller und wirtschaftlicher Faktoren beeinflussen die Vernderungen. Traditionelle buddhistische Wertmasstbe sind dem starken westlichen Einfluss ausgesetzt, was zu innerer sozial-wirtschaftlicher und soziokultureller Umstrukturierung fhrt. Bisher weitgehende Unabhngigkeit in der Nahrungsversorgung wandelt sich in eine zunehmende wirtschaftliche Abhngigkeit von der Aussenwelt.
10.2307/3673851|Although land abandonment in the equatorial Andes is a process that complicates the mosaic of land uses in Tropandean landscapes, in some cases land abandonment further contributes to the process of degradation. This includes not only soil but also the species composition and community structure of montane forest patches and, where succession fails, recalcitrant pasture grasses. In order to examine failed succession, studies were undertaken on the lack of seed input, the ability of seed dispersers, the efficacy of avian roosting from perches, the removal of seeds, germination from seeded scats, seedlings among the tussock grasses, and the recruitment of saplings of montane forest trees. It is suggested that regeneration by seeding may be possible only if proactive removal techniques of the aerial tillers of grass species and their extensive root mass is eliminated. However, pasture conversion to forest using Psidium guajaba as pioneer tree to enhance dispersal outwards from the forest edge, coupled with seasonally-driven seed rain episodes, is a posteriori. Land-use and land-clearing patterns dictate the outcome of the regenerating phenosystem. This means that policies and practices of montane forest clearing must include treefall 'survivors' to enhance frugivory, to provide shade and regeneration of interspersed patches, and to stimulate dispersal for rapid initiation of ecological succession. /// Bien que l'abandon des terres dans les Andes quatoriales constitue un processus compliquant la mosaque d'exploitation des terres dans les Andes tropicales, il contribue dans certains cas au processus de dgradation. Ce processus n'affecte pas seulement le sol, mais galement la composition des espces et la structure communautaire des aires forestires parses, et, lorsque la succession choue, les herbes de pturage rcalcitrantes. Dans le but d'examiner l'chec de la succession, des tudes ont t effectues en rapport avec le manque d'apport de semences, la performance des dissminateurs de semences, l'efficacit des perchoirs aviens, l'extraction des semences, la germination  partir d'excrments contenant des semences, les semis parmi les buttes de gazon et le recrutement de gaulis d'arbres de forts alpestres. Les tudes suggrent que la rgnration par ensemencement peut n'tre possible que si des techniques d'extraction proactive des talles ariennes des gramines sont appliques et que leur norme masse de racines est limine. Nanmoins, la conversion des pturages en forts, utilisant le Psidium guajaba en tant qu'arbre pionnier pour la dissmination vers l'extrieur  partir de la lisire de la fort, de concert avec les pisodes de pluie de semences saisonnires, est a posteriori. Les habitudes d'exploitation et de dfrichement des terres dterminent le rsultat de la rgnration du phnosystme. Cela signifie que la politique et les pratiques de dfrichement de la fort alpestre doit inclure les survivants de l'abattage afin de favoriser les espces frugivores, de fournir de l'ombre et de permettre la rgnration des aires parses, et de stimuler la dissmination pour dmarrer la succession cologique. /// Landaufgabe in den quatorregionen der Anden verkompliziert das Mosaik der Landnutzung und trgt in einigen Fllen zur Umweltzerstrung bei. Hiervon ist nicht nur der Boden betroffen, sondern auch die Artenzusammensetzung und Lebensgemeinschaftsstruktur montaner Waldflchen und, im Falle verhinderter Sukzession, von ausdauernden Weidegrasarten. Um Grnde fr verhinderte Sukzession zu finden wurden Untersuchungen zu mangelndem Sameneintrag, zur Samenverbreitung, zum Einflu von Vgeln, zu Samenvernichtung, Keimung von samenhaltigen Tierausscheidungen, Keimung zwischen Grasbscheln, sowie zur Rekrutierung junger Bergwaldbume durchgefhrt. Es scheint, da Regeneration durch Aussaat nur nach aktiver Entfernung von Wurzelauslufern und den massiven Wurzelsystemen verschiedener Grasarten mglich ist. Umwandlung von Weide- zu Waldflchen mit Hilfe von Psidium guajaba als eine die Verbreitung vom Waldrand her frdernde Pionierbaumart ist an jahreszeitlich kontrollierte Aussamungsepisoden gebunden. Landnutzungs- und Landrodungsmuster bestimmen das Endergebnis des sich regenerierenden Phnosystems. Dies bedeutet, da Richtlinien und Praktiken in montaner Waldrodung "Rodungberlebende," die brachliegenden Flchen beschatten, Frugivorie und Regeneration frdern und Verbreitung stimulieren, und so der kologischen Sukzession zu einem guten Start verhelfen, bercksichtigen sollten. /// Si bien el abandono de la tierra en los Andes ecuatoriales constituye un proceso que complica el mosaico de gestin territorial en los pasajes tropandinos, se hace evidente en algunos casos que el abandono contribuye an ms a la degradacin de laderas frgiles. Esto se da no slo por las caractersticas del suelo, sino tambin por la composicin de especies, la estructura de la comunidad de los retazos de selva de montaa y por la utilizacin de especies de hierbas recalcitrantes que son usadas ampliamente, en donde no prospera la sucesin ecolgica. Con el propsito de responder a preguntas sobre la malograda sucesin se examinan hiptesis sobre la falta de ingreso de semillas, la habilidad de los dispersores, la eficacia de la deposicin desde las perchas, la remocin de semillas, la germinacin de muestras fecales con semilla, el retoo en medio del pastizal y el reclutamiento de renuevos de rboles del bosque montano. Se sugiere que la conversin del pastizal hacia el bosque usando Psidium guajaba como rbol pionero para mejorar la dispersin hacia fuera del filo del bosque, junto a los episodios de lluvia de semillas impulsados por las estaciones es a posteriori. Debido a que los patrones de aclareo y de uso de la tierra dictan el fenosistema regenerativo, se argumenta que las polticas y las prcticas de tala del bosque de montaa deben incluir "sobrevivientes" que estimulen la frugivora, que proporcionen sombra en retazos interspersos de regeneracin y que estimulen la dispersin de semillas para energizar la sucesin ecolgica.
4540656|The symbolic appropriation of mountains may be a universal phenomenon, yet it can also be highly specific to one religion or confession, located in one region and historical context. An interesting case in point is "Catholic Alpinism" in the Italian Alps. This popular movement began around the mid-19th century, when some curates, based in upland communities, some educators and some urban priests identified the mountains as a place for wholesome enjoyment and austere education. It was not that the Catholic world had totally lacked an interest in the mountains before. But in order to create a new way of mountaineering, it was necessary, first of all, to change the negative image of mountains which had taken root in European culture and had been codified during the early modern period. After the change occurred, the number of priest-scientists exploring the Alps increased steadily. Yet for "Catholic Alpinism" to take off, other meanings had to be read into the mountains. Crucial was the challenge by the British: Catholic Alpinism set in as an alternative to the expansion of British sporting alpinism (based more on Protestant creeds), and later, to increasingly extreme forms of physical effort and political nationalism. The Catholic form represented a different way of using the mountains. "The rocks should be a path to virtue," stated one Italian theologian in 1921. Seventy years later, and against the background of a completely changed ideological and political situation, another theologian maintained that alpinism would only have a future if "a return to spirit" occurred.
10.2307/3673866|The knowledge of local resource users and managers about the biophysical, socioeconomic, and cultural-historical elements of their immediate environment plays a significant role in determining the long-term sustainability of those resources. This paper reports on the results of two case studies from high mountain areas, one in the Upper Beas River watershed of the Indian Himalaya, and the other in the Arrow Lakes area of the Canadian Cordillera. Specifically, this paper describes sustainability indicators which were enumerated by local people in two differing cultural-historical, but environmentally similar, contexts. These indicators may be reflective of local, indigenous knowledge about the environment and therefore may be of significance in impact assessment and monitoring environmental change. Results from the Upper Beas watershed reveal a highly discriminated set of indicators which may be grouped as: forest cover indicators; forest-linked indicators; forest management indicators; agricultural livelihood indicators; and socioeconomic indicators. Local people demonstrated a very precise knowledge of the state of the biophysical resources of their village use areas. Specific indicators identified include: forest cover area (decreasing), forest species diversity (some species such as deodar decreasing), forest tree density (decreasing), consistency of water flow (decreasing) and frequency of avalanches and slides (increasing). These are all indicators which can be measured and verified independently of local knowledge. All suggest declining sustainability. Residents in the Arrow Lakes area demonstrated much less precise knowledge of biophysical indicators of sustainability. They enumerated a set of indicators which emphasized institutional arrangements for forest and resource management. For example, few respondents identified the extent of forest cover as important whereas the majority identified forest/land use rules in place as being important indicators of sustainability. In both case studies, people mentioned a number of socioeconomic factors as being important indicators of sustainability. /// La connaissance des utilisateurs et gestionnaires des ressources locales ainsi que des lments biophysiques, socioconomiques et historico-culturels de leur environnement immdiat joue un rle important dans la dtermination de la viabilit  long terme de ces ressources. Cet expos rend compte des rsultats de deux tudes de cas ralises dans les zones de haute montagne, l'une sur la ligne de partage des eaux de la rivire Upper Beas de l'Himalaya indienne et l'autre dans les lacs Arrow de la cordillre canadienne. Cet expos dcrit en particulier les indicateurs de viabilit qui ont t numrs par la population locale dans deux contextes diffrents sur le plan historico-culturel mais similaires sur le plan de l'environnement. Ces indicateurs peuvent reflter la connaissance locale et autochtone de l'environnement et peuvent par consquent tre utiles pour valuer les impacts et contrler l'volution de l'environnement. Des rsultats provenant de la ligne de partage des eaux d'Upper Beas rvlent une srie trs slective d'indicateurs pouvant tre regroups en: indicateurs des zones boises, indicateurs lis aux forts, indicateurs de la gestion des forts, indicateurs des moyens d'existence agricoles et indicateurs socio-conomiques. La population locale a montr une connaissance trs prcise de l'tat des ressources biophysiques des zones d'utilisation de ses villages. Parmi les indicateurs identifis se trouvent en particulier: les zones boises (en baisse), la diversit des espces forestires (certaines espces comme le cdre de l'Himalaya sont en baisse), la densit des arbres forestiers (en baisse), le dbit des eaux (en baisse), et la frquence des avalanches et des glissements de terrain (en hausse). Ceux-ci sont tous des indicateurs pouvant tre mesurs et vrifis indpendamment des connaissances locales. Tous indiquent une viabilit sur le dclin. Les habitants de la rgion des lacs Arrow ont montr une connaissance beaucoup moins prcise des indicateurs biophysiques de viabilit. Ils ont numr une srie d'indicateurs mettant l'accent sur des mesures institutionnelles pour la gestion des forts et des ressources. Par exemple, peu de personnes interroges ont identifi l'importance des zones boises alors que la majorit d'entre elles ont identifi les rgles d'utilisation des forts/terres en vigueur comme tant des indicateurs de viabilit importants. Dans les deux tudes de cas, les personnes ont indiqu un certain nombre de facteurs socioconomiques qui sont, selon elles, des indicateurs importants de la viabilit. /// Das Wissen, ber das lokale Nutzer und Bewirtschafter von Rohstoffquellen bezglich der biophysikalischen, sozialwirtschaftlichen und kulturhistorischen Elemente ihrer unmittelbaren Umgebung verfgen, spielt eine wesentliche Rolle bei der Bestimmung der langfristigen Erhaltungsfhigkeit dieser Rohstoffquellen. Der vorliegende Text berichtet ber die Ergebnisse zweier Fallstudien aus Regionen im Hochgebirge, eine an der Wasserscheide des Upper Beas River im indischen Himalaya und die andere in den Arrow Lakes der kanadischen Kordilleren. Der Text befat sich vor allem mit den Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit, die von den Menschen vor Ort in zwei kulturhistorisch unterschiedlichen, jedoch kologisch hnlichen Gebieten zusammengestellt wurden. Da diese Indikatoren das Wissen der Ureinwohner ber ihre Umwelt widerspiegeln, kommt ihnen eine entsprechende Bedeutung bei der Bestimmung der Auswirkungen auf die Umwelt und der berwachung von Umweltvernderungen zu. Die an der Wasserscheide des Upper Beas River gemachten Erfahrungen zeigen eine Anzahl scharf abzugrenzender Indikatoren, die sich in die Gruppen Gesamtflche, waldbezogene Indikatoren, Bewirtschaftung, landwirtschaftliches Auskommen und Sozialwirtschaft einteilen lassen. Die Menschen vor Ort bewiesen eine sehr przise Kenntnis des Zustandes der biophysikalischen Rohstoffquellen in den Nutzungsgebieten ihrer Drfer. Zu den speziellen Indikatoren gehren: Gesamtflche mit Waldbestand (abnehmend), Artenvielfalt im Wald (einige Arten abnehmend, wie z.B. Himalayazeder), Baumdichte (abnehmend), Gleichmigkeit des Wasserflusses (abnehmend) und Hufigkeit von Lawinen und Erdrustschen (zunehmend). All dies sind Indikatoren, die sich ortsunabhngig messen und berprfen lassen. Alle weisen daraufhin, da die Erhaltungsfhigkeit abnimmt. Bewohner der Arrow-Lakes-Region zeigten eine viel weniger przise Kenntnis der biophysikalischen Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit. Sie zhlten eine Reihe von Indikatoren auf, bei denen vor allem die institutionellen Manahmen zur Bewirtschaftung von Wald und Rohstoffquellen hervorgehoben wurden. So erkannten nur wenige der Befragten die Bedeutung der gesamten von Wald bedeckten Flche an, whrend die Mehrzahl die geltenden Bestimmungen zur Nutzung von Wald und Land als wichtige Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit angaben. In beiden Fallstudien erwhnten die Befragten eine Reihe sozialwirtschaftlicher Faktoren als wichtige Indikatoren der Erhaltungsfhigkeit.
25164046|Cover crops may be an inappropriate intervention in many situations. This paper attempts to identify when and where cover crops are relevant to the requirements of different stakeholders. It is argued that donors, government institutions, environmental NGOs, and farming families often have different agendas and priorities, and that cover crops can fulfill different purposes for each set of actors. Cover crops occupy temporary niches during processes of intensification and integration of farming systems. The adoption/adaptation of cover crop technology within farming systems will depend on a range of factors, including technical appropriateness and economic viability, that define their systems "fit." Case studies from Central and South America are used to substantiate the points made.
mounresedeve.30.2.69|The planning and sustainable management of complex socialecological systems (SESs) in high mountain areas such as the Hindu KushKarakoram Himalaya (HKKH) region requires an approach that takes account of both environmental issues and local population needs. The HKKH Partnership Project developed methodologies and tools for systemic planning and management of social-ecological systems at local, regional, and national levels in the HKKH region, with a special focus on 3 protected areas in Nepal, Pakistan, and China. The adopted approach brought together researchers, policy-makers, and managers; it bridged the gap between research and management priorities and enabled communication to address the needs of communities while promoting conservation. Lessons learned are described and conclusions made on appropriate methods for the management of SESs in other regions.
4540679|Rice, the staple crop in northern Laos, has traditionally been grown in shifting cultivation systems (upland rice). Government policies and increasing population pressure have resulted in declining productivity of this system. Farmers need alternative and sustainable rice production systems to meet their rice needs. One alternative is the production of rice in flooded, terraced fields (montane paddy). This option is not new; however, farmers are developing these montane paddy fields much more now than in the past. The objectives of the study were to understand why farmers have begun developing montane paddy, the effect of paddy rice production on farmer livelihood activities, and the economics and costs associated with developing paddy land. The survey focused on 9 highland villages in northern Laos. In all villages, farmers reported declining upland rice yields. Between 1998 and 2002, the paddy area in these villages increased by over 240%. The main reasons cited for developing new paddy area were higher yields and less labor involved in paddy rice production. Paddy farmers had better rice security, grew more cash crops, owned more livestock, and had higher income. A cost-benefit analysis of developing paddy area suggests that paddy development is a good investment. Further research is required in identifying suitable areas for continued development, and accessing the environmental and social impacts of paddy development.
10.2307/3673730|China has suffered more fatalities and property loss from landslides than any other nation. The recorded history of landslide hazards goes back nearly 4,000 years to 1789 B.C. Minimum data of historical famous landslide events are briefly mentioned. The total deaths due to landslides exceeds 250,000 during the period from 186 B.C. to A.D. 1987. Landslides have caused at least U.S. $0.5 billion in economic losses and 140-150 deaths each year for the period from 1951 to 1987. Great efforts have been made in China to reduce landslide hazards and recent progress is discussed. /// La Chine a souffert le plus des glissements de terrain, en termes de pertes humaines et matrielles, que n'importe quelle autre nation. Les textes historiques traitant des risques de glissements de terrain remontent  1 789 av. J-C, c'est--dire il y a prs de 4 000 ans. Un minimum de donnes concernant de fameux glissements de terrain du pass sont fournies. Les pertes humaines dues aux glissements de terrain ont dpass 250 000 entre 186 av. J-C et 1987 ap. J-C. Les glissements de terrain ont caus au moins 0,5 milliard de $ US en pertes matrielles et de 140  150 morts chaque anne au cours de la priode 1951  1987. De gros efforts ont t faits en Chine pour rduire les risques de glissements de terrain; les progrs rcents sont examins. /// Global hat China durch Erdrutsche die meisten Menschenleben verloren und die hchsten Sachschden erlitten. Aufzeichnungen ber Erdrutschgefahren gehen ber 4000 Jahre bis ins Jahr 1789 B.C. zurck. Katastrophale Erdrutsche in der Vergangenheit werden anhand von Stichdaten aufgefhrt. Die Gesamtzahl der Todesopfer durch Erdrutsche fr die Zeit von 186 B.C. bis 1987 A.D. bersteigt 250.000. ber den Zeitraum von 1951 bis 1987 verursachten Erdrutsche einen wirtschaftlichen Verlust von mindestens US $0,5 Milliarden und die Zahl der jhrlichen Todesopfer lag bei 140-150. In China gibt es umfangreiche Bemhungen, Erdrutschgefahren zu mindern; die neuerlichen Fortschritte darin werden diskutiert.
10.2307/3673437|By the year 2000, current land-use methods will no longer be able to provide Africa's growing population with food. Although many of Africa's mountain areas are climatically suitable for food production, these areas are highly susceptible to soil degradation. Studies focusing on carrying capacities, with various population and land-use scenarios, are necessary to guarantee long-term, sustainable productivity. In 1982, FAO developed a new model, based on a large data base, to calculate food production potentials at a coarse spatial scale. However, for application to mountain ecosystems, this model needed improvement and partial modification with respect to soil constraints and other risks. The modified model considers mountainous regions (slopes > 8%) as areas of great conflict between favourable climate and high risks for soil degradation. Considering climatic criteria alone, these areas have the potential to produce 42% of Africa's food output. However, 55% of this potential is lost because land must lie fallow to guarantee sustainable use. A further 18% is lost due to irreversible degradation. Consequently, 73% of the potential food production is temporarily or permanently unavailable. Soil conservation and improved land-use techniques are critical to ensure the long-term sustainable productivity of the African mountains. /// En l'an 2.000, les mthodes actuelles d'exploitation des terres africaines ne seront plus capables de nourrir la population croissante. Bien que le climat d'une grande partie des rgions montagneuses de l'Afrique soit favorable  l'agriculture, ces zones sont trs susceptibles  la dgradation du sol. Des tudes de capacit dmographique, bases sur diffrentes scnarios de peuplement et d'utilisation des terres, sont ncessaires pour garantir une productivit soutenue  long terme. En 1982, la FAO a mis au point un nouveau modle utilisant une base de donnes importante pour calculer, sur une chelle spatiale grossire, les possibilits de production de denres alimentaires. Nanmoins, avant d'tre appliqu aux cosystmes montagnards, ce modle a d tre amlior et partiellement modifi vis--vis des contraintes sur le sol et d'autres risques. Le modle modifi considre les rgions montagneuses (pentes suprieures  8 pour cent) comme des zones de conflit srieux entre un climat favorable et un gros risque de dgradation du sol. Si l'on ne considre que le critre climat, ces zones seraient capables d'assurer 42 pour cent de la production agricole de l'Afrique. Nanmoins, 55 pour cent de ce potentiel sont perdus car les terres doivent tre priodiquement mises en jachre pour qu'elles puissent continuer  produire. De plus, 18 pourcent sont perdus  cause d'une dgradation irrversible. Donc, 73 pour cent du potentiel de production agricole ne sont pas disponibles, temporairement ou en permanence. Des mesures de conservation des sols et des techniques modernes d'utilisation des terres sont d'une importance primordiale pour assurer une productivit soutenue  long terme dans les rgions montagneuses de l'Afrique. /// Im Jahr 2000 wird Afrika nicht mehr in der Lage sein, seine wachsende Bevlkerung mit den aktuellen Landnutzungsmethoden zu ernhren. Den Gebirgsrumen, die meist klimatische Gunstrume sind, kommt dabei eine sehr grosse Bedeutung zu. Das akzentuierte Relief dieser Gebiete stellt aber ein starkes Degradationsrisiko dar. Gebirge als produktive aber empfindliche Oekosysteme mssen als Ressourcenrume (besonders fr Nahrungsmittel) erhalten bleiben. Fr deren langfristige und nachhaltige Nutzung sind Tragfhigkeitsstudien mit verschiedenen Bevlkerungs- und Landnutzungsszenarien notwendig. Die FAO (1982) hat methodologisch und datenmssig neue Mglichkeiten fr die grossrumige Berechnung des Nahrungsmittel-potentials erffnet. Das FAO-Modell kann aber bezglich Bodenlimitierungen und Risiken durch partielle Modifikationen verbessert werden, was besonders fr Gebirgsrume wichtig ist. Das modifizierte Modell - ein Beitrag zur grossrumigen Berechnung von Tragfhigkeiten, insbesondere fr die Nahrungsmittelproduktion - stellt die Gebiete mit akzentuiertem Relief (Hangneigung > 8%) als Konfliktgebiete zwischen Klimagunst und Degradationsrisiken dar. Der Anteil dieser Gebiete am klimatischen Potential zur Produktion von Nahrungsmitteln in Afrika betrgt heute potentiell 42%. Davon muss 55% als Brache ausgeschieden werden, um kologisch (pedologisch) stabile Verhltnisse zu garantieren. Ein weiterer Teil (18%) der klimatisch bedingten potentiellen Produktion ist durch irreversible Degradation verloren. Somit sind auf Grund der heute verfgbaren Daten 73% des klimatischen Potentials von Afrika durch Bodenlimitierungen temporr oder permanent der Produktion von Nahrungsmitteln entzogen. Sollen die Berggebiete Afrikas weiterhin Ressourcenrume fr die wachsende Bevlkerung darstellen, kommen der Bodenkonservierung und der Verbesserung der Bodenfruchtbarkeit hchste Prioritten zu.
90009010|The adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change has propelled the effective implementation of sustainable mountain development. The 2030 Agenda recognizes that livelihoods and natural resources cannot be addressed separately. Investing in the sustainable development of mountain communities and ecosystem conservation will provide benefits for humanity as a whole. Since its appointment as task manager for Chapter 13 of Agenda 21 in 1992, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has worked for sustainable mountain development and has thus contributed to increasing global awareness of the importance of mountain ecosystems and the plight of mountain peoples.
10.2307/3673292|Ancient ritual sites have been found on Andean mountain summits up to 6,700 m. In several areas they constitute the most important prehispanic religious structures. Following a discussion of the origin of the sites, a synthesis is presented of historical and ethnographic data from a broad area of the Andes concerning the reasons for mountain worship. It was found that mountains were venerated primarily due to their control of weather and water sources and thus the fertility of crops and animals. Earlier theories to explain the sites are briefly examined. It is concluded that mountain worship helped to unify Andean peoples through shared symbols and rites and is of great antiquity, being based on sound ecological principles. Its study leads to a better understanding of concepts fundamental to traditional Andean culture. /// Des sites historiques de rites religieux t dcouverts dans les Andes, sur des sommets pouvant atteindre 6.700 m. Ils constituent dans plusieurs rgions les structures prhispaniques les plus importantes. Une discussion sur l'origine de ces sites est suivie d'une synthse des donnes historiques et ethnographiques couvrant l'origine du culte des montagnes sur une zone tendue des Andes. Il semblerait que les montagnes taient vnres surtout  cause de leur influence sur le temps et les sources d'eau, donc sur la fertilit des plantes et des animaux. Les thories prcdentes concernant les sites sont brivement examines. La conclusion de cette tude est que le culte des montagnes a permis d'unifier les peuples andins au moyen de symboles et de rites communs, et que ce culte remonte  trs loin du fait qu'il est bas sur des principes cologiques trs sains. Il en dcoule une meilleure comprhension des concepts fondamentaux de la culture andine traditionnelle. /// In den Anden wurden bis zu einer Hhe von 6700 m alte Ritualpltze entdeckt. In einigen Gebieten bilden sie die wichtigsten prhispanischen, religisen Strukturen. Nach einer Darstellung ihres Ursprungs folgt eine Ubersicht mit geschichtlichen und ethnografischen Angaben von einem weiten Gebiet der Anden ber die Grnde der Bergverehrung. Die Berge wurden in erster Linie wegen ihrer Funktion als Wettermacher und Wasserquellen, und somit als Fruchtbarkeitsspender fr Feld und Vieh vergttert. Frhere Theorien zur Erklrung der Ritualpltze werden ebenfalls kurz untersucht. Seit sehr frhen Zeiten hat die Bergverehrung dazu beigetragen, die Andenvlker mittels einheitlicher Symbole und Rituale, welche auf festen kologischen Prinzipien abstellen, zu verbinden. Ihre Erforschung erlaubt uns ein besseres Verstndnis der Grundlagen zu den traditionellen Andenkulturen. /// Antiguos centros rituales han sido hallados en las cumbres montaosas andinas, a alturas de hasta 6,700 mts. En varios lugares ellos constituyen las estructuras religiosas prehispnicas ms importantes. Luego de una exposicin sobre el origen de estos centros, se presenta una sntesis de datos histricos y etnogrficos de una zona extensa de los Andes vinculados a las razones del culto a las montaas. Se encontr que las montaas eran veneradas principalmente debido a que controlaban el clima y los recursos de agua, y por ende la fertilidad de los cultivos y de los animales. Se examinen brevemente teoras previas sobre la existencia de estos centros. Se llega a la conclusin que el culto a las montaas ayud a unificar a los pueblos andinos mediante smbolos y ritos compartidos y es de gran antiguedad, estando basado en principios ecollogicos correctos. Su estudio nos permite comprender mejor conceptos fundamentales de la cultura andina tradicional.
25164051|Models are presented which can be used to examine the suitability of annual cover legumes, in terms of their maturity period, for their potential for incorporation into the hillside farming systems of the highland regions of sub-Saharan Africa. Sites in southwestern Uganda, covering a range in elevations from 1,600 to 2,500 m and having a bi-modal rainfall distribution, were used as an exemplar. In such locations, it was evident that several of the short-day "tropical" species tested were ill-adapted and would be unlikely to reach pod maturity within the time available in either of the two growing seasons, particularly at higher elevations. More temperate species, particularly Vicia spp., were better adapted but delays in sowing and increasing elevation severely restricted the potential choice of an appropriate species. The flexibility of the models as potential tools for scaling-up location-specific agronomic research trials is discussed.
3674670|Water consumed upstream does not flow downstream. Consequently, upstream-downstream relations along a shared river may entail competitive use or even conflict. What is the role of communication in preventing or transforming such behavior? The present article addresses this question based on lessons learned in 3 Dialogue Workshops carried out between 2002 and 2004 in the Eastern Nile Basin, with participants from Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. It indicates that the danger of upstream-downstream relations is not primarily "scorpion-like" behavior (damaging an opponent), but rather "ostrich-like" behavior (burying one's head in the sand, ignoring unilateral developments). Dialogue is shown to be a key determinant in rectifying this situation, as it is the basis for trust-building, exchange of information, and development of mutually acceptable management options. Other key factors to be considered are the balance of power between highland-lowland actors and the legal/institutional framework governing their interaction.
mounresedeve.30.1.4|In this paper, we look at the ways in which recent economic and legal changes affect pastoral management in the Gorno-Badakhshan region of Tajikistan. In Central Asia, livestock mobility is crucial for sustainable pasture management, but in Gorno-Badakhsan, average livestock ownership is extremely low. Households must therefore rely on collective herding practices if they are to exploit remote pastures and avoid overgrazing. Post-Soviet land legislation permits privatization with the aim of improving security of tenure for farmers; however, the same laws also apply to pastures. We consider whether the recent legislation is likely to promote or prevent livestock mobility, and assess the potential impact on collective herding. The effects of the legislation on the ground were investigated using 2007 field data from 2 sites, looking particularly at the impact of pasture privatization on collective users. We describe the extent to which pasture at these sites is under private, community, or state control, discuss the implications for sustainable management of this resource, and make recommendations for Tajik legislators.
90013244|The crucial role mountain ecosystems play for mountain communities and people living in the lowlands is emphasized by the 3 mountain-specific targets of Agenda 2030 (targets 6.6, 15.1, and 15.4). To achieve these targets, sound and integrated knowledge is needed for policy- and decision-making that fosters sustainable management of water and land resources in mountain areas, including equitable negotiation of trade-offs between stakeholders. The Water and Land Resources Centres in Kenya and Ethiopia and the recently approved Global Land Programme working group on Land Systems for Mountain Futures are just 2 of a number of initiatives launched by the Centre for Development and Environment and its partners to integrate and share knowledge for evidence-informed policies and practices aimed at safeguarding key mountain ecosystem services.
mounresedeve.32.1.51|This article deals with the development of irrigated agriculture in the Upper Indus Basin of Central Ladakh in Northern India. Artificial irrigation, fed by meltwater from glaciers and snow cover, forms the backbone of regional food production in this semiarid Trans-Himalayan environment. Following an integrated socio-hydrological approach, we present 2 local case studies on the village level and an overview of Central Ladakh based on multi-temporal remote sensing analyses, qualitative interviews, and regional background information. The remote sensing analyses reveal both persistence and change of land use structures over the past 4 decades. In order to understand the characteristics and variations of this land use system, the role and influence of different stakeholders are analyzed. We show how land use dynamics reflect the interplay of local practices and external interventions in mountain development.
mounresedeve.36.3.311|Livestock herding is a widespread practice in the mountains of Nepal, and grazing in the forest and pastures within protected areas is a main source of cattle fodder. Given the implications of grazing on biodiversity conservation and the need for sustainable management of pastures in the Manaslu Conservation Area of Nepal, we assessed grazing intensity along an elevational gradient following the Budhi Gandaki valley. The data set consisted of grazing intensities recorded every 250 m along a transect from 1400 to 5200 m above sea level and farmer interviews, after an initial satellite data analysis. Grazing and herd size were found to increase with increasing elevation, reflecting local livelihood dependency on cattle herding. Species richness was then analyzed along a grazing disturbance gradient at 7 goths (summer cattle shed) in heavily grazed areas. Disturbance was found to be moderate at intermediate distances, where species richness was found to be higher; the results agree with the generally accepted intermediate-disturbance hypothesis. The plant species not affected, even at the locations with highest grazing, were unpalatable species. These results can be useful in decision making related to management of forests and pastures in the Manaslu Conservation Area as well as in Himalayan forests and grasslands in general.
3674184|This article investigates the role of capital formation in contributing to the sustainability of community forestry in Nepal, using a case study approach based on 23 forest user groups (FUGs). FUGs were classified in 3 categories on the basis of cluster analysis: (1) successful, (2) moderately successful, and (3) unsuccessful clusters. The results show that the elements of capital accumulation in a successful FUG were manageable mature forest, high prices for forest products, a system of charging for all forest products, and sales of surplus forest products outside the FUG. The results also suggest that the benefits of funds, community development, and forest improvement changed people's vision and behavior, as well as their attitude toward and understanding of community forestry. This change in attitude has increased interest in and awareness of community forestry and has stimulated thinking about the sustainability of community forestry. Local initiative of this sort makes community forests more secure, protected, and wisely managed for sustainable development.
10.2307/3673641|Alpine passes have historically provided a transportation and communication link between the core regions of Western and Central Europe and those of Mediterranean Europe. Due to the geographic advantages of its low elevation and the possibility of crossing the Alps on a single pass, the Brenner route has had an eminent transportation function at least since Roman times. Today, the Brenner Pass is crossed by a major railway line, a highway, and a freeway-the first one in the Alps. This paper discusses the alpine section of the Brenner Freeway between the Austrian city of Innsbruck and the Italian city of Brixen/Bressanone with its triple transportation function for local commuter traffic, for tourist traffic to the resorts of the region, and for transalpine freight and passenger traffic. It is the latter which recently has aroused a considerable amount of controversy. This great traffic artery has had major effects on the natural environment, the settlements, the economic and social structures, and the life of the people adjacent to the Freeway. Among the positive impacts of the Freeway are: the traffic diversion from the highway which runs through many villages; the enhanced mobility, accessibility, and ease of transalpine transportation; the attraction of enterprises to the region, and the creation of jobs. The major negative impacts, apart from the visual impairment of alpine valleys and the land consumption of the Freeway, are mostly seen in the production of massive amounts of traffic-generated toxic emissions and of high noise levels which have negatively affected the quality of life of the local population and have been a major deterrent for tourists. The multiple impacts of the Brenner Freeway are portrayed in a conceptual model. /// Les cols alpins ont au cours de l'histoire servi de voies de transport et de communication entre les centres importants de l'Europe occidentale et centrale d'une part et ceux de l'Europe mditerranenne d'autre part. Grce  ses avantages gographiques,  savoir sa faible altitude et la possibilit de traverser les Alpes en passant un seul col, la route du Brenner a jou un rle trs important en matire de transports, au moins depuis l'poque romaine. A prsent, une ligne de chemin de fer, une grand-route et une autoroute, la premire dans les Alpes, passent le col du Brenner. Cet article examine la section alpine de l'autoroute du Brenner entre la ville autrichienne d'Innsbruck et la ville italienne de Brixen/Bressanone. Cette section de l'autoroute joue trois rles: elle assure le trafic journalier entre les villes de la rgion et leur banlieue, le trafic touristique vers les centres de loisirs de la rgion et le trafic transalpin de marchandises et de personnes. C'est surtout ce dernier type de trafic qui a soulev une srieuse controverse. Cette grande voie de communication a eu un impact important sur le milieu naturel, les lieux d'habitation, les structures conomiques et sociales, et enfin sur la qualit de vie de la population vivant au voisinage de l'autoroute. Parmi les rpercussions positives, on peut citer un allgement du trafic sur la grand-route desservant de nombreux villages, une plus grande mobilit de la population, un plus grand accs au transport transalpin et une plus grande facilit de celui-ci, enfin l'implantation de nouvelles entreprises dans la rgion et la cration d'emplois. Parmi les consquences ngatives, on peut citer l'altration visuelle des paysages alpins et l'utilisation des terres au profit de l'autoroute, mais surtout l'impact du bruit et des gaz d'chappement toxiques sur la qualit de vie de la population et le potentiel touristique de la rgion. Les impacts multiples de l'autoroute du Brenner sont reprsents par un modle conceptuel. /// Seit vielen Jahrhunderten erfllen die Passtrassen der Alpen die wichtige Funktion einer Verkehrs- und Kommunikationsverbindung zwischen den Kernrumen von West- und Zentraleuropa und denen des mediterranen Europas. Aufgrund der geographischen Vorzge einer niedrigen Passhhe und der Mglichkeit, das Gebirge in einer einzigen Alpenquerung zu berwinden, zeichnet sich die Brenner-Route sptestens seit der Rmerzeit durch eine herausragende Verkehrsbedeutung aus. Heute folgen der Brenner-Route sowohl eine Eisenbahnlinie, als auch eine Strasse und eine Autobahn - die erste transalpine Autobahn in den Alpen. Der Beitrag untersucht den alpinen Abschnitt der Brenner Autobahn zwischen dem sterreichischen Innsbruck und dem italienischen Brixen/Bressanone. Die Autobahn erfllt eine dreifache Verkehrsfunktion: fr den lokalen Pendelverkehr; fr den Touristenverkehr zu den Fremdenverkehrsgebieten der Region; und fr den transalpinen Waren- und Personenverkehr. Vor allem die letztere Funktion hat in jngster Zeit zu erheblichen Kontroversen gefhrt. Der Aufsatz behandelt schwerpunktmssig die Auswirkungen dieser wichtigen Verkehrsader auf die Umwelt, die Siedlungen, die wirtschaftlichen und sozialen Strukturen der Region und die Lebensqualitt der Bevlkerung im Umfeld der Autobahn. Unter den positiven Auswirkungen werden angefhrt: die Verkehrsentlastung der Brennerstrasse, die durch das Zentrum zahlreicher Gemeinden fhrt; eine verbesserte Mobilitt der Bevlkerung; eine Erleichterung des transalpinen Verkehrsflusses; eine beschleunigte Erreichbarkeit vor allem von Fremdenverkehrsgebieten; eine Ansiedlung von Investitionskapital und Industrie- und Gewerbeunternehmen entlang der Autobahn; und die Schaffung neuer Arbeitspltze. Als hauptschliche negative Auswirkungen werden genannt: eine visuelle Beeintrchtigung der alpinen Landschaft; der Flchenverbrauch der Autobahn; vor allem jedoch die Auswirkungen von Schadstoffemissionen und Lrm auf die Umwelt und die Lebensqualitt der Bewohner der Region; sowie die Beeintrchtigung des touristischen Potentials und ein Rckgang der Besucherzahlen. Die vielfltigen Auswirkungen der Autobahn werden in einem konzeptionellen Modell dargestellt.
3674655|In the mid-20th century, the southern parts of the Madres and Mont Coronat massif (Eastern Pyrenees, France) were characterized by a Mediterranean landscape shaped by human activity. Long-term use of these mountains for crops, livestock, and forestry led to an increase in grassland areas at the expense of forest. However, socioeconomic transformation (abandonment of agriculture and a decrease in the rural population) in recent decades has caused profound changes in this massif. Interpretation of aerial photographs (1953, 1969, 1988, and 2000) made it possible to detect and analyze the changes produced in the study area (6787 ha) during this period. In 1953 most of the massif landscape consisted of grasslands (38%) and open forests (18%), with some areas of dense forest (15%). By 2000, dense forest cover had doubled in size (31%), and grassland had decreased considerably (by 73% of the initial area). Since 1953, the study area has become more homogeneous, with a few local exceptions. The results of this study suggest that socioeconomic factors might be the main cause of landscape transformations in this period of approximately 50 years.
25578207|The Rio Santa valley in the Cordillera Blanca, Peru, has been repeatedly affected by severe glacial flood disasters in the past decades. The continuing high rate of glacier retreat has led to the formation and rapid growth of a large number of glacial lakes. Due to the risk of lake outburst floods, downstream communities are confronted with serious hazards. The regional capital of Huaraz is one of the major sites exposed to these hazards. Mainly due to a lack of resources, no systematic evaluation of the existing hazards and related risks has been performed so far, nor have adequate warning systems been installed. Strict financial limitations make a prioritization of mitigation measures a necessity. Vulnerability assessments are an effective tool to this end. In this article, we present a method to measure the vulnerability of Huaraz to hazards from glacial lake outbursts integrating both physical (ie hazards-related) and socioeconomic factors. The difficulty of quantifying socioeconomic variables and its combination with physical factors, as well as a lack of corresponding concepts, is a challenge for measuring vulnerability. The resulting map shows a high vulnerability for several parts of Huaraz. The results of this study thus make an important contribution to effectively addressing the identified protection deficit and to efficiently assigning the limited resources in the context of a developing country. However, this article also shows the strong need for more vulnerability research integrating both physical and social science components and related theoretical frameworks to be readily applied in practice.
mounresedeve.36.2.233|As a mountain country, Switzerland has an intrinsic interest and a proven track record in sustainable mountain development (SMD). Many Swiss stakeholders, including the federal and cantonal administrations, universities, and nongovernmental organizations, actively contribute to global SMD in many ways. Switzerland, with its extensive operational experience in mountainous countries around the world, has been one of the driving forces promoting policy dialogue and knowledge management among different actors to support SMD on various levels. This is reflected in its support for the United Nations'
mounresedeve.29.4.339|Constructing climate layers is more difficult and important in mountainous areas as a result of sparse meteorological stations and complex topography. This requires a 2-stage process: quality control of meteorological data and spatial interpolation of climate data. For this article, unscreened metadata and observed data were collected from all stations in Taiwan for the period 19612002. A quality-control procedure based on a geographic information system (GIS) allowed us to reject 13.5% of stations because of missing or erroneous metadata and filter out 8.3% of the observed data because of extreme errors or unreasonable temporal sequence and spatial patterns. After applying the quality-control procedure, the monthly mean temperature and total monthly precipitation were calculated as spatial interpolation sampling points. We evaluated the performance of 6 kriging-based spatial interpolation methods with regard to their errors by cross-validation. For interpolating the monthly mean temperature, the strong relation between temperature and elevation led us to favor modified residual kriging. For interpolating the total monthly precipitation, log-transformed kriging was chosen for practical reasons (steadier and simpler). We compared our product layers with pre-existing climate layers. The overall spatial patterns of these layers were similar, except for certain extremes in the mountains. Consequently, the GIS-based approaches presented here could help in rapid construction of adequate climate layers for regions with unconfirmed data.
90001380|This paper analyzes the global-warming potential of materials used to construct the walls of 3 building typestraditional, semimodern, and modernin Sagarmatha National Park and Buffer Zone in Nepal, using the life-cycle assessment approach. Traditional buildings use local materials, mainly wood and stone, while semimodern and modern buildings use different amounts of commercial materials, such as cement and glass wool. A comparison of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the 3 building types, using as the functional unit 1 m
3674515|The composition and density of soil seed banks was studied at Harenna Forest after a major fire in the year 2000. Soil samples were collected from burned and unburned portions of the forest using quadrants 15  15 cm and 9 cm deep, laid along line transects. Forest recovery was also monitored on burned sites using permanent plots of 0.1 ha. One hundred fifty-five seedlings germinated from the soil samples, of which 140 and 15 were from the unburned and burned sites, respectively. The proportion of woody species found on the unburned site was 47%, while on the burned site only one woody species was recorded. Overall mean densities were 621  15 and 66  2 seeds per m<sup>2</sup> on the unburned and burned sites, respectively. The greatest diversity was found in the upper soil layer, followed by the middle, litter, and lower soil layers collected from the unburned site. Eighteen months after the fire, the burned site was covered with 32 species of dense vegetation, which attained a height of 3.5 m. Our results revealed that although the fire exhausted the soil seed bank, the vegetation could regenerate quickly with pioneer species, which differed in composition from the neighboring unburned stand. This implies that most species in Harenna Forest are sensitive to fire and could be eliminated easily from the area unless they are properly protected. Therefore, an appropriate management plan should be developed and implemented for the remaining forest, including protection from fire.
3674607|The aim of this article is two fold: first, to depict key species and relate them to landscape units (LUs) to define habitats; second, to generate a sound network of protected areas to ensure the functional integrity of the ecosystem. In the present study, 6500 vertebrate and vascular plant species records were gathered into a database. A total of 137 sampling units were surveyed to verify key species and depict discrete LUs (scale 1:25,000). Using multivariate statistics (detrended correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis), key species were selected and associated with LUs in a geographical information system. From the 1162 species recorded, 122 were identified as key species based on their endemicity and conservation status (12 amphibians, 42 reptiles, 37 birds, 11 mammals, and 20 vascular plants). Volcanic bodies and Holocene lava flows contain most key species but harbor less species overall, whereas mixed forest, meadows and crops, foot slopes, and accumulation plains harbor fewer key species but a greater number overall. These patterns were spatially displayed and discussed in light of their role in conservation and participatory management after over 15 years of research.
25164025|A priority for research is the quantification of the productive capability of soils on hillslopes. Data on soil biophysical changes and their impact on erosion are limited, especially on aspects which represent the farmers' perspective. The terms soil quality and soil productivity are defined and presented conceptually in models to identify information needs and to examine the biophysical and farming system components that are important to smallholders. Of the principal processes in declining soil productivity, reduction in soil depth and increasing difficulty of gaining production are most often identified by farmers. Using examples from Sri Lanka, field techniques of biophysical assessment of erosion, conservation, and their impacts are presented, with a focus on Gliricidia contour hedgerows. Techniques, such as measuring the armor layer of small stones, soil pedestals, and sedimentation in drains, are useful to assess erosion rates. Impacts can be identified by soil depth as a measure of historical erosion, differential growth of crops, and farmers' assessments of yields. Farmers' observations on the practices that they employ are essential in making realistic assessments of conservation measures for promotion. Field-based techniques are easy to use, rapid to undertake, and best represent the farmer-perspective.
25164174|In the context of mountain development-eg in the Indian Central Himalayan Region (ICHR)-the role of micro-enterprises in poverty eradication and extending employment opportunities with very low capital is self-evident. Micro-enterprises have been well established in promoting equity-based participatory development in rural areas in the ICHR. Women play a vital role through collective entrepreneurship in mountain regions for achieving socioeconomic equity and ecological sustainability. The Rawain Women's Cooperative Federation (RWCF) established in Yamuna valley, Uttarakhand, in the western part of the ICHR, has emerged as a role model of sustainable rural livelihoods. The diversification of agriculture in mountain regions according to the RWCF pattern has played an important role in ensuring participation of women in policy making, community-based interventions, and institutional support. With this experience women have been capable of visualizing and realizing the opportunities offered by globalization.
10.2307/3673827|A national park model that neglects the subsistence needs of the local people and denies them benefits from the park can lead to resentment and conflict. About 35,000 people living in and around Langtang National Park are dependent mainly on agriculture for their livelihood. Agricultural crop and livestock depredation by wildlife results in disputes between the park authorities and the local people. Potential solutions discussed here emphasize the need for the Langtang National Park administration to accept responsibility for the protection of crops and livestock from park wildlife. /// Un modle de parc national qui nglige les besoins de subsistance de la population locale et lui dnie les avantages du parc risque de crer un ressentiment et de mener au conflit. Les 35 000 personnes qui vivent dans le parc national de Langtang et dans les environs dpendent principalement de l'agriculture comme moyen d'existence. La dprdation des cultures agricoles et du btail par les animaux sauvages a men  un conflit entre l'administration du parc et la population locale. Les solutions possibles examines dans cet article mettent l'accent sur le fait que l'administration du parc national de Langtang doit prendre la responsabilit de la protection des cultures agricoles et du btail contre les animaux sauvages. /// Eine Nationalparkplanung, die die berlebensansprche der einheimischen Bevlkerung vernachlssigt und ihr keine Gewinne aus dem Park zugesteht, kann zu Ablehnung des Parks und zu Konflikten fhren. Etwa 35000 Menschen, die im oder in der Umgebung des Langtang Nationalparks wohnen, sind von der Landwirtschaft abhngig. Ernten und Viehbestand werden durch den Wildbestand des Parks beschdigt, welches zu Auseinandersetzungen zwischen der Parkleitung und der betroffenen Bevlkerung fhrt. Die in diesem Beitrag angesprochenen Mglichkeiten zur Lsung dieser Konflikte verdeutlichen die Dringlichkeit der Verantwortungsbernahme fr den Schutz von Ernte und Viehzucht durch die Parkleitung.
10.2307/3673934|Project Area 6 of UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere Programme (MAB-6) included activities in 21 areas in the mountains of five Western European countries (Austria, France, Germany, Spain, Switzerland), and in most of the mountain ranges of the former USSR. This paper reviews these activities, beginning with an introduction to the objectives of MAB-6 as defined in 1973. Particular attention is given to the development of conceptual models and of approaches to the involvement of local people in MAB-6 projects. It is concluded that only some of the objectives defined in 1973 were realized. Institutional factors were primary limitations, and these are explored. Yet MAB-6 activities contributed to scientific knowledge and the lives of mountain people, not only in the project areas but in many others. The concepts, scientific knowledge, and organizational experience deriving from MAB-6 have great potential for furthering the needs of mountain people around the world. /// Le Projet rgional 6 du Programme de l'UNESCO sur l'homme et la biosphre (MAB-6) a mis en jeu des activits dans les montagnes de cinq pays de l'Europe de l'Ouest (Allemagne, Autriche, Espagne, France et Suisse), et dans la plupart des chanes de montagnes de l'ancienne URSS. Cet article passe en revue ces activits, commenant par une prsentation des objectifs de MAB-6 dfinis en 1973. Une attention particulire est porte sur le dveloppement de modles conceptuels et d'approches visant  encourager la participation de la population locale aux projets MAB-6. La conclusion atteste qu'une partie seulement des objectifs dfinis en 1973 ont t atteints. Les facteurs institutionnels ont constitu les limitations principales et ont t explores en dtail. Les activits du projet MAB-6 ont nanmoins contribu  la connaissance scientifique et  l'amlioration des conditions de vie des peuples montagnards, non seulement dans les zones du projet, mais aussi dans beaucoup d'autres zones. Les concepts, les connaissances scientifiques, et l'exprience en matire d'organisation drivs du projet MAB-6, prsentent un potentiel important en ce qui concerne la prise de conscience des besoins des peuples montagnards du monde entier. /// Das Projektvorhaben 6 im UNESCO-Programm "Mensch und Umwelt" (MAB-6) umfasste Teilprojekte in 21 montanen Testgebieten in fnf west-europischen Lndern (Osterreich, Frankreich, Bundesrepublik Deutschland, Spanien, Schweiz) sowie in der Mehrzahl der Gebirgsregionen in der frheren Sowjetunion. In diesem Beitrag werden die Vorhaben einer Bewertung unterzogen. Als Ausgangsbasis dienen die Zielvorgaben von MAB-6, wie sie im Jahre 1973 formuliert worden waren. Besondere Aufmerksamkeit wird der Erarbeitung von Konzepten und Modellen geschenkt sowie der Einbeziehung lokal ansiger Bevlkerungen in die Umsetzung der Projektmanahmen. Als Ergebnis lt sich festhalten, da einige der 1973 vorgebenen Ziele im Verlaufe des Projektes erreicht wurden. Wichtige Einschrnkungen wurden von staatlichen Einrichtungen auferlegt, diese begrenzenden Faktoren werden nher untersucht. Dennoch haben die Vorhaben im MAB-Programm wichtige Forschungsergebnisse erzielt und zur Verbesserung der Lebensbedingungen von Gebirgsbewohnern beigetragen. Diese Aussage ist nicht allein auf die konkreten Testgebiete zu beschrnken. Die erarbeiteten Konzepte, Forschungsergebnisse und Erfahrungen aus der Projektorganisation in MAB-6 stellen ein wichtiges Ressourcenpotential dar, das fr eine verbesserte Bedrfnisbefriedigung in Gebirgsregionen instrumentalisiert werden sollte.
10.2307/3673267|The traditional Indian strategy of resolving conflict by non-cooperation, the satyagraha, has been revived in the Chipko, or "Embrace the Tree", movement to protect forests from commercial felling. This paper traces the development of the philosophy and the non-violent resistance activities from the beginnings of Chipko in the early 1970s in Garhwal to its present role throughout most of India. It is unique in that it is based not on the politics of the distribution of wealth but on that of sustainable ecological stability, and it is dominated by women. Today the Chipko search for a strategy for human survival from ecological disaster has world-wide significance. /// "Satyagraha", la stratgie indienne traditionnelle de rsoudre les conflits par la non-coopration, se retrouve dans le mouvement Chipko, ou "Etreint l'arbre", qui vise  protger les forts contre une exploitation commerciale abusive. Cette tude retrace l'volution de la philosophie et des activits de rsistance passive, depuis l'origine du mouvement au dbut des annes 70 au Garhwal jusqu'au rle actuel qu'il joue dans la plupart de l'Inde. Ce mouvement, domin par les femmes, est remarquable en ce qu'il ne repose pas sur une politique de rpartition quitable des richesses, mais sur le maintien d'une cologie stable. Cette recherche d'une stratgie visant  viter un dsastre cologique prsente un gros intrt  l'chelle mondiale. /// Zur Konfliktlsung lebt in der Chipko- oder "Embrace the Tree" (man umarme den Baum) Bewegung die traditionelle indische Strategie der verweigerten Zusammenarbeit (satyagraha) wieder auf als Mittel, Waldgebiete vor kommerziellem Abholzen zu schtzen. Entwicklung der Philosophie und Aktionen von nichtgewaltttigem Widerstand verfolgt diese Verffentlichung vom Beginn der Chipko Bewegung in den frhen 70er Jahren in Garhwal bis zur derzeitigen Bedeutung fast berall in Indien. Die Bewegung ist darin einzigartig, als da sie nicht von Grundstzen der Besitzverteilung gelenkt wird, sondern von Prinzipien zur Erhaltung kologischer Stabilitt, und da sie von Frauen dominiert wird. Heute hat die Suche der Chipko Bewegung nach menschlichen berlebenschancen im Fall einer kologischen Katastrophe weltweite Bedeutung.
3674384|Since September 2000, when world leaders agreed on time-bound, measurable goals to reduce extreme poverty, hunger, illiteracy, and disease while fostering gender equality and ensuring environmental sustainability, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have increasingly come to dominate the policy objectives of many states and development agencies. The concern has been raised that the tight timeframe and financial restrictions might force governments to invest in the more productive sectors, thus compromising the quality and sustainability of development efforts. In the long term, this may lead to even greater inequality, especially between geographical regions and social strata. Hence people living in marginal areas, for example in remote mountain regions, and minority peoples risk being disadvantaged by this internationally agreed agenda. Strategies to overcome hunger and poverty in their different dimensions in mountain areas need to focus on strengthening the economy of small-scale farmers, while also fostering the sustainable use of natural resources, taking into consideration their multifunctionality.
90001385|The Manaslu Conservation Area in north-central Nepal is considered a biodiversity hotspot, but very little is known about the ecology of its forests and its residents ethnobotanical practices. This study integrated data from ecological sample plots in 19 forest patches and an ethnobotanical inventory conducted with village residents to explore spatial patterns of diversity in woody plant species and their local uses. The study identified a total of 155 woody plant species in 103 genera and 54 plant families. Local residents named 96% (149) of these species and cited 404 uses for them. The uses involving the greatest number of species were fuel (104) and fodder (54). Seven forest community types were identified: 2, blue pine and rhododendron, primarily below 2200 m, and 5 communities (mixed laurel, oaklaurel, mixed maple, oakash and kharsu oak) mostly above 2200 m. Among the forest community types, the oaklaurel forest, at 13 km from the study villages, had the highest number of species, species used by humans, and different uses. These research findings provide a first assessment of ecological diversity and ethnobotanical resources for the region and highlight concerns for forest resources and opportunities for collaborative conservation planning.
10.2307/3673568|The Himalayan mountain region represents a challenging laboratory to refine general circulation model simulations and to compare them with climate observations at regional and local geographical scales. This paper includes an analysis of July temperatures in the Great Himalaya Range of northern India. Five sources of data are analyzed: (1) coarse-scale model simulations for present climate (<tex-math>$1\times {\rm CO}_{2}\ \text{runs}$</tex-math>), (2) regression model predictions of temperature versus elevation (after Lambert and Chitrakar, 1989), (3) spatially-interpolated observed data for the region (after Legates and Willmott, 1990), (4) individual station records in the region, and (5) local-scale field data taken in summer, 1988. As expected, July temperature simulations from general circulation models tend to generalize temperature/elevation relationships and do not appear to account for landscape surface feedbacks on air temperatures at a regional and local scale. Cautious use of climate model predictions of temperature and moisture for climate change scenario analyses is strongly encouraged. For mountain areas, field verification and weather station analyses for regional and local scales are essential for interpreting results from general circulation models. /// La rgion montagneuse de l'Himalaya reprsente un laboratoire de premier ordre pour raffiner les modles circulatoires gnraux (GCM) de simulation climatologique et de les comparer aux observations aux chelles gographiques rgionale et locale. Cet article inclut un analyse des tempratures de juillet dans la haute chane de l'Himalaya, en Inde septentrionale. Cinq sources de donnes sont analyses: (1) sorties de GCMs  chelle grossire (<tex-math>$\text{passages}\ 1\times {\rm CO}_{2}$</tex-math>), (2) prdictions,  l'aide de modles de rgression, de la temprature en fonction de l'altitude (d'aprs Lambert et Chitrakar, 1989), (3) donnes d'observations interpoles dans l'espace pour la rgion (d'aprs Legates et Willmott, 1990), (4) enregistrements effectus par les stations mtorologiques de la rgion et (5) donnes enregistres sur le terrain au niveau local, pendant l't 1988. Comme on pouvait s'y attendre, les sorties des GCMs  chelle grossire tendent  gnraliser les relations temprature/altitude et ne semblent pas tenir compte des rtroactions de la surface du terrain sur la temprature de l'air aux chelles rgionale et locale. Une utilisation prudente des prdictions de temprature et d'humidit obtenues  l'aide de modles climatologiques, pour les analyses de scnarios de changement climatique, est recommande. Pour les rgions montagneuses, des vrifications sur le terrain ainsi que des analyses effectues par des stations mtorologiques pour les chelles rgionale et locale sont indispensables pour interprter les rsultats obtenus avec les GCMs. /// Die Bergregion des Himalaya ist ein bestens geeignetes Experimentierfeld, um allgemeine Zirkulationsmodelle (GCM) zur Klimasimulation weiterzuentwickeln und dann mit Klimabeobachtungen auf regionaler und lokaler Ebene zu vergleichen. Diese Verffentlichung befat sich mit einer Analyse der Juli-Temperaturen in der Groen Himalaya Kette von Nordindien. Fnf Datenquellen wurden analysiert: (1) grob-skalige GCM Daten ber das gegenwrtige Klima (<tex-math>$1\times {\rm CO}_{2}\ \text{Daten}$</tex-math>), (2) Vorhersagen von Nherungsmodellen ber die Temperatur-Hhenabhnggkeit (nach Lambert und Chitrakar, 1989), (3) rumlich interpolierte Gebiets-Medaten (nach Legates und Willmott, 1990), (4) Aufzeichnungen einzelner Gebiets-Stationen, und (5) vor Ort gemessene Daten fr den Sommer 1988. Wie erwartet, neigen die Ergebnisse der Juli-Temperatur mittels des grob-skaligen GCM dazu, die Hhenabhngigkeit zu verallgemeinern; offenbar werden Rckwirkungen der Erdoberflche auf regionale und lokale Lufttemperaturen vernachlssigt. Vorhersagen von Klimamodellen ber Temperatur und Feuchtigkeit sind mit Vorsicht anzuwenden, wenn es darum geht, Klimavernderungen zu analysieren. Fr Berggebiete sind Besttigungen durch Feldmessungen und Analysen der regionalen und lokalen Wetterstationen besonders dann wichtig, wenn es darum geht, Ergebnisse von GCM's zu interpretieren.
3674482|Grasslands and forests are degraded in Turkey's Mediterranean Region (TMR), the center of the widespread traditional Yoruk silvopastoral system. Government efforts to halt degradation focus on afforestation, a policy that reduces the amount of land available to the Yoruks for their traditional livelihood system, which is further endangered by socioeconomic dynamics subject to the pressures of globalization. This silvopastoral system is examined with respect to policies that affect it and its potential for sustainability, with a view to regional community development. Interaction between this regional system, a component of traditional culture in the TMR, and current trends in globalization are noted, and the need for harmony between silvopastoralism and forestry is examined.
10.2307/3673207|Of India's 328 million hectare area, 175 million hectare are experiencing intensive soil erosion as a result of extensive deforestation and poor land management. The Lesser Himalaya and Siwaliks are some of the most seriously affected areas. This paper outlines the underlying geology and climate partly responsible for their high degree of vulnerability to soil erosion. Careful soil and water conservation measures, when applied to small mountain catchments, can significantly reduce soil losses, correct hydrological imbalances, and improve agricultural and forestry productivity, leading in turn to a reduction in the rate of reservoir siltation. Data from specific treatments are introduced. It is concluded that greatly accelerated implementation of these measures is now urgently needed. /// Sur les 328 millions d'hectares de l'Inde, 175 millions sont soumis  une rosion intense du sol de  une dforestation extensive et une mauvaise gestion des terres. L'Himalaya infrieur et la chane des Siwalik sont parmi les zones les plus srieusement touches. Cette tude examine les facteurs gologiques et climatiques qui contribuent  cette grande vulnrabilit  l'rosion du sol. Des mesures appropries de conservation du sol et de l'eau, appliques aux petites zones de captation des eaux dans les montagnes, peuvent sensiblement rduire les pertes de sol, redresser les dsquilibres hydrologiques, amliorer la productivit agricole et forestire, et en consquence rduire l'accumulation de sdiments dans les rservoirs. Des donnes relatives  certains traitements particuliers sont prsentes. La conclusion en est que ces mesures doivent tre appliques d'urgence. /// Von Indiens 328 Mill. Hektar Gebiet unterliegen 175 Mill. Hektar intensiver Bodenerosion als Folge ausgedehnter Entwaldung und schlechtem Landmanagement. Der kleine Himalaya und das Siwalik Gebirge sind die am schwersten betroffenen Gebiete. Diese Studie umreit die zugrundeliegende Geologie und das Klima, die teilweise fr die hohe Anflligkeit dieser Gebiete gegen Bodenerosion verantwortlich sind. Sorgfltige Erhaltungsmanahmen fr Land und Wasser, angewandt fr kleinere gebirgige Auffanggebiete knnen Bodenverluste erheblich reduzieren, hydrologische Unausgewogenheiten korrigieren und land- und forstwirtschaftliche Produktivitt steigern. Dies wiederum fhrt zu einer geringeren Verschlammung der Reservoirs. Daten spezifischer Manahmen werden angegeben. Es wird gefolgert, da eine stark beschleunigte Durchfhrung solcher Manahmen dringend notwendig ist.
mounresedeve.33.4.364|Government authorities and development agencies use road construction as a tool to support socioeconomic development in remote areas worldwide. In mountain regions, roads are closely connected with landslide risk. They destabilize slopes and often lead to the expansion of settlements into hazard zones. Weighing increased landslide risk against economic opportunities, inhabitants of adjacent areas acquire land along road corridors and build shops and houses. This article presents a case study from western Nepal, where an internationally supported road construction project triggered the establishment of a new bazaar in a landslide-prone area. Based on data gathered from qualitative interviews and a quantitative household survey, it discusses people's rationales for moving to the hazard zone, placing special emphasis on risk perception and economic reasoning from a livelihood perspective. The article also considers the extent to which the approach to rural road construction presently used in Nepal influences such developments. The study provides insights into the links between risk perceptions, livelihood strategies, and road-related development interventions and provides suggestions for a risk-sensitive adaptation of current approaches.
mounresedeve.35.4.365|Fog is an untapped natural resource. A number of studies have been undertaken to understand its potential as an alternative or complementary water source. In 2007, a pilot fog-collection project was implemented in 2 villages on the Eastern Escarpment of Eritrea. The government of Eritrea, buoyed by the project's positive results, has encouraged research into and application of fog-collection technologies to alleviate water-supply problems in this region. In 2014, this study was undertaken to assess the coverage, prevalence, intensity, and seasonality of fog on the Eastern Escarpment of Eritrea and consequently to identify potential beneficiary villages. Three independent methods used in the studysatellite image analyses, personal interviews, and a standard fog collectorproduced reasonably similar characterizations of fog coverage and timing. The period with high fog incidence is mainly between November and March, with the highest number of fog days per year (96) on the central Eastern Escarpment and decreasing frequency to the south (78 days) and north (73 days). The fog intensity on the central Eastern Escarpment is very high and in most cases reduces visibility to less than 500 m. In this period, a light to moderate breeze blows predominantly from the north and northeast. More than half of the villages in the region currently have a reliable water-supply system. The rest depend on seasonal roof-water harvesting, rock-water harvesting, and truck delivery and, therefore, could potentially benefit from fog collection as a supplementary water source. In particular, fog water could be useful for a small number of beneficiaries, including public services like schools and health facilities, where conventional water-delivery systems are not viable.
4540652|In the western Himalaya, the overlap of geography, religion and politics created a cosmic view that appeared to render "secular history" superfluous. Pre-modern states and communities in the region used natural phenomena to create a religious tradition, and then draw upon religion to form a socio-political organization. The present article attempts to explain how, in this mountainous region, the natural surroundings were the significant context within which belief systems and social structures operated. It examines the situation prevailing in the 19th and early 20th centuries in the small medieval principality of Kumharsain. Because of its semi-isolation, many of the village cults seem to have retained their roots in natural phenomena. Brahmanical orthodoxy later built upon indigenous beliefs as it spread to the countryside. The state deity was placed close to the rulers, while the indigenous village gods lived with the common folk. An intimate relationship existed between landscape, religious cults and social structure. Even today this relationship persists. It influences both local politics and decision-making processes in matters of development.
25164147|The 2005 Kashmir Earthquake is illustrative of the intensity and scope associated with catastrophic earthquake disasters in mountainous regions. The experience of the immediate aftermath, relief and recovery, and community reconstruction underscores how this event impacted mountain women, particularly in their roles in rescue and relief efforts and in rebuilding households and communities. A situational analysis was undertaken in order to document and make recommendations for the significant challenges and concerns facing women earthquake survivors in 3 of the valleys most proximate to the epicenter. Earthquake planning and mitigation strategies in northern Pakistan and elsewhere need to focus on reducing women's vulnerability and increasing their resilience, while fostering feasible interventions to reduce disaster risk across the population. We propose that the main elements should include pre-disaster vulnerability assessments; the support of women's access to resources and science-based earthquake education; active roles for women in relief, rehabilitation, and rebuilding efforts; and gender training among all disaster relief and emergency services.
3674585|The present article reports the results of a survey on the views of persons involved in commercial alpine medicinal and aromatic plant (MAP) exploitation and conservation in Nepal. Open-ended questionnaires were administered face to face to 175 respondents in the following categories: 1) collectors, 2) traders, 3) district forest office staff, 4) staff at the departmental and ministerial levels in the Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation, and 5) (I)NGOs and donors. The issues explored are related to striking a balance between poverty alleviation and halting MAP resource degradation. Stakeholder beliefs about the benefits derived from MAPs, the current state of the MAP resource, the tenure of MAP pastures, the effectiveness of government bans on collection and the possibility of community management, and the trade-off between collection and conservation are presented. Widespread misconceptions about collectors and local management are identified, and implications of differences in belief among stakeholder categories are discussed. The main findings show that collectors are seen as gaining important financial benefits from MAPs, but that 71% of non-collecting respondents believe the MAP resource to be degraded. Most stakeholders, other than district forest office staff, favor collection over conservation, and find that current collection bans are inefficient, indicating the potential for addressing village poverty by, for example, changing the present centrally-based regulation mechanisms and handing over some MAP resources for community management.
10.2307/3673106|The major physical features and the distribution of natural resources are described and the way these characteristics may have influenced human settlement and use are discussed. The area under study covers approximately 900,000 square kilometres and is approximately 3,200 km long and, at its broadest, 600 km wide. From north to south there is a decline in magnitude of the principal mountains. The Cordillera is dotted with volcanoes, many of them active. The Southern Andes are characterized by a dry or seasonally dry climate except south of latitude 40S where humid westerly storms predominate. The vegetation is dependent mainly on climatic factors and is consequently mostly a xerophytic scrubland except south of latitude 39S where a mixed coniferous-broadleaf forest predominates. In northern Chile and in some interior valleys of Argentina, the vegetation is very sparse, while in very high altitudes of the Cordillera it consists primarily of cushion plants. /// La topographie gnrale et la rpartition des ressources naturelles sont dcrites, et la manire dont ces caractristiques peuvent avoir influenc le peuplement et l'exploitation de cette rgion est discute. La zone tudie couvre un territoire d'environ 900.000 kilomtres carrs (environ 3.200 km de long, et 600 km de large au maximum). L'altitude des chanes principales dcrot du nord au sud. La cordillre est parseme de volcans dont beaucoup sont actifs. Les Andes mridionales sont caractrises par un climat sec ou saisonnirement sec,  part au sud de latitude 40S o les temptes humides d'ouest prdominent. La vgtation dpend surtout des facteurs climatiques et consiste donc principalement de brousse xrophytique,  part au sud de la latitude 39S o une fort mixte de conifres et d'arbres  larges feuilles prdomine. Dans le Chili septentrional et les valles intrieures de l'Argentine, la vgtation est trs parse, alors qu' trs haute altitude dans la cordillre, elle consiste principalement d'un coussinet foliaire. /// Die wichtigsten Landschaftsmerkmale und die Verteilung der Naturschtze werden beschrieben, auerdem der Einflu dieser Gegebenheiten auf Besiedelung und Nutzung. Das untersuchte Gebiet erstreckt sich ber annhernd 900.000 km<sup>2</sup>, ist ungefhr 3.200 km lang und an der breitesten Stelle 600 km breit. Die Hhe der Hauptgipfel nimmt von Norden nach Sden ab. Die Kordilleren sind mit Vulkanen berst, viele von ihnen aktiv. Trockenes oder jahreszeitlich trockenes Klima ist fr die sdlichen Anden charakteristisch, ausgenommen ist das Gebiet sdlich des 40. Breitengrades, in dem feuchte Westwinde vorherrschen. Die Vegetation ist von klimatischen Faktoren abhngig und besteht hauptschlich aus trockenem Buschland. Nur sdlich des 39. Breitengrades berwiegt eine Mischung aus Laub-und Nadelhlzern. In Nordchile und einigen abgelegenen Tlern Argentiniens ist die Vegetation sprlich, im Hochgebirge der Kordilleren besteht sie vorwiegend aus Moosen und Flechten. /// Se describen en este captulo los rasgos fsicos principales y la distribucin de los recursos naturales. Tambin se discute como la distribucin de recursos naturales puede haber infludo el asentamiento humano. El rea bajo estudio abarca aproximadamente 900,000 <tex-math>${\rm Km}^{2}$</tex-math> y tiene una longitud de aproximadamente 3,200 Km, y en su parte ms ancha, 600 Km de ancho. De norte a sur se nota un gradiente decreciente de masividad en la montaa. La cordillera est cubierta de volcanos, muchos de ellos activos. Los Andes del Sur tienen un clima seco o estacionalmente seco, excepto al sur de latitud 40 S en que prevalecen los temporales del Pacfico. La vegetacin conforma con las caractersticas del clima, y consecuentemente prevalece un arbustal xeroftico, excepto al sur del paralelo 39 en que crece un bosque mixto de conferas y caducifolias. En el norte de Chile y en ciertos bolsones interiores de la Argentina crece una vegetacin de tipo de desierto, mientras que en altas elevaciones de la Cordillera, la vegetacin est formada principalmente por plantas en cojn.
10.2307/3673232|High mountains which display an east-west alignment, tend to form the boundaries of zoogeographic regions. In contrast, they form bridges from high to low latitudes (or vice versa) if their alignment is north-south. In both cases, however, they possess the attributes for development of distinct distribution patterns of species and for the evolution of specialized new species. This paper demonstrates these major mountain geoecological principles with special reference to fresh-water limnology. /// Les hautes montagnes peuvent former des barrires zoogographiques, spcialement si elles sont de direction Ouest-Est. Mais elles forment aussi des ponts Nord-Sud, qui rendent possibles les migrations des animaux de hautes aux basses latitudes et inversement. Dans les deux cas, les hautes montagnes peuvent contribuer  la gnse d'espces nouvelles. /// Hochgebirge, speziell in breitenparalleler Richtung, knnen zoogeographische Barieren darstellen. Daneben bilden sie (vor allem bei Nord-Sd-Erstreckung) Brcken, die die Ausbreitung von Tieren von hohen in niedere Breiten (oder umgekehrt) ermglichen. In beiden Fllen jedoch knnen die Gebirge zur Ausbildung getrennter Verbreitungsgebiete und damit zur Bildung neuer Arten beitragen.
25164205|Alpine grasslands are ecosystems with a great diversity of plant species. However, little is known about other levels of biodiversity, such as landscape diversity, diversity of biological interactions of plants with herbivores or fungal pathogens, and genetic diversity. We therefore explored natural and anthropogenic determinants of grassland biodiversity at several levels of biological integration, from the genetic to the landscape level in the Swiss Alps. Differences between cultural traditions (Romanic, Germanic, and Walser) turned out to still affect land use diversity and thus landscape diversity. Increasing land use diversity, in turn, increased plant species diversity per village. However, recent land use changes have reduced this diversity. Within grassland parcels, plant species diversity was higher on unfertilized mown grasslands than on fertilized or grazed ones. Most individual plants were affected by herbivores and fungal leaf pathogens, reflecting that parcels harbored a great diversity of herbivores and pathogens. However, as plant damage by herbivores and pathogens was not severe, conserving these biological interactions among plants is hardly compromising agricultural goals. A common-garden experiment revealed genetic differentiation of the important fodder grass Poa alpina between mown and grazed sites, suggesting adaptation. Per-village genetic diversity of Poa alpina was greater in villages with higher land use diversity, analogous to the higher plant species diversity there. Overall, landscape diversity and biodiversity within grassland parcels are currently declining. As this contradicts the intention of Swiss law and international agreements, financial incentives need to be re-allocated and should focus on promoting high biodiversity at the local and the landscape level. At the same time, this will benefit landscape attractiveness for tourists and help preserve a precious cultural heritage in the Swiss Alps.
10.2307/3673870|One of the most important aspects of a complex common property resource is the collective-action right to decide how the resource will be defined and used. Throughout the history of the Black Hills National Forest, there has been a community of people interested in exercising the right to define and redefine it as a resource. By using a common property resource framework, this paper focuses on the role of the forest community-those people who were able to exercise the right to define the resource-in sustaining the forest as a multiple-use resource. The composition of the forest community had a direct impact on the sustainability of the Black Hills National Forest as a multiple-use resource. In periods when a forest community was actively engaged in preserving its multiple-use character, the forest has flourished. Without a forest community to focus on the multiple-use definition, single users competed with each other without regard for the impact of their uses on the forest as a whole, leading to the degradation of the forest. /// L'un des aspects les plus importants d'un fonds commun de ressources complexe est le droit de dcider en action collective comment les ressources seront dfinies et utilises. Au cours de l'histoire de la fort domaniale de Black Hills, il y a toujours eu une communaut dsireuse d'exercer le droit de la dfinir et de la redfinir comme un ensemble de ressources. En utilisant le cadre d'un fonds commun de ressources, cet expos met l'accent principalement sur le rle de la communaut forestire, ces gens qui pouvaient exercer le droit de dfinir les ressources, dans le maintien de la fort comme ensemble de ressources polyvalentes. La composition de la communaut forestire avait un impact direct sur la viabilit de la Black Hills National Forest en tant qu'ensemble de ressources polyvalentes.  l'poque o une communaut forestire tait activement engage  conserver son caractre polyvalent, la fort tait florissante. Sans une communaut forestire pour mettre l'accent sur la dfinition de la polyvalence, les utilisateurs individuels rivalisaient entre eux sans se soucier de l'impact de leurs utilisations respectives sur la fort dans son entier, entranant ainsi la dgradation de la fort. Einer der wichtigsten Aspekte einer komplexen Rohstoffquelle zur gemeinschaftlichen Bewirtschaftung besteht in dem Entscheidungsrecht der Gemeinschaft darber, wie diese Quelle definiert und genutzt wird. In der Geschichte des Black Hills National Forest hat es immer Gruppen von Menschen gegeben, die an dem Recht interessiert waren, die Rohstoffquellen dieser Region zu definieren und wieder neu zu definieren. Unter Verwendung eines gemeinschaftlichen Rohstoffnutzungsrahmens konzentriert sich der vorliegende Text auf die Rolle, die die Waldgemeinde-die Menschen, die die Rohstoffquellen rechtmig definieren durften-bei der Erhaltung des Waldes zur gemeinsamen Nutzung dieser Quelle gespielt hat. Die Zusammensetzung der Gemeinde hatte einen direkten Einflu auf die Erhaltungsfhigkeit des Black Hill National Forest als Rohstoffquelle zur vielfachen Nutzung. Whrend der Zeitrume, in denen eine Waldgemeinde sich aktiv mit der Bewahrung dieses vielfachen Nutzungscharakters beschftigte, florierte der Wald. Ohne eine Waldgemeinde, die sich auf diese Definition der vielfachen Nutzung konzentrierte, konkurrierten einzelne Nutzer miteinander, ohne sich um die Auswirkungen einer solchen Vorgehensweise auf den Wald als Ganzes zu kmmern, was zu einer Verschlechterung des Waldes fhrte.
10.2307/3672933|During the last several thousand years the Andes have been exposed to strong and persistent erosive processes which have led to serious deterioration of renewable natural resources. During the Inca period, however, the value of soil as a fundamental resource was appreciated. This led to the development of a high level of agricultural technology, which included the construction of complex engineering works. With the Spanish conquest and imposition of an exploitive regime there followed a period of catastrophe, both in terms of Andean environments and human populations. In many sectors such tendencies have not yet been corrected. An examination is made of the types of damaging processes which include: soil erosion, gullying, river erosion, water and air pollution due to improper disposal of mining wastes, fire destruction of natural vegetation, overgrazing, salinization, and damage to irrigation systems, alluvial lands, and drinking water supplies. The paper concludes with an assessment of the requirements for reversing these current trends. Aside from lack of complete knowledge of ecosystems and social and economic practices, the primary problem is identified as that of continuation of the traditional land-tenure system. Recommendations are made concerning the need to establish national policies based upon a detailed land classification system and the establishment of official bodies empowered to implement land-use planning and the provision of technical assistance. /// Depuis quelques milliers d'annes, les Andes ont t soumises  des processus d'rosion, prononcs et tenaces, qui ont provoqu une dtrioration srieuse des ressources naturelles renouvelables. Cependant, pendant la priode Inca, le sol en tant que ressource fondamentale tait apprci  sa juste valeur. Cette attitude engendra le dveloppement d'une technologie agricole avance, dont la construction d'ouvrages d'art complexes. La conqute espagnole et l'imposition d'une rgime exploiteur furent catastrophiques du point de vue de l'environnement andin et des populations humaines. Les effets de cette priode se font encore sentir dans beaucoup de secteurs. Les diffrents processus de dtrioration sont examins dans cette tude, entre autres l'rosion du sol, le ravinement, l'rosion des rivires, la pollution de l'eau et de l'air due  une dcharge inadquate des dchets miniers, la destruction de la vgtation naturelle par le feu, le surpturage, l'accumulation de sels dans le sol, ainsi que la dtrioration des systmes d'irrigation, des terres alluviales, et de l'approvisionnement en eau potable. L'tude se termine par un expos des dispositions  prendre pour contrecarrer les tendances actuelles. A part l'insuffisance des connaissances des cosystmes et des pratiques conomiques et sociales, le problme majeur est reconnu comme tant le maintien du systme agraire traditionnel. Des recommandations sont faites concernant la promulgation de mesures gouvernementales bases sur un systme dtaill de classification des terres et l'tablissement d'organismes officiels ayant pleins pouvoirs pour mettre en oeuvre les plans d'exploitation des terres et offrir une coopration technique. /// Whrend der vergangenen Jahrtausende waren die Anden starken und anhaltenden Erosionsprozessen ausgesetzt, die zu einer ernsten Verschlechterung der erneuerungsfhigen Naturschtze gefhrt haben. Der Wert des Erdbodens als wichtige Lebensgrundlage wurde whrend der Incazeit gewrdigt. Ein hoher Stand landwirtschaftlicher Technologie wurde erreicht, der die Konstruktion komplizierter Maschinen einschlo. Die spanische Eroberung und Ausbeutung strzten das Land und die Vlker der Anden in eine Katastrophe. Auf vielen Gebieten sind diese Tendenzen bis heute nicht korrigiert worden. Es wird untersucht, welcher Art diese schdigenden Vorgnge sind, die u.a. einschlieen: Bodenerosion, Bildung von Wasserrinnen, Fluerosion, Wasser- und Luftverschmutzung als Folge unsachgemer Abraumbeseitigung, Zerstrung der Vegetation durch Feuer, Ausbeutung der Weideflchen, Versalzung und Schdigungen der Bewsserungssysteme, der Trinkwasservorrte und des Schwemmlandes. Schlufolgerungen dieser Verffentlichung befassen sich mit den Notwendigkeiten, diese Entwicklungen rckgngig zu machen. Das Hauptproblem auer mangelndem Wissen ber kologische Systeme und soziale und konomische Handlungsweisen, liegt in der Weiterfhrung des traditionellen Grundbesitzsystems. Empfehlungen gehen dahin, eine berregionale Politik zu schaffen, deren Grundlage eine detaillierte Landklassifizierung ist, und die offizielle Verwaltungskrperschaften einsetzt, die befugt sind, Plne zur Bodennutzung durchzusetzen und gleichzeitig die Mglichkeiten fr technischen Beistand zu schaffen. /// Durante los ltimos miles de aos los Andes han estado expuestos a fuertes y persistentes procesos erosivos los cuales han producido serios deterioros en los recursos naturales renovables. Durante el perodo inca, sin embargo, el valor del suelo como recurso fundamental era apreciado. Esto condujo al desarrollo de una tecnologa agrcola de alto nivel, lo que inclua la construccin de complejos trabajos de ingeniera. Con la Conquista Espaola y la imposicin de un rgimen de explotacin, se inici un periodo de catstrofes tanto en el medio ambiente andino como en las poblaciones humanas. En muchos sectores tales tendencias no han sido an corregidas. Se examinan los tipos de procesos deteriorantes, los cuales incluyen: la erosin del suelo, erosin por abarrancamiento, erosin fluvial, contaminacin del aire y del agua debido a la mala eliminacin de los desechos de las minas, destruccin por fuego de la vegetacin natural, denudacin de las tierras por sobrepastoreo, salinizacin, deterioro de los sistemas de irrigacin, de las tierras aluviales y de las fuentes de agua potable. La monografa concluye con una evaluacin de los requisitos necesarios para corregir las tendencias actuales. Adems de la falta de un conocimiento completo de las prcticas referentes a los sistemas ecolgicos, sociales y econmicos, el problema primario se identifica como el de la mantencin del sistema tradicional de tenecia de la tierra. Se hacen recomendaciones sobre la necesidad de establecer planes de accin nacional basados en un sistema detallado de clasificacin de las tierras y el establecimiento de organismos oficiales con poder para poner en prctica la planificacin del aprovechamiento de tierras y proveer asistencia tcnica.
3674657|The main forest management strategy of Nepal, community forestry, is based on people's participation and was formally introduced in 1978. Under the community forestry structure, local people make decisions regarding forest management, utilization, and distribution of benefits from a forest; they are organized as a Community Forest User Group (CFUG). Presently, about 1 million ha of forest are under the control of about 13,000 CFUGs. The present article gives an overview of the status of community forestry and its features in Nepal and analyzes the institutional arrangements of 3 CFUGs from different parts of the country. The collective institutional arrangement is a legally supported approach in community forestry. It was found that the CFUGs have developed alternative institutional arrangements to this approach, ie private and centralized systems. As the case studies show, the practice of allocating limited use rights and protection responsibility to individual users as private property is decisive for the successful rehabilitation of degraded forests in the Churiya region. In the Terai region, centralized institutional arrangements are found to be the most appropriate option for the implementation of community forestry. In the Mid Hill region, from where community forestry originates, collective institutional arrangements are successful. These different forms of arrangement appear to be the best alternatives in the prevailing local situation. The findings suggest that various contextual factors in a community and their interaction affect the formulation of institutional arrangements. Successful groups are able to craft innovative arrangements well suited to local conditions. But common property resource models based on linear relations are not always sufficient to explain the dynamism of the interfaces between people's innovations and forest resources.
mounresedeve.30.3.266|The alpine vegetation of the Sikkim Himalaya has received limited attention despite being a part of the Eastern Himalaya global biodiversity hotspot. The current study undertaken in the third highest landscape in the world the Khangchendzonga National Park (KNP)provides information on the different alpine vegetation communities and aspects of their ecology. The transverse spurs from the unique northsouth Khangchendzonga range result in a landscape level differentiation of the Outer, Inner, and Tibetan Himalaya in just 50 km. The alpine vegetation based on numerical classification has been segregated into 11 types with the extensive ones being
90013242|Property rights and management regimes for high-elevation rangelands in Bhutan have evolved over centuries in response to environmental, cultural, and political imperatives. The 2007 Land Act of Bhutan aims to redress historical inequities in property rights by redistributing grazing leases to local livestock owners in a process known as rangeland nationalization. This study explored 3 related issues: property rights and management regimes in 3 distinct high-elevation rangeland systems, herders and government officials perceptions of the proposed rangeland nationalization process, and the implications of rangeland nationalization for herder livelihoods and sustainable development. Qualitative research methods were adopted to capture the lived experiences of 151 livestock farmers, seminomadic herders, and government officials, including 40 individual interviews and 9 focus group discussions. The research revealed that herding in these high-elevation rangelands is governed by a complex combination of private, communal, and mixed property use rights regimes. Management regimes varied according to traditional rules, but development was limited because of lack of management rights. The rangeland nationalization process is expected to promote sustainable management of high-elevation rangelands by incentivizing provisioning and maintenance activities. However, the lack of clear implementation guidelines and a coherent replacement for traditional practices have created confusion and anxiety in herder communities. Providing tenure security and management rights in an equitable manner will be vital for fostering sustainable development for herder communities living in the high-elevation rangelands of Bhutan.
mounresedeve.34.3.297|The International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) believes in a future where the mountain people of the Hindu KushHimalayas can experience enhanced livelihoods, equity, and social and environmental security; where they can adapt to environmental, socioeconomic, and climate change; and where future generations of mountain and downstream populations can enjoy the benefits and opportunities afforded by the region's natural endowment. ICIMOD is an intergovernmental center that develops and shares information and knowledge, facilitates learning, and uses innovation and effective communication to empower its eight regional member countriesAfghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan and the women, men, and children living there. ICIMOD believes that interventions are most successful when they take into account the points of view of everyone in society, regardless of gender, caste, or ethnicity. Inclusiveness is the hallmark of ICIMOD's work.
mounresedeve.32.3.313|Kyrgyzstan's vast grasslands are mountain ecosystems that provide many ecological services (such as water cycling and filtration, nutrient cycling, and soil formation) as well as economic services (such as fodder supply). During the post-Soviet transformation, pasture-related challenges arose in new forms and intensities and came to endanger the continued provision of these services. Degradation leads to a worsening shortage of grassland resources, and pasture-related conflicts jeopardize Kyrgyzstan's social integrity. Socioecological problems vary in type and intensity and cannot be explained solely in terms of excessive use by local people. This study looks at the ways in which historical preconditions, current socioeconomic conditions, laws and regulations, and administrative and management practices influence current pasture problems. We analyzed the social and ecological characteristics of diverse pastures in the walnut fruit forest region in southwestern Kyrgyzstan. This study offers an interdisciplinary approach to the establishment of socially and ecologically sustainable pasture management systems, combining social and historical research with ecological vegetation analyses.
3674578|The present article describes an experiment using the SAMBA role play game as a research tool in Bac Kan province of Vietnam, in the framework of the Mountain Agrarian Systems Program, a joint research project of the Vietnam Agricultural Science Institute, the International Rice Research Institute, the Institut de Recherche pour le Dveloppement, and the Centre de Coopration Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le Dveloppement. The role play game was a follow-up to intensive field surveys and multi-agent modeling done in the same commune. We present the game and its rules, the sequence of events during a role play session, and an analysis of the process. The results of this experiment show that role play can be a useful tool, both for validation of hypotheses about the forces behind land use change and for conducting participatory research on natural resource management.
10.2307/3673209|International law establishes duties on states to protect shared environmental resources. Presently, the environmental laws of Nepal, India, and Bangladesh offer only a minimal basis and often out-of-date regime for protecting Himalayan watershed forests and averting erosion, sedimentation, and flooding in the Ganges River basin. China's recent environmental laws offer some useful precedents to the states in the Ganges region. The most significant precedents, however, are the treaties on sharing Ganges waters currently in force between India and Nepal, and between India and Bangladesh; these treaties offer a basis for building a more advanced treaty watershed regime; the 1985 ASEAN Environmental Agreement offers models for such a regime. Only by treaty can the disparate national and local environmental laws of Bangladesh, India, and Nepal be drawn into the concerted action needed to safeguard the Ganges and its watershed. /// La loi internationale tablit les responsabilits respectives des pays en ce qui concerne la protection des ressources naturelles communes. A prsent, les lois du Npal, de l'Inde et du Bangladesh sur la protection de l'environnement n'offrent qu'une base minimale et un rgime souvent prim pour protger les forts du bassin hydrographique himalayen et viter les phnomnes d'rosion, d'accumulation de sdiments et d'inondation dans le bassin du Gange. En Chine, les lois rcentes sur la protection de l'environnement constituent des prcdents valables pour les pays situs dans la rgion du Gange. Neanmoins, les prcdents les plus importants sont les traits de partage des eaux du Gange qui sont  prsent en vigueur entre l'Inde et le Npal, et entre le Npal et le Bangladesh. Ces traits forment une base adquate pour mettre sur pied un rgime plus complet couvrant l'ensemble du bassin hydrographique; l'accord de 1985 entre les nations de l'Asie du sud-est pour la protection de l'environnement offre des modles pour un tel rgime. Seuls des traits peuvent unifier les diverses lois nationales et locales du Bangladesh, de l'Inde et du Npal et permettre une action coordonne visant  sauvegarder le Gange et son bassin hydrographique. /// Internationales Recht formuliert Richtlinien, nach denen Staaten ihre gemeinsamen Umweltressourcen schtzen. Gegenwrtig bieten die Umweltgesetze von Nepal, Indien und Bangladesh nur eine minimale Handhabe, oftmals nach veraltetem System, um die himalaischen Wlder im Wassereinzugsgebiet des Ganges' zu schtzen und Erosion, Sedimentation und berflutung einzudmmen. China's neuere Umweltgesetze offerieren einige ntzliche Przedenzflle fr die Staaten im Ganges Gebiet. Am wichtigsten sind jedoch die zur Zeit gltigen Vertrge ber die Aufteilung des Wassers im Ganges zwischen Indien und Nepal und zwischen Indien und Bangladesh. Diese Vertrge bieten sich als Ausgangspunkt fr ein verbessertes Abkommenssystem ber Wassereinzugsgebiete an. Das ASEAN Umweltabkommen von 1985 gibt Beispiele fr solch ein System. Nur durch ein Abkommen knnen Unvereinbarkeiten in nationalen und lokalen Umweltgesetzen von Bangladesh, Indien und Nepal ausgeglichen und zu einer gemeinsamen Aktion zusammengefat werden. Gemeinsames Handeln ist zum Schutz des Ganges' und seines Einzugsgebietes notwendig.
25164150|Mt Pinatubo is located on the main island of Luzon in the Philippines. Its 1991 eruption is considered one of the most powerful volcanic explosions of the 20th century. The first victims of the eruption were the Aeta indigenous communities living on the slopes of the mountain. In 1999, approximately 50,000 people were still trying to resume life on the slopes of Mt Pinatubo. Their traditional way of life has been deeply affected by the disaster, which brought changes in the indigenous cultural fabric. The present article addresses the Aetas' response to the 1991 Mt Pinatubo eruption and subsequent cultural changes, using the concept of resilience. It particularly focuses on the communities located within the 200-km Pasig and Sacobia river basins on the eastern flank of the volcano, in the immediate vicinity of the former Clark American military base. The discussion relies on extensive fieldwork conducted between July 1999 and June 2000 and complemented by additional field explorations between June and September 2001. It recommends fostering community-based disaster recovery as a way to enhance community resilience.
10.2307/3672948|Conflicts over the use of limited natural resources can be expected to increase in the 1980s. Environmental conflict management offers a range of alternative methods for resolving differences to complement the traditional adversarial process. ROMCOE is an organization that specializes in environmental conflict management and its approaches to solving problems are described with case examples of environmental disputes in the western United States. /// Il faut s'attendre  ce que les conflits concernant les ressources naturelles limites vont s'amplifier au cours des annes 80. "Matrise des Conflits affectant l'Environnement" offre une gamme de techniques pour rgler les diffrents, qui complmente le processus habituel d'opposition. ROMCOE est une organisation qui se spcialise dans la matrise des conflits affectant l'environnement et ses mthodes de rsolution de problmes sont illustres par des exemples rels de contestation sur l'environnement, dans l'Ouest des Etats-Unis. /// Die Nutzung der begrenzten Naturschtze wird in den 80er Jahren hufiger zu Konflikten fhren. Die Lsung solcher Streitfragen kann auf verschiedenen Wegen herbeigefhrt werden - es mu nicht unbedingt die blich feindselige Methode sein. Die Organisation ROMCOE hat sich auf die Lsung von Umweltkonflikten spezialisiert und ihr Anpacken solcher Probleme wird an Beispielen aus den westlichen USA beschrieben.
10.2307/3673700|This study was a part of a larger project that focused on pollution caused by the combustion of biofuels. It examined the role of time allocation studies in assessing energy and environmental problems in three villages in Pauri District of Garhwal Himalaya. These problems relate to the extensive use of biomass and the consequent effects on human health. Baseline data were obtained to test the validity of commonly-held hypotheses relating to time allocation and fuel usage. Method of recall was used to study how people allocate time to various tasks in six important indoor and outdoor micro-environments. Comparisons between four population groups (men, women, youths, and children) showed that women spend more time in activities related to collection of fuelwood and fodder (4-6 hours) than other duties. Domestic activities account for 10-12 hours each day. Time spent in cooking, measured by stopwatch, was considerably less than that reported by women in a questionnaire. Fuel usage patterns were measured. The average per capita per meal fuel consumption was 0.30 kg; consumption was higher in the monsoon and winter seasons. Average cooking time and fuel consumption decreased with altitude. /// Cette tude fait partie d'un plus gros projet portant sur la pollution produite par la combustion de biocarburants. Elle examine le rle des tudes d'allocation du temps pour l'valuation des problmes d'nergie et d'environnement dans trois villages du district de Pauri dans le Garhwal Himalaya. Ces problmes sont lis  l'utilisation extensive de la biomasse et aux effets qui s'ensuivent pour la sant humaine. Des donnes de base ont t collectes en vue de tester la validit des hypothses gnralement acceptes en ce qui concerne l'allocation du temps et l'utilisation de combustible. La mthode d'vocation a t utilise pour tudier la manire dont les habitants allouent le temps  diffrentes tches dans six micro-environnements importants,  l'intrieur et  l'extrieur. Des comparaisons entre quatre groupes (hommes, femmes, adolescents et enfants) ont montr que les femmes consacrent plus de temps aux activits lies au ramassage du bois de chauffage et de fourrage (4  6 heures) qu' d'autres tches. Les activits domestiques prennent de 10  12 heures par jour. Le temps effectivement consacr  la cuisine, mesur au chronomtre, est nettement moindre que celui indiqu par les femmes dans un questionnaire. Les modes d'utilisation de combustible ont t mesurs. La consommation moyenne de combustible par personne et par repas est de 0,30 kg; la consommation est plus leve en hiver ou en priode de mousson. Le temps de cuissson moyen et la consommation de combustible diminue avec l'altitude. /// Diese Untersuchung war Teil eines umfassenderen Projekts, bei dem die Luftverschmutzung, die durch Verbrennung von Biomaterial entsteht, im Mittelpunkt stand. Besonders die Rolle, die Zeiteinteilung bei der Bewertung von Energie- und Umweltproblemen in drei Drfern des Pauri Distrikts im Garwhal Himalaya spielt, wurde untersucht. Diese Probleme entstehen durch die weitverbreitete Verwendung von Biomasse als Brennmaterial, was Konsequenzen fr die Gesundheit hat. Bezugsdaten wurden eingeholt, die die Gltigkeit gngiger Hypothesen in Bezug auf die Zeiteinteilung und den Brennmaterialverbrauch berprften. Bei Umfragen wurde untersucht, an welche Zeiteinteilung fr die Verrichtung von Aufgaben in sechs wichtigen micro-Umwelten im Haus und im Freien man sich erinnerte. Vergleiche zwischen vier Bevlkerungsgruppen (Mnner, Frauen, Jugendliche und Kinder) ergaben, da Frauen die meiste Zeit fur das Sammeln von Brennmaterial und Viehfutter aufwenden (4-6 Stunden). Die huslichen Aktivitten nahmen insgesamt taglich 10 bis 12 Stunden in Anspruch. Die Zeit, die man zum Kochen brauchte-durch eine Stopuhr berwacht-war jedoch bedeutend krzer als Frauen in einem Fragebogen angegeben hatten. Der Verbrauch an Brennmaterial wurde gemessen. Die durchschnittliche pro Kopf Menge fur die Zubereitung einer Mahlzeit betrug 0,3 kg und nahm whrend der Monsun-und Wintersaison zu. Mit zunehmender Hhenlage verringerte sich im Durchschnitt der Zeitaufwand beim Kochen und der Bernnmaterialverbrauch.
mounresedeve.32.1.62|Mountain springs emanating naturally from unconfined aquifers are the primary source of water for rural households in the Himalayan region. Due to the impacts of climate change on precipitation patterns such as rise in rainfall intensity, reduction in its temporal spread, and a marked decline in winter rain, coupled with other anthropogenic causes, the problem of dying springs is being increasingly felt across this region. This study was taken up in the Sikkim Himalaya, which has received limited attention despite being a part of the Eastern Himalaya global biodiversity hot spot. The objective of this study was to understand the basic characteristics of the springs and to demonstrate methods for reviving them. We found the rural landscape dotted by a network of microsprings occurring largely in farmers' fields, with an average dependency of 27 (30) households per spring. The spring discharge generally showed an annual periodic rhythm suggesting a strong response to rainfall. The mean discharge of the springs was found to peak at 51 L/min during the postmonsoon months (SeptemberNovember) and then diminish to 8 L/min during spring (MarchMay). The lean period (MarchMay) discharge is perceived to have declined by nearly 50% in drought-prone areas and by 35% in other areas over the last decade. The springshed development approach to revive 5 springs using rainwater harvesting and geohydrology techniques showed encouraging results, with the lean period discharge increasing substantially from 4.4 to 14.4 L/min in 20102011. The major challenges faced in springshed development were the following: identifying recharge areas accurately, developing local capacity, incentivizing rainwater harvesting in farmers' fields, and sourcing public financing. We recommend further action research studies to revive springs to advance the outcomes of this pilot study and mainstreaming of springshed development in watershed development, rural water supply, and climate change adaptation programs, especially in the Himalayan region.
10.2307/3673513|The agricultural system at Tinjipaka, at 2,400-2,500 m in the Marient valley, is described in detail. Severe losses were suffered in the frosts of 1972. The manner in which production recovered is then followed to 1976, with interruption due to new frosts in the latter year. It is argued that the system is structured to adapt to such hazard, containing at all times a reservoir of food. Migration is only one of the responses within the system, and preparation for 'recovery' is built into the manner in which food production is continuously organized. /// Le systme agraire de Tinjipaka,  2.400-2.500 m dans la valle de Marient, est dcrit en dtail. D'normes pertes ont rsult des fortes geles de 1972. Cet article fait un suivi de la manire dont la production agricole s'est rtablie, jusqu'en 1976, avec une interruption cause par de nouvelles geles au cours des annes suivantes. L'hypothse est avance que le systme est structur de manire  faire face  un tel pril, et qu'une certaine quantit de nourriture est continuellement garde en rserve. La migration ne constitue que l'une des rponses dont le systme est capable, et la prparation pour le 'rtablissement' est intgre dans la manire dont la production agricole est organise. /// Das landwirtschaftliche System von Tinjipaka, im Marient Tal in einer Hhe von 2.400m bis 2.500m gelegen, wird detailliert beschrieben. Whrend der Klteperiode von 1972 wurden schwere Ernteeinbuen erlitten. Fr die folgenden Jahre wird bis 1976, wo erneuter Frost auftrat, verfolgt, wie sich die Produktion erholte. Es wird argumentiert, da das System fr solche Gefhrdungen anpassungsfhig ist, dadurch, da ausreichende Nahrungsmittelvorrte angelegt werden. Da die Nahrungsmittelproduktion kontinuierlich gesichert ist, fllt der Migration nur eine untergeordnete Rolle bei der Regeneration des Systems zu.
10.2307/3673120|The Andean mountain chain is the longest on earth, extending north-south from tropical to cold-temperate latitudes. This high land-mass has a great diversity of climatic, geomorphic, floral, and faunal elements on both macro- and micro-scales. By responding to opportunities offered by the various ecosystems, human populations have acquired a wealth of environmental knowledge and have developed an unusual complexity of adaptive mechanisms. This paper traces the history of Andean populations from the nomadic hunting and gathering stage of fourteen thousand years ago through Inca imperial and Spanish colonial times to the present day. It examines the impacts of high-altitude stress, especially hypoxia and low temperature, and discusses human physiological adaptations and cultural and socio-economic development. Recent imposition of external values, the influence of cash economies, and the current dramatic growth in population, have placed both peoples and their environments under increasing pressure. Time-tested practices of exploitation are threatened. The accumulation of indigenous environmental knowledge can be lost as extensive migration movements have developed and values have changed. This presentation is intended to provide the human physiological and demographic basis upon which urgently needed applied research can be formulated. /// La Cordillre des Andes est la plus longue chane de montagnes du monde; elle s'tend des latitudes tropicales jusqu'aux latitudes tempres froides, du Nord vers le Sud. Cette haute masse terrestre prsente une grande varit de climats, de gomorphologies, de flores et de faunes, sur les macro- et micro-plans. En exploitant les possibilits offertes par les divers cosystmes, les populations humaines ont accumul une connaissance trs tendue de l'environnement, et ont dvelopp un systme complexe et tonnant de mcanismes d'adaptation. Cette communication retrace l'histoire des populations andines, commenant il y a quatorze mille ans avec l're de la chasse nomade et de l'accumulation, passant par l'poque impriale Inca et la colonisation Espagnole, et aboutissant  l'poque actuelle. Elle examine l'impact des contraintes lies  l'altitude, telles que l'hypoxia, et aux basses tempratures, et discute l'adaptation physiologique humaine ainsi que le dveloppement socio-conomique et humain. L'imposition rcente de valeurs importes, l'influence de l'conomie numraire, et l'augmentation rapide de la population actuelle, contribuent toutes  l'augmentation de la pression sur les individus et sur l'environnement. Les pratiques d'exploitation valides par le temps sont maintenant menaces. La connaissance indigne de l'environnement qui a t accumule est en passe de se perdre au fur et  mesure que les mouvements migratoires s'tendent et que les valeurs se modifient. Cette prsentation vise  offrir une base de physiologie humaine et de dmographie  partir de laquelle la recherche applique, dont le besoin est urgent, pourra tre formule. /// Die Gebirgskette der Anden ist die lngste der Welt, sie erstreckt sich in Nord- Sd Richtung von tropischen bis zu gemigt kalten Breiten. Diese hochgelegene Landmasse hat makro- und mikroskopische Vielfalt im Klima, in der geologischen Form, sowie in Flora und Fauna. Die Bevlkerung hat eine Flle von Umweltwissen erworben und eine ungewhnliche Vielfalt an Anpassungsmechanismen entwickelt als Reaktion auf die Mglichkeiten, die sich durch verschiedene kosysteme ergeben. Diese Verffentlichung verfolgt die Geschichte der Andenvlker von der Zeit vor 14 000 Jahren, als sie jagende und sammelnde Nomaden waren durch die Zeit des Inkareiches und der spanischen Kolonialherrschaft bis zur Gegenwart. Es werden die Auswirkungen des Hhenstress', vor allem der Hhenkrankheit und der Tieftemperaturbelastung untersucht, und die physiologische Anpassung als kulturelle, gesellschaftliche und konomische Entwicklung diskutiert. Die Aufbrdung von ueren Wertmastben in jngster Vergangenheit, der Einflu der Geld-Wirtschaft und die gegenwrtie Bevlkerungsexplosion haben die Menschen und ihre Umwelt unter immer strker werdenden Druck gesetzt. Bewhrte Praktiken der Ausnutzung der natrlichen Gegebenheiten sind in Gefahr. Der einheimische Wissensschatz kann verlorengehen, da groe Vlkerbewegungen eingesetzt haben und Wertmastbe sich vernderten. In dieser Darstellung werden physiologische und demographische Grundlagen geliefert, mit deren Hilfe die dringend notwendige angewandte Forschung detailliert werden kann. /// La cadena montaosa de los Andes es la ms larga de la tierra y se extiende de norte a sur, desde las latitudes tropicales hasta las templadas-fras. Esta alta masa de tierra tiene una gran diversidad de elementos climticos, geomorfos, de flora y de fauna, tanto en la macro-escala como en la micro. Respondiendo a las oportunidades que ofrecen los diversos sistemas ecolgicos, las poblaciones humanas han adquirido una gran riqueza de conocimientos del medio ambiente y han desarrollado una excepcional complejidad de mecanismos de adaptacin. Este ensayo traza la historia de las poblaciones andinas, desde los nmades cazadores y recolectores de hace catorce mil aos, pasando por el imperio inca y el perodo colonial espaol, hasta nuestros das. Examina el impacto de las tensiones en las grandes altitudes, especialmente la hipoxia y la baja temperatura, y discute las adaptaciones fisiolgicas humanas y el desarrollo cultural y socio-econmico. La imposicin reciente de valores externos, la influencia de las economas monetaristas y el actual crecimiento dramtico de la poblacin ha sometido a los seres humanos y a su medio ambiente a una presin creciente. Las prcticas de explotacin establecidas a lo largo del tiempo, se ven amenazadas. La acumulacin de los conocimientos indgenas del medio ambiente, pueden perderse con los extensos movimientos migratorios que se han producido y con el cambio de los valores que ha tenido lugar. Esta introduccin se propone ofrecer las bases de fisiologa humana y demogrfica sobre las cuales puedan formularse las investigaciones aplicadas que se necesitan con urgencia.
3674637|China has a great variety of altitudinal belts due to its size, its numerous high mountains, and the dynamic and thermal effects of the immense Tibetan Plateau. 63 altitudinal belts-31 of which can be called "base belts" as they correspond to the basic climatic regimes at the foot of mountains-have been identified, and a standardized and hierarchized classification for the climatic regimes is outlined. The other 32 altitudinal belts occur in various combinations above the base belts, constituting "spectra" that characterize specific mountain locations throughout the country. Spatial patterns of altitudinal belts are generalized into 6 patterns: the monostructural, flattening structure, exposure-dependent, stepwise-rising, abnormal, and Tibetan complex patterns. Traditional GIS techniques have difficulties dealing with altitudinal belts and their vertical combination or spectra. To tackle this complexity, a data model for altitudinal belts and their spectra was devised. Using ArcGIS 8.3 software, the authors also developed a GIS user interface that makes it possible to digitally integrate, position and visualize altitudinal belts and their spectra throughout China. A total of 239 spectra have been collated to date. This user interface makes it possible to rapidly query the geographical and vertical distribution of altitudinal belts, climatic regimes and spectra in any region of China. It thus provides a solid basis for further analysis of altitudinal belts and their relationship with environmental factors, and could be a key technical basis for integrating and systematizing altitudinal belts worldwide.
10.2307/3673637|A study was carried out to determine forage availability, grazing routines and densities, and impact of grazing in two catchments occupied by forests and grasslands between 2,000 and 3,500 m at Cumbres Calchaquies in the province of Tucuman, a mountain region of northwest Argentina. The herders' strategy consists of spatial and temporal dispersions that take advantage of the heterogeneous and seasonal distribution of fodder resources. Yet this system does not prevent the concentration of herds in a few places where especially good grazing is available. In these locations the erosive processes are closely associated with grazing, whereas elsewhere the eroded surfaces appear to be a consequence of natural processes. Erosion caused by grazing and the impact on nearby low-lying areas is discussed. Traditional pastoralism should be viewed in a historical, economic, and socio-cultural context, and peasant communities should be involved in the decision-making process. /// Une tude a t mene pour dterminer la disponibilit du fourrage, les modes et densits du pturage et l'impact du pturage sur deux bassins hydrographiques couverts de forts et de prairies, situs entre 2.000 et 3.500 m au Cumbres Calchaquies dans la province de Tucumn, une rgion montagneuse du Nord-Ouest de l'Argentine. La stratgie des bergers consiste  disperser le pturage dans l'espace et le temps de manire  profiter de la distribution htrogne et saisonnire des ressources en fourrage. Ce systme n'vite malheureusement pas la concentration de troupeaux aux endroits o un excellent pturage est disponible. A ces endroits, les processus d'rosion sont troitement lis au pturage, alors qu'en d'autres endroits, les surfaces rodes semblent dcouler de processus naturels. Le pastoralisme traditionnel doit donc tre examin dans son contexte historique, conomique et socio-culturel et les communauts paysannes doivent participer  la prise de dcision. /// In Cumbres Calchaqies in der Tucuman Provinz, einem gebirgigen Gebiet im Nordwesten Argentiniens, wurde eine Erosionsstudie durchgefhrt. Viehfutterpotential, Weidegewohnheiten und -hufigkeiten, sowie Weideschden wurden in zwei Wassereinzugsgebieten, die mit Wald und Grasflchen bewachsen sind und zwischen 2.000 m und 3.500 m Hhe liegen, untersucht. Die Weidegewohnheiten der Hirten fhren zu rumlicher und zeitlicher Aufteilungen, um unterschiedliche und saisonbedingte Verteilungen der Futterquellen zu nutzen. Diese Methode verhindert jedoch nicht, da die Herden sich an den wenigen guten Weidepltzen konzentrieren. An diesen Stellen hngt die Erosion eindeutig mit dem Weiden zusammen, whrend Erosionsschden in anderen Gebieten natrlichen Ursprungs sind. Traditionelle Weidewirtschaft sollte in einem historischen, konomischen und sozio-kulturellen Zusammenhang gesehen werden, und die buerlichen Gemeinden sollten an den damit zusammenhngenden Beschluprozessen beteiligt werden. /// En un cordn montaoso del noroeste de Argentina (las Cumbres Calchaquies en la provincia de Tucumn) se analizan las prcticas de pastoreo de poblaciones campesinas transhumantes, y la relacin de las mismas con el impacto ambiental. A fin de indagar sobre el papel del pastoreo tradicional en la generacin de procesos erosivos. Dos cuencas ocupadas por bosques y pastizales (2,000 a 3,500 m) son utilizadas como lugares de estudio intensivo, donde se caracterizan unidades ambientales, oferta de forraje, prcticas de uso, capacidad e impacto del pastoreo. La estategia utilizada por los pastores se compone de dispersiones espaciales y temporales para aprovechar la distribucin heterognea y estracional del recurso forrajero. Pero, debido a las caracteristicas de los animales, la prctica de dispersin no puede evitar la concentracin del ganado en pocos lugares de alta capacidad para el pastoreo. En estos lugares los procesos erosivos generados estn estrechamente ligados al pastoreo, mientras que el resto de las superficies erosionadas parecen estar ms relacionadas a procesos de erosin natural. Finalmente, se discute en qu medida la erosin por pastoreo contribuye al impacto sobre las reas bajas adyacentes, y una visin del sistema tradicional de manejo como respuesta a contextos socio-culturales y econmicos globales, donde las soluciones para disminuir el impacto requieren el protagonismo de la cultura pastoral.
mounresedeve.33.1.51|The present article focuses on the distribution of Pinus mugo under conditions in the central Tatra Mountains, the main mountain range of the Western Carpathians. We analyze the response of P. mugo distribution to selected abiotic habitat conditions in the eastern Tatra Mountains. The study also compares data on the distribution of P. mugo in the higher central Tatras and in the hills of the western Tatras published in previous studies. The source data for this study were aerial photographs from 3 periods (1955, 1986, and 2002). Mountain areas covered by mountain pine were identified and analyzed by ArcGIS 10, and pine fields were classified with the help of the gray scale mode. A strip of mountain pine above the upper limit of the forest represents an easily identifiable boundary on the aerial photographs: 25 wellrecognized localities were selected to examine the changes in the tree line in the eastern Tatras. The distribution of mountain pine increased in the central granite and eastern limestone Tatra Mountains from 1955 to 2002 at all monitored sites. The percentage of total surface area covered in P. mugo increased from 28.11% in 1955 to 34.74% in 1986 and to 39.01% in 2002. The study also analyzes the dispersal of mountain pine over 40 years in relation to elevation, slope, radiation aspect, flow accumulation, and vertical and horizontal curvature. The results of this study explain ongoing vegetation changes and are of importance as a contribution to monitoring of climate change in the mid-European mountain areas.
mounresedeve.33.3.225|In times of increasing uncertainty because of climate and socioeconomic changes, the ability to deal with uncertainty and surprise is an essential requirement for the sustainability of alpine water governance. This article aims to contribute to the understanding of the adaptive capacity of water governance arrangements in the Swiss Alps and to propose options for reforms. To this purpose, we evaluated the current arrangements and the ways the actors have dealt with water shortages in the past, based on qualitative interviews and a document review. The research revealed that the adaptive capacity of the investigated arrangements is rather high with regard to reactive ways of responding to water shortage problems. However, there is limited capacity to proactively anticipate possible changes and to find prospective solutions on a regional scale. We conclude that with increased environmental and social pressures, forms of proactive water resource governance should be introduced, taking into account the welfare of people in both upstream and downstream areas.
10.2307/3673748|This paper discusses the altitudinal distribution of bioclimatic zones and of population in Tajikistan, particularly the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region (GBAR). An empirical classification of bioclimate, the Bioclimatic Index of Severity of Climatic Regime (BISCR), is described and illustrated. It is noted that while discomfort that is due to temperature and wind can be offset by clothing and housing, this is not possible for atmospheric pressure which affects oxygen intake and is a permanent condition. The availability of medical services and adequacy of health care standards in the GBAR, which may limit economic development of the region, are also discussed. /// Cet article examine la rpartition altitudinale des zones bioclimatiques et de la population dans le Tadjikistan, en particulier la rgion autonome du Gorno-Badakhshan. Une classification empirique des bioclimats, l'index bioclimatique de la rigueur du rgime climatologique (BISCR) est dcrit et illustr. Alors que le manque de confort d  la temprature et au vent peut tre compens par les vtements et les habitations, cela n'est pas possible pour la pression atmosphrique qui affecte la consommation d'oxygne et constitue un tat permanent. La disponibilit de services mdicaux et la qualit de la sant publique de la rgion autonome du Gorno-Badakhshan, facteurs pouvant limiter le dveloppement conomique, est galement examine. Diese Verffenlichung diskutiert am Beispiel des autonomen Gebietes von Gorno-Badakhshan (GBAR) in Tadshikistan die hhenbezogene Verteilung von bioklimatischen Zonen und der Bevlkerung. Eine empirische Klassifikation des Bioklimas mittels BISCR (Bioclimatic Index of Severity of Climatological Regime) wird beschrieben und erlutert. Es ist bekannt, da durch Temperature und Wind hervorgerufene krperliche Belastungen mit entsprechender Kleidung und Behausung ausgeglichen werden knnen; diese Anpassung entfllt beim verminderten Luftdruck, der permanent die Sauerstoffaufnahme beeintrchtigt. Daneben werden die Verfgbarkeit medizinischer Dienste und die Qualitt der medizinischen Versorgung in der GBAR im Hinblick auf Faktoren diskutiert, die die konomische Entwicklung in diesem Begiet beeintrchtingen knnten. ///             -    ().       ,     -    (). ,                 ,       ,     ,   .            -      ,      .
3674467|Commercial utilization of inland fish resources can constitute an important addition to other economic activities in rural communities. Based on a case study of commercial whitefish fishery in Lake Femund, a mountain lake in southeastern Norway, this article outlines experience gained and indicates some of the general problems related to this type of economic activity. They concern aspects such as resource biology, product development and marketing, economic management, and staff recruitment. An initial hypothesis of the study was that commercial fishery would have a significant impact on the whitefish stock, causing fluctuations in yield and consequent variations in the economy of the fishery. Therefore, the study included an analysis of marketing possibilities for whitefish products, as well as of the social and socioeconomic conditions sustaining whitefish fishery in the local community. Nearly 20 years of data show that commercial fishery in Lake Femund, with a yield of up to 1 kg per ha, has a low to moderate exploitation rate. Thus, fishery itself does not generate fluctuations in the fish population that would influence yields. The major restrictions on the enterprise are related to other aspects, such as problems of economic and technical management of this specialized small-scale industry, difficulties in the recruitment of fishermen to a short-season fishery in a time when the employment pattern in the community is changing from seasonal activities in agriculture to full-time employment in manufacturing and services, and the challenge of developing and marketing competitive products for a niche market.
3674318|Tourism has been part of the mountain economy in Sweden for the past century. With the current decline of the extractive industries in this rural area, tourism is taking on new significance for many communities. This article gives an overview of tourism in the extensive Swedish mountain region, with a focus on types of recreational activities and their regionality. The data presented are based on a national sample of participation in mountain tourism. Findings show that 43% of the Swedish adult population (2.66 million individuals) visited the mountains at least once during a 5-year period (1995-1999). Winter activities-skiing and snowmobiling-were the dominant forms of mountain recreation. Tourism activity patterns differ distinctively across the 4 mountain counties: whereas winter tourism dominates in the southern parts of the region, the north receives visitors mostly in the summer. Only 5% of visitors to the Swedish mountains are from outside Scandinavia. In a single year, 9 times as many people visited the Swedish mountains as live there, but despite these numbers the population in the region is continually decreasing.
3674462|This paper examines various ways in which mountains can be defined for Southern Africa (Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland), and South Africa in particular, by using harmonized topographic, vegetation and cultural digital data within a Geographic Information System (GIS). A particular topographic model is finally selected. This definition is then applied to the South African national context to identify the socioeconomic characteristics of its mountainous areas, in particular with regard to poverty indicators. These areas are identified as having distinctive characteristics when compared with metropolitan areas and, more importantly, with non-mountain rural areas. This observation has important political implications, as mountains currently have a very low visibility in regional and social policy.
mounresedeve.30.3.259|Cultural diversity in remote mountain regions is closely linked to biodiversity, as there is a symbiotic relationship between habitats and cultures, and between ecosystems and cultural identity; indeed, religious rules and rituals often strengthen this relationship and are characterized by a conservation ethic. The present paper presents an analysis of information collected from knowledgeable members of mountain communities in the State of Uttarakhand, Central Himalaya. The data collected are analyzed within the framework of traditional knowledge-based systems (TKBS) methodology, using the conservation purpose of rules and practices as a means of typifying the information on sacred natural sites (forests/groves, pastures, water bodies), on the phenomenon of dedicating forests to a deity, on the inherent taboos regarding resource exploitation, and on other traditional beliefs and customs, in order to understand the environmental and conservationist implications of these rules and practices. The analysis shows that the cultural precepts of remote Uttarakhand mountain communities can be considered a precondition for sustainable development. In fact, the association of religion with ecosystem management is inherent in traditional Himalayan communities' culture; one cannot think of ecological systems in the Himalaya without religion. However, this knowledge and related conservation rules need to be strengthened in the face of current change.
10.2307/3673607|The outmigration that has taken place in the Central Pyrenees since the 1950s has resulted in a great reduction in the rural population and the abandonment of extensive areas. Reforestation has been undertaken by various authorities to ensure the reclamation of this land. This paper discusses the recent history of reforestation, the techniques used, and the environmental factors involved. It concludes with an overview of the results of these policies and the success in creating new forested land. /// L'migration que s'est produite dans les Pyrnes centrales depuis les annes 1950 a provoqu une baisee importante de la population rurale et l'abandon de grandes tendues de terrain. Le reboisement a t entrepris par divers organismes pour assurer la mise en valeur de ces terres. Cet article examine l'historique rcent du reboisement, les techniques utilises, et les facteurs environnementaux mis en jeu. Il conclut en passant en revue les rsultats de cette politique et la mesure dans laquelle celle-ci a russi a crer de nouvelles forts. /// Seit den 50er Jahren fhrt Abwanderung in den Zentral-pyrenen zu einem starken Rckgang in der Landbevlkerungszahl, und ausgedehnte Landgebiete wurden verlassen. Zur Rckgewinnung dieser Landflchen haben verschiedene Behrden Anstrengungen zur Aufforstung bernommen. Dieser Beitrag diskutiert neuere Entwicklungen bei der Aufforstung, die dabei angewandten Methoden und die zu bercksichtigenden Umweltfaktoren. Eine Prognose ber die Ergebnisse solcher Unternehmungen und ihre Erfolgschancen bei der Schaffung neuer Waldflchen wird gegeben. /// Desde la dcada de los cincuenta, el inicio de la ms acusada emigracin, redujo la poblacin rural y con ella el abandono de las reas de utilizacin ms extensiva. Para asegurar la restauracin del territorio vaco, diversos tipos de administracin tomaron a su cargo la referida tarea. En el presente estudio, se relata la historia reciente de dicha labor de reforestacin, las tcnicas utilizadas y los factores ambientales implicados. Se concluye con una revisin de resultadoes referidos a dicha poltica y comentando los logros en la ejecucin de tal labor de repoblacin forestal.
3674053|The recently established Kanchenjunga Conservation Area Project (KCAP)-jointly managed by the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation (DNPWC) and World Wildlife Fund (WWF)-is based on the principles of the new participatory concept of nature conservation. The main objectives are to protect the unique environment of the Kanchenjunga region and to help local communities improve their standard of living. This study focuses on existing livelihood strategies and local institutions as well as on the local population's perception of the participatory approach. A theoretical consideration of the different concepts of nature and conservation is regarded as helpful in understanding locally observed processes. The results show wide diversification in the economic system that contributes to sustaining livelihood. Various local institutions have established governance over particular resources. With regard to the KCAP, it became obvious that nearly all interviewees had expectations that went far beyond the intended and economically feasible potential of the project. This is largely because they do not entirely comprehend the principal aim of "conservation." On the other hand, most of the local people believe that conservation of nature is necessary in their region and that it is only possible through a joint effort made by everyone in the community.
10.2307/3673269|A review of the archaeological literature concerning the island of New Guinea indicates that Highlands sites are the oldest so far discovered. The reasons for the settlement of these Highlands by early Melanesian colonists are discussed. Despite cool-to-cold climatic conditions prevailing in the region during the late Pleistocene, it is postulated that the Highlands were permanently settled by humans prior to 25,000 BP. This may have been made possible by the discovery and exploitation of a rich environment (flora and fauna), particularly along swamp margins of major valley floors. As a result of this, a local form of agriculture may have been established within the Highlands which was independent from events in the Lowlands. This development may have been localized first around swamplands; the agricultural areas became specific centres of production which gave rise to the socio-economic mosaic of Highland groups as observed by European explorers after 1933. /// L'examen de la littrature sur l'archologie de la Nouvelle-Guine rvle que parmi les sites dcouverts jusqu' prsent, les plus anciens se trouvent dans les rgions montagneuses. Les raisons pour lesquelles les premiers colons mlansiens se sont tablis dans ces rgions sont passes en revue. Il est postul que malgr le climat frais ou mme froid qui y rgnait pendant le Plistocne rcent, ces rgions se sont peuples en permanence il y a au moins 25.000 ans. Cet tat de fait est probablement d  la dcouverte et  exploitation d'un milieu naturel riche (flore et faune), en particulier le long des rives marcageuses dans les valles les plus importantes. En consquence, une forme particulire d'agriculture pourrait s'y tre dveloppe indpendamment de ce qui se passait dans les plaines. Au dpart, les zones agricoles se sont probablement implantes autour des marcages, et sont devenues des centres des centres de production qui ont donn naissance  la mosaque de systmes socio-conomiques rencontre par les europens aprs 1933. /// Eine Studie archologischer Literatur ber die Insel Neu-Guinea zeigt, da die Siedlungsgebiete im Hochland die ltesten sind, die bisher entdeckt wurden. Die Grnde fr die Besiedelung dieser Hochebenen durch frhe melanesische Ansiedler werden diskutiert. Trotz khler bis kalter klimatischer Bedingungen, die in diesem Gebiet whrend des spten Pleistozn herrschten, wird angenommen, da die Hochebenen vor 25.000 Jahren permanent besiedelt waren. Dies knnte durch die Entdeckung und Ausnutzung einer reichhaltigen Umwelt (Flora + Fauna), besonders am Rande von Sumpfgebieten in greren Talsohlen, ermglicht worden sein. Daraus mag sich eine ortsspezifische Landwirtschaftsform in den Hochlanden entwickelt haben, die von Ereignissen im Flachland unabhngig war. Diese Entwicklung mag sich zuerst auf Sumpfgebiete beschrnkt haben. Landwirtschaftlich genutzte Gebiete wurden zu typischen Produktionszentren, die-so haben es europische Entdecker nach 1933 beobachtet-zu der sozio-konomischen Vielgestaltigkeit der Bevlkerungsgruppen im Hochland fhrte.
mounresedeve.36.1.15|Knowledge of farmers' perceptions of and adaptations to climate change is important to inform policies addressing the risk of climate change to farmers. This case study explored those issues in the Melamchi Valley of Nepal through a survey of 365 households and focus group discussions in 6 communities using a Community-Based Risk Screening ToolAdaptation and Livelihoods (CRiSTAL). Analysis of climate trends in the study area for 19792009 showed that mean annual temperatures rose by 1.02C and the frequency of drought increased measurably after 2003. Farmers reported increases in crop pests, hailstorms, landslides, floods, thunderstorms, and erratic precipitation as climate-related hazards affecting agriculture. They responded in a variety of ways including changing farming practices, selling livestock, milk, and eggs, and engaging in daily wage labor and seasonal labor migration. With more efficient support and planning, some of these measures could be adjusted to better meet current and future risks from climate change.
3674410|The treeless desertlike environments of southern Tibet are assumed to be naturally unsuitable for forests. Yet, climatic conditions do allow for the growth of indigenous trees in Lhasa and many parts of southern Tibet, even where there is no high groundwater table or irrigation. This was discovered and proven in a Sino-German research project launched in 1997. The project made an inventory of forest relics, correlated residual tree stands with climatic data, and successfully cultivated nonirrigated indigenous junipers and cypresses. The eroded semidesert landscape of southern Tibet appears to have a huge potential for reforestation. The area with a potential for tree growth was investigated using the Geographical Information System known as GRASS (Geographical Resource Analysis Support System). Reforestation measures could meet the heavy demand for timber and firewood, help combat erosion on overgrazed slopes, and restore the degraded pastures. Grazing must be excluded on reforestation plots. Simultaneously, rangelands may regenerate after overgrazing. The optimum duration of the ungrazed period varies with altitude, humidity, soil conditions, and the degree of degradation. Successional trends observed on exclosure plots suggest that the drier the climate and the lower the initial degree of herbaceous vegetation cover, the longer the ungrazed period will be beneficial for pasture regeneration. Challenges in research and practice resulting from these preliminary results are highlighted.
mounresedeve.29.3.282|The Carpathian Mountains in Europe are a biodiversity hot spot; harbor many relatively undisturbed ecosystems; and are still rich in seminatural, traditional landscapes. Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, the Carpathians have experienced widespread land use change, affecting biodiversity and ecosystem services. Climate change, as an additional driver, may increase the effect of such changes in the future. Based on a workshop organized by the Science for the Carpathians network, this paper reviews the current status of global change research in the Carpathians, identifies knowledge gaps, and suggests avenues for future research.
3674048|The poverty-stricken mountain areas in South Central China face many challenges on the road to sustainable development in the 21st century. Great progress has been made in alleviating poverty in the past decade: while 15 million people in these areas suffered from extreme poverty in 1989, this number decreased to about 6 million by 1996. Cereal production during the same period increased from 50 to 397 kg per capita. But to break away from poverty and raise the standard of living, the region must now enter a new stage of development. It needs to benefit from the transition taking place from a planned economy to a market economy, especially with respect to new domestic market conditions. There is also a need to raise awareness of the requirements for sustainable development strategies in mountain areas. This will involve industrialization of agriculture, increasing the quality of products in the primary and secondary sectors, developing the service sector, improving infrastructure for transport and trade, and letting the market determine resource use rather than vice versa. The following introduction to the region and its problems is complemented by recommendations for enhancement of economic strategies in the mountain areas shared by Chongqing Municipality and the provinces of Hubei, Hunan, and Guizhou and linked by the Yangtze and its tributaries.
mounresedeve.33.2.152|Individuals' perceptions are becoming increasingly relevant as a central component of social and environmental sustainability. As a result, the social dimension has become a fundamental element of sustainable forest management. To investigate people's perceptions of forest management, it is necessary to analyze values and norms in the social and cultural context and, at the same time, to consider individual preferences for forest management strategies. Trento municipality in northeast Italy was chosen as a study area because of its location in the European Alpine region and because of the links that exist between individuals and forest resources. A structured questionnaire was sent to 1000 randomly selected household heads. Responses were analyzed, taking into consideration the relationship between perceptions and respondents' gender, age, education, and geographical location; this allowed highlighting of statistical differences between groups. Results confirmed the importance of gender, age, and location in influencing individuals' preferences. Results also showed that people generally prefer open forests with mixed tree species and different sizes, which is in line with the goals of the local public forest service's management strategies.
25578205|As development and population increase, efficient use and management of water in mountain watersheds is of growing concern in Asia. The work presented in this article applied hydro-meteorological monitoring and participatory action research on water availability to improve water management in Xizhuang watershed in Yunnan Province, China. With an area of 34.56 km and a population of 4501, Xizhuang watershed is typical of the watersheds in the middle mountains that feed the Salween River. Although this catchment provides plentiful water (rainfall and runoff), the temporal and spatial distribution of this supply is uneven. Together with uneven distribution, major issues include water shortages for irrigation, domestic use, and livestock; poor water quality; and conflicts among different stakeholders. To improve sustainable use and conservation, this paper suggests developing integrated water resource management and water harvest technology.
10.2307/3673337|In temperate-zone mountains, intensive grazing by goats and sheep has been a major cause of the slow degradation of forests and of soil erosion. This paper discusses the role of the British administrators who, from 1850 until Independence, attempted to control and later restrict grazing by Gaddi herds in order to foster the natural regeneration of trees. In an attempt to stabilize and extend agriculture the pre-British land tenure system was codified and tensions arose between peasants and shepherds over the control of non-agricultural land and grazing rights. With the construction of railways and buildings the demand for commercial timber led to the establishment of the Indian Forest Service which further regulated grazing land. However, the numbers of livestock grew and the proportion of the more destructive goats increased. Today, overgrazing still occurs and disputes between sedentary villagers and migratory herders are frequent. /// Dans les montagnes de la zone tempre, l'levage intensif de chvres et de moutons constitue la cause principale de la dgradation lente des forts et de l'rosion du sol. Cette communication examine le rle de l'administration britannique qui, de 1850 jusqu' l'indpendance, a essay de contrler et plus tard de limiter le broutage par les troupeaux des Gaddis, dans le but de promouvoir la rgnration naturelle des forts. Le rgime foncier prbritannique ft codifi pour essayer de stabiliser et de dvelopper l'agriculture, mais des tensions se dvelopprent entre les paysans et les bergers au sujet de l'exploitation des terres non cultives et des droits de pturage. La construction de chemins de fer et de btiments a cr une demande pour le bois d'oeuvre, ce qui a suscit la cration du Service indien des forts et a rglement encore plus le pturage. Le cheptel a nanmoins augment, ainsi que la proportion des races de chvres plus destructrices. Le broutage excessif se produit encore de nos jours, de mme que les disputes entre villageois sdentaires et bergers migrateurs. /// Intensives Grasen von Ziegen und Schafen war im Berggebiet der gemigten Zone der Hauptgrund fr allmhliche Degradation des Waldbestandes und fr Bodenerosion. Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert die Rolle der britischen Administration, die, um die natrliche Regeneration des Waldes zu frdern, von 1850 bis zur Unabhngigkeit Versuche unternahm, das Grasen der Gaddi Herden zu kontrollieren und dann sogar einzuschrnken. Bei dem Unternehmen, die Landwirtschaft zu stabilisieren und auszudehnen wurde das vor-britische System des Landbesitzes kodifiziert. In der Folge kam es zu Spannungen zwischen den Bauern und den Viehzchtern ber die Kontrolle der nicht landwirtschaftlich genutzten Flchen und der Weiderechte. Der Bau von Bahnlinien und Gebuden und die damit verbundene Nachfrage an Nutzholz fhrte zur Grndung des indischen Forest Service, was zu einer weiteren Einschrnkung des Weidelandes fhrte. Die Herdenzahl nahm jedoch stndig zu, und der Anteil der Schaden anrichtenden Ziegen wuchs. Auch heute noch wird das Land berweidet und hufig kommt es zu Auseinandersetzungen zwischen den sehaften Dorfbewohnern und den nomadischen Viehhltern.
mounresedeve.33.3.339|The Consortium for the Sustainable Development of the Andean Ecoregion (CONDESAN) was established in February 1993 after a series of consultations among different regional stakeholders working on sustainable development. Inspired by Agenda 21, which emerged from the Rio 1992 Earth Summit, and influenced by the ecoregional approach, CONDESAN was created as a platform to promote research for development throughout the Andean region. The Consortium is now celebrating its 20th anniversary.
3674319|Forest cover types, tree distribution pattern, species diversity, net woody biomass productivity, and firewood extraction rates were studied along a trekking corridor (Yuksam-Dzongri) in Khangchendzonga Biosphere Reserve, Sikkim, India. For the last 2 decades the area has been facing immense pressure on its natural resources because of an increase in the numbers of tourists and the lack of effective regulation by park authorities. To assess this situation the study sites were categorized as closed canopy (CC) forest and open canopy (OC) forest (disturbed) at upper forest (UF) and lower forest (LF) sites, on the basis of firewood extraction pressure from the community and tourism enterprises. The results showed significant variations in diversity, richness, structure, productivity, and regeneration among different canopy types. OC forest showed greater plant diversity than CC forest. Firewood extraction pressure was remarkably greater in the LF near the major settlement than in the UF. Local conservation initiatives and the interventions of an ecotourism project have had visible impacts on firewood use by the community and on tourism enterprises. Although alarming, the rate of woody biomass extraction was nonetheless lower than the annual productivity rate of the stands. Participatory management and compliance by tourism enterprises with a code of conduct on alternative fuel use along the trekking corridor would help promote the conservation and maintenance of biodiversity.
10.2307/3673449|Two ecological belts of the Ethiopian mountains are described here - the Afro-alpine and the Afro-montane. The Afro-alpine belt consists of areas usually above 3,200 m. The rocks are volcanic, moisture is usually not a limiting factor, and soil temperatures are very low. Plants here are mostly adapted to drought and low temperature conditions; many are succulent, slow growing, and of low stature. Where there is no water, vegetation consists of meadow grasses, while aquatic species prevail under waterlogged conditions. Ericaceous scrubs grow at lower altitudes with shallow soils; on better soils are species of woody plants. Human population density is low and grazing is the most important activity. The Afro-montane belt extends from 900 to 3,200 m. Most of the plateau consists of volcanic rocks with deficient or toxic soils. Human activities here have had considerable impacts especially in the northeast, where devastation has been extreme. In the south-west some intact forest still remains, but on most of the plateau evergreen forest is now replaced by grasslands. Overgrazing is prevalent in most areas. Sedentary rain-fed agriculture is the usual practice, with mixed cereal agriculture in the north and east, and root crops in the west and south. Severe environmental deterioration is determined by socio-political rather than technical issues and calls for multidisciplinary action and an infrastructural support base. Despite growing awareness, financial constraints still hamper progress. /// Deux tages cologiques des montagnes de l'Ethiopie sont dcrits dans cette tude, l'tage afroalpin et l'tage afromontagnard. L'tage afroalpin est constitu de zones normalement situes au-dessus de 3.200 m. Les roches sont volcaniques, l'humidit n'est gnralement pas un facteur limitatif, et les tempratures du sol sont trs basses. Les plantes sont principalement adaptes  la scheresse et aux conditions de basse temprature; beaucoup d'entre elles sont succulents,  croissance lente et de petite stature. L o l'eau manque, la vgtation consiste d'herbes de prairie, alors que les espces aquatiques prdominent sur les terrains dtremps. Des arbustes ricacs poussent  plus basse altitude sur les sols peu profonds, alors que des espces de plantes ligneuses se trouvent sur les meilleurs sols. La densit de la population humaine est faible et le pturage constitue l'activit la plus importante. L'tage afromontagnard s'tend de 900  3.200 m. La plus grande partie du plateau consiste de roches volcaniques avec des sols dficients ou toxiques. Les activits humaines ont eu un impact considrable, en particulier dans le nord-est o la dvastation est extrme. Au sud-ouest, certains forts sont encore intactes, mais sur la plus grande partie du plateau, les arbres  feuilles persistantes sont maintenant remplaces par des prairies. Le surpturage est prvalent dans la plupart des zones. L'agriculture sdentaire alimente par les pluies constitue la pratique courante, avec diverses crales au nord et  l'est, et des racines alimentaires  l'ouest et au sud. La dtrioration srieuse de l'environnement est dtermine par des facteurs socio-conomiques plutt que techniques; elle ncessite des actions multidisciplinaires et une base de support pour l'infrastructure. En dpit d'une prise de conscience croissante, le progrs est encore enray par des contraintes financires. /// Es werden zwei kologische Zonen der thiopischen Bergwelt beschrieben. Zur afroalpinen Zone gehren Gebiete, die ber 3200 m .M. liegen. Der Untergrund ist vulkanischen Ursprungs, und der Niederschlag ist kein limitierender Faktor. Auf den Berghhen sind die Bodentemperaturen sehr niedrig. Die Pflanzen haben sich einer Umwelt mit wenig Niederschlgen und niedrigen Temperaturen angepat. Viele von ihnen sind Sukkulenten, wachsen langsam und werden nicht hoch. An Stellen ohne Wasser wachsen Wiesengrser. In tiefer gelegenen Regionen bedecken Erikabsche die flachen Bden, whrend auf den besseren Bden holzartige Gewchse gedeihen. Die Bevlkerungsdichte ist gering, und Weidewirtschaft ist die wichtigste landwirtschaftliche Aktivitt. Die afromontane Zone erstreckt sich von 900 bis auf 3200 m .M. Der grte Teil des Plateaus besteht aus vulkanischen Gesteinen mit nhrstoffarmen oder toxischen Bden. Der menschliche Einflu hat das thiopische Hochland besonders im Nordosten, wo die Umweltzerstrung am schlimmsten ist, stark geprgt. Im Sdwesten findet man noch intakte Wlder. Fast berall auf dem Plateau wurde Wald durch Grasland ersetzt. berweidung ist in den meisten Regionen anzutreffen. Sesshafte, vom Regen versorgte Landwirtschaft mit gemischtem Getreideanbau wird im Norden und Osten betrieben, im Westen und Sden werden Knollenfrchte angebaut. Die Zerstrung und Degradierung der Umwelt ist mehr ein soziopolitisches als ein technisches Problem. Zu seiner Bewltigung ist ein multidisziplinrer Ansatz auf einer guten infrastrukturellen Basis ntig. Trotz wachsenden Bewutseins hindern finanzielle Engpsse den Fortschritt.
10.2307/3673894|Worldwide, high mountains are characterized by great ethnic, linguistic, socio-cultural, and sometimes also religious variety. Thus, they figure among the last enclaves of traditionally ethno-linguistic diversity. The example of the Rhaetoromansch people in Grisons (Graubnden) is used to identify the different phases of the territorial retreat as well as its causes. The area currently occupied is a remnant of a long process of constriction as the Rhaetoromansch language has been increasingly submerged by the linguistic transition to German or Italian. The effects of economic development and improved communication facilities have accelerated the peripheralization process. The population is divided into five main idioms and fragmented further by religion; it is unevenly distributed within the canton, and mostly demographically aging. The imbalance of the occupation and employment structure encourages emigration, especially of well-qualified people. The need for further studies on ethno-linguistic groups and minorities in high mountain areas is indicated and comparative research on ethno-diversity is urgently needed to make recommendations for the stabilization and survival of a diversity of ethnolinguistic populations. /// Partout dans le monde, les rgions de haute montagne sont caractrises par une grande diversit ethnique, linguistique, socioculturelle et parfois religieuse. Pour cette raison, elles font partie des dernires enclaves de diversit ethnolinguistique traditionnelle. L'exemple des rhto-romans, dans les Grisons (Graubnden) en Suisse, est utilis pour identifier les diffrentes phases du retranchement territorial et ses causes. La rgion  prsent occupe par ce peuple est le rsultat d'un long processus de constriction au fur et  mesure que le rhto-roman a t submerg par la transition linguistique vers l'allemand ou l'italien. Les effets du dveloppement conomique et l'amlioration des moyens de communication ont acclr le processus de priphrisation. La population est divise en cinq dialectes et encore plus fragmente par la religion; elle est distribue irrgulirement dans le canton et caractrise par un vieillissement dmographique. Le dsquilibre de la structure de l'emploi encourage l'migration, en particulier celle de personnes qualifies. Le besoin d'tudes plus approfondies des groupes ethnolinguistiques et des minorits dans les rgions de haute montagne est recommande, et une recherche comparative sur l'ethno-diversit devrait tre effectue d'urgence afin de formuler des recommandations en ce qui concerne la stabilisation et la survie de populations ethnolinguistiques diverses. /// Weltweit sind Hochgebirge durch groe ethnische, sprachliche und sozio-kulturelle, teils auch religise Vielfalt gekennzeichnet, sie gehren zu den letzten Rckzugsrumen traditioneller ethnolinguistischer Diversitt. Am Beispiel der Rtoromanen Graubndens knnen die Phasen territorialen Rckgangs sowie die Ursachen hierfr detailliert nachvollzogen werden. Das heutige Verbreitungsgebiet ist das Ergebnis eines langen Schrumpfungsprozesses. Das Rtoromanische wurde durch Sprachwechsel zum Deutschen und Italienischen zurckgedrngt. Die Auswirkungen wirtschaftlicher und verkehrsmiger Erschlieung des Berggebiets frderten die Peripherisierung. Die rtoromanische Bevlkerung ist sowohl sprachlich als auch konfessionell stark untergliedert, rumlich sehr ungleich verteilt und zumeist beraltert. Unausgewogene Erwerbs- und Beschftigtenstruktur frdert die Abwanderung, besonders qualifizierten Fachpersonals. Grundstzliche Forschungsfragen zum Problem ethnolinguistischer Bevlkerungsgruppen und Minderheiten in der Hochgebirgsforschung werden genannt. Vergleichende Forschungen zur Ethnodiversitt sind dringend erforderlich, damit ein Beitrag zur Stabilisierung der Existenz der Vielfalt ethnolinguistischer Bevlkerungsgruppen geleistet werden kann.
3674480|For many centuries, (semi-)nomadic pastoralists used pasture areas in the Tien Shan and Pamir mountains. Under Soviet rule, sedentarization began in the 1930s and collective farms replaced socioeconomic units based on kinship. Soviet land use was monofunctional and dependent on high levels of inputs such as chemical fertilizers, machinery, concentrated feed, and subsidies and was neither ecologically sustainable nor economically viable. In the process of political and economic transformation after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, state farms have been dismantled, land and livestock privatized, and specialized employees such as technicians have suddenly become independent farmers. Today, large farms and herds no longer exist, having been replaced by a multitude of small household enterprises. Each household's socioeconomic situation is unique, and so are household livelihood strategies. Activities focusing on sustainable development and sustainable pasture management must therefore take account of this new socioeconomic situation.
10.2307/3673699|Local farmers on Santo Antao, one of the Cape Verde islands, have developed a traditional irrigation system that is well-adapted to the extremely difficult physical conditions of steep slopes and limited water flow. Local water management considers the interrelations between irrigation systems within the same river basin, whereas conventional irrigation technicians focus on individual system performance. Especially since independence, the Republic of Cape Verde has attempted to upgrade the performance of irrigation systems by introducing large-scale employment schemes. The impact of this intervention on water management and farmer participation is critically reviewed. A short field study in one valley, together with an analysis of available documentation on irrigation, has given a better insight into the characteristics of local water management. This led to recommendations for a revised policy towards irrigation development. Major elements of this new policy are the use of the river basin as the appropriate planning and intervention unit, increased farmer participation, and a less direct, low-profile approach by the government towards irrigation development. The state should play a facilitating role, enabling farmers to re-assume greater responsibility for local water management. /// Les fermiers locaux de Santo Anteo, l'une des les du Cap Vert, ont mis au point un systme d'irrigation traditionnel bien adapt aux conditions physiques extrmement ardues, c'est--dire des pentes escarpes et un apport d'eau limit. La gestion locale de l'eau tient compte des relations entre les systmes d'irrigation situs dans un bassin fluvial donn, alors que les techniciens d'irrigation conventionnels s'intressent aux performances individuelles de chaque systme. En particulier depuis son indpendance, la Rpublique du Cap Vert a essay d'amliorer les performances des systmes d'irrigation en introduisant des programmes d'emploi  grand chelle. L'impact de cette intervention sur la gestion de l'eau et la participation des fermiers est examin dans cet article. Une tude de courte dure dans une valle, en conjonction avec une analyse de la documentation disponible sur l'irrigation, a permis de mieux comprendre les caractristiques de la gestion locale de l'eau. Des recommandations en ont t tires, visant  une rvision de la politique de dveloppement de l'irrigation. Les principaux lments de cette nouvelle politique se rapportent  l'utilisation du bassin fluvial en tant qu'unit approprie de planification et d'intervention,  la participation accrue des fermiers, et  une approche moins directe et plus discrte de la part du gouvernement en ce qui concerne le dveloppement de l'irrigation. L'Etat devrait jouer une rle facilitateur, permettant aux fermiers de prendre une plus grande responsabilit de la gestion locale de l'eau. /// Ortsansssige Bauern auf Santo Antao, eine der Kapverdischen Inseln, haben ber die Jahre ein Bewsserungssystem entwickelt, das den durch steile Hnge und begrenzten Wasserfluss uerst widrigen geographischen Bedingungen gut angepat ist. Das lokale Wassermanagement bercksichtigt die Wechselbeziehungen zwischen allen Bewasserungssystemen innerhalb eines Flubeckens, wogegen geschulte Bewsserungsfachleute sich auf die Optimierung eines einzelnen Systems konzentrieren. Seit ihrer Unabhngigkeit hat die Republik der Kapverdischen Inseln durch grozgige Beschftigungsprogramme versucht, die Funktionstchtigkeit der Bewsserungssysteme zu verbessern. Die Auswirkung dieser Intervention auf das Wassermanagement und die Beteiligung der Bauern werden kritisch untersucht. Eine Fallstudie fr ein Tal erlaubte, zusammen mit einer Analyse der vorhandenen Dokumentation ber Bewsserung, die Besonderheiten des lokalen Wassermanagements klarzustellen. Diese Studie empfiehlt eine revidierte Politik zur Weiterentwicklung von Bewsserungstechniken. Ihre Hauptpunkte sind, das Flubecken als eine Planungs- und Eingriffseinheit anzusehen, die Bauern mehr zu beteiligen und die direkten Regierungseingriffe bei der Entwicklung neuer Bewsserungssysteme auf ein Mindestma zu beschrnken. Der Staat sollte eine frdernde Rolle beibehalten, die dazu fhrt, da die Bauern grere Verantwortung fr das lokale Wassermanagement bernehmen.
mounresedeve.36.3.256|Peripheral mountain areas in developing countries are often characterized by energy poverty but also by high solar energy potential. The Eastern Pamirs of Tajikistan are a prime example of this situation, with their lack of energy infrastructure, remoteness, pressure on local natural resources, and high incident radiation amounts. An integrative assessment of the potential for photovoltaic power generation is lacking for this region, as well as for many other mountain environments. We assessed the natural potential, feasibility, and likely effects of increased photovoltaic electricity generation, using climate data, biomass data, a spatial radiation model, and fieldwork- and literature-based scenarios of energy requirements and financial conditions. Results indicated that using a photovoltaic power plant to generate enough energy for boiling water is feasible in the study area within reasonable cost limits. This could significantly alleviate energy poverty, increase carbon sequestration by up to 1500 t/y, and reduce the loss of dwarf shrub stands by up to 2000 ha/y. Our results illustrate that the integrative approach presented in this article can be applied straightforwardly when some climatic measurements and field observations are available and that photovoltaic energy is an important renewable-energy resource for the sustainable development of peripheral high-mountain communities.
mounresedeve.36.4.494|Migration is increasing in the middle hills of Nepal, and it has diverse consequences for the people remaining behind, their livelihoods, and the way they manage their land. This study explored the complex and interrelated effects of migration on land and people in the Harpan watershed, Kaski District, western Nepal. Surveys and focus group discussions were used to explore the reasons for decisions on land management and migration. In addition, remote sensing and fieldwork were used to map the extent of land abandonment. Our study found that almost three quarters of the households have at least 1 migrant member receiving on average US$ 206 per month in remittances. Remittances were used mainly for food and goods and to a much lesser extent for agriculture. In addition to international migration, substantial migration occurs within the area. Once livelihoods permit, whole families choose to migrate to market areas, from uphill to downhill communities. This has led to land abandonment and an increase in forest cover in the upper part of the watershed and has also increased pressure on the land and exposure to flooding in the lower part.
3674611|This article examines local perceptions of health risks in a mountain community in the Karakoram of Northern Pakistan. Specifically, it aims to show how the tremendous social and economic transformations taking place in this region are experienced and understood by the people most affected by them. The case study draws from ethnographic data collected through a range of methods, including personal narratives, focus groups, interviews, household surveys, conversations, and participant observations. Central to this analysis is the role that social change plays in mediating and shaping residents' worries, and perceived vulnerabilities within this particular economic and cultural context. Furthermore, the effects of the global economy on how people assess their dependency on external factors and processes are explored, including attention to the ways in which newly introduced products and technologies raise concerns about product safety, health security, and community cohesiveness. This analysis of local narratives of health risks illustrates these points and demonstrates how residents' constructions of risk provide a basis for understanding local debates and doubts about how "development" and modernity are being approached in this mountainous region.
10.2307/3673668|Recently formulated plans for the forestry sector in Nepal place much emphasis upon the encouragement of tree cultivation on private land. This paper examines tree cultivation by farmers from a village perspective. The species composition (planted and natural regeneration), location, and population structure of trees being cultivated by 44 farmers on their own land are discussed in the light of field observations and farmers' comments. Villagers' perceptions of the value of different species are outlined, and used to show why certain species are commonly planted. Farmers' planting techniques are also reported. An important factor influencing the location of trees on farm land was found to be farmers' views about the effect of tree shade on crop yields; this is discussed with relation to farm elevation. The population of trees on farm land was found to be dominated by seedlings and saplings, in keeping with the claim of many villagers that they had commenced planting trees only recently, in response to a deterioration in the quality of publicly utilized forest resources. A number of broad conclusions are drawn from the findings that have relevance to forestry projects operating in other parts of Nepal's Middle Hills, as well as national planning. /// Les plans labors rcemment pour le secteur foresterie du Npal mettent l'accent sur l'encouragement de la culture d'arbres sur les proprits prives. Cet article examine la culture d'arbres par les fermiers sous une perspective villageoise. La composition des espces (plantes et rgnration naturelle), l'emplacement et la structure des populations d'arbres cultivs par 44 fermiers sur leurs propres terres sont examins sur la base d'observations sur le terrain et de commentaires des fermiers. Les perceptions des villageois en ce qui concerne la valeur des diffrentes espces sont prsentes et utilises pour dterminer les raisons pour lesquelles certaines espces sont prfres. Les techniques de plantation utilises par les fermiers sont galement examines. L'opinion des fermiers concernant l'effet de l'ombre sur les rcoltes constitue un facteur important en termes de l'emplacement des arbres dans les exploitations agricoles; ce sujet est trait en rapport avec l'altitude de celles-ci. Cette tude a montr que la population d'arbres d'une exploitation agricole tait domine par la futaie et le boisage; cela correspond bien aux affirmations d'un grand nombre de villageois que la plantation d'arbres n'a commenc que rcemment, en rponse  la dtrioration de la qualit des ressources forestires publiques. Un certain nombre de conclusions gnrales sont tires des rsultats de l'tude, conclusions applicables aux projets de foresterie en cours dans d'autres parties des montagnes centrales du Npal, aussi bien qu'au planning  l'chelle nationale. /// Neuere Planungen in der Waldwirtschaft von Nepal schlieen besonders die Baumpflanzungen auf privatem Land mit ein. Diese Verffentlichung untersucht Anpflanzungen der Bauern aus der drflichen Perspektive. Diskutiert werden die Artenauswahl (angepflanzte und natrliche Erneuerung), der Standort und die Struktur des Baumbestandes, die von 44 Bauern auf ihrem privaten Land angepflanzt wurden, einschlielich persnlicher Beobachtungen und Kommentare. Die Einstellungen der Dorfbewohner zu dem Wert der verschiedenen Baumarten werden errtert, und sie erklren, warum normalerweise bestimmte Arten gepflanzt werden. Auch ber die Pflanzmethoden wird berichtet. Ein wichtiger Faktor, der den Standort der Bume bestimmt, ist der Einflu der Baumschatten auf die Ernteertrge; dieser Gesichtspunkt wird im Zusammenhang mit der Hhenlage diskutiert. Die Baumbestnde auf den Feldern bestehen berwiegend aus Smlingen und jungen Bumen. Dies stimmt mit der Aussage der Dorfbewohner berein, da sie erst krzlich, als Reaktion auf die rcklufige Qualitt der ffentlich genutzten Waldressourcen, mit Neupflanzungen begonnen haben. Aus diesen Feststellungen folgen Erkenntnisse, die fr waldwirtschaftliche Projekte in anderen Teilen der Middle Hills von Nepal und bei der nationalen Planung von Bedeutung sind.
10.2307/3674035|A project to establish and administer the St. Katherine Natural Protectorate in the southern mountains of Egypt's Sinai Peninsula began in 1996. Its Bedouin Support Programme component is designed to provide tangible benefits to the Protectorate's inhabitants as a means of building their support for, and participation in, the project's conservation initiatives. This paper discusses the process by which the objectives and work plan of the Bedouin Support Programme were established. A gender-balanced nine-person field team, composed of mainland Egyptian and expatriate social scientists and a local Bedouin, conducted extensive discussions with representatives of all tribal groups living within the Protectorate. Bedouins called for assistance in the creation of jobs and income-generating activities, improvement of water supplies, reversal of trends in environmental deterioration, involvement with tourism, and access to health and educational services. They made numerous suggestions for conservation-related activities in which they could participate, including wildlife protection and remote park facility operations. The team then consulted companies and government agencies which would be impacted by, involved in, the Protectorate's Bedouin-related activities. Using these Bedouin and non-Bedouin perspectives, the team then developed a work plan for Bedouin Support Programme activities, seeking to further Bedouin interests in the areas of natural resource conservation, employment and income generation, the operation of remote park facilities, tourism, training, animal and human helath, agriculture, and infrastructure.
10.2307/3673238|Only two large landslides in areas of crystalline rock are known to have generated fused rock at their sliding surfaces: Koefels, in the Oetz valley, Tyrol, and Langtang, Nepal, with displaced volumes of <tex-math>$2-3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> and probably over <tex-math>$10\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math>, respectively. The well-preserved post-glacial landslide of Koefels allows reconstruction of the event from the observed facts. Until recently, however, there was no direct evidence for a connection between the phenomena at the sliding surfaces and the fused material, the famous "pumice of Koefels". Hence, volcanic action and later, the impact of a meteorite were assumed as sources of the fusing energy. Petrologic investigations and geomorphologic considerations, backed by energy calculations and experiments, led to the hypothesis that the heating energy was generated by the friction at the sliding surfaces of the landslide itself. This hypothesis was confirmed by the recent discovery of fused rock filling cleavages in the landslide deposits. In Langtang, on the contrary, the exposure of a sliding surface bearing fused rock was the first relevant fact to be observed. It was attributed, however, to movement along a fault. The present paper shows that, by analogy with Koefels, a landslide was responsible for the fusion. Chronological clues were obtained from geomorphological investigations, based in particular on the glacial phenomena connected with the landslide deposits. The event antedates the older late-glacial advances of the large Langtang Glacier, and is most probably even older than the last major glaciation. The Quaternary glaciers removed or buried between 60 and 75 percent of the original deposits; only about <tex-math>$3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> remain. In Langtang, the last major glaciation certainly expanded further than hitherto presumed. Two groups of late-glacial moraines have been found. The second group (Lirung advances), with very prominent forms, was probably the last of the late-glacial period. The present-day snowline has an average height of at least 5,300 metres. /// On connait jusqu' prsent deux grandes boulements qui ont provoqu la fusion des roches sur leurs surfaces de glissement: Koefels <tex-math>$(2-3\ {\rm km}^{3})$</tex-math> au Tyrol et Langtang ( l'origine probablement plus de <tex-math>$10\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math>) au Npal. Pour l'boulement post-glaciaire encore bien conserv de Koefels, il est encore possible de procder  une reconstitution des vnements. Comme la relation entre les surfaces de glissement et les fameuses "pierres ponces de Koefels" n'tait jusqu' rcemment pas directement apparente, on avait tout d'abord suppos que l'nergie ayant provoqu la fusion des roches avait pour origine un phnomne volcanique et par la suite qu'elle avait t fournie par l'impact d'un mtorite. Des calculs d'nergie, soutenus par des vrifications exprimentales, ont cependant montr l'vidence d'une fusion des roches due  l'boulement mme. Ceci a t confirm par des rcentes dcouvertes de roches fondues. A Langtang, on avait connaissance ds le dpart d'un affleurement d'une surface de glissement avec fusion de la roche, mais ce phnomne avait t attribu  un charriage. Cette tude apporte la preuve que dans ce cas aussi, il s'agit d'un boulement. Des examens gomorphologiques ont t effectus pour tenter de dater cet vnement en recherchant spcialement les phnomnes glaciaires en relation avec les dpts de l'boulement. Il est certain que cet boulement s'est produit avant les plus anciennes avances tardiglaciaires du grand glacier de la valle de Langtang, et mme probablement avant la dernire grande glaciation. Les glaciers quaternaires ont vacu ou recouvert au moins deux tiers  trois quarts des dpts initiaux de l'boulement. Seuls environ <tex-math>$3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> de ces dpts ont t conservs jusqu' nos jours. Cette tude a aussi accessoirement permis de rassembler de nouvelles observations sur la dernire grande glaciation  Langtang dont on peut dire avec certitude qu'elle a t plus tendue qu'on l'avait suppose jusqu'ici; on a en outre dcouvert qes les dernires avances tardiglaciaires se subdivisaient en deux groupes, le dernier (stade de Lirung) avec des moraines trs marques. La limite moyenne des neiges se situe  5.300 m au minimum. /// Bisher sind nur zwei Bergstrze im Kristallin mit Gesteinsaufschmelzungen bekannt: Kfels im tztal <tex-math>$(2-3\ {\rm km}^{3})$</tex-math> und Langtang (ursprnglich wahrscheinlich ber <tex-math>$10\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math>). Der postglaziale Bergsturz von Kfels lt sich noch gut rekonstruieren. Doch fehlt bisher ein unmittelbarer Beweis eines urschlichen Zusammenhanges zwischen der Gleitflche und dem aufgeschmolzenen Gestein, dem "Bimsstein von Kfels". Die Energie fr die Aufschmelzung schrieb man daher zunchst einem vulkanischen Ereignis zu, dann einem Meteoriteinschlag. Petrologische Untersuchungen und geomorphologische berlegungen fhrten, gesttzt auf Energieberechnungen und Experimente, zu der Annahme, da der Bergsturz selbst durch die Reibung auf der Gleitflche die Energie fr die Gesteinsaufschmelzung erzeugte. Diese Hypothese wurde besttigt durch neue Funde aufgeschmolzenen Gesteins in Kluftfllungen der Bergsturzablagerungen. In Langtang dagegen fand man zuerst die Gleitflche, bedeckt mit aufgeschmolzenem Gestein und ordnete diesen Befund einer tektonischen Bewegung entlang einer Deckengrenze zu. In diesem Aufsatz wird gezeigt, da auch hier ein Bergsturz die Gesteinsaufschmelzung verursacht hat. Geomorphologische Untersuchungen ergaben, da der Bergsturz von Langtang lter als die ltesten sptglazialen Gletschervorste ist, ja wahrscheinlich lter als die letzte Hauptvereisung. Die eiszeitlichen Gletscher entfernten oder begruben mindestens zwei Drittel bis drei Viertel der ursprnglichen Bergsturzablagerungen, von denen derzeit nur etwa <tex-math>$3\ {\rm km}^{3}$</tex-math> sichtbar sind. Whrend der letzten Hauptvergletscherung reichte die Vergletscherung weiter, als bisher angenommen wurde. Zwei Gruppen sptglazialer Mornenwlle werden unterschieden. Die sehr auffallenden Mornen der jngeren Gruppe (Lirung-Vorste) waren wahrscheinlich die letzten des Sptglazials. Die heutige Schneegrenze verluft im Mittel in mindestens 5.300 m Hhe.
3674504|The livelihoods of mountain farmers are often constrained by poor access to markets and limited entrepreneurial skills for adding value to produce. Research and development organizations have now recognized that improving market access and enhancing the ability of resource-poor mountain farmers to diversify their links with markets are among the most pressing challenges in mountain agriculture. What is not so obvious is how to link small-scale farmers in marginal areas to growth markets, and how to develop methods and approaches that effectively integrate research, market access and development of community agroenterprise. The present article highlights the key steps and procedures in building capacity among farmers, farmers' groups, and communities to identify and evaluate market opportunities, develop profitable agroenterprise, and intensify production, while sustaining the resources upon which livelihoods depend. This approach, known as Participatory Market Research (PMR)-a component of the Enabling Rural Innovation (ERI) initiative-is being implemented and further refined by the International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in collaboration with research and development partners in Uganda, Malawi, and Tanzania.
3674530|Water scarcity is a serious problem in Koppal, a semi-arid district with barren rocky hills in northern Karnataka, India. The hills were denuded of forests and trees in the past. Resource depletion continues to occur because of rock blasting and stone cutting. This has led to low groundwater recharge, a problem further aggravated by the digging of bore wells to a depth at which only saline water is available. High-input agriculture combined with saline water has caused the soil to become unproductive. Farmers thus find it more profitable to leave the land uncultivated. As agriculture or other resources in the region do not provide a secure supply of food, people in the area face a severe livelihood crisis. Moreover, the local population and the government do not link the exploitation of rocks and hills to ground water depletion. There is an urgent need for solutions. People respond to their livelihood crisis at the household level and do not come together as a community to address issues. External facilitators are needed to generate a discussion of problems and alternative solutions. Short-term solutions only increase the predicament of the people. Long-term perspectives and investments are required to ensure sustainable management of natural resources as well as livelihoods in this semi-arid area.
10.2307/3673786|The Tatra Mountains, located on the frontier between Poland and Czechoslovakia, constitute the highest mountain massif within the Carpathian Range of Central Europe. The highest summit reaches 2,663 m and the massif can be classified as a high-mountain (hochgebirge) landscape. The Tatra Mountains extended above the Pleistocene snowline and today there are alpine meadows and cryonival belts above timberline. Present-day landform dynamics are controlled by altitudinal differences in climatic and vegetational conditions. The area most strongly modeled by contemporary geomorphic processes lies between the upper timberline (at about 1,500 m) and 1,950 m, that is, within the alpine meadow belt and the dwarf pine belt. Within these belts debris flows, rockfalls, and slow mass movements are predominant. Slope morphodynamic systems above the timberline and fluvial systems on valley floors in the forest belts function independently because there is no direct linkage under normal climate and hydrological conditions. Sediment transfer is limited to individual geoecological belts and the results of weathering and denudation processes generally do not extend beyond a single morphodynamic system. Only during extreme, catastrophic events do both systems merge and then only for short periods. In this paper rates of the main geomorphic processes are estimated for each altitudinal belt and some examples of landform transformation are presented. /// Les Tatras, situes sur la frontire entre la Pologne et la Tchcoslovaquie, constituent le plus haut massif montagneux de la chane des Carpates en Europe centrale. Le sommet le plus lev atteint 2.663 m et le massif peut tre classifi comme un paysage de haute montagne (hochgebirge). Les Tatras s'tendaient au-dessus de la limite des neiges ternelles et, de nos jours, on trouve des pelouses alpines et des ceintures cryonivales au-dessus de la limite des arbres. La dynamique actuelle de la forme des terres est dtermine par les diffrences entre les conditions de climat et de vgtation en fonction de l'altitude. La zone la plus fortement faonne par les processus gomorphiques actuels se situe entre la limite suprieure des arbres ( environ 1.500 m) et 1.950 m, c'est--dire dans la ceinture de pelouse alpine et la ceinture de pins nains. Les coulements de dtritus, les boulements et les mouvements de masse lents sont prdominants dans ces ceintures. Les systmes morphodynamiques de pente au-dessus de la ligne des arbres et les systmes fluviaux au fond des valles dans les ceintures de forts fonctionnent indpendamment du fait qu'il n'existe aucune liaison directe entre eux dans les conditions climatiques et hydrologiques normales. Le transfert de sdiments est limit aux ceintures gocologiques individuelles et les rsultats des processus de dsagrgation et d'ablation se s'tendent pas en gnral au-del d'un seul systme morphodynamique. Ces deux systmes fusionnent uniquement au cours d'vnements catastrophiques exceptionnels et cela pendant de courtes priodes de temps. Dans cet article, la vitesse des processus gomorphiques principaux est estime pour chaque ceinture altitudinale et des exemples de transformation de la forme des terres sont prsents. /// Das Tatra Gebirge, entlang der polnisch-tschechischen Grenze gelegen, ist das hchste Gebirgsmassiv der Karpatenkette in Zentraleuropa. Der hchste Gipfel ist 2.663 m hoch, und die Gebirgskette kann als Hochgebirge klassifiziert werden. Whrend des Pleistozn lagen die Tatra Gipfel ber der Schneegrenze, und gegenwrtig gibt es oberhalb der Baumgrenze alpine Wiesen und Grtel mit ewigem Schnee. Heutige Landschaftsstrukturen werden von hhenabhngigen Unterschieden in Klima und Vegetationsbedingungen bestimmt. Das Gebiet, das derzeit am strksten durch geomorphische Prozesse geprgt wird, liegt zwischen der oberen Baumgrenze (bei etwa 1.500 m) und 1.950 m; d.h. innerhalb der alpinen Wiesen und Knieholzgrtel. Dieses Gebiet verndert sich durch Gesteinsflsse, Steinschlge und langsame Erdmassenverschiebungen. Morphodynamische Hangverschiebungen oberhalb der Baumgrenze und Fluvernderungen in den Talsohlen der Baumgrtel geschehen unter normalen Klima und hydrologischen Bedingungen voneinander unabhngig. Sedimentverlagerung beschrnkt sich auf einzelne geokologische Grtel, und die Folgen von Verwitterungs und Abtragungsvorgngen sind im allgemeinen auf einzelne morphodynamische Systeme beschrnkt. Nur whrend extremer, katastrophenhnlicher Vorgnge verschmelzen beide Systeme und auch dann nur auf kurze Zeit. In dieser Verffentlichung werden fr jeden Grtel nderungsraten fr seine wesentlichen geomorphischen Vorgnge abgeschtzt und an ausgewhlten Beispielen wird die Umwandlung von Landschaftsstrukturen aufgezeigt.
mounresedeve.30.4.373|An analysis of the patterns of technology adoption by upland rice farmers in southern Yunnan and of the impact of technologies was conducted using farmhousehold data collected during 2005. The technologies considered were improved upland rice varieties and terraces. The results indicate that these technologies are now spreading in upland areas. Farmers who have adopted both technology components have been able to increase the upland rice yield substantially. Income from rice production was similarly found to be higher for adopters than for nonadopters. In addition, there was evidence that increased rice yield helped reduce the pressure from intensifying food production in these fragile uplands because farmers were able to meet their food needs from smaller areas. Implications of these findings for sustainable development of uplands in Yunnan and in countries in the region are drawn.
3674081|The current status of alien plants in the alpine and subalpine areas of the Australian Alps is assessed in this article. The number of alien species has increased following the region's use by nonindigenous Australians over the last 170 years. One hundred and seventy-five alien plant taxa have been recorded above 1500 m in the Australian Alps. These taxa are mainly perennials from Europe, Asia, and the Americas. They are predominantly associated with disturbance and are categorized here according to the types of human activities with which they are associated. There are roadside or path weeds (78% of species), resort weeds (58%), grazing weeds (25%), and rehabilitation weeds (11%). Just over 20% of the alien taxa have become naturalized in the region. Diversity, distribution, and biology of the species are evaluated along with the threats they pose to the conservation of the region.
mounresedeve.31.2.102|Poverty and household food security are much debated issues in development literature, and women's contributions to food and economic security have received attention for the last 15 years. Collection of natural resources is usually carried out entirely by women in developing countries, particularly in fragile and rugged mountain environments. Our study in the Garwhal Himalaya attempted to monetize this unpaid work by women through a survey conducted by researchers of time use on a recall basis for the last 7 days. The value of women's contributions was then computed by 2 methods: opportunity costs and output method. The results show that women are at the forefront of food and economic security and in some cases are breadwinners. Policies must address the specific problems of fodder and fuelwood collection in mountains by promoting renewable and nonconventional energy resources such as biogas and solar energy and by involving women in grassroots participation. This will significantly lessen the drudgery of women's work.
3674128|Special difficulties and high costs are frequently incurred when sources of energy such as kerosene or dry-cell batteries are transported to mountain areas. Moreover, use and disposal of these sources of energy pose risks to health and the environment. On the other hand, the use of local, renewable sources of energy such as wind, water, or solar power ensures that mountain communities can enjoy both greater independence and safety with respect to energy supply. In mountain regions worldwide, local hydropower produced by small water turbines is important for irrigation, grain milling, and other purposes. Water turbines have also long been used to produce electricity to illuminate houses or operate radio and television devices, while direct solar energy has traditionally been used to dry food and clothing. Recently, however, a variety of solar energy systems including special house construction, use of cooking devices such as the well-known cooking boxes and reflector systems, and electricity supplied by photovoltaic (solar-electric) systems have been introduced. Some of these systems are especially suitable for areas with intense sunlight and low temperatures. Solar-electric stand-alone systems have proven useful in the European Alps and the Pyrenees, where there is evidence that they are an important source of sustainable energy (Figure 1).
3674149|Despite important technological achievements, agricultural research in Mexico has had little impact on the improvement of rural livelihoods in the mountains of Central Mexico. The reason for this is its failure to focus on the development of highland campesino agriculture. The Centro de Investigacin en Ciencias Agropecuarias (CICA, Research Center in Agricultural Science) of the Autonomous University of the State of Mexico has set itself the objective of using research to improve living conditions in campesino households and communities. This places CICA at the interface between research and development. A participatory research project on the management of agrodiversity by indigenous campesinos in San Pablo Tlalchichilpa, in the mountains of the State of Mexico (Figure 1), underlines the importance of taking into account all environmental, social, economic and technological aspects of campesino agriculture as well as the interactions between these elements. Without a more profound understanding of these elements, research cannot contribute to improving campesino livelihoods in a sustainable way.
10.2307/3673687|This paper discusses the concept and some results of applied research for sustainable resource development on the northwest slopes of Mt. Kenya. Studies are being carried out on three scales (regional, local, and site level) and Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and modeling techniques are being applied. Two examples are described. The regional study of the Naro Moru Basin indicates that the forest belt between 2,400 and 3,500 m is important for the supply of perennial water to streams and recharge of the groundwater table on the semi-arid plateau below. A site-level study of water conservation in the semi-arid footzone demonstrates that simple techniques, such as an agroforestry system combined with mulching and minimum tillage, can improve dramatically water use and production. Both examples show the importance of land use to the resource management, the need for long-term commitment, and the challenge for applied research. /// Cet article examine le concept et les rsultats de travaux de recherche applique visant  assurer un dveloppement soutenable des ressources sur le versant nord-ouest du mont Kenya. Des tudes ont t effectues  trois niveaux (niveaux rgional et local et niveau du site); les Systmes d'information gographique (SIG) et des techniques de modlisation ont t utiliss. Deux exemples sont examins en dtail. L'tude rgionale du bassin du Naro Moru indique que la ceinture de fort comprise entre 2,400 et 3,500 mtres est importante pour la fourniture d'eau prenne aux cours d'eau et la recharge de la nappe phratique sur le plateau semi- aride en contrebas. Une tude de conservation de l'eau au niveau du site, effectue dans le pimont semi-aride dmontre que de simples techniques, telles qu'un systme d'agroforesterie combin avec le paillage et un labourage minimal, peut augmenter considrablement l'utilisation et la production d'eau. Les deux exemples montrent l'importance de l'utilisation des terres pour la gestion des ressources, le besoin d'un engagement  long terme et les difficults  rsoudre  l'aide de la recherche applique. /// Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert das Konzept und einige Ergebnisse von angewandter Forschung fr die langfristige Ressourcenentwicklung auf den Nordwest Hngen des Mt. Kenia. Die Untersuchungen werden auf drei Ebenen (regional, lokal und im Gelnde) durchgefhrt und Geographical Information Systems (GIS) sowie Modellvorhersagen werden angewendet. Zwei Beispiele werden beschrieben. Eine regionale Studie zeigt, da der Waldgrtel zwischen 2,400 und 3,500 m den jhrlichen Wasserflu in den Bchen sichert und den Grundwasserspiegel des halbtrockenen, tiefergelegenen Plateaus auffllt. Eine Studie zur Wassererhaltung, die im Gelnde gemacht wurde, zeigt, da einfache Methoden wie z.B. ein agro-Waldsystem in Verbindung mit Mulchen und minimaler Bodenbestellung die Wassernutzung und -produktion entscheidend verbessern knnte. Beide Beispiele zeigen, da Landnutzung beim Ressourcenmanagement, langfristige Planung und Fortschritte in angewandter Forschung wichtig sind.
25578206|Winter tourism is highly sensitive to climate change. The sufficiently studied altitudinally dependent line of natural snow reliability is losing its relevance for skilift operators in Austria, where 59% of the ski area is covered by artificial snowmaking. But the diffusion of snowmaking facilities cannot be monocausally linked to climate change, as trends in tourism, prestige, and competitive advantage are important factors. Despite the fact that snowmaking is limited by climatological factors, skilift operators trust in technical improvements and believe the future will not be as menacing as assumed by recent climate change impact studies. The aim of the present study is to define reasons for the diffusion of snowmaking systems and to determine whether snowmaking can be a viable adaptation strategy despite ongoing warming, using a simple degree-day model. Results obtained with this method of assessing technical snow reliability show that current snowmaking intensity will not be sufficient to guarantee the desired 100-day season at elevations below 1500-1600 m. Snowmaking will still be possible climatically even at lower elevations, but the required intensification of capacity will lead to significantly higher operation costs.
3674071|New legislation on decentralization has institutionalized popular participation to ensure good governance at the municipal level in Bolivia. Traditional organizations in Bolivian civil society have rallied to the cause of reform. The challenge of decentralization is being met successfully, although the central government sometimes fails to fully implement its own measures. The municipality of Pucarani in the Bolivian Altiplano illustrates how the dynamics of a satisfactory relationship between local actors (governance) contribute to successful implementation of decentralization.
4540681|Mountain regions and UNESCO Mountain Biosphere Reserves (MBRs) encapsulate broad elevational ranges, cover large gradients of geological, topographical and climatic diversity, and thus host greater biodiversity than the surrounding lowlands. Much of the biological richness in MBRs results from the interaction of climatic contrasts and gravitational forces along elevational gradients. External forces such as atmospheric change and human land use interact with these gradients, and result in distinct landscape patchiness, ie mosaics of land cover types within and across elevational belts. The management of MBRs influences land use and land cover, which affects biodiversity and ecosystem processes, both of which provide goods and services to society. Due to their broad environmental and biological diversity, MBRs are ideally suited for global change research and will be increasingly important in illustrating biodiversity conservation. This article summarizes the ecologically relevant results of an international workshop on elevational gradients that aimed to achieve a synthesis of the major ecosystem and biodiversity conditions and drivers in an altitude context. The workshop developed a core research agenda for MBRs that prioritizes long-term research and changes in land use across a broad elevational range.
10.2307/3673750|"Biosphere reserve" is a Unesco designation intended to recognize areas with strong natural values and minimal human use. Biosphere reserve designation encourages regional integration of protected areas through the establishment of buffer zones and locally-based management committees. It also promotes use of biosphere reserves for environmental monitoring and research. This concept becomes relevant in terms of regional integration, scientific management, and sustainable development concerns in and around many protected areas. It suggests the need to assess proposed and potential biosphere reserves in the context of regional environmental and cultural change. This paper discusses the prospects and implications of biosphere reserve designation for the Kluane/Wrangell-St. Elias National Parks and Preserve region which extends both sides of the Canada-USA boundary in Yukon and Alaska. Here it could contribute to regional integration and coordination of activities for sustainable development and provide scientific information concerning environmental and socioeconomic change. /// "Rserve de la biosphre" est un terme utilis par l'Unesco pour dsigner des zones d'un grand intrt naturel et d'utilisation humaine de longue dure. Cette dsignation encourage l'intgration rgionale des zones protges, qui peut se faire en tablissant des zones tampons et des comits de gestion locaux. Elle encourage galement l'utilisation des rserves de la biosphre pour la surveillance et l'tude de l'environnement. Ce concept devient pertinent en termes d'intgration rgionale, de gestion scientifique et de dveloppement soutenable pour beaucoup de zones protges. Il suggre le besoin d'valuer les rserves de la biosphre, proposes et potentielles, dans le cadre du changement environnemental et culturel rgional. Cet article examine les perspectives d'avenir et les implications de la dsignation en tant que "rserve de la biosphre" des Parcs nationaux Kluane/Wrangell-St. Elias et de la rserve naturelle qui s'tend des deux cts de la frontire entre le Canada et les Etats-Unis dans le Yukon et l'Alaska. Pour cette rgion, la dsignation pourrait contribuer  l'intgration rgionale et  la coordination des activits visant  un dveloppement soutenable, et  la collecte de donnes scientifiques relatives au changement environnemental et socioconomique. /// Nach einer Definition der Unesco sind "Biosphrenreservate" Gebiete mit nahezu intakter Natur und hohem menschlichen Nutzungswert, den es zu erhalten gilt. Die Erklrung eines Gebietes zum Biosphrenreservat bestimmt das Ausma der regionalen Integration von geschtzten Landschaftsgebieten durch Schaffung von Schutzgrteln unter ortsansssigem Management. Daneben frdern Biosphrenreservate die berwachung und Erforschung der Umwelt. Regionale Integration, wissenschaftliches Management und langzeitige Entwicklung der vielen Schutzgebiete und ihrer Umgebung sind fr dieses Konzept wichting. Vorgesehene und potentielle Biosphrenreservate mssen hinsichtlich ihrer regionalen Umweltvernderungen und der kulturellen Folgen beurteilt werden. Diese Verffentlichung diskutiert die Aussichten und Folgen fr den Fall, da die Kluane/Wrangell-St. Elias Nationalparks und Schutzgebiete zum Biosphrenreservat erklrt werden, das sich beidseitig der kanadisch-amerikanischen Grenze im Yukon Territorium und in Alaska erstreckt. Hier knnte es zur regionalen Integration und zur Koordination des langfristigen Naturschutzes beitragen, und knnte auerdem wissenschaftliche Information ber Umweltvernderungen und sozio-konomischen Wandel liefern.
mounresedeve.31.2.153|Western Himalayan alpine pastures are among the most diverse ecological locations on the globe. Four alpine pastures were investigated to study species distribution patterns, richness, similarity, and community structure in Bagh District, Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. Four communities, PoaPrimula Sibbaldia, PrimulaCalthaPrimula, Poa alpinaPoa pratensisScirpus, and SibbaldiaPoaScirpus, were identified on the basis of an importance value index. The average value of species richness was 1.42; Simpson's and ShannonWiener's diversity values were 3.13 and 0.91, respectively; the degree of maturity index was 44.1; and species evenness was 0.901. Local alpine flora was dominated by a hemicriptophytic life form with microphyllous leaf spectra. The speciesenvironment correlation was analyzed using canonical correspondence analysis. A negative correlation of both diversity and richness was revealed with altitudinal gradient. Anthropogenic disturbances showed a significant negative impact on distribution of medicinal and palatable species. Unpalatable species dominated the local flora, indicating the heavy grazing pressure in the area. Development and implementation of regional conservation strategies are recommended to protect the threatened Himalayan alpine biodiversity.
mounresedeve.35.4.351|The Himalayas have experienced several glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs), and the risk of GLOFs is now increasing in the context of global warming. Poiqu watershed in the Tibet Autonomous Region, China, also known as the Bhote Koshi and Sun Koshi downstream in Nepal, has been identified as highly prone to GLOFs. This study explored the distribution of and changes in glacial lakes, past GLOFs and the resulting losses, risk from potential future GLOFs, and risk reduction initiatives within the watershed. A relationship was established between lake area and volume of lake water based on data from 33 lakes surveyed within the Hindu Kush Himalayan region, and the maximum possible discharge was estimated using this and other previously developed empirical equations. We recommend different strategies to reduce GLOF risk and highlight the need for a glacial lake monitoring and early-warning system. We also recommend strong regional cooperation, especially on issues related to transboundary rivers.
mounresedeve.35.3.230|Reference evapotranspiration (
10.2307/3674033|Between 1993 and 1996 the Nepal Australia Community Forestry Project carried out four comparative land-use studies in Sindhu Palchok and Kabhre Palanchok districts of Nepal to evaluate the impacts of Australian development assistance over a continuous 19-year period fostering community forestry. The four studies made use of sets of air photographs taken in 1978 and 1992 to assess land-use changes. The samples covered almost 15 percent of the 400,000 ha land area of the two districts; they ranged between 600 and 4,000 m in altitude. Land-use change based on photo interpretation and ground truthing was supplemented by Rapid Rural Appraisal and by information obtained from local villagers. Community forestry activities within certain areas at the lower altitudes are having a beneficial effect on the balance of land use as part of a broader process of agrarian change. Shrublands and grasslands are being converted to more productive categories of forest land, reflecting the care of communities in managing and conserving their own forest resources. The same cannot be said for the upper slopes where there is evidence that the forest cover is being denuded rapidly and that the shrubland and grassland areas are expanding at the expense of forest cover. Many current land-use practices need to be abandoned or modified. Use of land for agricultural purposes appears to be stable. Recent evidence suggests that reliance on subsistence farming is declining as opportunities increase for off-farm income, but whether this has allowed population pressure on land resources to be contained is debatable. While it appears that community forestry has reduced the pressure on land at the lower altitudes of Sindhu Palchok and Kabhre Palanchok, sustained population pressures, combined with a lack of coherent and coordinated land management policies and practices, have resulted in a rapid decline in forest resources on the upper slopes together with loss of catchment stability.
3674180|Steep terrain and high frequency of tropical rainstorms make landslide occurrence on natural terrain a common phenomenon in Hong Kong. The present article reports on the use of a geographical information system (GIS) database, compiled primarily from existing digital maps and aerial photographs, to describe the physical characteristics of landslides and the statistical correlations between landslide frequency and terrain variables on Lantau Island in Hong Kong. This database is then used to obtain a logistic multiple regression model to predict landslide susceptibility. Slope gradient, lithology, elevation, slope aspect, and land use cover are indicated as statistically significant in predicting landslide susceptibility, whereas slope morphology and proximity to drainage line are not important and are thus excluded from the model. This model is then imported back into the GIS to produce a map of predicted landslide susceptibility. This study demonstrates that landslide susceptibility can be effectively modeled by using GIS technology and logistic multiple regression analysis.
3674273|Andean ecosystems are among the most diverse and threatened ecosystems in the world. Only very general data on the extent and impacts of the transformation processes that have affected ecosystems in Colombia are available to date. This study analyzes the transformation of forests in part of the Eastern Colombian Andes, using the landscape ecological approach, with remote sensing, fieldwork, and GIS. There are two levels of analysis: a regional level (1:500,000) covering 4.1 million ha and a subregional level (1:50,000) covering 225,000 ha. The former covers the central portion of the East-Andean Cordillera, where the remaining forest and pramo areas were quantified and their spatial distribution analyzed. The subregional analysis level is located in the Middle Chicamocha Watershed. The effects of human activities on the ecosystems were analyzed, taking current farming systems into consideration. The historical human impact in the region has been intense, especially in the drier parts of the study area. At the regional level, only 22% of the original forests remain, of which 28.7% are located in the national parks. In the subregional study area, only 7.6% remain, mainly at altitudes of more than 3000 m. Of five identified forest types, the two with considerable covered areas were the High-Andean Polylepis Forests (33.6%) and the High-Andean mixed forests (35.1%). The original land cover of the sub-Andean dry forests has been almost totally replaced by seminatural shrublands, pastures, crops, and severely degraded areas. The largest fragments are Andean mixed forests and the Andean oak forests, with sizes up to 866 and 1182 ha. Of 19 identified farming systems at the subregional level, only 5 include substantial proportions of their original forest covers.
10.2307/3673480|Discussions at the Mohonk Mountain Conference (April 1986) exposed the myths underlying the Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation and suggested the research that can lead to a more effective understanding of the environmental and social problems of the Himalaya. Although the summary documents of the conference acknowledged the importance of political economy, they failed to specify the political economic assumptions underlying the conference discussions. This paper suggests what some of those assumptions are. /// Les discussions qui ont pris place au cours du Congrs de Mohonk (Avril 1986) ont expos les mythes  la base de la thorie de la dgradation du milieu naturel himalayen, et propos des travaux de recherche qui pourraient mener  une meilleure comprhension des problmes du milieu naturel et du milieu social de l'Himalaya. Bien que les documents issus du congrs mentionnent l'importance de l'conomie politique, ils omettent nanmoins de prciser les hypothses  la base des discussions  ce sujet. Cet article identifie un certain nombre de ces hypothses. /// Diskussionen whrend der Mohonk Mountain Konferenz (April 1986) deckten Mythen, die der Theorie der Umweltverschlechterung im Himalaya zugrunde liegen auf, und schlugen gezielte Forschung vor, die zu besserem Verstndnis der Umwelt- und sozialen Probleme des Himalaya fhren knnen. Obwohl die zusammenfassenden Konferenzberichte der politischen konomie eine wichtige Rolle eingestehen, werden die politischen- und wirtschaftlichen Vorraussetzungen, die den Konferenzdiskussionen zugrunde lagen, nicht nher erlutert. Diese Verffentlichung benennt einige dieser Vorraussetzungen.
10.2307/3673441|Soil conservation in Ethiopia is considered today to be of top priority, not only to maintain and improve agricultural production but also to achieve food self-sufficiency, which is the long-term objective of the agricultural development programme. Therefore, a massive effort is being made in soil conservation by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Community Forests and Soil Conservation Development Department has already implemented soil conservation measures on over more than 1 million hectares in the last ten years. However, systematic approaches through local problem identification in this country where there is great variability in agro-ecological factors have been very rare, and consequently soil conservation activities have had a lesser impact than expected. In order to improve this situation the Soil Conservation Project, funded by the Government of Switzerland, became operational in 1981. The project has six research units as experimental sites in Welo, Harerge, Sidamo, Shewa, Gojam, and Eritrea, representing the six most important agro-climatic zones of the Ethiopian highlands. The project so far has made valuable contributions to the scientific understanding of the process of erosion in Ethiopia and has provided useful suggestions for improving soil conservation practices in the field. /// A prsent, l'Ethiopie accorde la plus haute priorit  la conservation des sols, non seulement pour prserver et amliorer la production agricole, mais aussi pour assurer son autosuffisance, c'est--dire pour accomplir l'objectif  long terme de son programme de dveloppement agricole. Pour cette raison, d'normes efforts ont t dploys par le ministre de l'Agriculture en matire de conservation des sols. Dj, au cours des dix dernires annes, le service de dveloppement des forts communales et de la conservation des sols a mis en oeuvre des mesures de conservation portant sur plus d'un million d'hectares. Nanmoins, des approches systmatiques faisant appel  l'identification des problmes au niveau local sont trs rares dans ce pays o les facteurs agro-cologiques sont hautement variables, et donc les mesures de conservation des sols ont produit des rsultats moindres que prvus. Afin d'amliorer la situation, un projet de conservation des sols financ par le gouvernement suisse a t lanc en 1981. Ce projet comporte six units de recherche sur des sites exprimentaux situs dans diffrentes rgions (Welo, Harerge, Sidamo, Shewa, Gojam et Eritre) reprsentant les six tages agro-climatiques les plus importants des hautes terres de l'Ethiopie. Jusqu' prsent, le projet a beaucoup contribu  la comprhension scientifique du processus d'rosion en Ethiopie, et a fourni d'excellentes suggestions pour amliorer les techniques de conservation des sols sur le territoire. /// Bodenkonservierung wird heute in Aethiopien mit hchster Prioritt behandelt, um mit diesem Mittel die landwirtschaftliche Produktion nicht nur zu erhalten, sondern auch zu steigern und dadurch eine autarke Nahrungsproduktion in Aethiopien zu erreichen. Bodenkonservierungsprogramme werden deshalb durch das thiopische Landwirtschaftsministerium durchgefhrt und deckten in den letzten 10 Jahren rund 1 Mio. ha ab. Wegen der grossen agro-kologischen Vielfalt des Landes konnten systematische Anstze nur selten durchgefhrt werden und resultierten deshalb in der Tatsache, dass Bodenkonservierung weniger erfolgreich war als erwartet. Aus diesem Grund wurde 1981 das Bodenkonservierungsprogramm der Universitt Bern in Zusammenarbeit mit der thiopischen Regierung, finanziert durch die Schweiz und Aethiopien, initiiert. Das Projekt hat sechs Forschungsstationen in den Regionen Welo, Harerge, Sidamo, Shewa, Gojam und Eritrea, die die wichtigsten agroklimatischen Zonen abdecken. Das Projekt liefert wertvolle Beitrge zum wissenschaftlichen Verstndnis der Erosionsprozesse und gibt ntzliche Verbesserungsvorschlge fr die Konservierungsmassnahmen im Feld. Richtlinien fr Bodenkonservierung wurden in Zusammenarbeit mit dem Departement fr Gemeindewald und Bodenkonservierung ausgearbeitet.
10.2307/3673916|Environmental Management Systems (EMS) developed in response to dissatisfaction with environmental auditing as a means of preventing pollution. The EMS approach benefited from the influence of diverse fields such as law, accounting, quality management, and workplace health and safety. Although not yet a trend, the marriage of EMS with self-evaluation, self-improvement models could make EMS even more effective. This paper describes the components and elements of an EMS which are suited to use in mountain ski area operations. Using a case study approach, it also illustrates the value of an EMS in focusing the environment initiatives of ski areas. From a societal point of view, the voluntary nature of the EMS suggested here represents a self-regulatory approach to encouraging mountain tourism organizations to become more effectively involved with the protection of environmental resources. The use of EMS strategies does not mean, however, that government regulation is unnecessary. It only adds to the set of forces needed to develop and maintain more sustainable tourism activities in mountain environments. /// Les Systmes de gestion de l'environnement (SGE) crs en rponse au mcontentement vis--vis du contrle environnemental en tant que moyen de prvention de la pollution et de la dgradation. L'approche SGE a bnfici de l'influence de domaines aussi varis que le droit, la comptabilit, la gestion de la qualit et l'hygine du travail. Bien que cela ne constitue pas encore une tendance, l'intgration des SGE avec les modles d'auto-valuation et d'auto-amlioration est susceptible de rendre les SGE encore plus efficaces. Cet article dcrit les composants et lments d'un SGE bien adapts  l'exploitation des stations de ski. Utilisant une approche d'tude de cas, l'article dmontre la valeur du SGE en termes de focalisation des initiatives environnementales des stations de ski. Du point de vue de la socit, le caractre volontariste du SGE suggr reprsente une approche auto-rglementaire visant  encourager les organisations de tourisme en montagne  participer plus activement  la protection des ressources environnementales. L'utilisation des stratgies SGE ne signifie cependant pas que la rglementation gouvernementale n'est pas ncessaire; elle s'ajoute simplement  l'ensemble des mesures ncessaires au dveloppement et au maintien des activits touristiques dans les environnements de montagne. /// Umweltfreundliche Trends beim Management von Skigebieten. Die Entwicklung von umweltbewuten (Environmental) Management Systemen (EMS), die Verschmutzung und Degradation bercksichtigen, war motiviert von allgemeiner Unzufriedenheit mit der bisherigen Bewertung von Umweltbelastungen. Bei der Entwicklung von EMS muten die Ergebnisse einer Vielzahl von diversen Fachgebieten, wie Rechtswesen, Buchfhrung, Qualittskontrolle, Unfallverhtung, und Arbeitsplatzsicherheit, unter einen Hut gebracht werden. Wenn auch bisher unbeachtet, knnte die Wirksamkeit von EMS mit Modellen zur Selbstkontrolle und Selbstbewertung noch verbessert werden. Diese Arbeit beschreibt die Komponenten und Einzelheiten von EMS, die fr Skigebietsunternehmen im Gebirge geeignet sind. Anhand einer Fallstudie wird der Wert von EMS aufgezeigt, wenn es darum geht, umweltbezogene Probleme in den Mittelpunkt zu stellen. Fr die Allgemeinheit bedeutet die hier vorgeschlagene freiwillige Annahme von EMS eine Selbstkontrolle; dem organisierten Bergtourismus wird nahegelegt, zum Schutz der natrlichen Ressourcen entscheidend mitbeizutragen. Die Anwendung von EMS Strategien bedeutet jedoch nicht, da staatliche Regulierung berflssig ist; sondern sie liefern zustzliche Aspekte, die beachtet werden mssen, um Touristenaktivitten in der Gebirgsumwelt zu entwickeln und aufrechtzuerhalten.
mounresedeve.32.3.267|This article reports on a qualitative case study about pasture governance practices in Naryn oblast in Kyrgyzstan. It investigates the relationship between shifts in pasture legislation and herders' mobility. The article describes a study of the outcomes of 2002 pasture management legislation that introduced pasture lease agreements. It specifically looks at the implications of dispersed administrative responsibility for livestock mobility. Contrary to what other studies have found, results of this study suggest that, in the case study, municipality, administrative hurdles were not a major cause of the abandonment of seasonal migration. Based on this finding, the results of the study suggest that a second reform approach, which started in 2009 and replaced the previous administrative arrangement with community-based pasture management would not necessarily improve the sustainable use of pastures and boost livestock mobility. The author points to the importance of designing effective local enforcement mechanisms for seasonal migration.
3674295|The European Alps (Alps) and Southern Alps of New Zealand (Southern Alps) are both high mountain ranges formed by the collision of tectonic plates. The Alps resulted from collision of the African and European Plates, which produced complex lithological and structural patterns associated with the development of a series of overthrusted nappes. In contrast, the plate margin deformation that created the Southern Alps produced a relatively simple structural and lithological pattern dominated by a single right lateral oblique slip fault zone known as the Alpine Fault. Strong contrasts are also apparent in the contemporary rates of landscape development. The Alps currently experience modest rates of uplift and denudation because deformation along the plate boundary has slowed. High rates of compressional strain along the Alpine Fault in New Zealand result in very high rates of uplift. These processes and the position of the mountain range across the prevailing atmospheric westerly circulation system result in exceptionally high rates of denudation. Although there are strong contrasts in the lithology and structure of the Alps and Southern Alps, both experienced the growth and decay of expanded valley and piedmont glaciers during the Quaternary. The impact of multiple Quaternary ice advances has left a strong imprint on the landscapes. Both mountain ranges have particularly well-developed, over-deepened troughs and widespread glacial sediments and landforms, which heavily influence modern geomorphic processes and land use. Today numerous glaciers in both regions show strong reactions to global warming since the end of the Little Ice Age.
3674210|Old developed systems of agricultural terraces are found in settled areas with high relief in different parts of the world. The present trend to abandon many of these terraced areas constitutes a process that increases erosion and sediment yield values following the collapse of supporting walls. This paper addresses the problem of changing human activities in the fragile environment of the historical terraces in the Central Andean mountains of Peru. The study is based on field experiments. Eight small plots were installed in the Santa Eulalia basin at altitudes of 2800 m and up to 3650 m. Annual run-off coefficient values were less than 5% and sediment yield values less than <tex-math>$1\ g/m^{2}$</tex-math> on the experimental plots. Daily rainfall intensity does not exceed 10 mm/d on most rainy days. Simulation of rainstorms by sprinklers was performed on terraces with different physiographic characteristics, lithology, soil, exposure, slope, altitude, degree of abandonment, and vegetation cover. Rainfall simulation tests revealed that run-off is high on steep, nonvegetated slopes and very low on grass-covered, low-angle slope terraces. A morphometric analysis was conducted on about 300 terraces with the same physiographic parameters. The average terrace area was <tex-math>$170\ m^{2}$</tex-math>, and most terraces surveyed were in a semiabandoned stage. Terrace degradation was noticeable by wall swelling, collapse, and deterioration of wall and terrace structure. Terrace degradation is a function of physical, economic, and social processes, which are linked and irreversible.
3674069|As a new strategy to conserve resources, decentralization of political authority has displaced earlier coercive conservation policies in many countries. More than 60 countries claim to have decentralized forest control. In these countries, communities are supposed to be involved in joint strategies to conserve forests. The story is similar for other resources such as wildlife, water, and watersheds. Decentralization is becoming ubiquitous even for provision of services, development programs, health and education. This is not surprising. Decentralization aims to achieve one of the central aspirations of equitable political governance: humans should have a say in their own affairs. Given the ubiquity of decentralization initiatives, 2 questions require critical attention: (1) What accounts for decentralization of political authority toward local decision makers? Voluntary relinquishing of power seems to fly in the face of expected state behavior. (2) Do the actual effects of decentralization policies match claims that decentralization is better on grounds of efficiency, equity, or political empowerment?
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r88|    ()               .    - ,              -              .    ,      ,         ,       ,           .       :  ,        ,       ,          ,         .          ,                        .
mounresedeve.29.1.36|At present, the return of farmland to forests is the key ecological conservation policy in use to control soil erosion and restore the ecoenvironment of the Loess Plateau, China. In order to explore policy-driven ecological defarming scenarios, Ansai County is taken as a case study. The land use map in 2000 and the topographic and slope map (taking the defarmed slopes with 15, 20, and 25 as the defarming thresholds) were used, supported by spatial analysis techniques in geographic information systems (GIS). This paper simulates and analyzes the scale and spatial difference of ecological defarming of Ansai County, the subsidy demand for defarming, and the influences of defarming on agricultural development. The results show: (1) The area of defarmed land with slopes greater than 25 in Ansai amounts to 3451.05 ha, which accounts for 2.84% of total area with slopes over 25, and the defarming index will be 3.14%. The total subsidy demand for defarming land will be 6884.84  10
3674463|The Kangchenjunga Conservation Area (KCA, Nepal) was the subject of a comparative study on land use/land cover change, using the maps and air photographs available for 2 different years (1978/79 and 1992). Digitized land use maps for 1978 (LUM78) and topographical maps for 1992 (TOPO92) were first interpreted using a Geographic Information System (GIS); this was followed by comparative interpretation of black and white air photographs from the same years. Lelep, Sekhathum-Amjilesa, Syajunma and Ramsyampati were the 4 areas selected for analysis. The initial map interpretation of LUM78 and TOPO92 implied that considerable changes in land use/cover had occurred between 1978/79 and 1992. Forestland was shown to have decreased by 62.5% (<tex-math>$23.15\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), agricultural land to have increased by 35.7% (<tex-math>$1.49\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), and shrubland to have increased by 238.2% (<tex-math>$30.16\ km^{2}$</tex-math>). Grazing land, with an area of <tex-math>$22.57\ km^{2}$</tex-math> on the 1978/79 and 1992 imagery, appeared to have disappeared completely by 1992. An interpretation of air photographs for the same period, however, revealed that the actual changes were far smaller than those inferred from the map interpretation: decrease in forest and grazing lands by 14.9% (<tex-math>$5.45\ km^{2}$</tex-math>) and 77.9% (<tex-math>$2.75\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), respectively, and increase in agricultural and shrublands by 4.9% (<tex-math>$0.21\ km^{2}$</tex-math>) and 19.7% (<tex-math>$4.41\ km^{2}$</tex-math>), respectively. The results of a questionnaire survey of the local inhabitants confirmed that no significant changes had occurred. The discrepancies identified highlight the problems inherent in assigning land categories. In particular, distinctions made on the LUM78 material between shrub, grazing land, and barren land were inappropriate. Similarly, forest and shrublands were incorrectly assigned in TOPO92. Caution must be exercised when using such information; verification from other sources is needed.
3674583|By combining research on individual forage plants and plant communities, significant information about the changing condition of rangelands under specific management practices can be produced; this has rarely been done to date. On the one hand, studies on individual plants provide rather mechanistic, isolated insights, making it impossible to identify interactions and the properties of plant communities relevant for adequate vegetation management. On the other hand, plant community analysis alone only reveals shifts in the composition of species and biomass, but does not explain cause-and-effect relationships related to the impact of grazing at species level. The combined and participatory approach suggested in this paper describes how a more tangible, quantifiable relationship can be established between individual plant and community level processes. Such an approach, which involves herders in expert assessment and data collection, enables better monitoring and forecasting of those changes in plant community composition that are relevant for livestock husbandry and sustainable resource use. In this study, the highest dry matter production (DMP) was recorded at altitudes between 1200 m (with 1945 kg/ha) and 1600 m (with 1921 kg/ha). In "freely grazed rangeland"-where access is not limited and no manual improvement measures are taken-the proportion of palatable forage species is much lower than in "fenced rangeland," where access is limited and the stocking rate reduced to one third. Such integrated assessment of rangeland conditions ultimately provides the baseline for evaluating changes in ecosystems over time; it also provides a sound basis for negotiation among stakeholders with different interests.
3674160|Land use and land cover changes that occurred from 1957 to 1995 in the Dembecha area, Gojam, in the Northwestern highlands of Ethiopia, were monitored using a geographic information system (GIS) and a remote sensing approach with field verification. The study area covers 27,100 ha and is representative of Gojam, which is known for its cereal production and export of surplus to major cities of the country. However, given the age-old tradition of clearing increasingly steeper land for cultivation and the lack of appropriate land use policies, productivity is currently heavily threatened by soil degradation. The results show that the natural forest cover declined from 27% in 1957 to 2% in 1982 and 0.3% in 1995. The total natural forest cleared between 1957 and 1995 amounts to 7259 ha. This is 99% of the forest cover that existed in 1957. On the other hand, cultivated land increased from 39% in 1957 to 70% in 1982 and 77% in 1995. The greatest expansion occurred between 1957 and 1982 (about 78%) and slowed down between 1982 and 1995 (only 10%) because almost no land was left for further expansion. Throughout the period covered by the study, cultivation encroached upon the very last marginal areas and steep slopes with gradients >30%. Such a dramatic change in 4 decades and the increasing proportion of completely degraded lands, from virtually nil in 1957 to about 3% in 1995, clearly indicates the prevailing danger of land degradation in the area.
10.2307/3673213|The causes of forest depletion in the Himalayan region are complex, and they vary from one local setting to another, as the result of long historical trends. This paper traces three major factors: the intrusion of modern political and economic systems into the mountains; the growth of modern resource management agencies, notably the Indian Forest Service; and the pressures of rural subsistence and population migrations. /// Les causes de la dforestation dans la rgion himalayenne sont complexes et varient selon les conditions locales, par suite d'une longue volution historique. Cette tude examine trois facteurs principaux: l'introduction de systmes politiques et conomiques modernes dans les rgions montagneuses; la cration d'organismes modernes de gestion des ressources, en particulier le Service indien des eaux et forts; et les pressions de l'auto-consommation rurale et des migrations de population. /// Die Ursachen des Waldschwundes im Himalaya Gebiet sind komplex und als Resultat langfristiger, historischer Entwicklungen von Ort zu Ort unterschiedlich. Diese Studie untersucht drei Hauptfaktoren: Das Eindringen moderner politischer und konomischer Systeme in die Bergwelt; das Aufkommen von modernen Organisationen fr Ressourcemanagement insbesondere der indische Forest Service; und die Zwnge lndlicher Selbstversorgung und Bevlkerungsmigration.
3674509|During the past century the "Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation" has dominated mainstream views concerning natural resource management in the Himalayan region. The main tenet of this theory is that increased human population has resulted in increased demands for natural resources, leading to severe resource depletion, especially deforestation. In this article, we use local data on fuelwood consumption and timber extraction from Basho Valley in northern Pakistan to investigate whether such general perceptions regarding forest depletion can be supported by an empirical case study. The results of this study indicate that local fuelwood collection is not the main cause of deforestation. Instead, the estimated deforestation of about 30% during the last 3 decades is primarily due to commercial harvesting and mismanagement by the government. A large amount of dead fallen wood and green trees was sold by the government or was taken out by a "timber mafia" that emerged during the main period of commercial harvesting in the 1970s and 80s. Thus, it is commercial and illegal harvesting that has left the forest in such a depleted state that it can no longer withstand the pressure from local use.
10.2307/3673893|The development of ski-runs and lifts for downhill skiing in the Black Forest has led to extensive damage. Vegetation cover and topsoil have been lost, resulting in soil erosion and extended needle-ice solifluction. The mapping of damage in skiing areas, primarily applied in alpine regions, is now being undertaken in lower mountain areas; it indicates the relationships between types of damage, frequency, distribution, location, aspect, and relief. The analysis of the snow-cover conditions at the Schauinsland between the winters of 1976/77 and 1993/94 shows an exceptional variability in snow depth as well as duration of snow cover. Classification of the damage on test plots for the period 1985/86 indicates that graded areas, used as pastures, are extremely susceptible to geomorphological processes, especially erosion and solifluction, and that consequential damage is very likely. It is possible to quantify the erosion and accumulation rates during the summer by simple measurements. The results of the study at Schauinsland reveal different parameters with which to evaluate recent geomorpho-dynamic processes. These can be used to develop a program for ski-tourism that will result in less damage and will allow damaged areas to regenerate. /// La construction de pistes et de tlsiges pour le ski alpin en Fort-Noire a caus des dgts importants. Le tapis vgtal et la couche arable ont disparu, entranant une rosion du sol et une solifluxion tendue. La reprsentation cartographique des dgts dans les aires de ski,  l'origine limite  la zone alpine, a t maintenant tendue aux zones plus basses; elle rvle les interrelations entre les types de dgts, la frquence, la distribution spatiale, l'emplacement, l'aspect et le relief. L'analyse des conditions d'enneigement du Schauinsland, pour les hivers de 1976/77  1993/94, a mis en vidence des variations normes de l'paisseur de la couche de neige et de sa dure. La classification des dgts sur des parcelle exprimentales, pour l'hiver 1985/86, a indiqu que les aires aplanies, telles que les pturages, sont extrmement sensibles aux processus gomorphologiques, en particulier l'rosion et la solifluxion, et que des dgts indirects sont trs probables. Il est possible de quantifier les vitesses d'rosion et d'accumulation pendant l't,  l'aide de simples mesures. Les rsultats de l'tude du Schauinsland ont mis en vidence diffrents paramtres permettant d'valuer les processus gomorphodynamiques rcents. Ces paramtres peuvent tre utiliss pour mettre sur pied un programme d'amnagement pour le ski alpin, endommageant moins le milieu naturel et permettant aux zones endommages de se rgnrer. /// Die Erschlieung des Skigebietes durch Pisten- und Liftbau fhrt auf den betroffenen Flchen zu einer weitgehenden Zerstrung der natrlichen Bodenschichtung; Vegetationsbedeckung und Humusauflage gingen verloren. Der Skibetrieb und die Pistenprparierungsarbeiten lsen Nutzungsschden aus. Verminderte Vegetationsbedeckung, flchenhafte Absplung von Feinmaterial und vermehrte Kammeissolifluktion sind die Folgeschden. Die bisher vorwiegend im alpinen Raum angewandte Schadenskartierung eines zusammenhngenden Skigebietes wird auf den Mittelgebirgsraum bertragen und zeigt auch hier deutlich den Zusammenhang zwischen Schadenstyp, -hufigkeit, -verteilung und den standrtlichen Begebenheiten. Exposition, Relief, sowie Vernderungen durch den Pistenbau, sind die entscheidenden Faktoren fr die Ausbreitung oder Regeneration geschdigter Flchen. Die Analyse der Entwicklung der Winterschneedecke zeigt im Blick auf die untersuchten Winter 1976/1977 bis 1993/1994 eine enorm groe Variabilitt der Schneehhen, Schneedeckendauer und ihres Beginns und Endes. Mit der Schadensklassifizierung einzelner Testflchen kann fr den Mezeitraum 1985/86 nachgewiesen werden, da planierte, beweidete Flchen fr morphodynamische Prozesse, insbesondere Absplung von Feinmaterial und Kammeissolifluktion sehr anfllig sind und mit einer zunehmenden Schdigung zu rechnen ist. Mit sehr einfachen Methoden lt sich der sommerliche Abtrag quantifizieren, das Ausma der Akkumulation ermitteln. Die ermittelten Werte ergeben Grenordnungen, die eine Bewertung des Flchenzustandes und der rezenten Morphodynamik erlauben. Gleichzeitig knnen auf der Grundlage der Kartierung und der Meergebnisse Vorschlge einer skitouristischen Nutzung erarbeitet werden, die weniger Schden verursacht und die Regeneration geschdigter Flchen ermglicht.
10.2307/3673038|Land use and land cover shown on air photographs taken in 1953, 1969, and 1976-77 were compared with present-day field data in the area around Huai Thung Choa and the results were analysed. Four primary classes were recognized: villages and cultivated land, shrubland, woodland, and forest. Results indicate that the rate of continuing change accelerated in the late 1970s due to road construction and reforestation in the hill country. The Lisu people show a tendency to move northwards from the area while Khon Muang are attracted into the area by the possibilities of more intensive agriculture and agro-forestry systems and wage labour. /// Cette tude compare les donnes sur l'utilisation et la couverture des terres, tires des photographies ariennes prises en 1953, 1969, 1976-77, avec les donnes rcentes releves sur place dans la rgion de Huai Thung Choa. Cette comparaison est suivie d'une analyse des rsultats. On peut distinguer quatre catgories diffrentes: villages et terres cultives, zones arbustives, zones boises, et forts. Les rsultats indiquent que l'volution continue s'est acclre vers la fin des annes 70, du fait de la construction de routes et du reboisement des rgions montagneuses. Les Lisus ont tendance  se dplacer vers le nord de cette rgion, alors que les Khon Muangs y sont attirs par les possibilits d'agriculture plus intensive, les systmes d'agro-foresterie, et le travail salari. /// Anhand von Luftaufnahmen aus den Jahren 1953, 1969 und 1976-77 im Gebiet um Huai Thung Choa wurden Bodennutzung und Bewachsung mit gegenwrtigen Daten verglichen und die Ergebnisse analysiert. Vier Hauptgruppen wurden klassifiziert: Drfer und bestellte Landflchen, Buschland, waldartige Flchen und Wlder. Die Ergebnisse verdeutlichen, dass als Folge des Strassenbaus und der Aufforstung im Bergland in den spten 70er Jahren sich der Grad der Vernderungen beschleunigte. Die Lisu Bevlkerung wandert aus diesem Gebiet nach Norden ab, whrend die Khon Muang zuwandern, angezogen von Gelegenheiten zur intensiven Landwirtschaft, zur Agro-Forstwirtschaft und zur Verdingung als Gelegenheitsarbeiter.
10.2307/3673059|This paper explains the background of a project on mountain hazards mapping in Nepal which is supported by the United Nations University, Unesco, and His Majesty's Government of Nepal. Three areas, representative of the three main altitudinal belts experiencing major human impacts, were selected for production of prototype hazard maps. They are: 1) High-Altitude belt above and below upper timberline (Khumbu Himal); 2) Middle Mountain belt (vicinity of Kathmandu); and 3) Low-Altitude belt (transection of the Siwalik Hills and Gangetic Plain). The research design is presented and some early results from completed work in the Kathmandu area are discussed. The paper is intended to provide a framework for a series of subsequent reports on more detailed aspects of the study, including geomorphology, ethnography, biogeography, land use, and the hazard maps themselves. /// Cet article prsente les bases d'un projet de relev des sites menacs dans les montagnes du Npal, projet financ par l'Universit des Nations Unies, l'Unesco, et le gouvernement du Npal. Trois rgions reprsentatives des trois principaux tages altitudinaux  fort impact humain, ont t choisies pour laborer les prototypes de cartes de sites menacs. Ce sont 1) l'tage  haute altitude au-dessus et en-dessous de la limite suprieure de la fort (Khumbu Himal); 2) l'tage montagnard mitoyen (les alentours de Kathmandu); et 3) l'tage  basse altitude (coupe transversale des collines de Siwalik et de la plaine gangtique). Le plan de recherche est prsent et quelques rsultats initiaux du travail effectu dans la rgion de Kathmandu, sont discuts. Cet article se propose de fournir une structure de base pour une srie de rapports subsquents portant sur les aspects plus dtaills de l'tude, dont la gomorphologie, l'ethnographie, la biogographie, l'utilisation des sols et les cartes de sites menacs elles-mmes. /// Diese Verffentlichung erklrt den Hintergrund eines Projektes ber die Kartographierung von Berggefahren in Nepal. Es wird von der Universitt der Vereinten Nationen, von Unesco und von der Regierung seiner kniglichen Hoheit von Nepal untersttzt. Drei Gebiete wurden, also Musterbeispiel der drei Haupthhengrtel, die starker, menschlicher Einwirkung ausgesetzt sind, zur Herstellung von Prototyp- Karten ausgesucht. Diese sind: 1) Der Hhengrtel ber und unterhalb der oberen Baumgrenze (Khumbu Himal); 2) Der mittlere Gebirgsgrtel (Umgebung von Kathmandu) und 3) Der niedrige Hhengrtel (Querschnitt von den Siwalik Hills und der Gangetic Ebene). Der Forschungsentwurf wird vorgelegt, und einige Vorergebnisse der durchgefhrten Arbeit im Gebiet um Kathmandu werden diskutiert. Die Absicht dieser Verffentlichung ist es, eine Reihe nachfolgender Berichte einzuleiten, die sich mit den Einzelheiten der Studien ber Geomorphologie, Ethnographie, Biogeography, Bodennutzung und mit den Gefahrenkarten selber genauer befassen.
mounresedeve.36.1.4|Mountainous rural areas such as those in southwest China are developing rapidly. This requires scientific understanding and a framework for assessing the sustainability of the built environment that is suitable to such areas. At present, no such framework exists. This lack of assessment options has contributed to the unsustainable development of these areas, which has caused a series of environmental, social, and economic problems. This article analyzes existing assessment frameworks, reviews the theory on sustainable rural development as it applies to rural southwest China, and proposes a new assessment framework that is more suitable to this region and others like it. This framework is based on a sustainable development model for rural areas that emphasizes endogenous development; addresses the environmental, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability; and takes the natural and social conditions of mountainous rural areas into account. Our study tested its applicability to rural southwest China and its sensitivity to local conditions and found them to be better than those of existing assessment frameworks.
mounresedeve.29.1.21|Repeat photography is a useful tool for evaluating historical landscape change. The objective of this study was to use ground-based repeat photography to quantify landscape vegetation changes during the period of 18802008 and to evaluate methods employed in repeat photography. The historical photographs included 237 landscape photographs taken in 1880 in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Fiftyfive photographs were successfully relocated, and the photograph pairs were analyzed for changes in cover classes and changes by topographical position. From 1880 to 2008, forest land was the most stable cover type (98% of forested land in 1880 remained forested in 2008). Some of the main patterns of land conversion during this time period were (1) agricultural land converted to forest (19%), (2) residential and commercial land converted to forest (18%), and (3) transportation systems converted to forest or agricultural land (57%). When combined with other historical land use methods, repeat photography can yield a detailed reconstruction of the historical profile of an area; however, if the original locations of the photographs are unknown, repeat photography is a very time-intensive technique.
3674441|Archival data of monthly air temperature and precipitation series were used to investigate climate change trends and characteristics during 1960-2000 at 19 stations along Lancang River from the north to the south, in the mountainous Himalayan region of southwest China. The magnitude of a trend was estimated using Sen's Nonparametric Estimator of Slope approach. The station significance of a trend was assessed by the MK test. Over the observation period of 41 years, mean annual air temperature increased at the rate of 0.01C/yr to 0.04C/yr in 12 stations at the significance level  = 0.01. The changes in precipitation in different areas are very dissimilar and complex. Mean annual precipitation that decreased from -2.86mm/yr to -5.29mm/yr at 3 stations, and mean annual precipitation that increased from 5.77mm/yr and 7.44mm/yr at 2 stations, were statistically significant at the significance level  = 0.05. The lower reaches of Lancang River experienced much more severe temperature increase, precipitation decrease, and drought development than the upper reaches in the past 41 years.
mounresedeve.32.2.117|Mountain economies are undergoing transformation from traditional agrarian to more industrial or serviceoriented economies. Such changes invariably have socioeconomic impacts on nearby communities and lead to fragmentation and rural depopulation. Sikkim, a small state of India in the Eastern Himalayas, has recently embarked on a program of hydroelectricity project construction. This study examined community perceptions of the environmental and socioeconomic impacts of these projects in 3 rural areas and considers implications for future sustainable livelihoods. While benefits such as employment have accrued to the rural community from these economic development projects, changes in land use and in people's occupations may have adverse impacts on their future livelihoods. We argue that there is a need to support new types of land-based economic activities on abandoned agricultural lands, reclaim degraded lands, and introduce new products and production methods.
3674338|The Andean region of Peru covers over one third of the country's territory and contains about 30% of its total population. Development is constrained by both natural and nonnatural barriers, especially in rural areas. Geographic isolation, difficult mountainous terrain, high costs associated with improving transport infrastructure, deficient services, and intermediate means of transport limit the mobility of the rural poor as well as their access to basic services and utilities. Illiteracy rates are high in rural areas; the rate for women (28.2%) is 3 times that of men (9.1%). Responsible de facto for family life activities (education, health, food, recreation, child-care, family relations, etc) and increasingly sharing productive and management roles with men, rural women carry a significant workload. The impact of improved rural roads on gender relations in the Peruvian Andes is highlighted in the present paper, with a focus on the example of the Rural Roads Program. Recommendations are made for more gender-sensitive policy programs in the transport sector.
10.2307/3673745|This paper aims to show, with evidence from the Salme slope, that there is no direct relationship between human pressure, monsoon rains, and erosion in the Middle Mountains of Central Nepal. It emphasizes the importance of methodology in such a study. The author spent an entire year studying the Salme slope from different perspectives. Observations on selected climatic parameters and vegetation have been recorded regularly for five years. The climatological study indicates that rainfall is very heavy (4,000 mm/yr) but not very erosive; the cultivated area receives significant amounts of insolation even during the summer monsoon. These factors lead to abundant growth of vegetation under forest and on terraced fields during the monsoon season. Maintenance of the cultivated area contributes to slope stability. Development of gullies (pahiro) is the only significant process of erosion and this appears to be a result of natural rather than anthropogenic forces. Negative effects of rain and human pressure on the soil resource are infrequent, localized, and of limited scope. Thus, these impacts should be seen as stabilizing elements in a naturally fragile environment, rather than destabilizing agents in a mountain area that some have described as severely degraded as a result of human abuse. /// L'objectif de cet article est de montrer, d'aprs l'exemple du versant de Salme, qu'il n'y a pas de relation directe entre la pression humaine, les pluies de mousson et l'rosion dans les Moyenne Montagnes du Npal Central. L'importance de la mthodologie pour aborder ce thme y est souligne. L'auteur a pass une anne complte  tudier ce versant sous diffrentes angles. Des donnes recueillies ponctuellement pendant 5 ans ont permis de complter cette tude. L'tude climatique indique que: les pluies sont trs abondantes (4000 mm/an) mais peu rosives; le secteur cultiv est bien ensoleill mme pendant la mousson. Il en rsulte la pousse d'une abondante vgtation sous fort et sur les champs en terrasses pendant la mousson. La maintenance du secteur cultiv contribue  la stabilit des pentes. Un grand ravinement (pahiro) est le seul processus d'rosion important et son origine semble tre naturelle plutt qu'anthropique. Les effets ngatifs des pluies et de la pression humaine sur le sol sont peu frquents, localiss et de peu d'ampleur. Ces deux agents seraient donc plutt des lments stabilisateurs d'un milieu fragile naturellement, que des agents dstabilisateurs d'un milieu que d'aucuns ont tendance  considrer comme stable tant qu'il n'est pas occup par l'homme. /// Diese Verffentlichung will anhand des Salme Berghanges aufzeigen, da in den Middle Mountains von Zentralnepal keine direkte Beziehung zwischen Bevlkerungsdruck, Monsunregen und Erosion besteht. Sie unterstreicht, da es bei solchen Untersuchungen wichtig ist, methodisch vorzugehen. Der Autor verbrachte insgesamt ein ganzes Jahr vor Ort und untersuchte den Salme Hang nach verschiedenen Gesichtspunkten. ber einen Zeitraum von fnf Jahren wurden regelmig Beobachtungen von ausgewhlten klimatischen Parametern und von der Vegetation aufgezeichnet. Die klimatische Studie zeigt, da Niederschlag sehr stark (4.000 mm/Jahr) sein kann, aber trotzdem keine Erosion auslst; die bestellte Flche erhlt reichlich Sonneneinstrahlung, selbst whrend des Sommermonsuns. Diese Faktoren begnstigen whrend der Monsunzeit ppige Vegetation unter Bumen und auf terrassierten Feldern. Instandhaltung der bestellten Flche trgt zur Hangstabilitt bei. Die Entwicklung von Rinnen (pahiro) ist der einzige nennenswerte Erosionsvorgang, und es scheint, als wre dies mehr ein Naturvorgang als ein von Menschen verursachter. Gelegentlich gibt es negativ Auswirkungen auf die Bodenressource durch Regen und durch Bevlkerungsdruck, die aber rtlich begrenzt bleiben. In einem Berggebiet, das von vielen durch menschlichen Mibrauch schwer geschdigt beschrieben worden ist, sollten solche Einflsse eher als stabilisierend fr eine anfllige Umwelt gesehen werden und nicht als destabilisierende Faktoren.
10.2307/3673107|Pre-Columbian culture and society in the Southern Andes did not reach as high a level as farther north. Nevertheless there is a rich archaeological record that is just now being studied. Land use has evolved over the centuries from the early hunter-gatherer communities to the present mix of intensive farming and mining (concentrated in certain areas such as northern and central Chile, Mendoza, Tucuman, and Cordoba), extensive livestock raising, and subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Demographic, historic, political, and economic factors have contributed to present-day land use. Colonial economy in its mature period was centred around silver mining at Potosi. The Southern Andes' economy developed primarily as one that supplied Potosi with wheat, mules, and brandy. Independence coincided with the exhaustion of the silver at Potosi. The economies of Chile and Argentina developed in different directions: Chile's large copper, iron, and saltpetre deposits determined that the primary orientation would be mining; the existence of a large and fertile plain to the east of the mountains in Argentina resulted in comparative neglect of the mountain areas in favour of the plains. In both countries the historical pattern of land tenure was moulded during the height of the colonial period and the development of large haciendas dedicated to both agriculture and animal husbandry. The resulting latifundio-minifundio pattern has had a negative effect on development in the Southern Andes region. /// La culture et la socit pr-colombiennes n'ont pas atteint un niveau de dveloppement aussi avanc dans les Andes mridionales que dans les rgions plus au nord. Nanmoins, de nombreux vestiges archologiques y ont t dcouverts, qui commencent juste  tre tudis. L'exploitation des terres a volu au cours des sicles, depuis les anciennes communauts survivant de la chasse et de la collecte jusqu'au mlange actuel d'agriculture intensive et d'exploitation minire (concentre dans certaines rgions telles que le Chili septentrional et central, Mendoza, Tucuman, et Cordoba), d'levage extensif du btail, et d'autoconsommation (agriculture et levage). Diffrents facteurs dmographiques, historiques, politiques, et conomiques ont contribu au dveloppement des modes actuels d'exploitation des terres. A son apoge, l'conomie coloniale tait base sur l'exploitation des mines d'argent de Potosi, et l'conomie des Andes mridionales s'est developpe surtout dans le but d'approvisionner Potosi en bl, mules, et eau-de-vie. L'indpendance a concid avec l'puisement du gisement de Potosi. Les conomies respectives du Chili et de l'Argentine ont alors evolu diffremment: des gisements importants de cuivre, fer, et salite ont dtermin l'orientation principale du Chile vers l'exploitation minire, alors qu'une plaine tendue et fertile  l'est des montagnes a pouss l'Argentine  ngliger quelque peu les rgions montagneuses en faveur des plaines. Dans ces deux pays, le rgime foncier traditionnel a pris sa forme dfinitive  l'apoge de la priode coloniale, avec cration de grandes exploitations rurales (haciendas) consacres  l'agriculture et  l'levage. Le mode d'exploitation des terres qui en a result (latifundio-minifundio) a eu un effet dfavorable sur le dveloppement des Andes mridionales. /// Die prkolumbianische Kultur und Gesellschaftsstruktur in den sdlichen Anden waren nicht so hoch entwickelt wie in den nrdlicheren Gegenden, trotzdem existieren aufschlureiche archologische Aufzeichnungen, die gerade untersucht werden. ber die Jahrhunderte hat sich die Landnutzung von frhen Jger- und Sammlergemeinden zur gegenwrtigen Mischung aus intensiver Landwirtschaft, Bergbau (dieser konzentriert sich auf bestimmte Gebiete wie Nord- und Zentralchile, Mendoza, Tucuman und Cordoba), ausgedehnter Viehzucht, Landwirtschaft zur Deckung des Eigenbedarfs und Viehwirtschaft entwickelt. Demographische, historische, politische und wirtschaftliche Gesichtspunkte haben zur gegenwrtigen Landnutzung beigetragen. Whrend der Bltezeit der Kolonialherrschaft konzentrierte sich die Wirtschaft um die Silberbergwerke bei Potosi. Die konomie in den sdlichen Anden entwickelte sich vorwiegend aus der Versorgung Potosis mit Weizen, Maultieren und Branntwein. Unabhngigkeit fiel zeitlich mit dem Erschpfen der Silbervorkommen in Potosi zusammen. Die Wirtschaft Chiles und Argentiniens entwickelte sich in verschiedene Richtungen: Chiles groe Kupfer-, Eisen- und Salzablagerungen machten den Bergbau zur Hauptbeschftigung. In Argentinien dagegen gaben die groen fruchtbaren Ebenen stlich der Berge den Ausschlag, das Bergland zugunsten des Flachlandes zu vernachlssigen. In beiden Lndern prgte sich die geschichtliche Form des Grundbesitzes whrend der Blte der Kolonialzeit, und es entwickelten sich groe Haziendas, die der Land- und Viehwirtschaft dienten. Das sich daraus ergebende System der Grobis zu Kleinstgrundbesitzungen hatte nachteilige Folgen fr die Entwicklung der sdlichen Anden. /// La cultura y sociedad pre-Colombina no alcanz en estas regiones el esplendor que alcanz ms al norte. Sin embargo, la regin de los Andes del Sur es rica en sitios arqueolgicos que estn siendo estudiados. El uso de la tierra ha evolucionado a travs de los siglos desde un perodo de caza-recolecta, al presente que es una mezcla de agricultura y mineria intensiva y altamente tcnificada concentrada en ciertas zonas como el norte y centro de Chile, Mendoza, Tucumn, y Cordoba; gandera extensiva; y agricultura y ganadera de subsistencia. Factores demogrficos, histricos, polticos y ecnomicos, han contribuido a crear esta situacin. La economia colonial en su perodo de madurez estaba centrada en la economa de las minas de plata de Potos. La economa de la regin de los Andes del Sur se centro principalmente en el negocio de suplir a las minas de Potos con mulas, trigo, y aguardiente. Las minas se agotaron al tiempo de la Independencia de las Repblicas Americanas. Las economas de Chile y Argentina se desarrollaron a lo largo de caminos diferentes. Los grandes depositos de cobre, hierro y salitre de Chile determinaron que su principal orientacin sera hacia la minera; la existencia de una extensa y frtil llanura al este de las montaas en la Argentina resultaron en un relativo olvido de esta regin en favor de la regin pampeana. En ambos pases el patrn de tenencia de la tierra fue moldeado durante la poca colonial con sus grandes haciendas dedicadas a la agricultura y la ganadera. El resultante patrn de latifundio-minifundio ha tenido efectos negativos sobre el desarrollo de la regin de los Andes del Sur.
10.2307/3673167|The Ethiopian mountain ecosystems (above 1,500 m) make up 40 percent of the total land mass of the country. The mountain area contains 71 percent of the human population and 69 percent of all the cattle, and is responsible for nearly all the food crops and most of the cash crops produced in the country. The historical considerations show a shift from a relatively stable and self-contained system with a low level of exploitation to a socially stratified and economically dependent system with an increased level of exploitation (deforestation, severe soil and water erosion) and the risk of regional famines. The present state can generally be described as one with a drastically declining carrying capacity. More labour and more land are needed to feed each family than ever before. The mountain system can be divided into two major regions. In the south and southwest of the Ethiopian mountains (Wollayate and Guraghe regions) horticultural agriculture is characterized by hoe-cultivation and, despite the high human population density, the ecosystem is relatively stable. In the central and northern massifs, with medium to high population density, there is a cereal/livestock-based agriculture with plough-cultivation. This ecosystem is highly unstable and is no longer able to support the local population. The most sensitive areas are the lower and upper altitudinal belts (Kola, Woorch). Instability in these areas also affects the lowlands. Corrective measures must aim to reduce the overall pressure of traditional agricultural land use, and to regulate and improve livestock production. Irrigation, market infrastructure, and agro-industrial efforts, and the monetarization of the rural economy must also be considered. /// L'cosystme des montagnes thiopiennes au-dessus de 1500 m reprsente 40 pourcent de la superficie du pays; 71 pourcent de la population et 69 pourcent du cheptel vivent dans cette rgion, d'o provient la majeure partie des denres alimentaires et des plantes marchandes du pays. Les considrations historiques font ressortir le passage d'une systme autarcique relativement stable, avec un faible degr d'exploitation,  un systme dpendant, prsentant un degr d'exploitation croissant. Les consquences de cette volution sont le dboisement, une grave rosion et le risque de famines rgionales. Cette situation peut tre dfinie de manire gnrale comme diminution rapide de la capacit de charge (carrying capacity): pour nourrir une famille, il faut plus de terre et plus de travail que jamais auparavant. L'tude des deux rgions principales de l'cosystme montre quelques diffrences remarquables. Le Sud et le Sud-Ouest des montagnes thiopiennes (Wollayate et la rgion de Guraghe), avec culture  la houe, prsentent un cosystme relativement stable, malgr la haute densit de l'habitat. Les massifs du Centre et du Nord, avec une densit de population moyenne  leve, sont caractrises par la culture cralire et l'levage, ainsi que par l'utilisation de la charrue. Cet cosystme est menac au plus haut degr et ne peut plus soutenir conomiquement la population locale. Les espaces les plus menacs se situent dans les zones infrieures et suprieures des rgions montagneuses (Kola, Woorch). L'instabilit de ces zones influence galement les rgions de faible altitude. Les mesures d'amlioration ont pour but la rduction de la pression de l'agriculture traditionnelle sur l'cosystme en gnral, la rgulation et l'amlioration du produit de l'levage. Elles portent galement sur les questions d'irrigation, d'infrastructure du march et d'effort agro-industriel et visent  la gnralisation de l'conomie montaire. /// Das Oekosystem der Athiopischen Gebirge ber 1500 m umfasst 40 Prozent der gesamten Flche des Landes. In diesem Gebiet, das 71 Prozent der Landesbevlkerung und 69 Prozent des gesamten Viehbestandes umfasst, wird der grsste Teil der Nahrungsmittel wie auch der im Lande produzierten Handelspflanzen angebaut. Aus der historischen Betrachtung zeigt sich ein bergang von einem relativ stabilen, sich selbst erhaltenden System mit einem geringen Ausnutzungsgrad zu einem abhngigen System mit einem zunehmenden Ausnutzungsgrad. Die Folge davon sind Entwaldung, ernsthafte Bodenerosion und das Risiko regionaler Hungersnte. Dieser Zustand kann allgemein als stark abnehmende carrying capacity (Tragfhigkeit) bezeichnet werden. Mehr Land und Arbeit als je zuvor sind erforderlich, um eine Familie zu ernhren. Beim Betrachten der zwei Hauptregionen des kosystems zeigen sich einige bemerkenswerte Unterschiede: Der Sden und Sdwesten der thiopischen Gebirge (Wollayate und die Region von Guraghe), mit Hackbau zeigt trotz der dichten Besiedlung ein relativ stabiles kosystem. Das zentrale und nrdliche Massiv, mit mittlerer bis hoher Bevlkerungsdichte ist durch Getreideanbau und Viehwirtschaft sowie der Pflug-Technik gekennzeichnet. Dieses kosystem ist im hchstem Grad gefhrdet und vermag die lokale Bevlkerung wirtschaftlich nicht lnger zu tragen. Die am meisten gefhrdeten Rume befinden sich in den unteren und oberen Hhenregionen (Kola, Woorch). Die Instabilitt dieser Zonen beeinflusst ebenfalls die tief gelegenen Gebiete. Verbesserungsmassnahmen haben die Reduktion des allgemeinen Drucks der traditionellen Landwirtschaft, die Regulierung und Verbesserung der Viehproduktion, die Fragen der Bewsserung, der Vermarktungsinfrastruktur und der agro-industriellen Bemhungen, sowie die weitere Verbreitung der Geldwirtschaft zum Ziel.
mounresedeve.32.3.286|While the world is becoming increasingly interconnected and interdependent, physically and culturally, the wildlife of remote mountain regions is being affected both positively and negatively by such interconnectedness. In the case of snow leopards, the conservation impact has been largely, and rather unexpectedly, positive: Species-focused conservation projects, such as Project Snow Leopard (PSL) in Gilgit-Baltistan, remain mainly externally driven initiatives. PSL, initiated as a small pilot project in 1998, has relied on an approach that includes the use of an insurance scheme, the deployment of mitigation measures, and the empowerment of local governance. This approach has been successful in reducing the conflict with snow leopards and has built greater tolerance toward them. PSL is managed by local communities and cofinanced by them. PSL communities throughout the region are bearing the burden of carnivore conservation, and they are unwittingly subsidizing their populations by feeding them their livestock even though they are an economic threat to them. In this article, we argue that external intervention in the form of efforts that help alleviate the consequences of conflict through local empowerment have had a positive impact on the local mountain societies. We also show that such interventions have resulted in tangible conservation results, with the number of snow leopards staying at least stable. Our experience also shows that while the incentive component is critical, it is also part of a larger approachone that includes developing and supporting local governance structures, improving access to education, and offering a range of tools to reduce the conflict that can be implemented locally. Finally, we suggest that investing in this approach one that recognizes the species and local-context complexities surrounding the implementation of conservation incentivescan continue to inform international practices and guidelines for reducing humanwildlife conflicts worldwide.
mounresedeve.29.4.356|CONDESAN (Consortium for the Sustainable Development of the Andean Eco-region) is a 16-year-old consortium that offers an innovative form of organization and promotes horizontal integration among nongovernmental organizations, universities, national and international research centers, and governmental agencies from the Andean region. We are innovative and horizontal as we are able to cooperate with different types of actorsscientists, politicians, people from rural communities, among otherswho participate and interact as actors with the same rights. Our aim is the sustainable development of the Andean region (mountains).
mounresedeve.30.1.25|Forest resources in northwest Pakistan are under severe threat, negatively affecting local people aiming to meet their subsistence needs through different types of forest use. In addition to uses such as fodder and fuelwood, medicinal plants play an important role in the livelihoods of local people. To reduce pressure and dependency on remaining old-growth forests, some deforested and degraded sites have been reforested. The objectives of the present study were to (1) compare the abundance of medicinal plants on reforested and formerly forested degraded land and (2) assess the influence of reforested stand characteristics on the abundance of medicinal plants. Five plots were randomly selected per land use type. On these plots we analyzed the abundance and other variables of 10 herbal medicinal plants common and important for the rural human population. Frequencies, densities, and cover of the 10 medicinal plants were significantly higher on reforested sites than on degraded sites. Frequencies of highly valuable species such as Valeriana jatamansi, Bergenia ciliata, and Paeonia emodi increased 16-, 8- and 6-fold on reforested sites, respectively. Moreover, density, cover and diversity of medicinal plants (in total) were 7, 5, and 2 times higher, respectively, and 3 species absent on degraded sites were encountered on reforested sites. On reforested plots, tree basal area was the most influential variable positively correlated with the abundance of the aforementioned species. Thus, our data suggest that reforestation of degraded sites can greatly increase the abundance of medicinal plants and may be an instrument for improving the livelihoods of local people and protecting remaining natural forest resources.
mounresedeve.32.4.411|Food security is a significant issue for many people who live in remote mountain areas around the world. Most of these people are also poor because of the lack of opportunity to earn cash. Malnutrition is common because the harsh climate restricts production and access to fresh food. Simple conventional greenhouses can provide some improvement of growing conditions, but the benefits are limited because of the high heat losses from these structures. Solar greenhouses, however, which are designed to store some of the heat generated within the structure can overcome these limitations. This article describes the experiences of a nongovernmental organization that has been introducing community and familyowned solar greenhouses into the remote villages of Humla, a mountainous district of northwest Nepal prone to food insecurity. The overall result has been positive. Family-owned greenhouses, which avoid the issues of community ownership and operation, have been more successful. A validated computer model based on the first solar greenhouse has been used to predict the thermal performance of a new family-sized design. Training and education are vital to the success of solar greenhouse technology in remote mountain areas.
3674368|Much of the Earth is degraded, is being degraded, or is at risk of degradation. Dry Afromontane forests in Ethiopia are one of the ecosystems affected by this phenomenon. This study focuses on assessment of community perceptions of experiences with, and benefits from, enclosure practices meant to prevent or mitigate land degradation. Communities around Biyo-Kelala and Tiya enclosure areas, in central and northern Ethiopia respectively, were used for the study. The assessment was carried out on the basis of a semi-structured questionnaire survey and focus group discussions. Results showed that an overwhelming majority of the people have a positive attitude about enclosures and feel that they have gained benefits. However, people prefer not to ensure private ownership, but favor maintaining the existing communal (village level) management system instead. This demonstrates that groups emerge to manage common property when they live close to the resource. Yet the issue of benefits and their equitable distribution among community members was found to be the basis for developing a sense of security for ownership and hence the success of enclosures. The other finding was that rehabilitation of deforested lands provides economic benefits by supplying raw material to meet the local demand for wood, reducing the pressure on the remaining forests and supplying various non-timber products. Nevertheless, it is not possible to design a national model for the management of this practice: the design of management rules is specific to a particular locality.
10.2307/3673283|A definition of the Digital Terrain Model (DTM) is presented and the increasing practical importance of DMTs is emphasized. The paper then describes the methods of DMT data acquisition, the generation of a continuous DMT from the primary data as well as the derivation of perspective views, terrain profiles, contour lines, slope models, and height difference models from the DMT. Finally, new possibilities, resulting from a combination of DMT and digital image processing, are demonstrated using the mapping of the Vernagtferner glacier in the Austrian Tyrol as an example. /// Cette article prsente une dfinition du Modle topographique digital (MTD), et insiste sur l'importance pratique croissante de ces modles. Il dcrit ensuite les mthodes de saisie des donnes, l'laboration d'un MTD continu  partir des donnes de base, ainsi que la drivation  partir du MTD de vues en perspective, profils de terrain, lignes de contour, modles de pentes, et modles de differences de hauteur. Enfin, de nouvelles possibilits, combinant le MTD et le traitement d'images digitales sont dmontres  l'aide d'un exemple, c'est--dire le lev topographique du glacier Vernagtferner dans le Tyrol autrichien. /// Zunchst wird das Digitale Gelndemodell (DGM) definiert und die zunehmende praktische Bedeutung des DGM herausgestellt. Danach werden die Methoden der DGM-Datengewinnung, der Aufbau eines flchenhaften DGMs aus den Primrdaten und die Ableitung von Perspektiven, Gelndeprofilen, Hhenlinien, Neigungsmodellen, sowie Hhendifferenzmodellen aus dem DGM beschrieben. Anhand des Beispiels "Vernagtferner" wird schlielich die neue Mglichkeit der Verbindung von DGM und digitaler Bildverarbeitung aufgezeigt.
mounresedeve.31.3.188|This paper seeks to explain evidence of distinctive late- and post-Little Ice Age glacier change in the Karakoram Himalaya and a recent, seemingly anomalous, expansion. Attention is directed to processes that support and concentrate glacier mass, including an all-year accumulation regime, avalanche nourishment, and effects related to elevation. Glacier basins have exceptional elevation ranges, and rockwalls make up the larger part of their area. However, more than 80% of the ice cover is concentrated between 4000 and 5500 m elevation. Classification into Turkestan-, Mustagh-, and Alpine-type glaciers is revisited to help identify controls over mass balance. Estimates of changes based on snowlines, equilibrium line altitudes, and accumulation area ratio are shown to be problematic. Extensive debris covers in ablation zone areas protect glacier tongues. They are relatively insensitive to climate change, and their importance for water supply has been exaggerated compared to clean and thinly covered ablation zone ice. Recent changes include shifts in seasonal temperatures, snowfall, and snow cover at high elevations. Understanding their significance involves rarely investigated conditions at higher elevations that lack monitoring programs.
3674435|As a result of a dramatic decline in world coffee prices and the restructuring of both domestic and international institutions, coffee farmers have been facing one of the most difficult periods in sector history. In 2003, a comparative case study project (supported by the Small Grant Program of the Inter-American Institute for Global Change Research) in Guatemala, Mexico and Honduras explored the experiences and responses of coffee farmers to institutional reforms, market risk, and climate variability. Four communities were selected for study in the 3 countries in which household surveys and interviews were conducted. The impacts of the crisis and farmers' responses illustrate the potential obstacles that farmers confront with sudden and profound changes in production conditions, yet also suggest opportunities for interventions that might help farmers improve their resilience to future risk.
10.2307/3673869|This paper argues that conflicts in the northern Thai highlands are a clear case of the politics of environmental discourse in the sense that conservation has played a role in lending legitimacy to both government agencies and ethnic communities in their struggle for the control of forest resources. Underlying such conflicts is the official line of negative thinking about ethnic minorities in the hills by associating them with various vices, namely as enemies of the forest, opium producers, and a threat to national security. The government agencies always cite ethnicity against a role in conservation, which keeps them from appreciating ethnic-specific knowledge in the management of the forest. Shifting cultivation has been distorted for having only a negative impact on the environment, disregarding the realities found in local practices which are varied, complex, adaptive, and quite dynamic in many cases. The ethnic minorities, on the other hand, keep raising the issues of community rights in relation to their role in the protection of the forest. Rarely are their voices recognized until serious conflict occurs, which can be seen particularly in cases of the eviction of minorities from conservation forests. Only recently have government agencies begun to show some positive concern over the social issues of rights, as seen in the official pilot project on community forestry and the drafting of the community forest act. However, there is still no serious discussion of legal recognition of minorities' rights to live in the forest. /// Cet expos soutient que les conflits des rgions montagneuses du nord de la Thalande constituent un cas manifeste de dbat politique sur l'environnement en ce sens que la dfense de l'environnement a jou un rle dans la lgitimation de la lutte des agences gouvernementales et des communauts ethniques pour le contrle des ressources forestires. La politique officielle ngative mene contre les minorits ethniques des montagnes, accuses de divers crimes, c'est  dire d'tre des ennemis de la fort et des producteurs d'opium et de constituer une menace pour la scurit nationale, est  la base de ces conflits. Les agences gouvernementales citent toujours l'ethnicit comme raison de leur non-participation  la dfense de l'environnement, ce qui les empche d'apprcier les connaissances de ces minorits ethniques dans la gestion de la fort. Le dplacement des cultures a t peru comme n'ayant qu'un impact ngatif sur l'environnement, sans tenir compte des ralits des pratiques locales qui sont varies, complexes, adaptatives et trs dynamiques dans beaucoup de cas. Les minorits ethniques, en revanche, soulvent constamment la question du droit des communauts par rapport  leur rle dans la protection de la fort. Elles sont rarement coutes, jusqu' ce qu'un conflit srieux se produise, comme dans le cas particulirement des expulsions de minorits des forts protges. Ce n'est que rcemment que les agences gouvernementales ont commenc  se soucier rellement des aspects sociaux des droits, comme dans le projet-pilote officiel de sylviculture communautaire et la rdaction du projet de loi communautaire sur les forts. Toutefois, il n'y a toujours pas de discussion srieuse sur la reconnaissance lgale du droit des minorits de vivre dans la fort. /// Im vorliegenden Text wird behauptet, da die Konflikte in den nrdlichen Thai Highlands eindeutig auf eine Politik zurckzufhren sind, in der die Diskussion von Umweltaspekten eine wichtige Rolle spielt. Begrndet wird dies damit, da die Bewahrung der Rohstoffquellen sowohl Regierungsvertretern als auch ethnischen Gruppen in ihrem Kampf um die Kontrolle ber diese Quellen zu einer gewissen Legitimitt verholfen hat. Diesen Konflikten zu Grunde liegt die offizielle negative Linie gegenber ethnischen Minderheiten in den Bergen, die mit verschiedenen Untugenden in Verbindung gebracht werden: als Feinde des Waldes, Opiumproduzenten und Gefahr fr die nationale Sicherheit. Fr die Regierungsvertreter steht die Zugehrigkeit zu einer bestimmten ethnischen Gruppe im Widerspruch zu einer Rolle bei der Bewahrung der Umwelt, wodurch sie sich um den Vorteil bringen, das spezifische Wissen dieser Gruppen bei der Bewirtschaftung des Waldes fr sich zu nutzen. So ist z.B. der Fruchtwechsel einzig auf seine negativen Auswirkungen auf die Umwelt reduziert worden, wobei die tatschlichen Umstnde der lokalen Praxis, die vielfltig, komplex, anpassungsfhig und in einigen Fllen sehr dynamisch sind, auer acht gelassen werden. Auf der anderen Seite bringen die ethnischen Minderheiten den Streitpunkt der Gemeinschaftsrechte immer wieder mit ihrer Rolle bei der Bewahrung des Waldes in Verbindung. Nur selten werden sie angehrt, sofern nicht ein ernsthafter Konflikt eintritt. Dies zeigt sich vor allem in solchen Fllen, in denen Minderheiten aus Naturschutzgebieten vertrieben werden. Erst krzlich haben Regierungsvertreter begonnen, sich im positiven Sinne fr die sozialen Gesichtspunkte solcher Rechte zu interessieren, wie an dem offiziellen Pilotprojekt zur gemeinschaftlichen Bewirtschaftung der Wlder und einem entsprechenden Gesetzesentwurf zu sehen ist. Es gibt jedoch noch immer keine ernstzunehmenden Gesprche ber die gesetzliche Anerkennung des Rechtes von Minderheiten auf den Wald als Lebensraum.
mounresedeve.31.1.16|This study investigates the role that local fruit varieties can play in achieving the dual objectives of food sovereignty and income generation in the Tajik Pamir Mountains. In this very harsh environment, agriculture is characterized by a great diversity of fruit varieties central to local food culture and household security. Local fruit trees can grow in poor soils on slopes and their resistance to diseases, cold, and ultraviolet light give them marked advantages over introduced varieties. However, the humanitarian crisis following the collapse of the Soviet Union and recent efforts by development organizations to create markets by introducing exotic varieties are negatively affecting agricultural biodiversity (agrobiodiversity) and, potentially, household security. A study was carried out in 3 districts of the Gorno-Badakhshan province to investigate the household consumption and market potential of products derived from local varieties of apple, apricot, and mulberry and how these products could be better exploited to benefit community livelihoods and agrobiodiversity conservation. Results show that fruit represents the farmers' main source of food and income. Many local varieties are maintained for a variety of reasons related to household consumption, whereas the main reason for cultivating introduced varieties is income generation. Great care must therefore be taken in planning market strategies: a pure market focus will almost certainly endanger household security, whereas a strategy linking income generation through the commercialization of crop varieties to the promotion of qualities central to household needs will improve diversity and public health. The opportunities identified to help enhance the market potential of local fruits and maintain the Pamir's unique biocultural heritage include efforts to raise public awareness among producers and consumers of the nutritional and medicinal properties of local varieties; training for pest management, processing, and packaging; and the establishment of farmers' cooperatives.
mounresedeve.31.4.325|This paper examines the use of forest resources by local residents in Jigme Singye Wangchuck National Park, Bhutan. It also inquires into local residents' knowledge and perceptions of park management interventions. The data were collected through a questionnaire survey, group discussions, and observations. The results show that local people depend on forest resources for their livelihoods, and that their knowledge and perceptions of the park and of park management are influencedmainly by constraints on theiraccess to forest resources, and by benefits and incentives obtained from the park administration through socioeconomic development.
10.2307/3673653|Every year during the monsoon season catastrophic flooding on the plains of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers is reported as a result of human activities in the Himalayan region. This study investigates hydrological changes in the catchments of the Sutlej, Beas, Jhelum and, in greater detail, Chenab rivers during recent decades; it seeks linkages between river discharge and climate in the mountains, and flooding on the plains. Climatological data for the region are easily obtainable but hydrological information is restricted. Analysis of accessible data indicates that correlation between river discharge and precipitation is low and regression analyses show that trends are not statistically significant. Field observations of forest extent, land use, and erosion in the study areas suggest that there is no recent increase in forest cutting. Moreover, there is no evidence that flooding on the Gangetic plain has increased. /// Chaque anne, pendant les pluies de la mousson, les manchettes des journaux annoncent des inondations dvastatrices dans les plaines du Ganges et du Brahmaputra. Chaque fois on accuse les peuples des montagnes de provoquer ces catastrophes par leur pratique apparemment inadapte d'utilisation des ressources naturelles. Le prsent article traite des changements ventuels des caractristiques hydrologiques des rivires Sutlej, Beas, Chenab et Jhelum dans leur partie montagneuse durant les dernires dcennies et livre quelques gnralits concernant le problme des inondations dans la plaine du Ganges. Des donnes climatiques sont disponibles sans problmes. Par contre, les donnes hydrologiques sont tenues secrtes aussi bien pour les scientifiques hindous qu'trangers. Cette situation rend la recherche en Inde considrablement plus difficile. Les chiffres disponibles ne permettent pas de prouver des variations significatives du comportement des rivires tudies, qui ne peuvent tre expliques par des processus climatiques. En outre, rien n'indique que l'tendue des inondations dans la plaine du Ganges aie augment durant les dernires dcennies. Apparemment, les inondations sont plus influences par des vnements locaux que par des processus climatiques survenant dans les montagnes. La manire de penser trs gnrale et superficielle concernant cette question, et en particulier, l'accusation faite aux peuples de montagnes les rendant responsables des processus touchant la plaine doivent tre considrablement diffrencies et examines avec des donnes plus fiables. /// Alljhrlich berichten Zeitungsschlagzeilen whrend der monsunalen Regenzeit von verheerenden Ueberschwemmungen in den Ebenen des Ganges und des Brahmaputra. Die Schuld fr diese Katastrophen wird jeweils der Bergbevlkerung mit ihren scheinbar unangepassten Nutzungspraktiken zugeschoben. Der vorliegende Artikel befasst sich mit allflligen Vernderungen im Abflussverhalten der Flsse Sutlej, Beas, Chenab und Jhelum in ihrem gebirgigen Einzugsgebiet whrend der letzten Jahrzehnte und liefert einige sehr allgemeine Aussagen zur Ueberschwemmungsproblematik in der Gangesebene. Klimadaten sind problemlos erhltlich. Hydrologische Informationen hingegen sind sowohl fr auslndische als auch fr indische Wissenschafter geheim. Diese Datenlage erschwert die Forschung in Indien erheblich. Mit dem verfgbaren Zahlenmaterial ist es nicht mglich, signifikante Vernderungen im Abflussverhalten der untersuchten Flsse nachzuweisen, welche nicht mit entsprechenden klimatischen Prozessen erklrt werden knnen. Ferner gibt es keine zwingenden Hinweise darauf, dass die Ueberschwemmungen in der Gangesebene whrend der letzten Jahrzehnte flchenmssig zugenommen haben. Offensichtlich werden Flutereignisse mehr durch lokale Ereignisse als durch klimatische Prozesse im Gebirge beeinflusst. Die sehr allgemeine und oberflchliche Denkweise in Bezug auf diese Fragestellungen, insbesondere aber die Anschuldigung der Bergbevlkerung fr die Prozesse in der Ebene, mssen wesentlich differenziert und mit zuverlssigeren Daten berprft werden.
10.2307/3672992|Like mountain ecosystems, tropical island ecosystems are often described as unstable, fragile, or vulnerable. It is proposed to make a clearer distinction in the use of these terms. In particular, the term unstable should be restricted to describe an ecosystem which does not represent a certain climax situation. Vulnerable seems to be the right term to characterise those ecosystems which are at greater risk than others of being negatively affected by external impact. Based on the findings of two MAB projects in island situations, it is demonstrated that the fragility of ecosystems sometimes can be overestimated. Furthermore, these comments highlight the need for more knowledge on man/environment interactions as a basis for the formulation of better land-use policies in developing countries. /// Comme les cosystmes de montagne, les cosystmes des les tropicales sont souvent dcrits comme instables, fragiles ou vulnrables. L'auteur se propose de prciser plus clairement l'utilisation de ces diffrents termes. Il parat prfrable en particulier de limiter le sens du terme "instable"  la description d'un cosystme qui ne prsente pas une certaine condition de climax. Le terme "vulnrable" se prte plutt  caractriser des cosystmes qui prsentent plus que d'autres un risque plus lev de raction nfaste  un impacte extrieur. Les rsultats de deux projets MAB sur des les tropicales, montrent que la "fragilit" de ces cosystmes peut tre surestime. En outre, cette note traite de l'importance d'une connaissance accrue sur les interactions homme/milieu naturel pour amliorer l'utilisation du sol dans les pays en voie de dveloppement. /// Zusammen mit Gebirgskosystemen werden auch die kosysteme tropischer Inseln hufig als unstabil, zerbrechlich oder besonders gefhrdet bezeichnet. Ein Anliegen dieses Beitrages ist es, zu einer klaren begrifflichen Trennung dieser drei Termini (unstable, fragile, vulnerable) beizutragen. Der Begriff "unstabil" sollte eigentlich zur Beschreibung jener kosysteme dienen, die (noch nicht) die relativ stabile Situation eines Klimax-kosystems erreicht haben. "Gefhrdet" scheint der richtige Ausdruck zu sein, um jene kosysteme zu charakterisieren, die in grsserer Gefahr sind als andere, durch ussere Einwirkungen schnell zerstrt zu werden. Die Ergebnisse zweier MAB Projekte in tropischen Inselregionen werden herangezogen, um zu zeigen, dass die "Zerbrechlichkeit" von kosystemen leicht berschtzt werden kann. Im brigen will dieser Kommentar darauf hinweisen, wie wichtig es ist, im Interesse der grossen Landnutzungsprobleme der Entwicklungslnder das Wissen ber Mensch-Umwelt Beziehungen zu vermehren.
mounresedeve.34.2.170|The Department of Integrative Geography at the University of Bern is dedicated to sustainability research and teaching. Within its sustainable regional development and sustainable land management foci, it is firmly committed to mountain research and development. One of the study regions is the Swiss Alps, where issues such as common property resource use and protected area monitoring link to global debates.
3674362|Ethiopia has the largest mountainous land mass in Africa, with a diverse and complex environment. The peoples of Ethiopia reflect this diversity in their cultures. The integrity and traditional knowledge embedded in these cultures is being eroded through modern education and cultural globalization. Modern education divorces students from the traditional ecological knowledge of their communities, and makes it very difficult for them to reintegrate into their own societies. This process is being accelerated by urbanization. In 1998, the Institute for Sustainable Development (ISD) began working with school environmental clubs to facilitate interaction between teachers and students, and people in the local student communities who possessed traditional knowledge. We call this project "discovering the value of cultural biodiversity."
90001384|Leaf litterfall contributes significantly to carbon fluxes in forests. A crucial open question for the sustainability of mountain forests is how climate change will affect this and other carbon fluxes (
mounresedeve.32.s1.s35|From both social and environmental perspectives, water is the main connection between highland and lowland processes in mountain watersheds: Water flows downhill while human impacts flow uphill. For example, in the Oregon Cascades mountain range, geology, vegetation, and climate influence the hydrologic connections within watersheds. Geology determines which watersheds are surface runoff-dominated and which are groundwater-dominated. In this Mediterranean climate with dry summers, surface runoff watersheds will consistently experience near-zero late summer discharge, so declining snowpacks will have little effect on low flows. This contrasts with groundwater-dominated watersheds, where a shift from snow to rain or a decline in precipitation will reduce recharge, thereby reducing late summer groundwater contributions to streamflow. Earlier snowmelt causes forests to transpire earlier, resulting in decreased springtime streamflow. Reduced snowpacks lead to soil moisture stress, making forests more vulnerable to extensive wildfires and affecting the lifespan and composition of forests. Monitoring and quantifying these complex linkages and feedbacks require appropriate measurement networks. Sampling strategies often use watershed typology to identify where measurements should be focused. Such an approach should include not only established watershed classification parameters such as topology and geology but also interannual climate variability and land cover. As concerns of water scarcity and vulnerability move to the forefront, our watershed classifications should be extended to include ecosystem and socialecological parameters. An integrated and agent-based modeling scheme called Envision has been developed to simulate alternative future landscapes at the watershed scale. Using fully coupled models of hydrology, ecosystems, and socioeconomics, decision-makers can simulate the effects of policy decisions in conjunction with other climate forcing, land use change, and economic disturbances. To understand the combined impacts of climate change and humans on water in mountain watersheds, researchers must develop integrated monitoring and modeling systems that explicitly include connections across ecohydrologic and social-ecological systems.
10.2307/3673493|Personal exposure levels to respirable suspended particulates during cooking periods were monitored in twenty households in a rural community of the hill region of Nepal. Filters for gravimetric analysis were exposed in households with traditional stoves (without flue) and then again after the introduction of smokeless (with flue) cook stoves. Drager Tube analyses of carbon monoxide and formaldehyde levels were also conducted. Data from this longitudinal study provide convincing evidence of the cause-effect relationship between the introduction and use of smokeless stoves and the resulting decrease in domestic smoke pollution. A household survey revealed that all cooks, but one, found that the smokeless stove emitted less smoke than the traditional stove and seventy-five percent of the cooks preferred the smokeless stove to the traditional stove. /// Les niveaux d'exposition aux particules respirables en suspension dans l'air pendant les priodes de cuisson des aliments ont t mesurs dans vingt maisons d'une communaut rurale des rgions montagneuses du Npal. Des filtres d'analyse gravimtrique ont t exposs  l'air dans ces maisons alors que des poles traditionnels (sans tuyau) taient utiliss et ensuite aprs l'introduction de poles sans fume (avec tuyau). Des dterminations au tube de Drager des concentrations en monoxyde de carbone et de formaldehyde ont galement t effectues. Les donnes collectes au cours de cette tude longitudinale ont clairement dmontr la relation cause-effet entre l'introduction de poles sans fume et la rduction de la pollution de l'air des maisons par la fume. Une enqute a montr que toutes les cuisinires,  part une, ont trouv que le pole avec tuyau produisait moins de fume que le pole traditionnel et soixante quinze pourcent des cuisinires ont prfr le pole avec tuyau au pole traditionnel. /// In 20 Haushaltungen einer lndlichen Gemeinde im gebirgigen Teil von Nepal wurden whrend der Kochzeiten individuelle Werte der Belastung durch Schwebeteilchen, die eingeatment werden, gemessen. Filter zur gravimetrischen Analyse wurden in Haushaltungen mit herkmmlichen Herden (ohne Abzug) dem Rauch ausgesetzt und spter nach der Einfhrung der rauchlosen Herde (mit Abzug) nochmals. Eine Drager (Tube) Analyse von Kohlenmonoxyd- und Formaldehydwerten wurde ebenfalls durchgefhrt. Daten von dieser umfassenden Studie liefern den Beweis eines kausalen Zusammenhangs zwischen der Einfhrung und Nutzung des rauchlosen Herdes und der resultierenden Verringerung der huslichen Luftverschmutzung. Eine Umfrage unter den Haushaltungen ergab, da alle Kche-bis auf einen-bereinstimmten: Der rauchlose Herd verursacht weniger Rauch als der herkmmliche und 75% aller Kche bevorzugten diesen Herd.
10.2307/3673988|Every year between 10,000 and 15,000 tonnes of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) are harvested in Nepal and traded to Indian and overseas markets. The total value of the trade to Nepal's national economy is estimated to be equivalent to US $8.6 million. This paper describes NTFP harvest and trade, the roles of producers, traders, and processors, and the relationships between them. Five potential improvements are discussed from the perspective of harvesters in Nepal: increased production; direct marketing to bypass intermediaries; improved access to market information; improvements to raw material quality; and small-scale processing at the local level. Developments are more likely to benefit harvesters if they act collectively. Collective institutions that focus solely on the production of NTFPs may need to be developed. There are doubts that a single institution would be capable of carrying out several functions, i.e., production, marketing, and processing of NTFPs. The considerable regional variations in the nature of the NTFP trade indicate that suitable institutions, and interventions, would need to be highly location-specific. As a generalization, development efforts may be more suited to the remote western half of Nepal. /// De 10,000  15 000 tonnes de produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume sont rcoltes chaque anne au Npal et exportes vers l'Inde et les marchs internationaux. La contribution totale de cette production  l'conomie nationale du Npal est estime  8,6 millions de dollars amricains. Cet article dcrit la rcolte et la vente des produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume, les rles respectifs des producteurs, des ngociants et des industries de transformation, et les relations entre eux. Cinq amliorations potentielles sont discutes dans la perspective des exploitants au Npal: augmentation de la production, vente directe sans intermdiaires, meilleur accs aux informations sur les marchs, amlioration de la qualit des matires premires et transformation  petite chelle au niveau local. Les exploitants ont plus de chance de profiter des dveloppements s'ils agissent collectivement. Il se peut que des institutions collectives orientes uniquement vers la production de produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume doivent tre cres. Il est douteux qu'une seul institution puisse remplir plusieurs fonctions,  savoir la production, la commercialisation et la transformation de ces produits. Les immenses variations rgionales dans la nature du commerce des produits forestiers autres que le bois en grume suggrent que des institutions appropries et des interventions doivent tre spcifiques  chaque endroit. Si l'on peut gnraliser, les tentatives de dveloppement semblent mieux s'appliquer  la moiti Ouest du Npal. /// In Nepal werden jhrlich zwischen 10.000 und 15.000 Tonnen Holzprodukte, die kein Nutzholz (non-timber forest products = NTFP) sind, gewonnen und nach Indien und bersee ausgefhrt. Der Gesamtwert dieses Handels fhrt der nepalesischen Wirtschaft schtzungsweise US $8,6 Mill. zu. Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt die Herstellung von und den Handel mit NTFP, sowie die Stellung der Produzenten, Hndler und Verarbeiter und ihre Verflechtung untereinander. Aus der Perspektive der nepalesischen Hersteller werden fnf Verbesserungsvorschlge gemacht: Steigerung der Produktion, direktes Marketing unter Umgehung der Zwischenhndler, verbesserter Zugang zu Marktinformationen, Qualittskontrolle des Rohmaterials und Verarbeitung in Kleinbetrieben auf lokaler Ebene. Diese Verbesserungen kmen allen Herstellern zugute, wenn sie als Kollektiv auftrten. Kollektive, die sich ausschlielich auf die Produktion von NFTP festlegen, mten gebildet werden. Einzelbetriebe sind kaum in der Lage, Multi-Funktionen wie Produktion, Marketing und NFTP-Verarbeitung, allein effektiv durchzufhren. Beim NFTP Handel gibt es betrchtliche regionale Unterschiede, die erfordern, da die ausgewhlten Institutionen und Interventionen in hohem Mae ortsspezifisch sind. Es scheint, da im allgemeinen die westliche, abgelegene Hlfte Nepals besonders von solchen gezielten Entwicklungsmanahmen profitieren knnte.
10.2307/3673373|In accord with the general arguments propounded in Part 1 of this series of papers in Mountain Research and Development, detailed evidence for Sindhu Palchok and Kabhre Palanchok reveals that conversion of forest land to agricultural use was a major objective of government policy from at least the latter half of the eighteenth century onward. Throughout history, the two Districts must have been strongly affected by their relative proximity to the Kathmandu Valley. Land grants were made there by the Gorkhali rulers soon after subjugation of the region in 1745. Maintenance of the army appears to have imposed additional burdens on these Districts, particularly as a result of jagir land grants to army officers and other officials for services rendered. The jagir land grant system was maintained in these Districts well into the present century. The major exploitation of the residual forest, other than by peasants for subsistence purposes (to be dealt with in later parts of this series), was for construction in the Kathmandu Valley and for charcoal, mainly for smelting of ore. This latter use had virtually ceased by the early twentieth century. /// En accord avec les arguments d'ordre gnral avancs dans le premier article de cette srie publie dans Mountain Research and Development, des vidences prcises en provenance des districts de Sindhu Palchok et Kabhre Palanchok rvlent que la conversion des forts en terres agricoles constituait un objectif important de la politique gouvernementale au moins ds la seconde moiti du dix-huitime sicle. Pendant toute leur histoire, ces deux districts ont certainement d tre trs affects par la proximit relative de la valle de Kathmandou. Des concessions de terres y ont t faites par les rois des Gurkhas peu aprs la subjugation de la rgion en 1745. L'entretien de l'arme semble avoir impos des charges supplmentaires sur ces districts, surtout  cause des concessions de terres aux officiers militaires et autres fonctionnaires en change de leurs services. Ce systme de concessions de terres (jagir) a subsist dans ces districts presque jusqu' nos jours. L'exploitation majeure de la fort restante,  part celle des paysans pour leurs besoins de subsistance (un sujet qui sera trait dans la suite de cette srie d'articles), a pourvu aux besoins de la construction dans la valle de Kathmandou et  la production de charbon de bois pour la fusion de minerai. Cette seconde utilisation avait pratiquement disparu au dbut du vingtime sicle. /// Von allgemeinen Errterungen, die im Teil 1 dieser Verffentlichungsreihe (in Mountain Research and Development) dargelegt wurden, ausgehend, ergeben nhere Betrachtungen des Gebietes von Sindhu Palchok und Kabhre Palanchok, da - zumindest seit der spten zweiten Hlfte des 18. Jahrhunderts - die Umwandlung der Wlder in landwirtschaftlich genutzte Flchen ein wichtiges Anliegen jeder Regierung war. In der Vergangenheit sind beide Regionen wesentlich durch ihre Nhe zum Kathmandu Tal beeinflut worden. Schon bald nach der Unterwerfung dieses Gebietes durch die Gorkhali Herrscher im Jahre 1745 wurden Landzuteilungen vorgenommen. Die Erhaltung einer Armee scheint betrchtliche Belastungen auf die Region ausgebt zu haben, besonders Landzuwendungen (jagir) an Offiziere und andere Regierungsangestellte fr erbrachte Dienste. Das System der Landzuwendungen (jagir) blieb bis ins gegenwrtige Jahrhundert erhalten. Die Hauptnutzung der verbliebenen Waldfchen war, neben der Selbstversorgung der Bauern (die in einem zuknftigen Beitrag dieser Reihe untersucht wird) zur Bebauung des Kathmandu Tals und zur Holzkohlegewinnung, welche vorwiegend bei der Verhttung von Erzen gebraucht wurde. Diese letztere Verwendung war jedoch zu Beginn des 20. Jahrhunderts stark zurckgegangen.
4540647|As the highest and most impressive features of the landscape, mountains have an unusual power to awaken a sense of the sacred, Their soaring summits, the clouas and thunder that swirl about their peaks, the life-giving waters that flow from their heights, these and other characteristics imbue them with an aura of mystery and sanctity. In that aura, people of diverse backgrounds, both traditional and modern, experience a deeper reality that gives meaning and vitality to their lives, Drawing on many of the themes associated with sacred mountains around the world, The mountain Institute in Washington DC has developed with the US National Park Service innovative educational activities that highlight the spiritual and culturel meanings of natural features of mountain environments in different cultures, The purpose of the project is to connct a broad range of visitors with nature, enrich their experiences, and give them deep-seated, sustainable reasons for conserving the environment. Efforts to conserve the environmental integrity and cultural diversity associated with sacred mountains need to involve the many diverse peoples and traditions that revere and care for them.
10.2307/3673193|This paper examines the environmental impacts of 3,500,000 Afghan refugees who have fled from their homeland into Pakistan. Most live in refugee camps in the North-West Frontier Province. Impacts vary widely in accordance with the type of environment from which widely different groups originated and the type into which they have been settled. Far-travelled refugees from north of the Hindukush have caused the most extensive degradation; most disturbance has been caused where refugees have been settled into forest land as distinct from sparsely vegetated arid land. It appears that Pakistan nationals have taken advantage of the ensuing confusion to indulge in illegal logging. Apart from social, political, and humanitarian concerns, this largest of recent migrations has caused extensive environmental damage, much of it probably irreversible. /// Cette tude examine l'impact sur l'environnement des 3.500.000 afghans qui ont fui leur pays pour se rfugier au Pakistan. La plupart vivent dans des camps situs dans la province frontire du nord-ouest. L'impact varie beaucoup selon le type d'environment o se trouvaient ces groupes extrmement varis et le type d'environnement dans lequel ils ont t transplants. Les rfugis en provenance des rgions loignes au nord de l'Hindou-Kouch ont caus le plus de dgts, en particulier l o les rfugis ont t transplants dans un milieu forestier diffrent de leur milieu aride  vgtation pauvre. Il semble que les pakistanais ont profit de la situation confuse pour illgalement abattre des arbres. A part toutes considrations sociales, politiques et humanitaires, cette migration, la plus importante dans le pass rcent, a considrablement endommag l'environnement, peut tre d'une manir dfinitive pour la plus grande partie de celui-ci. /// Dieser Aufsatz untersucht Umweltbelastungen durch 3,5 Mill. afghanische Flchtlinge, die aus ihrer Heimat nach Pakistan geflohen sind. Die Mehrzahl lebt in Flchtlingslagern in der Nord-West Grenzprovinz. Umweltbelastungen variieren sehr stark und hngen davon ab, aus welcher Gegend die verschiedenen Flchtlingsgruppen kommen und in welcher sie angesiedelt wurden. Flchtlinge aus Gebieten nrdlich des Hindukush, weit entfernt von ihrer neuen Heimat, haben den Hauptschaden verursacht. Stark beeintrchtigt im Vergleich mit sprlich bewachsenem, trockenem Land wurden durch angesiedelte Flchtlinge vor allem Waldgebiete. Es scheint, da Pakistanis die ungeordneten Verhltnisse zum illegalen Holzfllen ausgenutzt haben. Abgesehen von sozialen, politischen und humanitren Bedenken, hat diese in der Gegenwart grte Vlkermigration betrchtlichen Umweltschaden verursacht, zum groen Teil wahrscheinlich unwiderruflich.
25164071|Although Ecuador is a very small country in terms of area, its regions are heterogeneous. The province of Tungurahua, located in the highlands, is primarily an agricultural area with a hydrological deficit, even though the Ambato River, the major source of water, traverses 40% of its territory. In 1972, the Ecuadorian government nationalized all waterways and transferred the responsibility for their management to a state organization, the Ecuadorian Institute for Hydrological Resources (INHERI), whose main function had been the construction of new irrigation systems at a very high cost, with limited success and impact. INHERI also played a role in resource planning and assignment of water concessions for all traditional irrigation systems, which account for 80% of the area under irrigation in Ecuador. These systems frequently consist of very old irrigation channels built in the past centuries. In 1994, this organization was eliminated and replaced by the National Council for Hydrological Resources. In the province of Tungurahua, the regional Corporation for the Development of the Center Highlands was established to regulate and strengthen hydrological resources in the watersheds located in 3 provinces: Tungurahua, Cotopaxi, and Pastaza. Presently, however, this institution is too weak to carry out all the responsibilities entrusted to it.
10.2307/3674025|The trade in medicinal and aromatic products (MAP) from the rural areas of Gorkha District in central Nepal to the wholesale markets in India was investigated over a two-year period. The annual trade varies from 180,000 kg to 418,000 kg and is currently composed of 36 products with an average collector value of 12 million Nepali rupees (US $240,000). Approximately 98 percent of the products are exported unprocessed to India. The main actors in the trade are collectors, road-head traders, Terai wholesalers, and Indian wholesalers. Analysis of marketing margins and price data indicates that MAP markets are imperfect: there is limited market information and poor market integration. A small number of Terai wholesalers earn excessive profits while roadhead traders have very low net margins. The implications of this for developing the trade, and thus increasing collector incomes at the national level are discussed. It is emphasized that the government should focus on provision of public goods, such as dissemination of price information and developing physical infrastructure, and not direct interventions in the market. Credit facilities should be promoted, and the royalty system should be reviewed and possibly replaced with an export tax. Bans on collection and trade need to be reviewed and justified and a restructuring of current approaches is required. /// Le commerce de produits mdicinaux et aromatiques des rgions rurales du district de Gorkha au centre du Npal, sur les marchs de gros en Inde, a fait l'objet d'une tude de deux ans. Le commerce annuel varie de 180 000  418 000 kg et comprend actuellement 36 produits ayant une valeur moyenne de 12 millions de roupies npalaises (240 000 $ US) pour les ramasseurs. Environ 98 pour cent des produits sont exports directement vers l'Inde, sans traitement. Les participants principaux  ce commerce sont les ramasseurs, les premiers acheteurs, les grossistes Terai et les grossistes indiens. L'analyse des marges commerciales et des donnes de prix indiquent que les marchs des plantes mdicinales et aromatiques sont dfectueux: informations limites sur les marchs et faible intgration des marchs. Un petit nombre de grossistes Terai fait des bnfices excessifs, alors que les premiers acheteurs ont des marges nettes trs faibles. Les implications de ces observations pour le dveloppement de ce commerce, et cela englobe le revenu des ramasseurs, sont examines au niveau national. Il est soulign que le gouvernement devrait se concentrer sur la fourniture de biens publics, tels que la diffusion d'informations sur les prix et le dveloppement de l'infrastructure physique, et non pas sur des interventions directes dans le march. Des facilits de crdit devraient tre encourages et le systme de redevances examin et ventuellement remplac par une taxe  l'exportation. Les interdictions sur le ramassage et le commerce doivent tre examines et justifies. Il est  prsent ncessaire de restructurer les approches actuelles. /// Der Handel mit medizinischen und aromatischen Pflanzenprodukten (MAP) aus den lndlichen Gebieten im Gorkha District im zentralen Nepal mit den Grohandelsmrkten in Indien wurde in einer zweijhrigen Periode untersucht. Der jhrliche Handel schwankt zwischen 180,000 Kg und 418,000 Kg und besteht zur Zeit aus 36 Produkten mit einem durchschnittlichen Sammelwert von 12 Millionen Nepali Rupees (240,000 US $). Ungefhr 98% der Produkte werden unbearbeitet nach Indien exportiert. Marktakteure sind Sammler, Kleinhndler, und Grohndler aus der Terai und aus Indien. Die Analyse von Gewinnen und Preisen zeigt, da MAP-Mrkte imperfekt sind: Es gibt wenig Marktinformationen und nur geringe Marktintegration. Eine kleine Anzahl von Terai Grohndlern kann horrende Gewinne erzielen, whrend Kleinhndler sehr geringe Verdienstmglichkeiten haben. Die Implikationen dieser Untersuchung auf nationaler Ebene fr die Entwicklung des Handels mit MAP und zur Erhhung des Einkommens der Sammler wird diskutiert. Es wird hervorgehoben, da die Regierung ffentliche Gter bereitstellen sollte wie z.B. Preisinformationen und physische Infrastruktur, aber direkte Marktinterventionen wird auch unterstrichen. Die forstlichen Abgabesysteme sollten berarbeitet und mglicherweise durch Exportsteuern ersetzt werden. Zur Restrukturierung der gegenwrtigen Strategien solten auerdem Sammel- und Handelsrestriktionen zu berdacht und ihre Notwendigkeit belegt werden.
10.2307/3672931|The region under discussion extends from southern Ecuador to northern Chile and Argentina and is therefore characterized as tropical with a corresponding suppression of seasonality. It is a region of abrupt environmental contrasts: arid along the west coast, with a steep ascent to volcanoes and glacierized massifs above 5,000 m, and an equally abrupt descent eastward to the tropical rain forests of the Amazon. Narrowest in Ecuador, where this great range of ecosystems is encompassed within 200 km horizontally, it reaches its greatest breadth in southern Peru and Bolivia, with an east-west extent of 500 km. Early hunting and gathering had been replaced by a village-based agro-pastoral economy by 3,000 to 4,000 years ago. This progressively generated the patterns of human occupation and activity that are still evident today. This paper provides an overview of the interrelationships between the biogeographical and cultural complexities of an extremely varied mountain region. It must be understood that the extensive adaptation by the indigenous peoples presents a vital resource that has been sufficiently resilient to withstand the demographic and cultural shock of the Spanish conquest and domination by a small elite. Competition for land between haciendas and peasant communities has been common, and often violent. A legacy of inequality is a prevailing characteristic and has had a marked impact on population densities. Two major patterns of adaptation in subsistence systems are noted: one regional and one local. The most important pattern is the integration of several diverse agro-climatic belts, described as "vertical control." Following a brief discussion of the geologic history and topo-climatology of the Central Andes, the region is divided into its five major biogeographic provinces to which human land-use practices have closely adapted. These include: 1) the outer slopes of the western cordillera; 2) the outer slopes of the eastern cordillera; 3) the paramo of the northern Central Andes; 4) the puna of the southern Central Andes; and 5) the inter-Andean valley systems. A detailed description of the interplay of the physical and cultural features of each is provided. This is followed by a discussion of the four major agro-climatic belts which are distinctly named and utilized by the Andean farmers. These are: 1) the pasture belt, above 3,800-4,000 m; 2) the tuber belt, between about 3,000 and 4,200 m; 3) the cereal belt, extending from 1,500 to 3,000 m; and 4) the tropical belt, or yungas, between 500 and 1,500 m. Assessment of potential resource-use strategies should take into account the evolution of human subsistence knowledge on how to utilize these complex environments, and the broad genetic base of domesticated plants and animals. /// La rgion considre s'tend du sud de l'Equateur jusqu'au nord du Chili et de l'Argentine; elle possde donc un caractre tropical, avec la suppression correspondante du cycle des saisons. Son environnement prsente des contrastes marqus: aride de long de la cte occidentale, en forte monte jusqu'aux volcans et massifs glacis au-dessus de 5.000 m, et en descente aussi abrupte vers l'est jusqu'aux forts tropicales humides de l'Amazonie. Sa largeur est minimale en Equateur, o cette gamme tendue d'cosystmes couvre  peine 200 km  l'horizontale, et maximale en Bolivie et au Prou mridional, o elle s'tend sur 500 km d'est en ouest. La subsistance base sur la chasse et la cueillette a t remplace il y a 3.000 ou 4.000 ans par une conomie agro-pastorale  l'chelle du village. Cette transformation a progressivement engendr les formes d'occupation et d'activit qui sont encore pratiques de nos jours. Cette tude donne un aperu des relations entre les complexes biogographiques et culturels d'une rgion montagneuse extrmement diversifie. Il est important de comprendre que le grand pouvoir d'adaptation des autochtones constitue une ressource incomparable qui, dans le pass, leur a permis de rsister au choc dmographique et culturel li  la conqute espagnole et  la domination par une lite minoritaire. La comptition pour l'appropriation des terres entre les haciendas et les communauts paysannes a t soutenue et souvent violente. Un hritage d'injustice constitue un caractre dominant de cette rgion, et il a eu un effet prononc sur les densits de population. Deux modes majeurs d'adaptation au sein des systmes de subsistance ont t identifis: l'un rgional, l'autre local. Le mode le plus important est l'intgration de plusieurs tages agro-climatiques diffrents, dnomm "asservissement vertical." Aprs une courte description de l'histoire gologique et de la topo-climatologie des Andes Centrales, la rgion est divise en ses cinq grandes provinces biogographiques  l'intrieur desquelles les pratiques d'exploitation de la terre se sont bien adaptes. Ce sont: 1) les pentes extrieures de la cordillre occidentale; 2) les pentes extrieures de la cordillre orientale; 3) le paramo dans la partie nord des Andes Centrales; 4) la puna dans la partie sud des Andes Centrales; et 5) le systme de valles inter-andin. Une description dtaille de l'interaction entre les caractres physique et culturel de chaque province est donne, suivie d'une discussion des quatre grands tages agro-climatiques qui sont identifis et utiliss par les fermiers andins. Ce sont: 1) l'tage de pturages, au-dessus de 3.800-4.000 m; 2) l'tage de tubercules, entre 3.000 et 4.200 m; 3) l'tage de crales, entre 1.500 et 3.000 m; 4) l'tage tropical, ou yungas, entre 500 et 1.500 m. L'valuation des stratgies possibles d'utilisation des ressources doit tenir compte de l'volution des connaissances sur la faon d'exploiter ces environnements complexes du point de vue de la subsistance humaine, et de la base gntique tendue des plantes et animaux domestiques. /// Das Gebiet, das hier besprochen wird, erstreckt sich vom sdlichen Equador bis zum nrdlichen Chile and Argentinien. Es ist tropisches Gebiet, ausgeprgte Jahreszeiten fehlen. Extreme Umweltbedingungen kennzeichnen es. Die Region ist entlang der Westkste trocken, steigt steil zu Vulkanen und vergletscherten Gebirgszgen bis auf 5000 m an und fllt ebenso steil nach Osten zu den Regenwldern entlang des Amazonas ab. Diese vielfltigen kologischen Systeme drngen sich an der schmalsten Stelle in Equador auf ein Gebiet von 200 km zusammen und erreichen mit 500 km Ost-Westausdehnung im Sden von Peru und Bolivien ihre grte Breite. Vor 3000-4000 Jahren hatte eine drfliche Siedlungsform mit Landwirtschaft das Zeitalter des Jagens und Sammelns abgelst. Daraus entwickelten sich allmhlich die Ttigkeiten, mit denen sich die Bevlkerung auch heute noch beschftigt. Diese Verffentlichung liefert einen berblick der Wechselbeziehungen zwischen biologisch-geographischen und kulturellen Beziehungen in einer uerst vielgestaltigen Bergregion. Die einheimische Bevlkerung konnte durch ihre weitgehende Anpassung dem demographischen und kulturellen Schock widerstehen, dem sie durch die spanischen Eroberer und die Herrschaft einer kleinen Oberschicht ausgesetzt war. Der Streit um Land-oft gewaltttig-zwischen dem Grogrundbesitz und den buerlichen Gemeinschaften war blich. Diese traditionelle Ungleichheit ist ein besonderes Merkmal und hatte auf die Bevlkerungsdichte einen wichtigen Einflu. Zwei entscheidende Formen der Anpassung innerhalb der Existenzgrundlagen werden hervorgehoben: eine regionale und eine lokale. Als wichtigste erscheint die Integration verschiedener landwirtschaftlich-klimatischer Grtel, die als "vertical control" beschrieben wird. Nach einer kurzen Abhandlung der geologischen Geschichte und Klimakunde der Zentralanden, wird das Gebiet in fnf biogeographische Bereiche gegliedert. Die Bodennutzung durch den Menschen hat sich dieser Unterteilung angepat. Die Bereiche sind: 1) die ueren Hnge der westlichen Cordilleren, 2) die usseren Hnge der stlichen Cordilleren, 3) paramo (Hochlandsteppe) der nrdlichen Zentralanden, 4) die Puna (rmliches Weideland) der sdlichen Zentralanden und 5) die Tler der Anden. Eine eingehende Beschreibung der Wechselbeziehung von natrlichen und kulturellen Eigenarten jeder Region wird gegeben. Es folgt eine Beschreibung der vier agro-klimatischen Hauptgrtel, die von den Bauern der Anden unterschiedlich benannt und genutzt werden. Dies sind folgende: 1) das Weideland oberhalb 3800-4000 m, 2) das Gebiet der Knollengewchse zwischen 3000-4200 m, 3) der Getreidegrtel zwischen 1500-3000 m und 4) der tropische Grtel oder "Yungas" zwischen 500-1500 m. Eine Untersuchung ber die mgliche Nutzung der Naturschtze sollte neben der Frage, wie die vielfltige Umwelt zu nutzen sein, auch die Erkenntnisse ber die menschliche Entwicklung und die Vielfalt der Haustiere und Pflanzen bercksichtigen. /// La regin en discusin se extiende desde el sur del Ecuador hasta el norte de Chile y Argentina y por lo tanto se caracteriza como tropical, con la correspondiente ausencia de estaciones. Es una regin de fuertes contrastes ambientales: rida a lo largo de la costa occidental con un empinado ascenso hacia los volcanes y macizos glaciares por encima de los 5000 m.y un descenso igualmente abrupto en el este, hacia las hmedas selvas tropicales del Amazonas. El trecho ms angosto de esta gran extensin de sistemas ecolgicos est en el Ecuador, con un ancho de 200 kms. en su dimensin horizontal, alcanzando su mayor anchura en el sur del Per y en Bolivia donde alcanza los 500 kms. en su dimensin este-oeste. Entre 3000 y 4000 aos atrs, la caza y la recoleccin fueron sustitudas por una economa agropecuaria centrada alrededor de un pueblo. Esto engendr, progresivamente, los tipos de actividades y ocupaciones humanas que son evidentes hasta hoy. Esta monografa presenta una vista general de las complejas relaciones entre los aspectos bio-geogrficos y culturales de una regin montaosa extremadamente variada. Debe tenerse en cuenta, que la extensa adaptacin llevada a cabo por los pueblos indgenas, demuestra recursos vitales de una elasticidad suficiente para soportar el choque demogrfico y cultural de la Conquista Espnola y la dominacin de una pequea minora privilegiada. La rivalidad por la posesin de la tierra entre las haciendas y las communidades campesinas ha sido comn y, a menudo, violenta. Una herencia de desigualdad es la caracterstica dominante y ha tenido un impacto marcado en las densidades de poblacin. Pueden distinguirse dos corrientes principales de adaptacin en los sistemas de subsistencia: una corriente regional y otra local. La corriente ms importante es la de la integracin de diversas zonas agro-climticas, descrita como "control vertical." Siguiendo una breve relacin de la historia geolgica y topo-climatolgica de los Andes Centrales, vemos que la regin se divide en cinco provincias bio-geogrficas mayores a cuyas caractersticas se ha adaptado estrechamente el uso humano de la tierra. Estas regiones son: 1) las vertientes exteriores de la cordillera occidental; 2) las vertientes exteriores de la cordillera oriental; 3) el pramo de los Andes Centrales septentrionales; 4) la puna de los Andes Centrales meridionales; 5) los sistemas de valles interandinos. Se presenta una descripcin detallada de las interacciones entre los rasgos fsicos y culturales de cada una. Esto va seguido de una discusin sobre las cuatro principales zonas agro-climticas tal como son llamadas y utilizadas por los campesinos andinos. Estas son: 1) la zona de pastoreo, entre 3800 y 4000 m; 2) la zona de los cereales que se extiende desde los 1500 m. a los 3000 m; 4) la zona tropical o "yungas," entre los 500 y los 1500 m. En la evaluacin de las estrategias para el aprovechamiento de los recursos potenciales, debe tenerse en cuenta la evolucin del conocimiento de la subsistencia humana, como utilizar estos complejos medio-ambientes y la amplia base gentica de las plantas y animales domesticados.
3674417|Since the 19th century a slow expansion of forests into previous agricultural areas has been recorded in the Carpathians. The present article analyzes forest cover change in the Orawa region of Poland, using historical maps and contemporary satellite data. Forest cover change was analyzed with reference to elevation, under the assumption that it reflects a transformation of the vertical land use system developed in the 17th and 18th centuries. For the past 180 years, the proportion of forest in the study area has increased from 25% to 40%. Forest expansion largely affected pastures cleared within the forest belt and areas located immediately above and below this belt. Changes in forest area were largely related to a decline in agriculture and have occurred along with population growth. As a result, grazing has been replaced by forestry, nature conservation, and tourism.
3674341|Mountains are the mainstay of local economies, providing valuable resources for livelihoods. But they are not immune to change because mountain people go out into the outside world, and the world comes into their lives. In this context, mountain women face many challenges, for example, those brought about by out-migration of men and young people from their communities, by external commercial interests that exploit mountain resources, and by changes in their roles and responsibilities. In this International Year of Mountains, a major forum, "Celebrating Mountain Women," aims to support women and highlight their needs and achievements so that these are reflected and integrated in public policy and in decision-making agendas. Several factors are required to ensure that women are an integral part of sustainable mountain development: more mountain-specific and local research; assistance with entrepreneurship, information, and raising awareness of their rights; and networking among mountain women and various development partners.
mounresedeve.35.2.126|Changes to land use such as the removal of natural vegetation and expansion of urban areas can result in degradation of the landscape and an increase in hydrometeorological risk. This has led to higher interest by decision-makers and scientists in the future consequences of these drivers. Scenario development can be a useful tool for addressing the high uncertainty regarding modeling future land use changes. Scenarios are not exact forecasts, but images of plausible futures. When studying future land dynamics, emphasis should be given to areas experiencing high rates of socioeconomic change. We have focused on the eastern Italian Alps, which face increasing pressure from tourism development. Identified drivers of local land use change are mostly external and difficult to quantify. This area, characterized by a traditional Alpine landscape, is subject to high levels of hydro-meteorological risk, another reason to study potential future land use changes. We tested a scenario generation method based on existing decisions and assumptions about future tourism development. We aimed to develop a framework leading to plausible scenarios that can overcome data inaccessibility and address external drivers. We combined qualitative methods, such as stakeholder interviews and cognitive mapping, with geospatial methods, such as geographic information systems, geostatistics, and environmental modeling. We involved stakeholders from the beginning to support the steps of generating data, understanding the system of land use change, and developing a land use change model for scenario development. In this way, we generated spatio-temporal scenarios that can assist future spatial planning and improve preparedness for possible undesirable development.
10.2307/3673354|In an earlier article (Mountain Research and Development, Volume 5, Number 2), we explored some of the vast uncertainties that surround the key variables in the man-land interactions in the Himalaya. Our conclusion was that these uncertainties are so pervasive and all-engulfing as to render "the problem" unamenable to the traditional problem-solving methods of applied science. The problem, we concluded, was that there was not a problem but a multiplicity of contending and contradictory problem definitions, each of which takes its shape from the particular social and cultural context that it helps to sustain. The problem, in other words, is trans-scientific in nature. In this paper we step back a little from the analysis of uncertainty, and from the trans-scientific argumentation that goes along with it, and try to put together a conceptual framework that will help international agencies to shape strategies for involvement in the region. Our recommendations, in keeping with the systems approach we have adopted, are set out in terms of broad principles: what to do and what not to do. In a subsequent article (to appear in a future issue of Mountain Research and Development) we will zero in on the ecology of the agencies that are active in the Himalaya and make more specific suggestions as to how they can most appropriately be involved. /// Dans une tude prcdente (Mountain Research and Development, Volume 5, Number 2), nous avons explor certaines des grandes incertitudes lies aux variables clefs dcrivant les intractions entre les tres humains et les terres dans l'Himalaya. Nous avons conclu que le caractre et l'ampleur des incertitudes mettait le "problme" en dehors de la porte des mthodes classiques de rsolution disponibles en science applique. En fait, il n'y a pas un problme particulier, mais plutt une multitude de dfinitions contradictoires du problme, chacune base sur le contexte social et culturel qui la concerne. Autrement dit, le problme est trans-scientifique. Cette tude dlaisse tant soit peu l'analyse des incertitudes et l'argumentation trans-scientifique qui l'accompagne, et se concentre sur l'laboration d'un systme de concepts permettant de formuler une stratgie pour la rgion. En harmonie avec l'approche organique que nous avons adopte, nos recommandations sont prsentes en termes de principes gnraux: ce qu'il faut faire et ne pas faire. Une autre tude, qui sera prsente dans un prochain numro de Mountain Research and Development, concernera l'cologie des agences qui sont actives dans la rgion et fera des suggestions prcises sur la manire judicieuse d'exploiter leurs ressources. /// In einem frheren Beitrag (Mountain Research and Development, Volume 5, Number 2) haben wir gravierende Ungewiheiten in den wichtigsten Variablen der Wechselbeziehung Mensch - Land im Himalaya aufgezeigt. Wir kamen zu dem Schlu, da diese Ungewiheiten so dominieren, da behauptet werden kann, das Problem bliebe den blichen traditionellen wissenschaftlichen Lsungsmethoden verschlossen. Wir kamen zu der berzeugung, da es sich nicht um ein Problem handelt, sondern um eine Vielzahl konkurrierender und widersprechender Problemdefinitonen; jede von einem bestimmten sozialen und kulturellen Zusammenhang geformt, der erhalten werden soll. Mit anderen Worten: Das Problem sperrt sich einer wissenschaftlichen Lsung. In diesem Aufsatz legen wir die Analyse von Ungewiheiten und die damit verbundene trans-wissenschaftliche Argumentation zur Seite und versuchen, einen sinnvollen Entwurf zu erstellen, der helfen kann, eine Entwicklungsstrategie fr dieses Gebiet zu finden. Ausgehend von dem ursprnglich angenommenen System, beginnen unsere Empfehlungen mit einfachen Grundstzen: Was mu man tun und was unterlassen. In einem zuknftigen Beitrag (fr eine sptere Ausgabe von Mountain Research and Development vorgesehen) werden wir die Umweltforschung der Organisationen untersuchen, die in dieser Region aktiv sind und werden spezifischere Vorschlge zu ihrer geeigneten Beteiligung machen.
3674440|In the late 1990s widespread evidence of glacier expansion was found in the central Karakoram, in contrast to a worldwide decline of mountain glaciers. The expansions were almost exclusively in glacier basins from the highest parts of the range and developed quickly after decades of decline. Exceptional numbers of glacier surges were also reported. Unfortunately, there has been no on-going measurement of climatic or glaciological variables at these elevations. The present article examines possible explanations for this seemingly anomalous behavior, using evidence from short-term monitoring programs, low-altitude weather stations, and the distinctive environmental characteristics of the region. The latter involve interactions between regional air mass climatology, its seasonality, topoclimate or 'verticality' effects on glaciers with extreme altitudinal range, climatic sensitivities of heavy versus thin supraglacial debris, and complex temperature distributions in ice masses with ice falls throughout critical elevations. Valley climate stations indicate increases in precipitation over the past 50 years and small declines in summer temperatures, which may indicate positive trends in glacier mass balance. However, the suddenness of the expansions is problematic, as is their confinement to glaciers from the highest watersheds while others continue to retreat. Thermal shifts in ice masses with extreme altitude ranges may be even more critical, leading to an accelerated redistribution of ice mass by elevation.
mounresedeve.32.2.203|To assess changes in glacial lakes in the Chinese Himalaya, 2 inventory phases were conducted on the basis of 278 aerial survey topography maps from the 1970s and 38 Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer (ASTER) images from the 2000s. In the past 30 years, the number of glacial lakes has decreased, from 1750 to 1680 (a decrease of 4.0%), whereas the average area of glacial lakes expanded from 166.48 to 215.28 km
10.2307/3674005|Madagascar's highland region once was covered with an evergreen forest dominated by about 20 endemic tree species. This has been permanently replaced by a floristically impoverished steppe vegetation on ferrolitic soils. Human intervention has caused this deforestation, aided by a notable failure of highland forests to spontaneously regenerate. Beginning about A.D. 600, Indonesian settlers began removing forests in this region to create swidden fields. After A.D. 1000, zebu cattle introduced from Africa provided a strong motive for islanders to increase grassland at the expense of forest. By A.D.1600 the highland forest cover had mostly disappeared except for localized tract, patches, and strips. The historical record and contemporary observations point to the importance of fire in destroying the forest. This landscape conversion has had devastating outcomes. Tree and humus removal has led to massive erosion, floods, water shortages, and faunal extinctions or endangerments. Agricultural and pastoral production on upland soils is marginal. Re-establishment of long-term ecological stability to this region would require an end to burning as a form of pasture management, changes in communal land tenure, and reforestation of the highlands with native tree species. /// Les montagnes de Madagascar taient dans le pass couvertes d'une fort sempervirente domine par 20 essences endmiques. Cette fort a t remplace en permanence par une vgtation de steppe  flore appauvrie sur des sols ferralitiques. L'intervention humaine est  l'origine de cette dforestation, combine avec un manque remarquable de rgnration spontane. Au dbut du VIIe sicle, les immigrants indonsiens ont commenc  dtruire les forts de la rgion dans le but de pratiquer l'agriculture sur brlis. Au XIe sicle, l'introduction du zbu africain a beaucoup encourag les habitants  augmenter les pturages au dtriment des forts. Vers la fin du XVe sicle, la couverture forestire des montagnes avait pratiquement disparu,  part de petites tendues localises. Le dossier historique et les observations contemporaines ont mis en vidence le rle du dfrichement par incendie dans la destruction des forts. Cette conversion du paysage a produit des effets dsastreux. La disparition des arbres et de l'humus a entran une rosion massive, des inondations, des pnuries d'eau et des extinctions ou menaces d'extinction de la faune. La productivit agricole et pastorale sur les sols de montagne est marginale. Le rtablissement de la stabilit cologique  long terme de cette rgion ncessiterait le renoncement  l'incendie comme forme de gestion des pturages, un changement de rgime foncier communal et la reforestation avec des essences indignes. /// Frher war das Hochland von Madagaskar stark bewaldet und von hauptschlich immergrnen endemischen Arten gab es mehr als zwanzig. Gegenwrtig sind die eisenhaltigen Bden nur mit einer drftigen Steppenvegetation bewachsen. Die Entwaldung ist Folge von anthropogenen Eingriffen, und sie wird verstrkt durch die Tatsache, da sich Hochlandwald sehr langsam regeneriert. Die Abholzung begann um etwa 600 a.D., als indonesische Siedler mit Brandfeldbau begannen. Ab etwa 1000 a.D. wurde Zebu Vieh aus Afrika eingefhrt, was die Inselbewohner motivierte, die Entwaldung noch strker zugunsten von Grassland voranzutreiben. Dies fhrte dazu, da ab etwa 1600 a.D. der Waldbestand des Hochlandes bis auf vereinzelte, lokal begranzte Flchen verschwunden war. Alte Aufzeichnungen und neuere Beobachtungen zeigen, da Waldbrand und nicht Abholzung dann den Wald endgltig vertilgt haben. Solch gravierende Land-schaftsvernderungen hatten verheerende Folgen. Der fehlende Baumbewuchs und der damit verbundene Verlust an Humusboden fhrte zu starker Erosion, berschwemmungen, und Wassermangel und gefhrdete auerdem die Tierwelt bis hin zum Aussterben einzelner Arten. Hochlandbden bringen der Land- und Weidewirtschaft nur noch geringe Ertrge. Konsequenzen, die langsichtig zu kologischer Stabilitt fhren, erfordern da Brandfeldbau abgeschafft wird, da Gemeindeland anders verwaltet wird, und da das Hochland mit endemischen Baumarten aufgeforstet wird.
10.2307/3673796|The Sierra de La Laguna is a group of mountains in the south of the Baja California Peninsula that, because of their height, show marked climatic differences. The life forms there are different from the rest of the Peninsula and the area is the site of many ecological studies. The objective of this paper is to construct a regional climatic series that can be useful for detecting annual dry and wet periods. An aridity index is calculated according to Martonne, using precipitation and temperature data from nine meteorological stations in the middle and lower ranges of the Sierra. When an auto-correction and Fourier analysis of the resultant series is made, a tendency to less aridity is observed with a fundamental frequency of 24 years, which approximates conformance to the double cycle of sunspots. /// La Sierra de La Laguna est un groupe de montagnes situ dans la partie sud de la Basse Californie qui, en raison de son altitude, prsente des diffrences climatiques marques. Les formes biologiques sont diffrentes de celles du reste de la pninsule, et cette zone est le site de nombreuses tudes cologiques. L'objectif de cet article est d'laborer une srie climatique rgionale pouvant tre utilise pour la dtection des priodes annuelles sches et humides. Un index d'aridit est calcul  l'aide de la formulation de Martonne, utilisant les donnes de prcipitation et de temprature collectes par neuf stations mtorologiques situes dans les chanes moyennes et infrieures de la Sierra. Lorsqu'une autocorrection et une analyse de Fourier de la srie rsultante sont effectues, on observe une tendance vers une moindre aridit avec une frquence fondamentale de 24 ans, en concordance approximative avec le double cycle de taches solaires. /// In der Sierra De La Laguna, einer Bergkette im Sden der Baja California Halbinsel, gibt es entscheidende hhenbedingte klimatische Unterschiede. Die dortigen Lebensformen unterscheiden sich von denen der brigen Halbinsel, und sind Gegenstand vieler kologischer Studien. Das Ziel dieser Verffentlichung ist es, eine regionale, klimabedingte Folge zu erstellen, aus der der jhrliche Zyklus von Trockenund Regenperioden ermittelt werden kann. Gem Martonne wird aus den Niederschlags- und Temperaturdaten von neun meteorologischen Stationen in mittleren und niedrigen Hhenlagen der Sierra ein Trockenheitsindex berechnet. Eine Auto-Korrelation und Fourier Analyse der resultierenden Zeitserie zeigt eine Tendenz zu geringerer Trockenheit mit einer Wiederholfrequenz von 24 Jahren, was etwa dem doppelten Sonnenfleckenzyklus entspricht. /// Al sur de la pennsula de Baja California se encuentra la Sierra de La Laguna, un conjunto montaoso que por sus caractersticas altitudinales presenta maracadas diferencias climticas y formas de vida con el resto de la pensula, siendo de gran atractivo para realizar estudios ecolgicos en la zona. El objetivo de este trabajo es construir una serie climtica de la regin que pueda ser de utilidad para detectar periodos interanuales de aridez y anos humedos, para lo cual se calcul el ndice de aridez segn Martonne con los datos de precipitacin y temperatura de las 9 estaciones meteorolgicas de las partes medias y bajas de la Sierra. Al realizar el anlisis de autocorrelacin y de Fourier de la serie resultante se observa una tendencia a la disminucin de la aridez, identificndose la frecuencia fundamental de 24 anos, que coincide aproximadamente con el doble ciclo de las manchas solares.
3674348|We challenge the paradigm of natural tree line formation in the equatorial Andes with an alternate view that incorporates the human dimension. We present both direct and indirect evidence of anthropogenic influences on cloud forest tree line location; these human influences should be incorporated in definitions of Andean tree lines as (1) the extensification of grassland for grazing and potato cultivation for the upper limit, and (2) the intensification of the agricultural frontier, fuelwood gathering, and timber extraction for the lower limit. Although we do not claim to fully debunk the prevalent paradigm of tree line dynamics (which is descriptive, depends on the natural sciences, and sees tree lines as physically controlled), we hope to achieve increased recognition for a challenging alternate view of tropical tree lines as functional, resource-use dependent, and human-driven. Management plans and overall tropical montane cloud forest conservation strategies need to consider this new perspective and incorporate a proactive and assertive approach toward restoration of Andean forests in a way that will encourage landscape diversity in tropical mountain ecoregions.
mounresedeve.29.2.143|The Afromontane forests of northern Ethiopia have been degraded and fragmented for centuries. Recently, efforts have been made to restore these forests by protecting them from livestock interference. In this study, the natural regeneration of Juniperus procera Hochst. ex Endl. and
10.2307/3673225|Anthropological scholarship has been slow to develop in the Himalaya, compared to the Andes, because for millenia the Himalaya have been regarded as a political, economic, and cultural backwater by the Chinese, Indian, and, later, European Empires which surrounded them. By contrast, control of the Andes was the key to conquest of the rest of South America. Briefly mentioned in ancient sources, the Himalaya from the seventeenth until the early twentieth century saw an increase in accounts by diplomats, soldiers, merchants, and missionaries. But because of political isolation, most of the Himalaya were not accessible to anthropologists until the 1950s, when modern anthropological research began. By the 1970s a large number of students from many countries were at work, including for the first time a significant number of indigenous scholars. /// Les recherches anthropologiques concernant l'Himalaya se sont dveloppes plus lentement que celles portant sur les Andes, car pendant des millnaires l'Himalaya a t considr comme une rgion stagnante du point de vue politique, conomique, et culturel par les empires avoisinants: Chinois, Indien, puis Europen. A l'oppos, la matrise des Andes ft la clef de la conqute du reste de l'Amrique du Sud. Mentionne brivement dans les textes anciens, la rgion de l'Himalaya a de plus en plus attir l'attention des diplomates, militaires, commerants, et missionnaires, du dix-septime jusqu'au dbut du vingtime sicle. Mais,  cause de son isolation politique, la plus grande partie de l'Himalaya n'est devenue accessible aux anthropologues qu' l'ore des annes 50, c'est  dire au dbut de la recherche anthropologique moderne. Au cours des annes 70, un grand nombre d'tudiants de provenances diverses y travaillaient, y-compris, pour la premire fois, un nombre important de chercheurs locaux. /// Anthropologische Untersuchungen im Himalaya, verglichen zu denen der Anden, haben sich langsam entwickelt. Fr Jahrtausende wurde der Himalaya von den umgebenden chinesischen, indischen und spter den europischen Mchten als politisch, konomisch und kulturell rckstndig angesehen. Die Beherrschung der Anden dagegen galt als Schlssel zur Eroberung des brigen Sdamerikas. In alten Quellen wurde der Himalaya nur kurz erwhnt; vom 17. bis ins frhe 20. Jahrhundert stieg die Zahl der von Diplomaten, Soldaten, Hndlern und Missionaren gegebenen Berichte. Bis 1950 blieb der grte Teil des Himalaya wegen seiner politischen Isolation den Anthropologen unzugnglich, erst danach begann moderne anthropologische Forschung. In den 70er Jahren machten sich viele Forscher aus allen Lndern an die Arbeit, und zum ersten Mal war auch eine groe Zahl einheimischer Gelehrten unter ihnen. /// El estudio antropolgico en el Himalaya se ha desarrollado lentamente en comparacin al caso andino porque la regin ha sido considerado de poca importancia por los imperios chino, indio y europeo que lo rodearon. En cambio, el control de los Andes fue una clave en la conquista del continente sudamericano. Aunque el Himalaya solo fue mencionado brevamente en los textos antiguos, desde el siglo 17 hasta principios del siglo 20 fue descrito con mas frecuencia por soldados, diplomticos, misioneros y comerciantes. Pero su aislamiento poltico impidi el acceso de antroplogos a grandes zonas del Himalaya hasta los aos 1950, cuando empezaron las investigaciones antropolgicas modernas. A partir del ao 1970, una gran cantidad de especialistas de diversos pases han estudiado el Himalaya, incluyendo, por primera vez, un nmero significativo de intelectuales himalayanos.
mounresedeve.36.3.384|Tucked in the foothills of the Maluti-Drakensberg Mountains is the Qwaqwa campus of the University of the Free State. This is the home of the Afromontane Research Unit, a multidisciplinary flagship unit addressing a largely under-researched area in South Africa.
mounresedeve.32.s1.s55|The history of mountain research is most fascinating. Three names for 3 centuries may give an idea of the growing knowledge about the world's mountains: Horace Bndict de Saussure, who climbed and studied the Mont Blanc in 1787; Alexander von Humboldt, ever investigating the environment during his attempt to ascend the Chimborazo in 1802; and Carl Troll, who founded the International Geographical Union's Commission on High-altitude Geoecology in 1968. Awareness of the growing impact of human activities on the environment led to scientific and political initiatives at the global level, beginning in the 1970s. The Perth conference in 2010 has offered an opportunity to both look back on these developments and explore the future of the world's mountains in a time of rapidly growing global change problems and processes.
25164078|The Bayanbulak region, deep in the East Tienshan Mountains, is the southernmost and highest breeding area for swans anywhere in the world. As one of the few biodiversity hotspots in central Asia, it was listed in 1986 as a Chinese national swan nature reserve. The region is also the largest grazing area in Xinjiang as well as a tourist attraction. But in the last 25 years, the population of wild swans has decreased from about 20,000 to 2000, and approximately half of the pastureland now suffers from overgrazing and degradation. Moreover, the local government has been considering building a reservoir in the region. If this is done, the ecology of this region would be greatly altered, and almost all wild-swan habitats would disappear. The present study identifies alpine grassland types and concludes that it is urgent to protect the breeding areas of wild swans and control grassland degradation, and that any plan for reservoir construction should be rejected.
3674293|New Zealand is a very mountainous country with sparsely populated mountain lands. While large tracts are held in private ownership and used in pastoral production, the majority is state owned. New Zealand's protected natural area system encompasses the Southern Alps/Ka Tiritiri o te Moana and the North Island peaks, with the highest mountains in the country within Aoraki/Mount Cook National Park, a World Heritage Site. Thirty percent of New Zealand's land area falls within the protected natural area system, managed by the Department of Conservation (DOC). Within these mountain lands, there is a range of mountain recreation opportunities including skiing, alpine climbing, hiking, wilderness fishing, and hunting. Aircraft-based activities, such as scenic over-flights, heli-hiking, and glacier skiing, dominate some mountain regions. Ski fields represent small enclaves of high-level facility and infrastructure development within an environment that is largely unmodified wilderness. To facilitate high-quality recreational experiences and protect the natural mountain environment, DOC provides facilities such as huts and tracks, and applies management techniques to minimize visitor conflict and biophysical impacts. Commercial activities in parks are managed through concessions that place controls upon these activities.
10.2307/3673359|The heterogeneous economic structure of the northern Chilean Andes (oases agriculture, exploitation of saltpetre, copper mining) was conducive to a differing population development in the various areas of the region. The exploitation of the great copper deposits led to a significant increase in the population of the high mountains in recent decades. This was accompanied by a serious depopulation of the rural areas and a concentration of population in certain large mining settlements and their surroundings. The population pressure was not reduced for there was only movement from the rural areas to the mining centres and to the bigger towns. To verify and exemplify this, migrations toward the biggest open copper mine in the world, Chuquicamata, and the nearby oasis town, Calama (province of Antofagasta) are investigated. The discussions focus on emigration from the oases of the Andean Cordillera. The analysis tries to answer the questions: (1) What are the reasons for the emigration from the oases and how important is the growing population there?, (2) Who emigrates from the oases and what are the effects of this migration on the areas of origin?, and (3) How can the economic and social situation of the migrant population in the area of destination be described? /// La structure conomique htrogne des Andes du Nord du Chili (agriculture d'oasis, extraction de salptre et de cuivre) a entran une diffrence rgionale dans le dveloppement de la population. L'exploitation des grandes mines de cuivre a fait que la population des Hautes Andes s'est considrablement accrue dans les dernires dcennies. Paralllement, la population des rgions rurales a beaucoup diminu et une concentration dmographique s'est produite dans quelques grandes cits minires et leurs environs. Les mouvements de population n'ont pas soulag la pression dmographique, car il s'agissait simplement d'un dplacement venant des rgions rurales et allant vers les centres miniers et les grandes villes. A titre d'exemple, les mouvements migratoires sont analyss, notamment ceux dirigs vers la plus grande mine de cuivre mondiale, Chuquicamata, et de l'oasis Calama qui se trouve  sa proximit. La discussion se concentre particulirement sur l'migration venant des oasis de la Cordillre. L'analyse essaie de rsoudre les trois questions suivantes: (1) Quelles sont les raisons d'une migration venant des oasis et dans quelle mesure la pression dmographique joue-t-elle un rle?, (2) Quel est le cercle de personnes qui dlaisse les oasis et quelles en sont les consquences pour la structure conomique et dmographique de la rgion et d'origine?, (3) Quelle est la situation conomique et sociale des migrants dans leur nouvelle rgion? /// Die heterogene wirtschaftliche Struktur der nordchilenischen Anden (Oasenlandwirtschaft, Salpetergewinnung, Kupferbergbau) hat zu einer regional unterschiedlichen Bevlkerungsentwicklung gefhrt. Durch die Erschlieung der groen Kupferminen hat die in den Hochanden lebende Bevlkerung in den letzten Jahrzehnten erheblich zugenommen. Dabei erfolgte eine weitgehende Entleerung der lndlichen Rume und eine Konzentration der Bevlkerung auf einige wenige groe Minensiedlungen und ihre unmittelbare Umgebung. Der Bevlkerungsdruck konnte durch diese Bevlkerungsumverteilung nicht abgebaut werden; es kam lediglich zu einer Verlagerung vom lndlichen Raum in die Zentren des Bergbaus und die greren Stdte. Beispielhaft werden die Wanderungsbewegungen in Richtung des grten Kupfertagebaus der Erde, Chuquicamata, und der in seinem unmittelbaren Einflugebiet gelegenen Oasenstadt Calama (Provinz Antofagasta) nher betrachtet. Die Diskussion konzentriert sich insbesondere auf die Abwanderung aus den Kordillerenoasen. Die Analyse versucht, auf die folgenden Fragen eine Antwort zu geben: (1) Welches sind die Grnde fr eine Abwanderung aus den Oasen und inwieweit spielt der zugenommene Bevlkerungsdruck eine Rolle?, (2) Welcher Personenkreis wandert in erster Linie aus den Oasen ab und welche Auswirkungen ergeben sich daraus fr die Wirtschafts- und Bevlkerungsstruktur dieses Raumes?, und (3) Wie stellt sich die wirtschaftliche und soziale Situation der Migranten im Zielgebiet dar? /// La estructura econmica de carcter heterogneo en la regin de los Andes del Norte chileno (agricultura de osis, explotacin del salitre, minera del cobre), han llevado a un desarrollo de la poblacin regionalmente diferenciado. Debido a la explotacin de las grandes minas del cobre el nmero de habitantes en la cordillera alta ha aumentado significativamente. Al mismo tiempo se efectu un xodo rural y una concentracin de la poblacin en algunos pocos grandes ncleos de minera y sus reas ms cercanas. La presin que ejerce la poblacin no pudo ser reducida a travs sta redistribucin; se lleg solamente a un traslado de la poblacin del espacio rural a los centros de minera y ciudades ms grandes. A modo de ejemplo son observadas las migraciones en direccin a la mina de tajo abierto ms grande del mundo, Chuquicamata, y a la ciudad osis situada en la regin inmediata bajo su influencia, Calama. La discusin se concentra principalmente en la emigracin desde los osis cordilleranos. El anlisis trata de contestar las tres siguientes preguntas: (1) Cules son los motivos para una emigracin desde los osis y hasta qu punto juega la presin de la poblacin un papel importante?, (2) Qu categora de personas emigra en primer lugar desde los osis y qu efecto se produce a concecuencia de esto en la estructura econmica y poblacional de sta regin?, y (3) De qu forma se les presenta la situacin econmica y social para los migrantes en el lugar de destino?
3674159|Low elevation riparian forests found within the Middle Hills of Nepal are both essential biological habitats and important resources for local subsistence farmers. Forming networks of habitat patches within the primarily agricultural matrix of the Middle Hills, these forests are repositories of a rich biological diversity. Dynamics of forest change along riparian corridors were investigated within the newly established Makalu Barun National Park and Conservation Area (MBCA) of eastern Nepal, based on a comparison of remote sensing data over a 20-year interval. Multispectral analysis and a supervised classification of Landsat TM (1992) and Landsat MSS (1972) data estimate approximately 7000 ha of low elevation riparian forests within the study area. Change detection analysis estimates based on the respective supervised classifications reveal little significant change in extent of the tropical and subtropical zone riparian forests. More impact was evident toward the upper elevational limits of the study area. A 4% (approximately 300 ha) loss of cover within areas previously designated as forest is estimated. For all areas in the study area, a net loss of forest of 11% is estimated. Land use is shown to be highly dynamic, with significant internal trading between land use classes. The important role of riparian corridors in biodiversity conservation within the Middle Hills of east Nepal is discussed. Further research on biodiversity within these patches and a specific recognition of the value of remnant riparian forests within the landscape and rural economy are required if conservation goals for the eastern Nepal Himalaya are to be met.
25164102|People's perceptions of their environment in high mountain rangelands ultimately affect the fragile ecosystems on which they depend, and thus their welfare. This is especially true in developing countries, where the livelihoods of people living in such ecosystems depend on grazing livestock. The present study, conducted in the central mountain region of Peru, used photographs and Q methodology to investigate the criteria and preferences that shepherds and local administrators apply in making grazing management decisions. The results showed 2 different sets of criteria and preferences. In the first set of preferences the condition of the grassland, particularly the height of the vegetation, was the main criterion. In the second set, the color of the vegetation was the key criterion. We discuss implications for the further use of this methodology.
90009004|Risks and hazards associated with climate change and geological factors, especially in the worlds youngest mountains, are inevitable and may have been exacerbated in recent decades. However reports about increased landslips and landslides in some areas are being presented as examples to argue that most natural hazards in mountain areas are due to climate change. Based on a field study in the Yourjogh area of Chitral District in Pakistan, we argue that this discourse is based on generalized conclusions that do not hold in all cases and for all types of disasters. Our study challenges the climate change discourse as disregarding the political dimension of water management that also contributes to landslides and landslips in Pakistans mountainous regions. The climate change discourse has taken the politics out of external-donor-led development interventions that replaced traditional irrigation management practices and institutions with an arrangement in which external development agencies and the state control crucial economic and social processes that shape the distribution of water. This not only depoliticizes disasters and their effects but also leads to further mismanagement of abundantly available irrigation water, contributing to the frequent occurrence of landslips in our study area. We conclude that attributing hazards only to climatic or geological factors leaves little room to promote locally appropriate solutions for locally created hazards.
10.2307/3673297|In earlier issues of Mountain Research and Development (Vol. 5, Nos. 2 and 3), Thompson and Warburton developed an institutional approach to development in the Himalayan region: an approach that, in treating the institutions and the perceptions they generate as the facts, largely dissolved away the physical constraints in a sea of uncertainty. In this article, we try to complete the exploratory circle by bringing nature - the physical constraints - back into our cultural picture. All institutions, sooner or later, bump against these constraints; the local farmers sooner, the international agencies later. Learning - readjustments in systems of knowledge - then takes place. Nature, in effect, forces the different systems of knowledge that are promoted by different institutions into conversation with one another. The present challenge is to convert that conversation from monologue to dialogue. /// Dans Mountain Research and Development (Vol. 5, Nos. 2 et 3), Thompson et Warburton ont prsent une approche institutionnelle  l'gard du dveloppement de l'Himalaya. En traitant les institutions et les perceptions qu'elles engendrent comme tant les faits vritables, cette approche a permis de rduire la complexit du problme en liminant pratiquement les contraintes physiques. La prsente communication essaie de complter et d'intgrer cette approche en ramenant la nature, donc les contraintes physiques, dans la perspective culturelle. Tt ou tard, les institutions concernes doivent faire face  ces contraintes, les fermiers d'abord, puis les agences internationales. C'est alors que l'apprentissage se produit, c'est--dire un rajustement des systmes de connaissance. En effet, la nature force les diffrents systmes de connaissance embrasss par diverses institutions  s'adapter les uns aux autres. Ce qu'il reste  faire est de promouvoir une communication vritable entre ces systmes, au bnfice de tous. /// In frheren Ausgaben von Mountain Research and Development (Vol. 5, Nr. 2 und 3) entwickelten Thompson und Warburton einen institutionellen Lsungsweg zur Erschlieung des Himalaya Gebietes: Eine Methode, die Institutionen und deren Vorstellungen als gegebene Tatsachen behandelt und damit alle geophysikalischen Zwnge in einem Wust von Ungewiheiten verbirgt. In dieser Verffentlichung versuchen wir, den Untersuchungszyklus zu vervollstndigen, wobei in unserem kulturellen Modell die Natur mit ihren physikalischen Zwngen bercksichtigt wird. Frher oder spter mu sich jede Institution mit solchen Beschrnkungen auseinandersetzen, und zwar zuerst die heimischen Bauern und spter dann die internationalen Agenturen. Erfahrung wird gewonnen und in die bestehenden Wissenssysteme eingebracht. Die Natur, in der Tat, erfordert zwischen den einzelnen Wissenssystemen, die von unterschiedlichen Behrden gefrdert werden, einen Gedankenaustausch. Die gegenwrtige Herausforderung besteht darin, den einseitigen Erfahrungsaustausch in einen Dialog umzuwandeln.
10.2307/3673630|The glacial history of the central Andes is used to reconstruct climatic changes during the last 20,000 years. The depression of the equilibrium-line altitude of glaciers is determined to quantitatively reconstruct these changes. The results indicate that late-Pleistocene glaciation culminated between 14,000 and 12,000 yr B.P. At this time equilibrium-line altitudes in the Eastern Cordillera of Bolivia were depressed on average 300 m in response to an increase in precipitation and a temperature reduction of 3.5  1.6C. Between 12,000 and 10,000 yr B.P. deglaciation proceeded rapidly and several stages of recessional moraines were deposited. By 10,000 to 8,000 yr B.P. glaciers in most valleys were near their modern extents. In the late-Holocene glaciers advanced again because of colder conditions and maize production may have been limited as indicated by the ethnobotanical evidence from archaeological sites in the Mantaro River valley of central Peru. /// L'historique glaciaire des Andes centrales est utilis pour retracer les changements climatiques qui se sont produits au cours des 20.000 dernires annes. L'abaissement de l'altitude de la ligne d'quilibre des glaciers a t dtermin dans le but d'exprimer quantitativement ces changements. Les rsultats indiquent que la glaciation de la fin du Plistocne a culmin entre 14.000 et 12.000 ans avant l'poque actuelle. A cette poque-l, l'altitude de la ligne d'quilibre dans la Cordillre est de la Bolivie s'est abaisse de 300 m en moyenne par suite d'une augmentation des prcipitations et d'une chute de temprature de 3,5  1,6 C. Entre 12.000 et 10.000 ans avant l'poque actuelle, la dglaciation s'est effectue rapidement et des moraines de rcession  diffrents stades de formation se sont dposes. Environ 10.000  8.000 ans avant l'poque actuelle, les glaciers de la plupart des valles couvraient une tendue proche de celle qu'ils couvrent aujourd'hui. A la fin de l'Holocne, les glaciers ont progress de nouveau par suite de conditions plus froides et la production de mas a probablement diminu, comme l'indiquent les indices ethnobotaniques observs sur les sites archologiques de la valle du Mantaro, dans le Prou central. /// Die glaziale Geschichte der Zentralanden wird benutzt, um Klimavernderungen whrend der vergangenen 20.000 Jahre nachzuweisen. Es wird die Depression in der Gleichgewichts-Hhenlinie von Gletschern bestimmt, um die nderungen quantitativ zu rekonstruieren. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, da vor 12.000 bis 14.000 Jahren die Vergletscherung ihren Hhepunkt erreichte. Zu dieser Zeit waren die Gleichgewichts-Hhenlinien in den stlichen Kordilleren von Bolivien um durchschnittlich 300 m komprimiert als Folge von erhhten Niederschlgen und einem Temperaturrckgang von 3,5   1,6 C. Vor 10.000 bis 12.000 Jahren erfolgte schnelles Abschmelzen, und zurckgehende Mornen wurden in verschiedenen Stufen abgelagert. Vor 8.000 bis 10.000 Jahren waren die Gletscher in den meisten Tlern nahe ihrer heutigen Lage. Whrend des Sptholozns nahmen sie als Folge klterer Bedingungen wieder zu; was die Maisproduktion eingeschrnkt haben knnte, wie es im ethnobotanischen Beweismaterial von archologischen Fundorten im Mantaro Flutal von Zentralperu angedeutet wird.
10.2307/3673855|This paper examines the history of vicua conservation in Peru over the last thirty years. During this period management strategies have shifted from protection to sustainable utilization, from a centralized administration with use of armed park guards and disenfranchisement of the campesino communities, to investing the legal custody of the vicua, together with responsibility for its protection and the right to utilize products obtained from live animals, in the campesino communities located on lands where the vicua lives. Although many questions remain to be answered concerning the impact of these changes, financial benefits obtained by the communities from sales of live shorn fiber far exceed those from hides sold on the black market, providing a powerful incentive to protect the species, and recent survey data record a decline in poaching. /// Cet article examine l'historique de la prservation de la vigogne au Prou au cours des trente dernires annes. Au cours de cette priode, les stratgies de gestion ont volu de la protection vers l'utilisation viable, d'une administration centrale avec gardes arms et privation des droits civiques des collectivits campesino, vers l'octroi de la garde lgale de la vigogne, ainsi que la responsabilit pour sa protection et le droit d'utilisation des produits obtenus des animaux vivants, aux collectivits campesino situes dans l'habitat de la vigogne. Bien qu'un grand nombre de questions ne sont pas rsolues en ce qui concerne l'impact de ces changements, les avantages financiers que les collectivits peuvent tirer de la vente de fibres obtenues par la tonte d'animaux vivants dpasse largement ceux tirs de la vente de peaux au march noir. Cet tat de fait encourage fortement la protection de l'espce et les rsultats d'enqutes rcentes indiquent un dclin du braconnage. /// Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Geschichte des Vicuaschutzes in Peru whrend der letzten dreiig Jahre. Managementstrategien haben sich in diesem Zeitraum stark gendert: von zentraler Verwaltung mit Einsatz von bewaffneten Wchtern und Entrechtung der Campesino-Gemeinden hin zu bertragung der rechtlichen Vormundschaft fr die Vicuas, der Verantwortung fr ihren Schutz, sowie der Anrechte auf die Nutzung der von lebendigen Tieren gewonnen Vicuaprodukte auf die Campesino-Gemeinden in den Vicuagebieten. Obwohl noch viele Fragen ber die Auswirkungen dieser Vernderungen offen sind, so steht doch fest, da die Einknfte der Gemeinden durch den Verkauf der Wolle lebendig geschorener Tiere den Erls der auf dem Schwarzmarkt verkauften Felle weit bersteigen, und somit einen starken Anreiz fr den Schutz diesr Art darstellen. Neue Untersuchungsergebnisse zeigen, da die Wilderei abnimmt. /// El presente trabajo examina los ltimos treinta aos en la hitoria de la conservacin de la vicua en el Per. Durante este perdodo se han producido cambios significativos en las estrategias de manejo que han evolucionado desde una actitud proteccionista a otra ms reciente de manejo sustentable, que van desde una administracin centralizada del manejo en la que no se contempla la participacin de las comunidades campesinas en la toma de decisiones, a otra que, en esencia, da a estes la custodia legal de la especie y la responsabilidad de protegerla con la posibilidad de utilizar los productos obtenidos de animales en pie que, en esencia, habitan los mismos espacios en donde se localizan las comunidades campesinas. Sin bien son muchas las preguntas sin responder relacionadas con el impacto generado por los mencionados cambios, los beneficios econmicos obtenidos por las comunidades campesinas, generados de la venta de animales en pie, exceden a aquellos que se generan de la venta de cueros en el mercado negro, habiendo sido este un incentivo en la proteccion de la especie segn lo demuestran recientes muestreos que sealan una reduccin en la matanza ilegal de vicuas.
4096454|Many upland communities in northwest Yunnan, China, are agropastoralist. Agropastoralist livelihoods in the region are characterized by close interactions between crops and livestock, and by seasonal transhumance. Agropastoralist communities are relatively marginalized by technical service agencies and policy making processes. The Center for Biodiversity and Indigenous Knowledge (CBIK), a local NGO, has been working with communities and extension agencies to develop approaches to innovative technical and institutional interventions that support sustainable livelihoods. The present article describes the issues faced by agropastoralists in the region, the approaches promoted by CBIK (participatory technology development and co-management of rangelands), and issues faced in scaling up these approaches to influence local government policy and extension practices.
3674577|In Mongolia, grasslands and steppes are currently home to over 25 million head of livestock and 192,000 herding families. Nomadic livestock producers are the backbone of the economy. As in other areas in the region (eg western China), herders are facing very serious pasture degradation. Government officials and herders agree that many local carrying capacities are exceeded. These problems have been aggravated by 3 recent extremely severe winters. A multidisciplinary, multi-institutional research team, coordinated by the Mongolian Ministry for Nature and the Environment, is addressing this challenge through a combination of participatory, action-oriented field research activities in 3 of the country's major ecosystems-the dry steppe, forest steppe, and Altai mountains steppe. Efforts include direct involvement in national policy-making, encompassing the drafting of new laws. Two innovative action research activities are the formation of community herder groups and the establishment of pasture co-management teams involving herders, local government, and members of civil society. Together, these diversified, multilevel efforts are resulting in new thinking about natural resource management and new ways of doing research and formulating policies. They are opening up the necessary space for active and meaningful co-management roles for herders and government officials alike.
10.2307/3673762|Intensive tourism development in the town of Steamboat Springs and the surrounding Yampa Valley threatens to change the conditions that attracted visitors in the first place. This paper addresses a definition of sustainable development as the baseline for development in the valley. The historic evolution of the area is traced relative to social, economic, and natural environmental conditions. A set of indices that are typically used to determine carrying capacity for sustainable development are outlined. However, these quantitative indices do not form a definitive measure of sustainability. Based on a study of present land-use procedures and recent projects, qualitative indices supported by public opinion are found to be the determinants of acceptable levels of development in the valley. In addition, development in Steamboat Springs is found to have effects throughout the valley. Sustainability is thus defined by qualitative indices supported by public opinion and must be understood in the context of a valley-wide system. /// Le dveloppement intensif du tourisme dans la ville de Steamboat Springs et la valle avoisinante de la Yampa menace de changer les conditions qui  l'origine ont attir les visiteurs. Cet article prend une dfinition du dveloppement viable comme point de rfrence pour le dveloppement de la valle. L'volution historique de la rgion est retrace du point de vue des conditions sociales, conomiques et naturelles. Des indices quantitatifs gnralement utiliss pour dterminer la capacit limite permettant un dveloppement viable sont examins brivement, bien qu'ils ne reprsentent pas une mesure dfinitive de la viabilit du dveloppement dans la valle. Des indices qualitatifs fonds sur une tude des processus actuels d'utilisation des terres et de rcents projets dans la valle, et soutenus par l'opinion publique, se sont rvls tre les indices dterminants de niveaux de dveloppement acceptables. De plus, il est montr que le dveloppement de Steamboat Springs se rpercute dans toute la valle. La viabilit du dveloppement est donc dfinie par des indices qualitatifs soutenus par l'opinion publique et doit tre perue dans le contexte d'un cosystme  l'chelle de la valle. /// Der intensive Tourismus in der Gemeinde von Steamboat Springs und im umliegenden Yampa Tal gefhrdet die Vorraussetzungen, die ursprnglich die Touristen anzogen. Diese Verffentlichung sucht nach einer Definition fr wnschenswerte Entwicklung, die dann als Ausgangspunkt fr eine Weiterentwicklung des gesamten Talgebietes dienen knnte. Soziale, konomische und natrliche Umweltbedingungen werden aus der Sicht der historischen Entwicklung des Gebietes zurck verfolgt. Indizes werden angegeben, die typischerweise als Gradmesser der Entwicklungsmglichkeit benutzt werden knnen. Solche quantitativen Indizes setzen jedoch keinen definitiven Mastab fr eine anhaltende Entwicklung im Tal. Qualitative Indizes, die durch Meinungsumfragen untermauert sind, ergeben sich als bestimmende Faktoren fr einen annehmbaren Entwicklungsgrad, nimmt man eine Studie ber derzeitige Landnutzungsmethoden und neuere Projekte im Tal als Grundlage. Die Entwicklung in Steamboat Springs hat Auswirkungen auf das gesamte Talgebiet. Qualitative, von der ffentlichen Meinung getragene Merkmale, definieren die Aufrechterhaltung einer kontinuierlichen Entwicklung und mssen im Zusammenhang des kosystems des gesamten Talgebietes gesehen werden.
mounresedeve.32.4.461|Rising temperatures and changing precipitation patterns across the Hindu KushHimalaya (HKH) region resulting from climate change have an influence on water resource availability and food security for the downstream population. This review seeks to objectively assess the available evidence of the impacts of climate change on glacier hydrology and the wider implications upon water resources within the Indus, Ganges, and Brahmaputra basins. Glacier meltwater contribution to river flows is scale dependent and varies considerably across the eastwest climatic zones of the HKH. For the Ganges and Brahmaputra this contribution is estimated to be significantly less than for the Indus to the west, with summer monsoon rains dominating flows from central and easterly areas, whereas meltwater remains a significant contributor to downstream flow of westerly basins, which receive most precipitation during winter. No corroborated trends exist in observed discharge for any basin, and such analyses are hindered by a lack of goodquality long-term data. Predicted increases in temperature will drive increased shrinkage of glaciers, leading to initial increases in meltwater produced, followed by subsequent declines with reduced glacier mass. The impacts of such changes are predicted to be minimal for the overall discharge of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, where increases in rainfall may in fact lead to increased flows but with greater variability. Within the Indus basin, reduced meltwater will have significant impacts upon available runoff; however, increased uncertainties surrounding precipitation and socioeconomic changes limit any conclusive assessment of how water availability will be affected; moreover, seasonality of runoff may be a more important factor. Scientific challenges and research recommendations are identified for the region. This review proposes the need for the scientific evidence pertaining to the region's glacier systems to be approached objectively in the future, such that a robust assessment of change can be attained.
mounresedeve.36.1.80|In smallholder farming systems, especially in mountainous areas, households face trade-offs between meeting short-term human needs and ensuring long-term soil productivity. Improved biomass management can help break the downward spiral of overexploitation of natural resources, land degradation, and productivity decline, and support more sustainable use of marginal land. Mixed crop/ livestock systems are often carefully balanced to minimize risks. Thus, when planning interventions, profound systems knowledge is crucial. However, the data required for system characterization are often scarce, and original field studies are thus necessary. The aim of this research, a case study in Tajikistan, was to improve systems understanding of the biomass cycle in crop/livestock systems in order to quantify the obstacles to the spread of sustainable land management technologies to farming households. It aimed to establish a database and methods of rapid data collection to quantify the stocks and flows of biomass, with a focus on mass balances, and to evaluate smallholders' biomass management options and trade-offs. Data collection included household interviews, secondary literature, and reference data sets from global sources. Trade-off analysis focused on household-level self-supply of food, fodder, and fuel by farmers with different sizes of smallholdings, and their potential for on-farm recycling of organic matter. Results indicate that food self-supply by small and medium smallholders is insufficient and fodder sources are scarce. Fodder scarcity means that application of crop byproducts to soils is unlikely. Animal dung is largely used as fuel. Firewood needs exceed on-farm wood production, leading to deforestation. The approach presented facilitates an understanding of current and potential agricultural land interventions in the crop/livestock farming systems prevailing in mountainous areas.
mounresedeve.32.2.109|This article aims to contribute to the analysis of the complex relationship between sustainable development and green economy in mountain areas by focusing on a conflict over the building of a centralized biogas plant to produce renewable energy from livestock manure in an Italian Alpine valley. The case study shows that the project for a large-sized biogas plant promoted by the local political institutions as environmental modernization of local agriculture, and supported by the most important professional organizations, became increasingly controversial at the local community level and was eventually abandoned. By drawing in particular on the literature concerning the social acceptance of renewable energies, the article highlights how this conflict raises issues of distributional justice and procedural justice with regard to the implementation of the green economy model, and it points out the need to embed green economy technologies in the local context and conditions. These concerns should be given primary consideration if the green economy model is to contribute to the sustainable development of marginal areas.
mounresedeve.36.4.518|The mountain research community is still contending with the need to monitor ecosystems, both to improve local management practices and to address regional and global science questions related to the Future Earth themes of Dynamic Planet, Global Sustainable Development, and Transformations Towards Sustainability. How such efforts may be designed and coordinated remains an open question. Historical climate and ecological observatories and networks typically have not represented the scope or spatial and topographic distribution of near-surface processes in mountains, creating knowledge gaps. Grassroots, in situ investigations have revealed the existence of topoclimates that are not linearly related to general atmospheric conditions, and are also not adequately represented in gridded model products. In this paper, we describe how some of the disconnects between data, models, and applications in mountains can be addressed using a combination of gradient monitoring, uniform observational siting and standards, and modern technology (cyberinfrastructure). Existing observational studies need to expand their topographic niches, and future observatories should be planned to span entire gradients. Use of cyberinfrastructure tools such as digital telemetry and Internet Protocol networks can reduce costs and data gaps while improving data quality control processes and widening audience outreach. Embracing this approach and working toward common sets of comparable measurements should be goals of emerging mountain observatories worldwide.
10.2307/3673452|Forests formerly covered the major part of the southeastern plateau of Ethiopia but today only a few remnants remain. With increasing altitude changes in species composition, diversity, structure of the stands, and morphology of the plants occur; these depend on the various limiting factors which characterize the ecological conditions. The natural upper tree limit is sharp and distinct and there is no transitional belt. The montane forests and the Afro-alpine belt are important genetic reservoirs for many endemic species yet they are fragile ecosystems; the forests have an important protective and productive function. The concept of conservation includes the establishment of forest reserves as well as management strategies based on a beneficial balance between resource development and the satisfaction of human needs. /// La fort couvrait autrefois la majeure partie du plateau sud-est de l'Ethiopie. Elle a t rduite  quelques vestiges qui ont t tudis ici. La composition des espces, leur diversit, leur stratification et la morphologie des plantes varient rgulierement avec l'altitude. Divers facteurs limitatifs caractrisent les conditions cologiques. La limite de la fort est une ligne distincte et nette, sans zone de transition. La fort de montagne et la zone afro-alpine constituent d'importants rservoirs gntiques avec de nombreuses espces endmiques. Les cosystmes sont fragiles et les forts jouent un rle de protection et de production important. La prservation de ces forts suppose aussi bien la mise en rserve de certaines zones que leur exploitation judicieuse, permettant de satisfaire aux besoins humains tout en dveloppant le niveau des ressources. /// Der grsste Teil des Sdost-Plateaus von Aethiopien war frher von Wald bedeckt, der mittlerweile auf wenige Ueberreste reduziert worden ist. Diese Restwlder waren das Objekt dieser Studie. Mit zunehmender Hhe ber Meer treten regelmssige Vernderungen der Artenzusammensetzung, der Diversivitt, Stratifizierung und Morphologie der Pflanzen auf. Verschiedene limitierende Faktoren prgen die unterschiedlichen Umweltbedingungen. Die natrliche Waldgrenze ist eine klar erkennbare und scharf abgegrenzte Linie ohne Uebergangszone. Der Bergwald und die Afroalpine Zone sind wichtige genetische Reservoirs, die viele endemische Arten aufweisen. Allerdings sind diese Oekosysteme fragil. Die Wlder sind wichtig im Hinblick auf ihre Schutzfunktionen und die Produktion. Das Konzept der Konservierung beinhaltet die Einrichtung von Schutzzonen wie auch verschiedene Formen der Verwaltung und Nutzung der Wlder, die auf einer vorteilhaften Verbindung von Ressourcenentwicklung und Bedrfnissen des Menschen basiert.
10.2307/3673550|This paper stresses the need for an integrated land-use plan to protect Wedza Mountain and its natural resources from increasing misuse and environmental degradation. At present, indiscriminate timber cutting and uncontrolled grazing are causing accelerating soil erosion and there are serious conflicts among land users. An inventory, proposed plan, and a series of recommendations concerning vegetation, water, and wildlife are given. It is emphasized that the local community, as well as various government departments, should be included in the decision-making process. /// Cet article met l'accent sur le besoin d'un plan intgr d'utilisation du sol afin de protger le Mont Wedza et ses ressources naturelles contre une exploitation abusive et une dgradation de l'environnement. A prsent, l'abattage des arbres et le pturage se pratiquent en toute libert; en consquence, l'rosion du sol s'est acclre et des conflits srieux entre utilisateurs se sont dvelopps. Un inventaire, proposition de plan intgr, et une srie de recommandations concernant la vgtation, l'eau et la faune sont fournis. Il est important que la communaut locale ainsi que les diffrents organismes gouvernementaux soient inclus dans le processus de prise de dcision. /// Dieser Beitrag bekrftigt die Notwendigkeit eines integrierten Landnutzungsplans, um den Wedza Berg und seine Naturressourcen vor Mibrauch und Umweltverschlechterung zu schtzen. Gegenwrtig verursachen willkrliches Roden und unkontrolliertes Weiden beschleunigte Bodenerosion, und es gibt ernsthafte Konflikte unter den Siedlern. Eine Bestandaufnahme und ein Plan mit Empfehlungen hinsichtlich der Vegetation, des Wassers und der Tierwelt werden diskutiert. Bevlkerung und verschiedene Regierungsstellen sollten in dem Entscheidungsprozess mitwirken.
3674464|Soil properties on the Cap de Creus Peninsula, NE Spain depend primarily on scarce agricultural practices and early abandonment. In the study area, 90% of which is mainly covered by Cistus shrubs, 8 environments representing variations in land use/land cover and soil properties at different depths were identified. In each environment variously vegetated areas were selected and sampled. The soils, collected at different depths, were classified as Lithic Xerorthents according to the United States Department of Agriculture system of soil classification (USDA-NRCS 1975). Differences in soil properties were largely found according to the evolution of the plant canopy and the land use history. To identify underlying patterns in soil properties related to environmental evolution, factor analysis was performed and factor scores were used to determine how the factor patterns varied between soil variables, soil depths and selected environments. The three-factor model always accounted for 80% of the total variation in the data at the different soil depths. Organic matter was the more relevant soil property at 0-2 cm depth, whereas active minerals (silt and clay) were found to be the most relevant soil parameters controlling soil dynamics at the other depths investigated. Results showed that vineyards and olive tree soils are poorly developed and present worse conditions for mineral and organic compounds. Analysis of factor scores allowed independent assessment of soils, depth and plant cover and demonstrated that soils present the best physicochemical characteristics under Erica arborea and meadows. In contrast, soils under Cistus monspeliensis were less nutrient rich and less well structured.
25164132|White clover (Trifolium repens) introduced in the 1970s has become the most important fodder legume in Bhutan and there is some concern about its possible negative influence on native plant communities. Detailed plant and soil observations were made across 27 sites (2600-4000 m) to evaluate the effects of white clover on plant community, P dynamics, and fodder quality. Arundinella hookeri was the dominant species up to 3500 m. Other important species with wide distribution were Eragrostis nigra, Brachypodium sylvaticum, Potentilla spp. and Schizachyrium delavayi. An increasing presence of white clover reduced the proportion of biomass from other species, the frequency of A. hookeri and Potentilla spp., and the proportion of bare ground. Biomass harvested from spots with high white clover presence had 70% higher N and 17% higher P content when compared to biomass from spots with no white clover. Soil available P (Bray) was 2.68 mg/kg for patches without white clover and 6.21 mg/kg for patches with high white clover presence. There is no indication that white clover could become a weed in permanent grassland environments of Bhutan.
10.2307/3673791|The Tatra National Park (Tatrzanski Park Narodowy) was created in 1954, but the concept of nature protection in the Tatra Mountains dates back to scientists in Krakow in the mid-nineteenth century. The present operation of the Park is focused on forest management and documentation of the unique qualities of the area. Scientific research, tourism, and recreational activities also take place within the Park, but are limited to specific areas and controlled by Park authorities. Sheep grazing, which dates from medieval times, remains important and there is a rich folklore of shepherds' tales. There is now a proposal to include the entire Tatra Mountains, both Polish and Czechoslovak areas, into the global network of biosphere reserves. /// Le Parc national des Tatras (Tatrzanski Park Narodowy) a t fond en 1954, mais l'ide de protger le milieu naturel des Tatras doit tre attribue aux chercheurs scientifiques de Krakow du milieu du dix-neuvime sicle. L'utilisation actuelle du parc se concentre sur la gestion de la fort et sur la documentation scientifique des caractristiques uniques de la rgion. La recherche scientifique, le tourisme et les activits de loisir sont permises, mais elles sont localises et sont soumises au contrle de l'administration du parc. Le pturage des moutons, qui remonte au moyen-ge, est toujours important et les rcits des bergers constituent un folklore trs riche. Il a t propos que l'ensemble des Tatras, polonaises aussi bien que slovaques, soient incluses dans le rseau global de rserves de la biosphre. /// Der Tatra National Park (Tatrzanski Park Narodowy) wurde erst 1954 gegrndet, aber die Ideen zum Naturschutz im Tatra Gebirge wurden schon in der Mitte des 19. Jahrhunderts von Wissenschaftlern aus Krakau formuliert. Mittelpunkt der gegenwrtigen Parkleitung ist das Waldmanagement und die wissenschaftliche Dokumentation der Besonderheiten dieses Gebietes. Im Park wird wissenschaftliche Forschung durchgefhrt. Tourismus und Freizeitaktivitten werden auch geduldet, beschrnken sich jedoch auf bestimmte Gebiete und werden von zustndigen Behrden berwacht. Schafzucht, seit dem Mittelalter betrieben, bleibt wichtig, und Schfergeschichten gehren zum reichen Volksgut. Es wird vorgeschlagen, das gesamte Tatra Gebirge, den polnischen sowohl als den slowakischen Teil in das globale Netz der Biosphren Reservate miteinzubeziehen.
4540673| Sajama National Park in Bolivia's Cordillera Occidental is not only the country's oldest national park; it also contains Bolivia's highest mountain, ice-capped Nevado Sajama, at 6542 m. Created in 1939 by presidential decree with the primary objective of protecting native keua (Polylepis tarapacana) forests, the Sajama National Park, later ratified by national law, had neither formal administration nor park rangers until 1995. Towering over the barren lands of the Altiplano-Bolivia's highland plateau, at an altitude of about 4000 m-Mount Sajama plays a key role in traditional indigenous mythology, as well as in the formation of the present-day identity of local communities. The latter factor is largely due to a new policy and to multiple activities launched by the Bolivian national parks authority (Servicio Nacional de reas Protegidas, SERNAP) during the past decade. As an initial result, local perception of Sajama National Park as an "imposition from above" has given way to referring to the park as "our protected area." 
3674584|Agricultural sustainability problems related to soil erosion and fertility depletion have arisen throughout the agroecological zone of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK). Introduction and exploitation of clover is predicted to be beneficial and useful under these conditions because of its potential for herbage production, N<sub>2</sub> fixation, and soil cover characteristics. A 1-year field study with a local ecotype of white clover was carried out. Vegetative growth, herbage yield, nitrogen (N) uptake, and soil N content were investigated. Additionally, Rhizobia infestation was studied by isolating Rhizobia in culture media. The annual herbage yield (fresh fodder) of clover, and of clover and grass mixture harvested twice during the season was 7-15 t/ha while dry matter production was 3-6 t/ha. Protein content of white clover was 16% as compared to 5% in the indigenous grass species, demonstrating the superior feed value of white clover. The development of Rhizobium colonies in the culture media and the presence of about 20 nodules per plant indicated the purity of Rhizobium and its N<sub>2</sub> fixing potential. The N content of clover and clover and grass mixture was 2-2.5% compared to 0.87% for grass alone, showing that clover was able to fix an average of 77 kg N/ha, a very encouraging figure even under low moisture conditions. A 70% increase in total soil N in clover-growing plots relative to control plots was observed. It was concluded that white clover can easily be grown and established in the hilly areas of Rawalakot, and would sustain a high level of pasture production and provide inputs of N through N<sub>2</sub> fixation which, in turn, would increase the productivity potential of soils in mountain eco-regions in AJK.
3674157|We estimated the aboveground net primary productivity of 5 seminatural Andean pastures: 2 pramo grassland plots (430 and <tex-math>$512\ g/m^{2}/y$</tex-math>), 2 plots in cleared montane forest (70 and <tex-math>$110\ g/m^{2}/y$</tex-math>), and 1 in an intensive agricultural setting (<tex-math>$1359\ g/m^{2}/y$</tex-math>). The pramo and montane forest plots demonstrated very low productivity compared with the lowest altitude plot. The productivity of the montane forest plots was very low because overgrazing had led to the formation of dense Azorella pedunculata mats of no pasture value. The inherent productivity of pramo tussock grasses, the dominant plants in the two highest sites, is constrained by the retention of dead leaves, which are periodically burned away by farmers (but probably too frequently for long-term benefit). It is unlikely that montane forest and pramo plots could sustain higher levels of grazing, even with the addition of fertilizer, and efforts would be more appropriately focused on increasing the yields of lower altitude pastures.
mounresedeve.30.3.295|During the summer and fall of 2005 while documenting snow leopard (
25164182|Despite the geographic and context-specific nature of the relationship, the strong link between biodiversity use and poverty is acknowledged worldwide. Biodiversity is seen as both being negatively affected by, and contributing in the fight against, poverty. Agathosma betulina (buchu), a plant growing in the Cederberg Mountains in South Africa, has a global commercial value for use in medicine, food and cosmetics. It is also popular among the poor for the significant cash income it generates for the harvesters. Scientists and conservationists believe that its commercialization will lead to its extinction. However, these concerns are mainly based on scientific studies, with limited perspectives from social analyses. This paper presents the case study of Elandskloof, a mountain communal property farm occupied by poor people, where buchu harvesting is important to local incomes. The paper shows that conflicts among community members and between them and outsiders characterize buchu harvesting. Poverty, the ambiguity of the permit system for harvesting of and trading in buchu, as well as the challenges presented by a common property tenure regime, currently compromise buchu's sustainability. The conclusion is that more social studies are needed, in order to fully appreciate what is needed to ensure sustainability of a high value natural resource in the midst of poverty.
25164074|National parks and biological reserves play an important role in counteracting the effects of tropical deforestation in mountainous environments, a leading cause of biodiversity loss worldwide. Unfortunately, information is sparse on the nature, dynamics, and spatial dimension of land use and land cover change processes that contribute to park vulnerability. This article assesses the current state of landscape fragmentation and structure on the Osa Peninsula, Costa Rica, using Landsat Multispectral Scanner and Thematic Mapper satellite scenes between 1979 and 1997. The Osa Peninsula hosts the Corcovado National Park, which contains the only protected region of Tropical Wet forest on the Pacific slopes of Mesoamerica, including a significant number of species that are endemic, threatened, or new to science. The level of isolation of the Corcovado National Park is based on the degree of ecosystem degradation produced by frontal deforestation processes. Our results indicate that the proportion of the Osa Peninsula covered by forest declined from 97% in 1979 to 91% in 1987 and to 89% by 1997. Total forest area declined from 977 km in 1979 to 896 km by 1997. These results pose significant questions regarding the effectiveness of current conservation efforts in this mountain biodiversity-rich area of Mesoamerica.
10.2307/3673747|Biologically diverse popping beans have long been of significant use to Central Andean peasant agriculturalists. The present contribution of popping beans to peasant livelihoods could be expanded as part of development efforts aimed at regional food self-sufficiency. Popping beans offer agroecological, nutritional, and cultural resources to rural households. Prepared through parching, they significantly reduce the need for firewood and provide a useful food. Popping beans aid also in maintaining soil fertility and are imbued with symbolic import in the local cultures of peasants. Maintenance of biologically diverse popping beans depends on the socioeconomic conditions of peasant farming. Cultivation currently is concentrated in the subsistence production of smallholders. Maintenance of the popping bean in subsistence cultivation is at risk of being undermined due to the labor required for their production and preparation. Development strategies that promote regional food self-sufficiency and sound environmental practices can benefit through incorporating diverse native crops such as popping beans. Contemporary social movements in the Central Andes are beginning to emphasize the multi-faceted usefulness-including proprietary rights-of those biological resources. /// Cet article examine l'utilisation intensive de diffrentes varits d'"haricots  clater" dans l'agriculture paysanne des Andes centrales et leur rle dans le dveloppement local. Les haricots  clater constituent une ressource agrocologique, alimentaire et culturelle pour les familles paysannes; ils sont prpars par grillage, ce qui rduit de beaucoup les besoins en combustible tout en fournissant un aliment pratique pour les paysans montagnards. Ils sont cultivs sur une base d'autoconsommation et dans le cadre d'exploitations commerciales o les varits  grand rendement prdominent; nanmoins, cela n'assure pas une production continue et la main d'oeuvre ncessaire pour slectionner les semences de ces haricots risque de constituer une contrainte srieuse. Les stratgies de dveloppement qui mettent l'accent sur l'autosuffisance alimentaire au niveau rgional et une exploitation des ressources respectant l'environnement peuvent bnficier des pratiques biologiques locales telles que la culture des haricots  clater. Les mouvements sociaux contemporains commencent  mettre l'accent sur l'utilit multiple, y compris les droits de proprit de telles ressources pour les peuples andins. /// Diese Verffentlichung untersucht fr Landwirtschaften in den Zentralanden den bestndigen Anbau von biologisch vielfltigen Sorten der "Puffbohne" und ihre Rolle bei der lokalen Entwicklung. Puffbohnen spielen als agrokologische, nhrende und kulturelle Ressourcen eine wichtige Rolle in buerlichen Haushaltungen. Sie werden gedrrt, was keinen Brennstoff bentigt, und sind ein ntzliches Nahrungsmittel fr die Bergbauern. Sie werden im Kleinlandbesitz zur Deckung des Eigenbedarfs und in kommerziellen Produktionsgenossenschaften angebaut, wobei Sorten mit hohem Ertrag den Vorrang haben. Eine langfristige Produktion ist jedoch nicht gesichert, und der Bedarf an Arbeitskrften zur Auslese des Bohnensaatguts kann ein Engpa sein. Entwicklungsstrategien, die regionale Nahrungsmittel-Selbstversorgung und umweltgerechte Ressourcennutzung betonen, knnen aus den lokalen biologischen Praktiken des Puffbohnenanbaus Nutzen ziehen. Derzeitige soziale Bestrebungen beginnen ihre vielseitige Brauchbarkeit herauszustellen, und ihren besonderen Wert als Ressource fr die Bewohner der Anden zu betonen. /// Desde tiempos antiguos, una clase especial y biolgicamente variada de frijol llamada nua (frijol para tostar) ha constituido un recurso significativo para los agricultores campesinos que habitan los Andes centrales. La importancia actual de las nuas para los campesinos podra extenderse como una parte de proyectos de desarrollo que promuevan la autosubsistencia agrcola a niveles regionales. Las nuas ofrecen recursos agroecolgicos, alimentarios, y culturales a familias campesinas. Las nuas tostadas implican un bajo considerable en la demanda para lea y constituyen una comida til. Adems las nuas contribuyen a la fertilidad de los suelos agrcolos y son imbuidos de una importancia simblicos y son imbuidos de una importancia simblica en las culturas locales de los campesinos. La futura produccin agrcola de las nuas depende de las condiciones socioeconmicas de la agricultura campesina. Hoy en dia su cultivo esta concentrado en la parte de la produccin destinada al autoconsumo familiar. Este cultivo corre el riesgo de desaparecer debido a una creciente escasez en la mano de obra campesina y la consecuente dificultad para satisfecer las demandas de trabajo para su produccin parcelaria y su preparacin culinaria. Las estrategias de desarrollo que promuevan la autosubsistencia a niveles regionales y las prcticas sostenibles desde el punto de vista medio-ambiental debieran incorporar cultivos biolgicamente nativos y variados como las nuas. Actualmente, movimientos sociales y regionales situados en los Andes centrales estn enfatizando las utilidades mltiples-incluyendo los derechos de propieded-que ofrecen los cultivos andinos.
10.2307/3673967|Environmental security, as currently conceived, is rooted in the assumption that it is increasing populations, combined with static or declining resource bases, that are the real cause of most current and future conflicts. This is simply the restatement, on the global level, of a local theory-The Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation-which we already know is invalid. This does not mean that the environment is irrelevant to security, and that human ingenuity will always create resources sufficient for us to resolve any crisis: that is an equally invalid line of reasoning. The rejection of both these mutually contradictory orthodoxies, and their replacement by the more discerning, reflexive, and socially-informed understanding that has been pioneered by those responsible for the demolition of the Theory of Himalayan Environmental Degradation, is the key to a properly founded and useful notion of environmental security. /// La scurit de l'environnement, comme on la conoit actuellement, tire son origine de l'hypothse selon laquelle la croissance dmographique, conjugue  des bases de ressources statiques ou en baisse, sont la cause relle de la plupart des conflits actuels et futurs. Ceci n'est que le nouvel nonc, au niveau mondial, d'une thorie locale, la Thorie de la Dgradation de l'Environnement Himalayen, que nous savons dj non valable. Ceci ne veut pas dire que l'environnement est sans rapport avec la scurit et que l'ingniosit humaine crera toujours assez de ressources pour rsoudre les crises: ceci est galement un raisonnement non valable. Le rejet de ces deux orthodoxies contradictoires et leur remplacement par l'interprtation plus judicieuse, plus rflchie et plus informe socialement qui a t formule en premier par les responsables de la dmolition de la Thorie de Dgradation de l'Environnement Himalayen permet de concevoir une notion utile et correctement fonde de la scurit de l'environnement. /// kologische Sicherheit, wie sie derzeit begriffen wird, ist in der Annahme verwurzelt, da sie die Bevlkerungszahl erhht, gleichzeitig jedoch Rohstoffquellen stagnieren oder abnehmen lt, worin der wahre Grund der meisten Konflikte in Gegenwart und Zukunft besteht. Dies ist lediglich die bertragung einer lokalen Theorie-der Theorie der Umweltdegeneration im Himalaja-auf globales Niveau. Von dieser Theorie wissen wir jedoch bereits, da sie nicht zutrifft. Dies bedeutet nicht, da die Umwelt nicht relevant fr die Sicherheit ist und da der menschliche Erfindungsgeist immer neue Quellen schaffen wird, die ausreichend zur Lsung einer jeden Krise sind; auch dies ist eine unzutreffende Sichtweise. Die Ablehnung beider einander widersprechenden Orthodoxien und ihr Austausch durch das kritischere, nachdenklichere und sozial informiertere Verstndnis, das von den Menschen vorangebracht worden ist, die fr die Widerlegung der Theorie einer Umweltdegeneration im Himalaja gesorgt haben, ist der Schlssel zu einer fundierten und nutzbringenden Vorstellung von kologischer Sicherheit.
25163995|The climate of Namche Bazar is classified as a humid and tropical regime based on the seasonal occurrence of rains, range in annual precipitation, number of rainy days in the year, and length of dry season in months. The mean temperature of the coldest month, January, is -0.4C. About 56 percent of the years experience a tropical regime (summer rain), 35 percent are bixeric (two dry periods) and 9 percent are trixeric (three dry periods) or irregular. Instead of relying on the average year, an attempt has been made to define the climate on the basis of a probable year. The criteria used is based on a 75 percent value that would correspond to the range given by the lower and upper octiles, derived from climatic data collected from 1949 to 1977. These criteria give a range of annual rainfall, number of rainy days per year, number of dry months per year, and the regimes to define a probable year. Sixty percent of the individual years conformed to the pattern of the probable year, when all four climatic factors were taken into consideration, showing a moderately stable climate. /// Le climat de Namche Bazar est classifi comme un rgime humide et tropical bas sur l'existence des pluies, l'amplitude des pluies par an, et la dure en mois de la saison sche. La temprature moyenne du mois le plus froid, le janvier, est de -0.4C. Environ 56 pourcent des annes connaissent un rgime tropical (pluies d't), 35 pourcent sont bixeriques (deux priodes sches) et 9 pourcent sont trixeriques (trois priodes sches) ou irrgulires. Au lieu de se baser sur l'anne moyenne, un effort a t fait  dfinir le climat bas sur une anne probable. Le critre utilis est bas sur une valeur de 75 pourcent qui pourrait correspondre  l'amplitude donne par les octiles infrieurs et suprieurs drivs des donnes climatriques obtenues entre 1949 et 1977. Ces critres donnent l'amplitude des pluies annuelles, le nombre de journes des pluies par an, le nombre des mois secs par an, et les rgimes permettant la dfinition d'une anne probable. Soixante pourcent des annes individuelles correspondent aux caractristiques de l'anne probable, lorsque tous les facteurs climatriques ci-dessus sont pris en compte, ce qui montre un climat de stabilit moyenne. /// Das Klima von Namche Bazar wird auf Grund der saisonbedingten Niederschlge, der Jahresniederschlagsmenge, der Anzahl der Regentage pro Jahr und der Lnge der Trockenzeit in Monaten dem feucht-tropischen Klima zugeordnet. Die mittlere Temperatur im Januar, dem Kltesten Monat, betrgt -0.4C. Etwa 56% der erfassten Jahre unterliegen tropischem Klima (Sommerregen), 35% haben zwei Trockenzeiten und 9% haben drei Trockenzeiten oder sind unregelmssig. Es wurde ein Versuch unternommen, das Klima anhand eines Modelljahres zu definieren, statt von einem blichen Durchschnittsjahr auszugehen. Der gewhlte Bezugsmasstab basiert auf dem 75% Wert des oberen und unteren Segments einer Achtelverteilung der ber den Zeitraum von 1949 bis 1977 gemessenen Klimadaten. Die Kenndaten geben den Bereich der jhrlichen Niederschlagsmenge, die Zahl der Regentage sowie der trockenen Monate pro Jahr an und liefern die Merkmale, die ein wahrscheinliches Jahr definieren. Sechzig prozent der einzelnen Jahre stimmten mit dem Modelljahr in allen vier Klimafaktoren berein und verdeutlichen ein verhltnismssig konstantes Klima.
10.2307/3673336|The village of Munglori in the Aglar watershed north of Dehradun, Uttar Pradesh Himalaya, is used for a case study on rural forest management. The study points out that the subsistence needs of the villagers invariably have been omitted from forest management planning. This neglect began in the last century under the British Raj and has continued to the present day. Munglori, with a population of 250, is overwhelmingly a subsistence village, but situated close enough to the expanding influence of Mussoorie and Dehradun to serve as a basis for comparison with other villages that are progressively adapting to a market economy. Research was directed at the biomass flow of the village, concentrating on the fuel cycle, the fodder cycle, and the yearly migration cycle. Relationships between village biomass consumption and forest productivity are demonstrated. In particular, it is shown that, under certain management situations, loss of forest cover can occur even though overall biomass productivity far exceeds village demand. Further quantitative studies are needed; in particular new developments in forest management must provide for full participation of the villagers without which success will remain uncertain. /// Le village de Munglori dans le bassin hydrographique d'Aglar au nord de Dehradun, Etat d'Uttar Pradesh, est utilis pour une tude de cas portant sur l'exploitation rurale des forts. Cette tude fait ressortir qu'en rgle gnrale le besoins de subsistance de la population n'ont pas t pris en compte pour la planification de l'exploitation des forts. Cet tat de choses a commenc au sicle dernier sous l'empire britannique et a continu jusqu' prsent. L'conomie de Munglori (250 habitants) repose presque entirement sur l'autoconsommation, mais ce village est suffisamment touch par l'influence croissante de Mussoorie et Dehradun pour servir de base de comparaison avec d'autres villages qui s'adaptent progressivement  une conomie de march. La recherche a port sur le flux de biomasse du village, en particulier le cycle de combustible, le cycle de fourrage, et le cycle annuel de migration. Les relations entre la consommation de biomasse du village et la productivit des forts sont mises en vidence. Il ressort en particulier que dans certaines conditions d'exploitation, une perte de la couverture forestire peut se produire alors que la productivit totale de biomasse dpasse de beaucoup les besoins du village. Des tudes quantitatives complmentaires sont ncessaires. En particulier, les nouveaux modes d'exploitation des forts doivent obtenir l'entire participation des habitants, autrement leur succs demeurera incertain. /// Das Dorf Munglori, im Gebiet der Aglar Wasserscheide, nrdlich von Dehradun Uttar Pradesh Himalaya, wird fr eine Fallstudie des lndlichen Forstmanagements benutzt. Die Untersuchung zeigt, da bei der Planung des Forstmanagements Existenzbedrfnisse der Dorfbewohner immer bergangen worden sind. Diese Vernachlssigung begann unter der britischen Raj Herrschaft im vergangenen Jahrhundert und hlt bis heute an. Munglori, mit einer Bevlkerung von 250, hat eine solide Selbstversorgungswirtschaft, liegt aber nah genug, da es der Expansion von Mussoorie und Dehradun ausgesetzt ist. Das Dorf dient als Bezugspunkt bei Vergleichen mit anderen Drfern, die sich mehr und mehr einer Marktwirtschaft anpassen. Der Kreislauf der Biomasse des Dorfes mit besonderer Betonung des Brennstoffzyklus', des Futterkreislaufs und des alljhrlichen Migrationszyklus' wird detailliert. Das Verhltnis zwischen dem Verbrauch an Biomasse im Dorf und der Waldproduktivitt wird aufgezeigt. Es wird auerdem veranschaulicht, wie unter besonderen Managementsituationen ein Waldverlust selbst dann eintreten kann, wenn die erzeugte Biomasse den Bedarf des Dorfes bersteigt. Weitere quantitative Untersuchungen sind notwendig. Besonders neue Entwicklungen auf dem Gebiet des Waldmanagements mssen die volle Teilnahme der Dorfbewohner gewhrleisten, oder ihr Erfolg ist in Frage gestellt.
3674506|Attempts to improve risk communication strategies in order to prevent and mitigate disasters caused by natural hazards have been made worldwide. However, most such strategies target non-indigenous populations, while vulnerable communities located in remote mountain areas in the least developed countries lack information in their native language. Awareness of risks associated with flooding and rainfall-induced landslides increased as a result of the tragedy in autumn 1999 in the Sierra Norte de Puebla, Mexico, where floods and landslides devastated dozens of municipalities, claiming more than 200 lives. Consequently, a booklet and a radio message focusing on awareness and preparedness in the event of landslides were produced in Nahuatl, the Aztec language, as an accessibility tool to help prevent and mitigate disasters in indigenous communities. Findings from a preliminary acceptance evaluation undertaken in a local community are analyzed and discussed as an initial approach to developing a sound risk communication strategy based on local knowledge.
90001386|Cash crop cultivation and harvesting of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) are both important parts of rural livelihood portfolios worldwide. In mountainous areas of the Greater Mekong Subregion, government programs, scholars, and private-sector interests have promoted both as strategies for rural economic development. NTFPs are also often championed as an incentive for rural communities to protect forests. However, little is known about how cash crops and NTFPs interact in the daily lives and economic decisions of rural people in this region, or how they may differentially encourage forest conservation practices and values. With a focus on mushrooms as an NTFP and maca, rubber, and tea as cash crops, we conducted household surveys and key informant interviews in 2 prefectures of Yunnan, China, and 1 province in northern Thailand. Based on the results of this research, we make 4 key arguments. First, although cash crops are generally perceived to diminish the importance of NTFPs such as mushrooms in rural livelihoods, the potential also exists for complementarity between these 2 livelihood strategies. Second, while some species of wild edible mushroom incentivize forest conservation, others may incentivize practices that have a negative impact on forest ecosystems. Third, even in households where NTFPs make little or no contribution to livelihoods, people are likely to value forests for supporting, regulating, and cultural ecosystem services. Fourth, even households that rely primarily on cash crops may value NTFP collection as a leisure activity. The latter phenomenon is previously unreported in NTFP research, and we suggest that it also reflects a blind spot in ecosystem services research. Mushrooms and cash crops can coexist in mountain livelihoods; wild mushrooms are both economic and recreational resources in the Greater Mekong.
10.2307/3673037|Large test plots were constructed for soil erosion and conservation determinations on steep mountain slopes (54 percent grade) at an altitude of 1,240 m above sea level. The 24 by 5-metre test plots were planted with a mix of traditional swidden and introduced agro-forestry systems crops at Mae Muang Luang, Huai Thung Choa research area, 75 km northwest of Chiang Mai. During 1981 comparisons were made of runoff, soil loss, labour input, and crop yield. Soil losses from agro-forestry test plots were <tex-math>$10-22\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>, or 4-9 times lower than from traditional upland rice <tex-math>$(89\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm yr}^{-1})$</tex-math>. Labour inputs were 50-150 percent higher, but subsistence crop yields were comparable despite a reduction in cultivated area. This is probably due to fertilizer input from the coffee plantation. Additional years of data are required for verification. /// Sur les fortes pentes de montagnes,  1240 m d'altitude, de grandes surfaces d'exprimentations furent amnages pour dterminer l'rosion et la conservation des sols. Les surfaces de 5 m de largeur, 24 m de longueur et inclines de 54 pourcent  Mae Muang Luang dans le domaine de recherche Huai Thung Choa, qui se trouve  75 km au nord-ouest de Chiang Mai, furent cultives avec un mlange de riz sec traditionnel et de systmes agro-forestiers imports. Des mesures compares furent effectues en 1981  propos de l'coulement en surface, de l'rosion du sol, du travail ncessaire  la culture des surfaces ainsi que des rendements. Les pertes de sols des surfaces agro-forestires, qui reprsentent par anne entre 10 et 22 tonnes par hectare, furent 4  9 fois infrieures aux surfaces de riz traditionnelles <tex-math>$(89\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm a}^{-1})$</tex-math>. Le travail ncessit par contre fut de 50  150 pourcent suprieur  celui du systme import. Le rendement de la denre alimentaire essentielle, le riz, resta inchang malgr la rduction des surfaces cultives, remplaces par des arbres, des cafiers, des bandes d'herbe et des fosses d'coulement. Ce rsultat est probablement conditionn par l'utilisation d'engrais pour le caf. Ile est ncessaire d'effectuer des mesures encore quelques annes afin de confirmer les rsultats trs positifs de cette premire anne agro-forestire. Des restrictions supplmentaires, engendres par des facteurs socio-conomiques, lgaux, religieux ou politiques devraient rendre une application gnralise encore plus difficile que la solution dcrite des problmes technologiques et cologiques. Une expansion des expriences sur les terrains des habitants de montagnes est une condition indispensable et un premier pas dans cette direction. /// An steilen Gebirgshngen in 1240 m Hhe wurden grosse Experimentierflchen zur Bestimmung von Bodenerosion und Bodenkonservierung errichtet. Die 5 m breiten, 24 m langen und 54 Prozent geneigten Flchen in Mae Muang Luang im Huai Thung Choa Forschungsgebiet 75 km NW Chiang Mai wurden mit einer Mischung von traditionellem Trockenreis-Anbau und eingefhrten Agro-Forstwirtschafts-Systemen bestellt. Vergleichende Messungen von Oberflchen-Abfluss, Bodenabtrag, Arbeitsaufwand zur Bearbeitung der Flchen, sowie Ernteertrag wurden 1981 durchgefhrt. Die Bodenverluste von den Agro-Forstwirtschafts-Flchen, mit jhrlichen Mengen zwischen 10 und 22 Tonnen pro Hektare, waren 4 bis 9 Mal geringer als von der traditionellen Reisanbau-Flche <tex-math>$(89\ {\rm t}\cdot {\rm ha}^{-1}\cdot {\rm a}^{-1})$</tex-math>. Der Arbeitsaufwand hingegen war 50 bis 150 Prozent hher im eingefhrten System. Der Ernteertrag des Grundnahrungsmittels Reis blieb trotz der Reduktion der angebauten Flche durch Bume, Kaffeebsche, Gras-Streifen und Abfluss-Grben gleich. Dieses Resultat ist wahrscheinlich durch den Dnger-Einsatz fr den Kaffee bedingt. Weitere Messjahre sind erforderlich, um die fr Agro-Forstwirtschaft sehr erfolgversprechenden Ergebnisse dieses ersten Jahres zu verifizieren. Zustzliche Beschrnkungen durch sozio-konomische, legale, religise oder politische Faktoren drften eine verbreitete Anwendung noch schwieriger gestalten als die beschriebene Lsung der technologisch-kologischen Probleme. Eine Ausdehnung der Experimente auf die Felder der Hgelbewohner ist eine wichtige Voraussetzung und ein erster Schritt in dieser Richtung.
mounresedeve.32.1.39|Assessment of water resources from remote mountainous catchments plays a crucial role for the development of rural areas in or in the vicinity of mountain ranges. The scarcity of data, however, prevents the application of standard approaches that are based on data-driven models. The Hindu KushKarakoramHimalaya mountain range is a crucial area in terms of water resources, but our understanding of the response of its high-elevation catchments to a changing climate is hindered by lack of hydro-meteorological and cryospheric data. Hydrological modeling is challenging here because internal inconsistenciessuch as an underestimation of precipitation input that can be compensated for by an overestimation of meltwatermight be hidden due to the complexity of feedback mechanisms that govern melt and runoff generation in such basins. Data scarcity adds to this difficulty by preventing the application of systematic calibration procedures that would allow identification of the parameter set that could guarantee internal consistency in the simulation of the single hydrological components. In this work, we use simulations from the Hunza River Basin in the Karakoram region obtained with the hydrological model TOPKAPI to quantify the predictive power of discharge and snow-cover data sets, as well as the combination of both. We also show that shortterm measurements of meteorological variables such as radiative fluxes, wind speed, relative humidity, and air temperature from glacio-meteorological experiments are crucial for a correct parameterization of surface melt processes. They enable detailed simulations of the energy fluxes governing glacieratmosphere interaction and the resulting ablation through energy-balance modeling. These simulations are used to derive calibrated parameters for the simplified snow and glacier routines in TOPKAPI. We demonstrate that such parameters are stable in space and time in similar climatic regions, thus reducing the number of parameters requiring calibration.
mounresedeve.31.4.372|In 2006 preliminary plans were made public showing that Gazprom intended to construct a pipeline through the Altai republic (Russia, south-west Siberia). Unfortunately, there was almost no attention to integrating the conservation of cultural heritage (both archaeological and landscape) into the planning of the pipeline, though the Altai is well-known for its rich cultural heritage. Hitherto, no assessment has been made of the potential impact of the project, nor did Gazprom release detailed information about the exact course of the route. The present article aims to illustrate the potential impact of the pipeline based on a detailed study of a small segment of the route, using remote sensing images and data gathered during fieldwork. This assessment underlines the need for a well-thought-out strategy, which is required if sustainable integration of heritage conservation into the construction plan is to be realized. If such a balance is not found, thousands of archaeological monuments could disappear, which would result in a huge cultural and scientific loss. As a possible solution, an integrative strategy founded on a desk-based study of remote sensing images and a well-directed field survey is suggested.
mounresedeve.36.3.342|Montane habitats are characterized by high variation of environmental factors within small geographic ranges, which offers opportunities to explore how forest assemblages respond to changes in environmental conditions. Understanding the distributional transition of adult trees and seedlings will provide insight into the fate of forest biodiversity in response to future climate change. We investigated the elevational distribution of 156 species of adult trees and 152 species of seedlings in a tropical montane forest in Xishuangbanna, southwest China. Adult trees and seedlings were surveyed within 5 replicate plots established at each of 4 elevational bands (800, 1000, 1200, and 1400 m above sea level). We found that species richness of both adult trees and seedlings changed with elevation, showing a notable decline in diversity values from 1000 to 1200 m. Tree species composition also demonstrated distinct differences between 1000 and 1200 m, marking the division between tropical seasonal rain forest (800 and 1000 m) and tropical montane evergreen broad-leaved forest (1200 and 1400 m). The results suggested that soil moisture and temperature regimes were associated with elevational distribution of tree species in this region. We also observed that seedlings from certain species found at high elevations were also distributed in low-elevation zones, but no seedlings of species from low elevations were distributed in high-elevation zones. The increase in temperature and droughts predicted for this region may result in the contraction of tropical seasonal rain forest at lower elevations and a downhill shift of higher tropical montane tree species.
3674201|The Mount Kenya region offers a great deal of beautiful scenery and attracts tourists from all over the world. What these tourists may not see, however, is the crucial function of Mount Kenya as a water tower for its foot-zones and adjoining lowland areas. This function is becoming ever more crucial, as populations in these areas are growing at a rapid pace and new land use systems require far more water. These developments have set the stage for increasing conflicts over water resources; to make things worse, water is becoming ever scarcer, especially in the dry areas of the Laikipia Plateau and the Samburu Plains to the north and west of the mountain. This article summarizes the complex ecological and socioeconomic dynamics prevailing in the highland-lowland system of Mount Kenya-the Ewaso Ng'iro North Basin-and presents a multilevel strategy for mitigating the emerging conflicts over water resources.
mounresedeve.34.4.369|Peasant societies are often seen by neoliberal or Marxist theorists as passive subjects of political-economic transformations occurring at a higher level, only surviving through acculturation to market requirements. By analyzing agricultural work organization in highland communities and a local system of water management called Acuerdos Reciprocos por el Agua (Reciprocal Agreements for Water), developed in 2003 by the Natura Bolivia foundation in Florida Province in Bolivia, we show that, contrary to this perception, traditional reciprocal norms still play an essential role in decision making. This suggests the agency of rural societies and the resilience of traditional reciprocity-based norms in mountain regions.
mounresedeve.34.3.291|When the first protected areas in the European Alps were established as national parks, biocentric ideas of nature protection and research-oriented ecological approaches were at the heart of these efforts, and gender issues were not considered. With the paradigm shift toward integrative biodiversity politics, gender issues gained significance. In addition, the European Commission Women's Charta 2010, on building a gender perspective into all policies in accordance with the European theme united in diversity,- required the integration of gender considerations into regional development, including protected areas. Based on a document analysis, an online survey, qualitative interviews, and focus group discussions, this article shows how widely gender mainstreaming is accepted and in which aspects of protected mountain areas gender perspectives are already considered important. Inspired by concepts from gender research and available options for regional (mountain) development, new items are recommended for a mountain agenda.
10.2307/3673465|An earlier study of the socio-cultural impacts of tourism in the Austrian Alps provided two schematic models: one was a conceptual framework of changes in the economy, infrastructure, and landscape and the other showed changes in the way of life of the local population. This paper is a longitudinal study that presents results of a recent reexamination of the same four communities and discusses the changes. Growth is no longer considered to be continuous and community residents have now acculturated to tourism; a balance between values, needs, and desires of the local people and the tourists is being attained as residents become integrated into the larger society. Residents may be able to have the best of both worlds, their Heimat and the tourists, if they play the game right. Broader implications, such as the relationship of tourism to the modernization process and ways to optimize benefits from tourism, while avoiding its detrimental aspects, are also discussed. /// Une tude prcdente de l'impact socio-culturel du tourisme dans les Alpes autrichiennes a fourni deux modles schmatiques. Le premier constitue une structure de concepts concernant l'conomie, l'infrastructure et le paysage; le second montre les changements du mode de vie de la population locale. Cet article prsente une tude longitudinale montrant les rsultats d'un nouvel examen des mmes quatre communauts, et passe en revue les changements constats. La croissance n'est plus considre comme tant continue et la population locale s'est maintenant adapte au tourisme; un quilibre entre les valeurs, besoins, et dsirs des locaux et des touristes est en train de s'tablir au fur et  mesure que les habitants s'intgrent  la socit qui les entoure. En fait, les habitants pourraient bnificier des avantages rciproques de leur Heimat et des touristes,  condition qu'ils soient capables de bien tirer parti de leurs atouts. Les implications plus gnrales sont galement discutes, telles que la relation entre le tourisme et le processus de modernisation, ainsi que la manire d'optimiser les profits tirs du tourisme, tout en vitant les effets nuisibles. /// Die verschiedenen Einflsse des Fremdenverkehrs auf die Umwelt, sowie auch die konomischen und sozio-kulturellen Verhltnisse der Einheimischen wurden in einer Reihe von Fallstudien von bestimmten Orten zu einer bestimmten Zeit untersucht. Eine mehr verallgemeinernde Beschreibung, bestehend aus zwei Modellen, wurde schon frher, als Resultat einer Studie ber Fremdenverkehrsgemeinden in den sterreichischen Alpen, entwickelt. Eines dieser Modelle beschreibt Vernderungen von Wirtschaft, Infrastruktur und Landschaft, das andere die Vernderungen der Lebensweise der lokalen Bevlkerung. Langzeitstudien ber den Einflu von Tourismus auf den Gastgeber fehlen bislang; diese Arbeit hilft diese Lcke zu schliessen, indem Ergebnisse frherer Untersuchungen mit jngeren Studien ber dieselben Gemeinden verglichen, und die Unterschiede diskutiert werden. Unter Bercksichtigung der jngeren Entwicklungen werden die Modelle verndert. Kontinuierliches Wachstum wird nicht mehr vorausgesetzt, und die Bewohner der Fremdenverkehrsorte haben sich dem Tourismus in ihrer Lebensweise akkulturiert. Die Ergebnisse lassen schliessen, da ein Gleichgewicht zwischen den Werten, Wnschen und Vorstellungen der lokalen Bevlkerung und den Touristen dadurch erreicht wird, da die Einheimischen sich mehr und mehr in die Gesamtgesellschaft integrieren. Die Bewohner haben die Chance, das beste aus beiden Welten zu behalten, sowohl Ihre Heimat als auch die Touristen, wenn sie das Spiel richtig mitspielen. Breitere Auswirkungen, wie die Beziehung von Tourismus zum Modernisierungsprozess sowie Mglichkeiten die Vorteile des Tourismus unter Vermeidung der Nachteile zu optimieren, werden ebenfalls gezeigt.
10.2307/3673876|The Italian mountains, particularly the peninsular ones, are undergoing a period of change. Following social and economic crises that caused massive depopulation in the past thirty years, a new phase is beginning in which interest in the mountains has revived considerably. The rugged landscapes of the central Apennines harbor phenomena of significant ecological and cultural value. In addition, the centers of many historic towns dating back to the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries are perfectly preserved in their original "castle" forms. Recently, through national legislation, a large network of national parks has been established, motivated by the valuable wildlife habitats, the scenic rural landscapes, and the historic communities. It provides the last hope for re-establishing social vitality in these mountains. This study in Abruzzo, a region well-known for its ancient architectural sites, analyses the effect of the national parks on the social and economic conditions of the mountain population and the new functional roles that mountain centers may play. The results provide a point of reference for environmental protection policy and conservation measures in all Italian mountain ranges. /// Les montagnes italiennes, en particulier les montagnes pninsulaires, passent actuellement par une priode de changement. A la suite de crises sociales et conomiques qui ont caus un dpeuplement massif au cours des trente dernires annes, une nouvelle phase a commenc au cours de laquelle l'attrait des montagnes a considrablement augment. Les paysages accidents des Apennins centraux constituent des sites de phnomnes cologiques et culturels trs interessants. Des plus, les centres d'un grand nombre de villes historiques, remontant aux treizime et quatorzime sicles, sont parfaitement prservs dans leur tat original de "chteaux". Rcemment, par suite de lois au niveau national, un rseau tendu de parcs nationaux a t tabli, visant  tirer parti des habitats d'une riche faune, des paysages ruraux pittoresques et des communauts historiques. Ces parcs nationaux constituent le dernier espoir pour ce qui est du rtablissement de la vitalit sociale dans ces montagnes. Cette tude dans les Abruzzes, une rgion bien connue pour ses centres architecturaux antiques, analyse l'effet des parcs nationals sur les conditions sociales et conomiques de la population montagnarde et les nouveaux rles fonctionnels que les centres montagnards peuvent jouer. Ces rsultats peuvent fournir un point de rfrence pour la politique de protection de l'environnement et les mesures de conservation dans toutes les chanes de montagnes italiennes. /// Italienische Berggebiete, insbesondere die auf der Halbinsel, unterliegen zur Zeit Vernderungen. Auf soziale und konomische Krisen, die zu drastischer Entvlkerung whrend der vergangenen 30 Jahre fhrten, folgt jetzt ein neuer Abschnitt, der das Interesse an den Berggebieten wieder aufleben lt. Die rauhen Gegenden des Zentralapennin sind kologisch bedeutsam und kulturell wertvoll. Hinzu kommt, da die Zentren von vielen historischen Stdten, deren Grndung bis ins 13. und 14. Jahrhundert zurckgeht, in ihrer ursprnglichen Festungsform gut erhalten geblieben sind. In jngster Vergangenheit wurden durch nationale Gesetzgebung viele Nationalparks gegrndet. Einzigartige Tierhabitate, reizvolle Landschaftsgebiete und die historische Bedeutung von vielen Gemeinden gaben dazu den Ausschlag. Dies ist ein letzter Versuch, fr ausreichende Lebensbedingungen in den Berggegenden zu sorgen. Diese Studie betrifft die Abruzzen - ein Gebiet, das fr seine historischen, architektonischen Zentren bekannt ist - und sie untersucht den Einflu, den National Parks auf die sozialen-und konomischen Lebensbedingungen der Berggemeinden haben, und sie zeigt neue Aufgaben, die diese Gemeinden wahrnehmen knnten. Die Ergebnisse knnten einen Anhaltspunkt fr die Umweltschutzpolitik liefern und einen Mastab fr die Erhaltung aller anderen italienischen Berggebiete setzen.
10.2307/3673453|The two mountains of the Sudan, Jebel Marra and the Imatong Mountains, are defined, their altitudinal belts described, and the interplay between soil, vegetation, and land use is discussed and analysed. Relevant government policies and development strategies are described and their economic and ecological impacts examined. Existing research is reviewed and the national research organizations and strategies are assessed. Due to their relatively cooler weather, increased rainfall, and valuable timber, the two mountains have always attracted human settlement and "development projects". Environmental degradation, particularly hillside erosion, has increased with increasing population pressure and misuse of resources. Proper introduction and implementation of agro-forestry systems will maintain the soil and vegetation cover and are the only ecologically sound solution. /// Cette tude dfinit les deux montagnes du Soudan, le djebel Marra et les monts Imatong, dcrit leurs zones altitudinales, discute et analyse l'interaction entre le sol, la vgtation et l'utilisation des terres. Elle dcrit galement les lignes de conduite et les stratgies de dveloppement adoptes par le Gouvernement pour ces rgions, et en examine l'impact conomique et cologique. Les travaux de recherche en cours sont passs en revue, et l'organisation de la recherche au niveau national ainsi que les stratgies mises en oeuvre sont examines d'une manire analytique et critique. A cause de leur temps relativement frais, des pluies abondantes et des resources en bois de valeur, ces deux montagnes ont toujours favoris le peuplement humain et les "projets de dveloppement". La dgradation de l'environnement, en particulier l'rosion sur les flancs de cteaux, a augment en rapport avec la pression dmographique croissante et l'exploitation abusive des ressources. L'introduction et la mise en oeuvre judicieuses de systmes d'agro-foresterie permettront de conserver le sol et la couverture vgtale, et constituent la seule solution qui soit cologiquement viable. /// Die beiden Berge des Sudan, der Jebel Marra und der Imatong, werden definiert, ihre Hhengrtel beschrieben, und die Interaktion zwischen Bden, Vegetation und Landnutzung analysiert. Politische Massnahmen der Regierung und Entwicklungsstrategien werden beschrieben, und ihre oekonomischen und oekologischen Auswirkungen betrachtet. Ein Ueberblick ber bestehende Forschungsprogramme wird gegeben, und die nationale Forschungspolitik wird unter die Lupe genommen. Der Jebel Marra und der Imatong weisen ein relativ khleres Klima auf und erhalten hhere Niederschlge. Dadurch knnen wichtige Bauhlzer wachsen, was diese Berge schon immer zu bevorzugten Siedlungsrumen machte. Auch fr "Entwicklungsprojekte" waren sie Zielgebiete. Degradation der Umwelt und im speziellen Erosion an den Hngen ist unter dem Einfluss des Bevlkerungsdruckes und der damit zusammenhngenden falschen Nutzung der Ressourcen bedeutend geworden. Die einzige oekologisch angepasste Lsung ist die Einfhrung und Anwendung von Agroforstwirtschaftssystemen, die Bden und Vegetationsdecke erhalten helfen.
10.2307/3674112|The quality of fallow lands in northern Mindanao, the Philippines, was assessed with a farm survey and soil sampling in order to understand land-use dynamics under upland commercial vegetable production systems. Twenty-one percent of commercial vegetable growers practiced fallow systems, with an average re-cultivation period of four years. The soils of the fallow lands were highly acidic, nutrient poor, and higher in exchangeable aluminum compared to lands currently under cultivation. Land fallowing was more prominent on large farms and those with higher farm labor requirements. Two distinct groups of land fallowers were identified. The first represented fallowers with a positive net return from vegetable crops while the second, and larger, group represented land fallowers with negative net return from vegetable crops. Re-cultivation of fallow lands was more common in the second group. To rejuvenate fallow lands, timber tree planting was the most preferred option of the first group while fruit trees were preferred by the second group. In light of the apparently slow rate of soil fertility regeneration, the lack of capital among most land fallowers, and the increasing demand for arable land to raise farm income, planting of trees on cultivated lands before their being set aside as fallow for natural fertility regeneration is suggested as a potential measure to increase farm income and the sustainability of upland commercial vegetable production under fallow systems.
mounresedeve.32.3ru.r15|         ,  ,           ,      .           ,    ,             .     ,     ,   ,   ,    .           ,   ,       .  ,      ,            ,                .                 , , ,     ,   ,    .
10.2307/3673737|Changes in economy and land use are under way in the Indian Transhimalayan region of Ladakh, creating both negative and positive prospects for wildlife conservation in this sparsely populated and previously remote area. New livestock breeds, irrigation developments, farming practices, foreign tourists, and a large military presence are changing the way people view and use the mountainous land that surrounds them. With only 0.3% of the land currently arable, changes in wildlife and natural resource conservation are most apparent on Ladakh's extensive rangelands which are apparently undergoing a redistribution of use associated with social changes and recently introduced animal husbandry and farming practices. Internationally endangered species such as the snow leopard, several wild ungulates, and the black-necked crane provide special incentive for conservation efforts in what are some of the best remaining natural areas in the mountainous regions to the north of the Himalayan crest. The success of newly created protected areas for wildlife conservation in Ladakh rests on an understanding of the effects of various development directions, a commitment to environmentally sensitive development amid the many competing demands on Ladakh's natural resources, conservation laws appropriate to human needs, and a clear recognition that solutions can be neither directly adaptable from other mountainous areas nor even widely applicable across the Himalayan region. /// Des changements dans l'conomie et l'utilisation des terres sont en train de se produire dans le rgion transhimalayenne du Ladakh en Inde, entranant des expectatives ngatives aussi bien que positives pour la conservation de la faune dans cette zone faiblement peuple et jusque dans ces derniers temps isole. Les nouvelles espces de bestiaux, les projets d'irrigation, les pratiques agricoles, les touristes trangers et la prsence d'installations militaires importantes ont modifi la manire dont la population peroit et utilise le milieu montagnard qui les entoure. Si l'on considre qu' prsent seulement 0,3 pour cent des terres sont arables, les changements dans la conservation de la faune et des ressources naturelles sont plus apparents dans les grands pturages du Ladakh; ces pturages semblent subir une redistribution de leur utilisation associe aux changements sociaux et aux pratiques d'levage du btail et de culture qui ont t introduites rcemment. Les espces menaces  l'chelle internationale, comme le lopard des neiges, plusieurs onguls sauvages et la grue  col noir, fournissent une forte justification pour les projets de conservation dans ces zones naturelles qui comptent parmi les meilleures encore prserves dans les rgions montagneuses situes au nord de la crte himalayenne. Le succs des zones protges qui ont t rcemment cres pour la conservation de la faune du Ladakh est bas sur une comprhension des effets de diverses approches vis--vis du dveloppement, un engagement total envers un dveloppement respectant l'environnement dans le cadre des demandes multiples sur les ressources naturelles du Ladakh, des lois sur la conservation appropries aux besoins de la population, et une admission claire que les solutions ne peuvent ni tre directement adaptes  partir d'autres zones montagneuses, ni tre applicables  la totalit de la rgion himalayenne. /// Im indischen Transhimalaya Gebiet von Ladakh verndern sich die konomie und die Landnutzung-was in diesem sprlich besiedelten und frher abgeschiedenen Gebiet Vor- und Nachteile fr den Artenschutz mit sich bringt. Neue Arten bei der Viehzucht, Bewsserungsprojekte, neue Landwirtschaftsmethoden, auslndische Touristen und ein groes militrisches Kontingent verndern die Art und Weise, in der die Bevlkerung das sie umgebende Land sieht und nutzt. Da nur 0,3% des Gebietes anbaufhig sind, werden Vernderungen beim Artenschutz und bei der Erhaltung der Naturressourcen auf den ausgedehnten Flchen Ladakh's besonders auffllig. Diese Gebiete unterliegen einer Nutzungsordnung, die sich aus sozialen Vernderungen und krzlich neu eingefhrten Ackerbau- und Viehzuchtmethoden ergibt. Tiere, die global geschtzt sind, wie der Schneeleopard, verschiedene wilde Huftiere und die schwarzhalsigen Kraniche geben Erhaltungsbestrebungen besondere Motivation, denn die bergigen Regionen nrdlich des Himalaya Kammes gehren zu den besterhaltenen unter den verbliebenen Naturlandschaften. Der Bestand der neuerlich geschaffenen Schutzgebiete in Ladakh hngt vom Verstndnis der Auswirkungen verschiedener Entwicklungsprojekte ab, ebenso von der Verpflichtung fr umweltgerechte Entwicklung innerhalb der vielen konkurrierenden Anforderungen an Ladakh's Naturressourcen. Gesetzgebung auf dem Gebiet des Artenschutzes mu den menschlichen Bedrfnissen angepat sein, und es mu erkannt werden, da Lsungen von anderen Bergregionen nicht unbedingt bernommen werden knnen und oftmals fr das Himalayagebiet unzutreffend sind.
25578209|Multivariate regression analysis, combined with residuals correction, was carried out to develop a precipitation prediction model for the Daqing Mountains of Inner Mongolia in northern China. Precipitation data collected at 56 stations between 1955 and 1990 were used: data from 48 stations for model development and data from 8 stations for additional tests. Five topographic factors-altitude, slope, aspect, longitude, and latitude-were taken into account for model development. These topographic variables were acquired from a 100m resolution digital elevation model (DEM) of the study region, and the mean values of the sub-basin in which a precipitation station is located were used as the values of the respective variables of that station. The multivariate regression model can explain 72.6% of the spatial variability of precipitation over the whole year and 74.4% of variability in the wet season (June-September). Precipitation in the dry season (October-May) is hard to model owing to little rainfall (21.78% of annual rainfall) and a different synoptic system. Interpolation-based residuals correction did not significantly improve the accuracy of our model, which shows that our model is quite effective. The model, as presented in this paper, could potentially be applied to other mountains and in mountain climate research.
10.2307/3673021|The western High Atlas mountains, which contain the highest peaks in North Africa, are one of the least developed areas of Morocco. For many centuries sedentary peasant communities have survived by exploiting the area's meagre natural resources, despite the high altitude and arid climate. The agricultural system has always been composed of two complementary and integrated land-use types: intensive cropping on irrigated terraces and raising livestock - many species but mainly sheep and goats. The analysis of a small test area in the upper Naffis valley shows that destabilization processes have begun to disturb the equilibrium of the mountain ecosystem. This is primarily due to the very rapid population growth and to the increasing socio-economic requirements. Pressure on the land, together with the pursuit of new incomes (by emigration or by increasing flock size) has lead to degradation of the natural vegetation in the short term and, in the long term, to the danger of collapse due to potential depopulation and decline of agricultural activities. /// Le Haut Atlas occidental reprsente probablement la montagne la plus originale au Maroc, compte tenu d'abord des caractres de son systme naturel (c'est un massif ancien trs lev et intensment rod, mais o l'aridit climatique est dominante) et surtout de son systme socio-conomique; depuis de nombreux sicles, des communauts de paysans sdentaires se sont acharnes  y exploiter au maximum les maigres ressources naturelles. C'est ainsi que le systme agricole type comporte toujours deux composantes complmentaires et intgres: des cultures intensives et soignes dans les terrasses amnages et irrigues, et un levage poly-espces gnralement extensif, o dominent les ovins et les caprins. Partant d'une petite rgion (la haute valle du Naffis), l'analyse de l'volution de cet cosystme montagnard rvle que l'quilibre ancien de celui-ci est en cours de dstabilisation tant donn l'accroissement dmographique rapide actuel, et la ncessit de satisfaire des besoins socio-conomiques lmentaires. La pression accrue sur la terre, et la recherche de nouveaux revenus, soit par l'migration, soit par la progression de l'levage, font peser sur cette montagne deux risques majeurs:  court terme, c'est la vgtation naturelle qui se dgrade rapidement;  long terme, on peut se demander si un clatement du systme agricole ancien n'est pas  craindre, compte tenu du dpeuplement potentiel et de la dsaffection vis--vis des activits agricoles. /// Der westliche Hohe Atlas stellt wahrscheinlich das typischste Gebirge Marokkos dar, nicht nur wegen seiner Naturbedingungen (Hhe, Alter, Erosion, Ariditt), sondern auch was sein sozio-konomisches System betrifft. Seit mehreren Jahrhunderten versuchen die sesshaften Bauern soviel wie mglich aus ihren bescheidenen Ressourcen herauszuholen. Das landwirtschaftliche System besteht aus zwei verschiedenen komplementren Komponenten: intensive und sorgfltig gepflegte Kulturen auf irrigierbaren Terrassen und eine vielseitige, aber im allgemeinen extensive Viehzucht mit Ziegen und Schafen. Im Hochtal von Naffis hat eine Studie gezeigt, dass das ehemalige kologische Gleichgewicht unter dem Druck der Bevlkerungszunahme destabilisiert wird. Der zunehmende Druck auf das Land und die Suche nach neuen Einkommen, sei es durch Auswanderung oder vermehrte Viehzucht wirken sich auf dieses Gebirge in zweifacher Weise negativ aus: kurzfristig ist eine rasche Degradierung der natrlichen Vegetation festzustellen. Auf lange Sicht kann man sich fragen, ob nicht eine Auflsung des ehemaligen Landwirtschaftssystems zu befrchten ist, wenn man eine mgliche Entvlkerung und eine Abneigung zur buerlichen Arbeit in Betracht zieht.
90001388|One of the direct effects of introducing high-speed railway lines is a significant reduction in travel times between major cities. This is particularly relevant in mountain areas. It not only makes cities more easily reachable with more sustainable transport systems but can also encourage different travel behavior and reduce environmental pressures on sensitive areas. A comprehensive analysis of the spatiotemporal effects of the introduction of high-speed railways in the Alpine arc has not yet been developed. To help fill this gap, this study uses multidimensional scaling and the geographical information system to illustrate the timespace compression. This term indicates the erosion of spatial and temporal distances in the areas of the Alps directly affected by the new railway lines. Six trans-Alpine high-speed railway lines are analyzed, comparing current and projected travel times by train. A time-based map is created to show the timespace compression in every transversal direction, particularly on the French and the Austrian side of the Alps. Implications in terms of local accessibility are also analyzed, focusing on the Autonomous Province of Bolzano/Bozen-South Tyrol. Finally, the paper discusses the importance of time-based maps for the understanding of sociospatial dynamics and the possible implications for spatial development.
3674055|This paper presents results from studies in 4 mountain regions in East Africa, 2 in Ethiopia (Simen Mountains, Bale Mountains), and 2 in Uganda (Rwenzori Mountains, Mount Elgon). The focus is on the ericaceous vegetation that forms the (upper) treeline ecotone at all sites. There is little evidence for climatic control of the patchy appearance of this belt in all afroalpine environments. Since traces of former fires were observed in all ranges, repeated burning is most probably responsible for the present appearance of the ericaceous vegetation in East Africa. The fires observed were almost exclusively lit by local people, who utilize the afroalpine zone for poaching, livestock grazing, and honey hunting. Although these fires are man-made and not strictly natural, they help to maintain a structurally and biologically diverse environment.
10.2307/3673516|Newspapers, journals, official reports, published books, and oral accounts are examined for references to frost and drought in Papua New Guinea from 1982 to the 1880s and a record of probable events is established. Climatological and documentary sources from Indonesia are then examined as a proxy record of frost and drought in PNG and the record is taken back to the 1870s. The association between the quantitative and qualitative records of frost and drought in PNG is examined alongside a composite record of the SO/ENSO phenomena. Frost occurs under a range of general meteorological conditions, but in those ENSO events that have a major west-Pacific impact drought is normal, and wide areas are exposed to the risk of repeated frost. However, one of the worst single 'famine' events uncovered in the highland record did not arise from frost, but from other causes. /// Des journaux, revues, rapports officiels, livres publis et interviews enregistres, remontant jusqu'en 1880  partir de 1982, sont examins en vue d'y trouver des rfrences  la gele et la scheresse en Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine (PNG), et un historique des vnements probables est tabli. Des informations climatologiques et documentaires en provenance de l'Indonsie, remontant jusqu'en 1870, sont ensuite examines en tant que donnes indirectes sur la gele et la scheresse en PNG. La relation entre les donnes quantitatives et qualitatives relatives  la gele et la scheresse en PNG est examine en parallle avec le phnomne d'El Nio/Oscillation Sud. La gele se produit dans une certaine gamme de conditions mtorologiques gnrales, mais en ce qui concerne les occurrences de EN/OS qui ont un impact majeur sur le Pacifique ouest, la scheresse est normale, et de grandes aires sont sujettes  des geles frquentes. Nanmoins l'un des cas les plus srieux de 'disette' enregistr dans les hautes terres n'a pas t caus par la gele, mais par d'autres facteurs. /// Zeitungen, Journale, offizielle Berichte, Bcher und mndliche berlieferungen werden als Quellen fr Frost- und Drreperioden in PNG von 1982 zurck bis 1880 berprft, und ein Bericht ber die wahrscheinlichen Ereignisse wird angefertigt. Klimatologische - und Dokumentarquellen aus Indonesien werden dann als reprsentativer Bericht ber Frost und Drre in PNG herangezogen und bis 1870 zurckverfolgt. Die Verknpfung von quantitativen und qualitativen Aufzeichnungen ber Frost und Drre in PNG wird mit einem vielseitigen Bericht ber das SO/ENSO Phnomen verglichen. Frost tritt in einem weiten Bereich von allgemeinen meteorologischen Vorgngen auf; aber bei den ENSO Vorgngen, die weitreichenden Einflu im Westpazifik haben, ist Drre normal und groe Gebiete sind wiederholter Frostgefahr ausgesetzt. Jedoch entstand eine der schlimmsten Hungersnte, die der Hochlandbericht aufdeckt, nicht durch Frost, sondern hatte andere Ursachen.
10.2307/3673450|The general relief of the ECOWAS countries (Economic Community of West African States) is simpler than that of East Africa. Only a small area of land is over 915 m asl, and the highest point is Vogel Peak in Nigeria (2,040 m). These highlands are within the broad woodland/savanna moist vegetation belt and consequently the lower slopes have occasional patches of rainforest. The higher altitudes contain mixtures of grasses, epiphytes, ferns, and a few temperate species. There is little evidence of floristic affinities between the flora of the different mountains, and a high proportion of the flora is apparently endemic to particular mountains. Despite their inaccessibility there are opportunities for the development of the forestry resources. It is recommended that the ECOWAS states, with assistance from international agencies, explore the potential resources of the highlands, not only for forestry but for protection of biological and gene-pool sanctuaries; steps should be taken to develop montane forestry programmes before the finite resources of the neighbouring lowlands have been over-exploited. /// Le relief des pays de la communaut conomique de l'Afrique occidentale est plus simple que celui de l'Afrique orientale. Seulement une petite partie des terres se trouve  plus de 915 m, le point le plus lev tant le pic Vogel au Niger, avec une altitude de 2.040 m. Ces hautes terres se trouvent au sein de la large ceinture humide de bois et de savanne, et donc les pentes  plus basse altitude comportent parfois des zones de fort tropicale humide. Plus haut, on trouve diffrentes herbes, des piphytes, des fougres et quelques espces de climat tempr. Il ya peu d'indications d'affinits entre les flores des diffrentes montagnes, et une grande partie de la flore semble tre endmique aux montagnes particulires. Bien que les ressources forestires soient relativement inaccessibles, des possibilits existent nanmoins. Il serait dsirable que les pays de la communaut conomique de l'Afrique occidentale, avec l'aide d'organisations internationales, valuent les ressources potentielles des hautes terres, non seulement pour la foresterie mais aussi pour la protection des reserves biologiques et gntiques. Des mesures devraient tre prises pour dvelopper des programmes de foresterie montagnarde avant que les ressources limites des basses terres avoisinantes ne fassent l'objet d'une exploitation abusive. /// Die Topographie in den 16 ECOWAS-Lndern (Economic Community of West African States) ist einfacher gegliedert als in Ostafrika. Nur wenige Gebiete liegen hher als 915 meter .M., und der hchste Punkt der Region, der Vogel-Berg in Nigeria, ist 2040 m .M. Diese Hochlnder sind in den Zonen Savanne, Feuchtsavanne und Trockenwald zu situieren, und in tiefer gelegenen Regionen findet man noch einzelne Flecken von Regenwald. In hher gelegenen Gebieten trifft man auf Grser, Epiphyten, Farne und einige Arten, die auch in gemssigten Zonen vorkommen. Viele Arten scheinen fr einzelne Berggebiete endemisch zu sein, und es sind nicht sehr viele Verwandtschaften zwischen der Flora der einzelnen Bergregionen festzustellen. Durch die Unzugnglichkeit der Bergwelt bedingt, ist ein riesiges Potential fr Erforschung, Konservierung, und Nutzung der Wlder noch ungenutzt; auch als Erholungsraum ist ein Eignungspotential vorhanden. Tatschlich haben die Bauerngesellschaften der Hochlnder bereits eine Forstwirtschaft entwickelt, die sich auf die gesellschaftlichen Bedrfinisse und die oekologischen Gegenbenheiten absttzt. Dies fehlt in den Tieflndern vllig. Fr internationale Organisationen bieten sich grosse Mglichkeiten im Bereich von Erforschung von seltenen genetischen Ressourcen und deren Schutz. Langfristig gibt es fr die ECOWAS-Lnder und auch fr andere Lnder mit hnlichen Bedingungen keine andere Lsung als die Erforschung und Entwicklung der Ressourcen der Berggebiete. Entsprechende Entwicklungsprogramme sollten in Angriff genommen werden, bevor die Ressourcen der Tieflnder vollstndig bernutzt sind.
mounresedeve.30.3.304|Agriculture has a long history in Georgia; it has led to a great variety of ancient crops. However, this diversity is under threat for many reasons. First, introduced crops have caused a loss of traditional cultivars, because the introduced crops are preferred due to their higher yield. Moreover, agricultural machines such as forage and grain combine harvesters imported to Georgia are constructed for widely distributed, imported crops and cannot be used to harvest local cultivars. Until recently, genetic erosion of ancient crop varieties was not a problem in the mountain areas of Georgia, which until the 1990s constituted a depository of local crop varieties of wheat, barley, rye, oat, common millet, traditional legumes, vegetables, herbs, and spice plants with specific varieties adapted to mountain conditions. These mountain areas worked as a depository because local mountain communities preserved their traditional ways of life and socioeconomic structures. Their traditional agricultural equipment, used on a large scale until the 1990s, still allows them to maintain areas under cultivation (with grain or other crops) on steep slopes and at high elevations where moderntractors cannot be used.Moreover, some old landraces of wheat and barley are still being used to prepare bread and beer for religious rituals. Currently, many endemic and native representatives of crop plants are in danger of extinction. International nature conservation institutions and Georgian scientific and nongovernmental organizations have developed plans to preserve the genetic resources of local cultivars.
3674414|This article analyzes a project concerned with the conversion of agricultural land into forests and the impact on local communities in the upper Min River Basin in China. The aim of the project, called "Grain for Green" (Tui Geng Huan Lin), is to improve watershed conditions, enhance biodiversity, and conserve natural resources. Results from a participatory socioeconomic survey showed that the basic living standards of farmers were guaranteed by government subsidies because some of their cultivated land was converted into protected forest. The common perception is that although farmers were happy to participate in the project because they became less dependent on agriculture and were able to diversify their income, they were worried about their future after 8 years of government subsidies and preferred to plant forests for economic rather than ecological reasons. There is also a fear that if subsidies end, farmers may turn forestland into sloping cultivation land. To guarantee sustainable implementation of the Grain for Green Project, farmers discussed options with local government officials. In face-to-face interviews, they discussed issues such as basic cropland protection, educational investment, out-migration of the workforce, hydroelectricity exploitation, and tourism development.
mounresedeve.34.1.56|The Fedchenko glacier system harbors the longest glacier (77 km) outside of the polar areas. It has a great influence on the local economy and ecology as a water resource. The glacier area in the Fedchenko basin was investigated using Landsat TM images in 1992, Landsat ETM+ images in 2000, and ALOS/AVNIR2 images in 2006. The total area was 835.9 km
10.2307/3673464|In large areas of the Austrian mountain region tourism represents the only economic alternative to alpine farming, and for decades its development has been promoted. There has been a great expansion of winter sports facilities and especially the development of mass skiing on glaciers. Opinions on glacier-skiing areas have differed widely right from the start, and the supporters as well as the opponents have put forward ecological, economic, and social arguments. The supporters comprise mainly inhabitants of the mountain communities involved; the opponents live primarily in urban areas. This paper aims to present the perspective of the locals, that is, of the population groups that are immediately affected. Their evaluation of glacier-skiing is predominantly positive although they have increasingly developed an objective, critical view. This enables them to take advantage of the favourable effects of such large-scale tourist projects while, at the same time, avoiding the negative ones. /// Dans beaucoup de rgions des Alpes autrichiennes, le tourisme reprsente la seule alternative conomique  l'agriculture de montagne. En consquence l'amnagement touristique y est encourag depuis des dcennies. L'expansion du ski alpin et l'quipement des glaciers pour le ski de masse jouent dans ce sens un rle particulier. Les opinions concernant les domaines de ski sur glacier taient cependant, au dbut, trs partages. De la part de leurs partisans comme de leurs adversaires des arguments d'ordre cologique, conomique et social alimentaient la controverse. Parmi les personnes favorables viennent tout d'abord les habitants de la montagne tandis que les adversaires se recrutent essentiellement dans les rgions urbaines. Nous exposerons ici le point de vue et les perspectives de la population locale, c'est  dire de ceux qui sont directement concerns. En gnral ce groupe a une apprciation trs positive  l'gard du ski sur glacier, sur lequel il fonde de grands espoirs conomiques. Cependant on voit de plus en plus s'lever des opinions critiques parmi les montagnards eux-mmes, ce qui devrait leur permettre de mieux profiter des effets bnfiques des grands projets d'quipement touristiques et de mieux se protger contre les effets ngatifs. /// In weiten Teilen des sterreichischen Alpenraumes bildet der Tourismus die einzige konomische Alternative zur Berglandwirtschaft. Sein Ausbau wird daher seit Jahrzehnten forciert. Die Ausweitung des Schisports und die Erschlieung der Gletscher fr den Massenschilauf spielen dabei eine besondere Rolle. Die Meinungen ber die Gletscherschigebiete waren jedoch von Anfang an geteilt, und es wurden sowohl von den Befrwortern als auch von den Gegnern kologische, konomische und soziale Argumente ins Treffen gefhrt. Zu den Befrwortern zhlen in erster Linie die Bewohner der Berggebiete, whrend die Gegner vor allem in den stdtischen Rumen zu finden sind. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird versucht, die Perspektive der Einheimischen, d.h. der unmittelbar betroffenen Bevlkerung darzustellen. Diese Bevlkerungsgruppe bewertet die Gletscherschigebiete im allgemeinen sehr positiv und sie verbindet mit ihnen hohe konomische Erwartungen. Sie entwickelt jedoch in zunehmendem Mae eine objektiv-kritische Sicht: Das versetzt sie in die Lage, die gnstigen Wirkungen solcher touristischer Groprojekte in Hinkunft besser zu nutzen und die negativen Effekte strker zurckzudrngen.
3674275|We studied the seed bank and above-ground vegetation in a replicated field experiment with sites ungrazed for 22 years as well as three different grazed sites in seminatural grasslands in central Argentina. We examined the relationship between vegetation and seed bank composition, and tested 3 hypotheses predicting decrease in seed bank richness, decrease in seed bank abundance, and divergence of seed bank species composition from vegetation composition during succession. Grazing changed species abundance and the vertical structure of the vegetation but did not cause loss of species. Most of the taxa in the seed bank occurred in the vegetation. Seed bank richness, diversity, and abundance decreased significantly during grassland succession following cessation of grazing. Although in general the most abundant species in the vegetation at each site were also dominant in the respective seed bank, seed bank and vegetation composition differed greatly after cessation of grazing. The seed bank at sites undisturbed over the long term does not appear to be an important source of seedling recruitment after disturbance in these grasslands.
10.2307/3673205|Sikkim is much more densely populated than Bhutan, has a much higher population growth rate, and has incurred serious environmental losses at the expense of the poor. Bhutan, unlike other Himalayan countries, is not overpopulated; its environmental condition is far superior, and, while constant care is required, its government has been able to contain much more effectively the negative impacts of foreign aid and development. /// La densit de la population et le taux de croissance dmographique du Sikkim sont plus levs qu'au Bhoutan, et l'environnement y a t srieusement endommag, au dtriment des pauvres. A l'oppos d'autres pays himalayens, le Bhoutan n'est pas surpeupl et son environnement est en bien meilleur tat. Bien qu'une attention continuelle soit ncessaire, le gouvernement du Bhoutan a russi  contrler les effets contraires des programmes d'aide au dveloppement. /// Im Vergleich zu Bhutan ist Sikkim dichter besiedelt, hat eine grere Wachstumsrate und hat durch die Armen groen Umweltschaden erlitten. Bhutan ist im Vergleich mit anderen Himalaya Lndern nicht berbevlkert, seine Umweltbedingungen sind viel besser und wenn auch stndige Aufsicht erforderlich ist, so konnte seine Regierung die negativen Auswirkungen von Auslandshilfe und Entwicklung besser in Schach halten.
10.2307/3672989|The concepts of ecological stability, instability, and lability are discussed and defined; they should be used only as general concepts. Ecological stability is the continued existence of an ecological system or its capability to restore the original state after a change. It is important to distinguish between natural and anthropogenic stability and instability. According to the presence or absence of disturbance factors (extraordinary factors) and the amplitude of the oscillations of the parameters under consideration the following types of ecological stability can be distinguished: constancy, cyclicity, resistance, and elasticity. For every investigation of stability special criteria and scales of observation must be elaborated. Based on the example of plant communities of the Alps general conclusions are drawn: (1) no ecological system is stable in respect to all possible disturbance factors; (2) different types of stability can occur within the same ecological system; (3) the same disturbance factor can have completely different effects in very similar ecological systems; (4) depending on the criteria and scales of observation the same ecological phenomenon can be considered stable or unstable and evaluated negatively or positively. Thus statements about stability are only of limited value unless it is clearly specified which criteria and scales of observation are used, which disturbance factor is being considered, and which type of stability is occurring. A list of principles contributing to ecological stability is presented; it can be used as a checklist for assessing the risk of instability. /// Les concepts de stabilit, d'instabilit et de labilit ecologiques sont discuts et dfinis; ils devraient tre employs seulement comme concepts gnraux. La stabilit cologique est l'existence continue d'un systme cologique ou sa capacit de revenir  l'tat original aprs un changement. Il est important de faire une distinction entre stabilit (instabilit) naturelle et anthropogne. Les types de stabilit cologique suivants sont distingus en raison de la prsence ou absence de facteurs de perturbation (facteurs extraordinaires) et de l'amplitude des oscillations du paramtre considr: constance, cyclicit, rsistance et lasticit. Il est discut que chaque analyse d'un cas de stabilit exige l'laboration de critres appropris. Bases sur l'example de l'cologie de prairies des Alpes les conclusions gnrales suivantes sont tires: (1) Il n'existe aucun systme cologique qui soit stable envers tous les facteurs de perturbation possibles. (2) Dans le mme systme cologique des types de stabilit diffrents peuvent tre raliss. (3) Des cosystmes semblables peuvent ragir de manire trs diffrente  l'gard du mme facteur de perturbation. (4) En fonction des critres choisis le mme phnomne cologique peut tre considr comme stable ou instable et jug de manire positive ou ngative. Cela prouve que les affirmations gnrales concernant la stabilit ne peuvent pas tre employes sans spcifier clairement les critres employs ainsi que le facteur de perturbation et le type de stabilit. Une liste de principes contribuants  la stabilit cologique est prsente; elle peut tre employe comme "checklist" pour juger le risque d'instabilit. /// Die Begriffe kologische Stabilitt, Instabilitt und Labilitt werden diskutiert und definiert; sie sollten nur als allgemeine Oberbegriffe verwendet werden. Oekologische Stabilitt ist das Bestehenbleiben eines kologischen Systems und die Fhigkeit nach Vernderungen in die Ausgangslage zurckzukehren. Es ist wichtig zwischen natrlicher und anthropogener Stabilitt (Instabilitt) zu unterscheiden. Aufgrund des Vorhandenseins oder Fehlens von Fremdfaktoren und aufgrund der Schwankungen des betrachteten Merkmals werden folgende Typen kologischer Stabilitt unterschieden: Konstanz, Zyklizitt, Resistenz, und Elastizitt. Fr jede Beurteilung der Stabilitt sind spezielle Kriterien und Mastbe zu erarbeiten. Am Beispiel von Pflanzengesellschaften der Alpen wird dargelegt: (1) Kein kologisches System ist bezglich allen mglichen Fremdfaktoren stabil. (2) Verschiedene Typen von Stabilitt knnen im selben kologischen System verwirklicht sein. (3) Derselbe Fremdfaktor kann sich in hnlichen kologischen Systemen ganz verschieden auswirken. (4) Je nach den gewhlten Kriterien und Mastben kann dasselbe kologische Phnomen als stabil oder als instabil angesehen und positiv oder negativ bewertet werden. Somit sind allgemeine Aussagen ber Stabilitt wissenschaftlich und praktisch nur beschrnkt brauchbar, sofern nicht dargelegt ist, welche Beurteilungskriterien und-mastbe gewhlt wurden, sowie welcher Fremdfaktor und welcher Stabilittstyp betrachtet wurden. Es wird eine Liste von Prinzipien, die zu kologischer Stabilitt beitragen, dargelegt; sie kann u.a. als Checkliste fr die Beurteilung des Risikos von Instabilitt dienen.
10.2307/3673340|Since the pioneer studies of Carl Troll considerable work has been done on the geoecology of tropical highlands in Latin America. Less emphasis has been devoted to the study of human activities in different altitudinal belts. In particular, little work has been undertaken on this topic in the Sierra region of Ecuador, located in a transition zone between the permanently humid paramo and the seasonally arid puna. This paper is based on a field investigation of a study area in the Patate-Pelileo region located in the Eastern Cordillera of Ecuador carried out during the summer of 1981. The chosen site lies in a transition zone between the semi-arid Cuenca of Ambato and the humid eastern slopes of the Cordillera. Five major altitudinal belts of agricultural activity are represented between the valley floor of the Patate River (2,000 m) and the upper slopes of surrounding Cerros (about 3,700 m). Apart from the different types of agricultural resources and their altitudinal range, the hillside belts of agricultural systems exhibit a number of distinct seasonal agricultural calendars, productivity, and land prices. /// Depuis les travaux d'avant-garde de Carl Troll, des recherches considrables ont t consacres  la go-cologie des hautes montagnes tropicales de l'Amrique latine. Cependant, l'tude des activits humaines dans les diffrentes bandes altitudinales a reu moins d'attention. C'est surtout le cas  l'gard de la Sierra en Equateur, qui est situe dans une zone de transition entre les Andes Pramo d'une humidit quasi-permanente et les Andes Puna d'une aridit saisonnire. Cette tude est base sur des travaux effectus sur le terrain en t 1981 dans la rgion de Patate-Pelileo, situe dans la Cordillre orientale de l'Equateur. Le site choisi se trouve dans une zone de transition entre la Cuenca semi-aride d'Ambato et les pentes orientales humides de la Cordillre. Dans la prsente communication, l'auteur distingue cinq bandes altitudinales d'activit agricole entre le fond de la valle du fleuve Patate (2.000 m) et les pentes suprieures des Cerros avoisinants (aux alentours de 3.700 m). Outre leurs diffrences en termes de ressources agricoles et de distribution altitudinale, ces bandes rvlent des calendriers agricoles, une productivit, et des prix de la terre qui sont bien distincts. /// Sptestens seit den Arbeiten von Carl Troll hat die Geo-Okologie der tropischen Gebirge Lateinamerikas erhebliche Beachtung gefunden. Dagegen nahm die Erforschung menschlicher Aktivitten in verschiedenen Hhenzonen einen geringeren Raum ein. Dies trifft vor allem auf die Sierra von Ecuador zu, die in einer bergangszone zwischen den stndig feuchten Pramo-Anden und den halb ariden Puna-Anden liegt. Die vorliegende Arbeit basiert im wesentlichen auf Felduntersuchungen, die im Sommer 1981 in der Patate-Pelileo Region in der Ostkordillere von Ecuador durchgefhrt wurden. Das Studiengebiet liegt in einem bergangsbereich zwischen der semi-ariden Cuenca von Ambato und der humiden Ostflanke der Cordillera. Fnf hauptschliche Hhenstufen landwirtschaftlicher Aktivitt werden unterschieden, zwischen der Talsohle des Rio Patate (2000 m) und den obersten Hangbereichen der umliegenden Cerros (etwa 3700 m). Die Hhengrtel landwirtschaftlicher Systeme zeichnen sich durch verschiedenartige landwirtschaftliche Produkte, Produktivitt, Landpreise, und einen bestimmten jahreszeitlichen Rhythmus landwirtschaftlicher Ttigkeiten aus.
10.2307/3673523|The last thousand years of glacier fluctuations and glacier-climate responses have been studied in the Tien Shan mountain region of southern USSR. Several hundred glacial moraines have been dated, using lichenometry and dendrochronology in conjunction with radiocarbon dating, studies of lake-level changes, and archeological and historical data. Comparisons are made with data from the Caucasus, the Alps, and other mountain regions. Broad conclusions of importance to the International Geosphere-Biosphere Program are given and areas where additional research is needed are identified. Many Tien Shan glaciers show evidence of advances that predate the conventional time span of the Little Ice Age; many advances and recessions have occurred synchronously, although the magnitude of such trends varied significantly between regions and within the same region; fluctuations in equilibrium-line altitudes were more pronounced in the outer, or more maritime, areas and became progressively less prominent toward the interior where the climate is more continental. While it may be claimed that glacier-climate analysis has been developed to the point where climate forecasting is feasible, the recent anthropogenic impacts on the atmosphere and their potential for climate change cannot yet be incorporated into such forecasting. This is because the complex relationships between natural variations in precipitation and temperature are not sufficiently well understood and because the record of glacier fluctuation is by no means fully systematic. Nevertheless, if the pattern of the last thousand years in the Tien Shan persists, one can expect pseudo-cyclic oscillations of summer temperature with an amplitude of about 2C and a periodicity of 30-50 years. /// Les fluctuations des glaciers et des rponses glacier-climat au cours des mille dernires annes ont t tudies dans la rgion montagneuse de Tien Shan au sud de l'U.R.S.S. Plusieurs centaines de moraines glaciaires ont t dates par lichnomtrie et dendrochronologie concurremment avec une datation au radiocarbone, des tudes du changement de niveau des lacs, et des donnes archologiques et historiques. Des comparaisons ont t effectues avec des donnes en provenance du Caucase, des Alpes et d'autres rgions montagneuses. Des conclusions gnrales, importantes pour le Programme international gosphre-biosphre, en sont tires et les travaux de recherche  effectuer sont identifis. Un grand nombre de glaciers du Tien Shan portent les marques de progressions qui se sont produites avant la priode gnralement reconnue comme la petite re glaciaire; beaucoup de progressions et de rgressions se sont produites synchroniquement, bien que l'amplitude de telles tendances a vari sensiblement d'une rgion  l'autre et dans le mme rgion; les fluctuations d'altitude de la ligne d'quilibre sont plus accentues dans les rgions priphriques, ou moins maritimes, et deviennet progressivement plus prononces vers l'intrieur o le climat est plus continental. Bien que l'on puisse affirmer que l'analyse glacier-climat a t dveloppe jusqu'au point o les prvisions de climat sont possibles, les impacts anthropogniques rcents sur l'atmosphre et leur potentiel vis--vis d'un changement de climat ne peuvent pas encore tre incorpors dans de telles prvisions. La raison en est que les relations complexes entre les variations naturelles de prcipitation et de temprature ne sont pas suffisamment bien connues et que l'enregistrement des fluctuations glaciaires n'a pas t effectu d'une manire systmatique. Nanmoins, si le rgime de changement qui s'est tabli au cours de mille dernires annes dans le Tien Shan persiste, on peut s'attendre  des oscillations pseudo-cycliques de la temprature estivale, avec une amplitude d'environ 2C et une priodicit de 30  50 ans. /// Im Tien Shan Berggebiet der sdlichen UdssR wurden glaziale Fluktuationen und glazial-klimatische Reaktionen ber den Zeitraum der vergangenen 1000 Jahre untersucht. Hunderte von glazialen Mornen wurden unter Anwendung von Lichenologie und Dendrochronologie in Verbindung mit Kohlenstoffdatierung zeitlich bestimmt. Daneben wurden auch Vernderungen des Wasserspiegels in Seen anhand archologischer und historischer Daten datiert. Vergleiche mit Daten aus dem Kaukasus, den Alpen und anderen Berggebieten wurden gemacht. Allgemeine Schlufolgerungen, die Bedeutung fr das Internationale Geosphre-Biosphre Programm haben, werden gezogen und solche Bereiche hervorgehoben, die zustzliche Forschung erfordern. Viele Gletscher im Tien Shan Gebiet zeigen Spuren ihres Vormarsches, die zeitlich der Periode des "Little Ice Age" vorangehen. Weitere Vormrsche und Rckgnge verliefen gleichzeitig, obwohl das Ausma dieser Bewegungen in verschiedenen Gebieten und innerhalb der gleichen Region sehr unterschiedlich war. Fluktuationen in den Gleichgewichtslinien der Hhen waren aufflliger ausgeprgt in entfernter gelegenen, eher maritimen Gebieten und wurden weniger zum Landinnern hin, wo Kontinentalklima vorherrscht. Selbst wenn behauptet wird, da eine glazial-klimatische Analyse soweit entwickelt ist, da Klimavorhersagen mglich sind, so knnen die gegenwrtigen anthropogenen Einwirkungen auf die Atmosphre und ihre Mglichkeit zur Klimanderung nicht in diese Vorhersagen eingeschlossen werden. Ein Grund dafr sind die komplexen Verhltnisse zwischen natrlichen Niederschlagsschwankungen und der Temperatur, die bisher nur ungengend verstanden sind; ein weiterer Grund liegt darin, da die Aufzeichnungen der glazialen Fluktuationen keineswegs systematisch durchgefhrt wurden. Falls die Vorgnge der vergangenen 1000 Jahre im Tien Shan Gebiet anhalten, kann man pseudo-zyklische Schwankungen in der Sommertemperatur von ungefhr 2C eine Periodizitt von 30 bis 50 Jahren erwarten.
mounresedeve.33.3.280|Increasingly, attention in regional, national, and international water governance arenas has focused on high-altitude wetlands. However, existing local water management practices in these wetlands are often overlooked. This article looks at the irrigation activities of alpaca herders in the community of Ccarhuancho in the Central Andes of Peru. For more than two centuries, they have been constructing smallscale irrigation canals to maintain and expand the local wetlands, called bofedales. The seminomadic character of alpaca herders complicates irrigated wetland activities, such as operation and maintenance. Climate change and human and animal population pressure have increased not only the importance of these irrigation systems but also of local conflicts and communal decision making. Local irrigation activities in Ccarhuancho go unnoticed in broader water governance arenas because of its remoteness, limits to what popular new analytical tools can measure, a general undervaluation of wetlands, and a tendency of the canals to merge over time with the surrounding bofedales, making them less visible. Nevertheless, these man-made systems account for 40% of the wetlands in the study area and risk being seriously degraded or destroyed without local water management. With climatic changes affecting existing natural wetlands, the local herders were the first to recognize and respond to these changes and to defend the wetlands against degradation. Their efforts are, however, largely overlooked, even though such local water governance practices are crucial for the success of regional and national water governance in the Andes and other mountain areas. (Note: The title of this paper is an adaptation of Netting's [1974] paper The system nobody knows about small-scale irrigation in the Swiss Alps.)
mounresedeve.32.2.149|The green economy is increasingly being promoted as a way of creating socially and environmentally viable forms of development. Using the specific case of an attempted nongovernmental organization (NGO) intervention in a minor peasant community in the Recuay region of the Peruvian Andes, this article raises the question of how to get from green economy as a theory of development to green economy as a tool of governance. The article is based on 12 months of ethnographic fieldwork in the region. Peru has experienced a decade of rapid growth, but this impressive progress hides the fact that large numbers of rural poor have been left untouched by the national economic boom. An examination of the household economy through the idea of ecologies of production underscores the social, economic, and environmental embeddedness of Andean household economies and explores pathways to the market. Articulation and governance are the main concerns when it comes to understanding the ways in which the peasant economies are maintained through environmentally embedded social relations, which in turn govern how natural resources and ecosystems are managed. The article concludes by pointing to three issues of importance with regard to a green economy: (1) In conditions of poverty, economically risky investments are rarely sought; (2) matters of governance inform production; and (3) articulation to the market is crucial in terms of production input and output.
mounresedeve.34.1.13|Although mountain regions are thought to be at lower risk of plant invasions, the diversity and cover of non-native plants is increasing in many alpine ecosystems, including the Andes. We reviewed vegetation surveys in Aconcagua Provincial Park in the dry Andes of Argentina to determine what non-native plants occur in the park and if their distribution is associated with tourism use. This high-altitude park is a popular tourism destination for hikers, with nearly all access by foot and pack animals (mules and horses) that are used for transport. Non-native plant diversity was low (21 species in the region, 16 species in the park) compared to some other mountain regions but included common mountain species from Europe, most of which can be dispersed by tourists and commercial operators on clothing and by pack animal dung. Nearly all non-native plants were restricted to lower altitudes, with no non-natives found above 3420 masl. Most non-native plants were restricted to sites disturbed by tourism use, particularly areas trampled by hikers and pack animals, except for 2 common non-native species, Taraxacum officinale and Convolvulus arvensis, which were also found in undisturbed vegetation. The relatively low cover and diversity of non-native plants at higher-altitude sites may reflect one or a combination of the following: climatic barriers, less human disturbance, and a lag in the dispersal of non-native species from lower altitudes within the park. This study highlights that even protected mountain areas with limited prior human use and nearly no road access can be invaded by non-native plants because of their popularity as mountaineer destinations. Management actions that could help minimize the further spread of non-native plants include limiting the introduction of non-native seeds on vehicles, clothing, and equipment and in dung; reducing trampling damage by restricting visitor use to designated trails; and restoring damaged sites.
25578202|Timberline changes in the Chornohora, the highest mountain range of the Ukrainian Carpathians, are related mainly to human activity. The most important factor influencing the timberline has been animal husbandry, with summer grazing on mountain pastures. Using historical maps and contemporary satellite data, we found that the timberline in the western Chornohora moved up by 80 m on average between 1933 and 2001, and the area of pastures (polonynas) shrank by one-third. The fastest advance of the timberline resulted from the expansion of spruce (Picea abies) and was detected far from working livestock farms. The smallest changes occurred in the case of deciduous (beech, ie Fagus silvatica, and sycamore, ie Acer pseudoplatanus) timberlines and near working farms.
10.2307/3673163|Switzerland has a very low degree of self-sufficiency in food and energy and therefore attaches a high priority to its food security. Nationally this means an input-intensive agricultural technology and a higher priority for agricultural production in a sustainable sense than for ecological concerns. Is modern agricultural technology detrimental to the environment in the mountainous regions of the country? Evidence indicates that support capacities have not been reached. The destabilizing factors are uncontrolled abandonment of agricultural land and nonagricultural activities, such as tourism. It is suggested that only pragmatic approaches hold promise for the solution of present-day problems. Operational programmes are needed to maintain an ecological balance. Minimum data are a necessity for decision makers because their ability to use long reports in specialized jargon is very limited. Scientists should have the courage to accept and promote more systematically "common sense" approaches and to rely more strongly on the experience and problem-solving ideas of local people. Agriculture, more location specific than many other human activities, requires data and information with a local content. The same holds true for the analysis of environmental and ecological problems, especially in mountain areas. /// Etant donn que la Suisse est loin de raliser son autarcie das les domaines de l'alimentation et de l'nergie, elle attache une trs grande importance  la scurit de son approvisionnement en denres alimentaires. A l'chelle nationale, ceci veut dire qu'il est ncessaire d'appliquer une technologie agricole permettant une culture intensive et de faire passer la production agricole avant les besoins de l'cologie (dans des limites raisonnables). La technologie agricole moderne est-elle prjudiciable  l'environnement dans les rgions montagneuses du pays? Selon l'auteur les limites suprieures de la mise en valeur agricole sont loin d'tre atteintes. Les instabilits sont dues pour l'essentiel  un abandon incontrl des terres agricoles et aux activits sans rapport avec l'agriculture, telles que le tourisme. Les conclusions relvent que la solution doit tre cherche dans une approche pragmatique du problme: il est urgent de donner  l'cologie une assise consistant en programmes oprationnels. Les responsables doivent pouvoir fonder leurs dcisions sur des donnes simples, car les longs rapports rdigs dans le jargon des spcialistes sont difficiles  comprendre. Quant aux scientifique, ils devraient avoir le courage de reconnatre et d'encourager plus souvent des mesures relevant du "bon sens", et s'intresser plus srieusement aux expriences faites par les habitants des rgions concernes et aux solutions prconises par ces derniers. En tant qu'activit de nature plus spcifiquement locale que la plupart des autres activits humaines, l'agriculture a besoin de donnes et de renseignements touchant des espaces rduits. Il en va de mme des problmes particuliers  l'cologie et  l'environnement. /// Die Schweiz misst der Ernhrungssicherheit einen hohen Stellenwert bei, weil ihr Selbstversorgungsgrad fr Nahrungsmittel und Energietrger sehr tief ist. Als Folge wird in der nationalen Politik einer input-intensiven landwirtschaftlichen Erzeugung (im nachhaltigen Sinne) Vorrang gegenber der Oekologie eingerumt. Sind nun aber die heutigen landwirtschaftlichen Produktionsmethoden berhaupt schdlich fr die Umwelt in den Berggebieten? Der Autor erbringt den Nachweis, dass die oberen Belastungsgrenzen fr den Einsatz landwirtschaftlicher Produktionsmittel nicht erreicht werden. Destabilisierend wirken eher die unkontrollierte Brachlegung landwirtschaftlicher Nutzflchen und nichtlandwirtschaftliche Aktivitten wie Tourismus. Die Schlussfolgerungen zeigen, dass nur pragmatische Problemlsungen Erfolg versprechen: Die Oekologie bentigt dringend operationell definierte regionale Programme. Die Landwirtschaft muss in dieselben einbezogen werden, um festzustellen, ob Schdigungen der Umwelt wirklich oder nur vermeintlich sind. Fr Entscheidungstrger sind minimale Daten eine Notwendigkeit, weil deren Belastungsgrenze fr lange Berichte in Fachjargon sehr beschrnkt ist. Wissenschaftler sollten noch vermehrt den Mut haben, Problemlsungen nach "gesundem Menschenverstand" zu akzeptieren und zu frdern und ernsthafter sich bemhen, regionale und lokale Ideen und Kenntnisse zu bentzen. Die Landwirtschaft, eine sehr lokalspezifische menschliche Ttigkeit, verlangt Daten und Informationen sehr kleinrumiger Natur. Dasselbe trifft zu fr die Relevanz von Umweltfragen und oekologischen Problemen.
mounresedeve.36.1.41|Forests provide direct protection to human settlements from hydrogeomorphic hazards. This paper proposes a method for assessing the effect of natural disturbances on the functionality of direct protection forests (DPFs) in order to prioritize management interventions. We georeferenced disturbance data for wildfires, wind and snow damage, avalanches, and insects and overlaid them to a region-wide DPF map. Within each disturbance polygon, we used a Landsat-5 TM image to identify DPFs with insufficient vegetation cover, by using a maximum likelihood classifier of 6 spectral bands plus 5 vegetation indices. For each disturbance agent, we fitted a generalized linear model of the probability of finding a forested pixel, as a function of topography, time since disturbance, distance from disturbance edge, summer precipitation, and drought in the disturbance year. DPFs covered almost half of total forest area in the study region. Disturbance by insects occurred in more than one sixth of all forests. Avalanche and wildfire occurred each in about one tenth of total forest area, and wind and snow disturbance in only 1%. In the last 50 years, disturbances had a recurrence rate of 3% every 10 years. Almost one sixth of DPFs are currently lacking sufficient forest cover. Wildfires resulted in the highest rate of nonforested pixels (42% of all DPFs), followed by avalanches (21%). Forest recovery was explained by time elapsed, distance from edge (for conifers), and aspect. Summer precipitation and drought had a mixed influence. Our approach to assessing the effect of disturbances on the functionality of DPFs is reproducible in all mountain regions using institutional or open-access geographic data and provides a tool to prioritize DPF management by indicating where restoration of protection is most urge
3674413|Spatial patterns in socioeconomic data reveal issues and trends that would otherwise be missed by data aggregation to political or other units. Geographic Information System (GIS) tools provide display and analysis capabilities that are underutilized by many social scientists. The present article combines field-based surveys that maintain locational information with GIS tools to examine gender roles, responsibilities, and workloads in a spatial context for a case-study watershed in Nepal. Adult women outworked men by an average of 3.8 hours per day. Spatial differences in workloads are related to road access, with women living near the road working longer days, and men near the road participating more in "typically" female tasks such as collecting drinking water. Households with poor access have larger landholdings, greater total production, and are more reliant on subsistence agriculture. Households with road access use more agrochemicals, have smaller landholdings, and are more reliant on off-farm employment to meet their families' needs. GIS helps communicate these spatial trends more clearly and quantifies key issues when combined with statistical analysis. The use of field-based participatory techniques, aerial photographs and quantitative GIS and statistical analysis is infrequent in gender analysis but provides social scientists with powerful tools for investigating variability. In this study, the significant influence of the road on socioeconomic issues was highlighted, along with the need to focus development activities spatially.
mounresedeve.36.2.130|The expansion of renewable energies is regarded as a key way to mitigate global climate change and to ensure the provision of energy in the long term. However, conflicts between these goals and local nature conservation goals are likely to increase because of the additional space required for renewable energies. This is particularly true for mountainous areas with biodiversity-rich ecosystems. Little effort has been undertaken to systematically compare different renewable energy sources and to examine their environmental impacts using an interdisciplinary approach. This study adapted the concept of the ecological footprint to examine the impact on ecosystem services of land use changes involved in exploiting renewable energy sources. This innovative approach made it possible to assess and communicate the potentials of those energy sources in light of both space consumption and sustainability. The European Alps are an ideal test area because of their high energy potentials and biodiversity-rich ecosystems and the high demand for multiple ecosystem services. Our results demonstrate that energy consumption in the Alps could not be covered with the available renewable energy potentials, despite the utilization of large parts of the Alpine land area and the majority of larger rivers. Therefore, considerable effort must be invested in resolving conflicting priorities between expanding renewable energies and nature conservation, but also in realizing energy-saving measures. To this end, the approach presented here can support decision-making by revealing the energy potentials, space requirements, and environmental impacts of different renewable energy sources.
25164198|Through its biodiversity, landscape, and culture, the Swiss Alpine region has great social and economic significance. The Alpine landscape and its natural resources yield a whole range of benefits that are utilized by a large number of stakeholders who have widely differing interests in use and protection of these resources. Management of landscape development processes is a trans-sectoral task, requiring that different stakeholders work together. Conflicts need to be resolved and sustainable solutions need to be found and implemented. The present article describes how Systemic Landscape Development, a methodological approach for participatory control and organization of these processes, was applied to deal with the complex challenge of a deteriorating protection forest above a motorway of international importance in Central Switzerland. The resulting Stotzigwald Platform project took place as part of the Swiss National Research Program NRP 48, Landscapes and Habitats of the Alps.
10.2307/3673517|This paper explores the palaeogeographic evidence on environmental conditions in the mountains during the whole period of human occupation. The high country of Papua New Guinea (above c. 2,000 m) has been used by people since the late Pleistocene, and some form of agricultural occupation, involving forest clearance, goes back to at least 2,000 BP, and possibly to 4,000 BP, though the main movement into the high valleys belongs only to the last 300 years. It is important in understanding present-day adaptations to know if climatic variability has been constant during this time. Whatever conditions were like in the first half of the Holocene, there have been important changes since 5,000 BP, including four neo-glaciations. Evidence is sought from within New Guinea, and across the Pacific, in an attempt to establish the limits of the possible within an unknown area. The most critical evidence is at the upper limit of forest where periodic major fire is indicated, linking with the probability of severe drought events from time to time. These are probably related to ENSO, but the evidence is unclear. There may have been longer-term variations, but their effect at the regional level of the highland valleys cannot be established. It is concluded, however, that events at least as severe as those encountered during the short period of record have almost certainly taken place throughout the duration of agricultural occupance in the high valleys; it could be that recorded events have been less severe than some events in the past. Important problems are indicated for palaeogeographic research. /// Cet article explore les donnes palogographiques sur les conditions existantes dans les rgions montagneuses au cours de l'entire priode de prsence humaine. Les hautes terres de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine (au-dessus de 2.000 m environ) ont commenc  tre peuples  la fin du plistocne, et certaines activits agricoles bases sur le dfrichement des forts remontent  2.000 ans au moins, peut-tre mme 4.000 ans, bien que la migration principale dans les hautes valles ne remonte qu' environ 300 ans. Pour comprendre les adaptations qui se produisent en ce moment, il est important de savoir si les variations climatiques ont t uniformes tout au long de cette priode. Indpendamment des conditions existantes au cours de la premire moiti de l'holocne, des changements importants sont survenus dans les 5.000 dernires annes, y compris quatre no-glaciations. Des donnes sont recherches en Nouvelle-Guine et dans le Pacifique, en vue de dterminer les limites d'une prsence humaine possible dans une zone inconnue. Les signes les plus significatifs apparaissent  la limite suprieure des forts, indiquant des incendies priodiques importants, ce qui correspond  la probabilit de scheresses srieuses ayant svi  certaines priodes. Ces scheresses sont probablement lies au phnomne de El Nio/Oscillation Sud, mais la relation n'est pas certaine. Il est possible qu'il y ait eu des variations  plus long terme, mais leur effet au niveau rgional des hautes valles ne peut pas tre tabli. On peut nanmoins conclure que des vnements au moins aussi srieux que ceux qui se sont produits au cours de la courte priode connue se sont vraisemblablement produits pendant toute la dure de prsence humaine et d'agriculture dans les hautes valles. Il est mme possible que les vnements rapports aient t moins srieux que certains vnements du pass lointain. D'importants problmes sont identifis pour la recherche paleogographique. /// Diese Verffentlichung untersucht die palogeo-graphischen Beweismittel fr Umweltbedingungen in den Bergen ber den Zeitraum menschlicher Besiedelung. Das Hochland von Papua Neu-Guinea (oberhalb ca. 2000m) ist seit dem spten Pleistozn besiedelt und landwirtschaftliche Bettigung, einschlielich Waldrodung, geht bestimmt 2000 und mglicherweise sogar 4000 Jahre zurck. Die Hauptbesiedelung der Hochlnder geschah jedoch erst in den vergangenen 300 Jahren. Will man heutige Anpassungen verstehen, ist es wichtig, zu wissen, ob die klimatischen Bedingungen whrend dieser Zeit sich verndert haben. Was auch immer die Bedingungen in der ersten Hlfte des Holozn waren, in den vergangenen 5000 Jahren sind wichtige Vernderungen, darunter vier Neu-Vergletscherungen geschehen. Beweismaterial wird fr Gebiete innerhalb Neu-Guineas und im gesamten Pazifik zusammengetragen, mit dem Ziel, die Grenzen mglicher Besiedelung innerhalb eines unbekannten Gebietes festzustellen. Die wichtigsten Belege findet man an der oberen Baumgrenze, wo es Anzeichen fr regelmige Grofeuer gibt, die gelegentlich mit ausgedehnten Drreperioden in Zusammenhang gebracht werden knnen. Sie stehen wahrscheinlich mit dem ENSO Phnomen in Verbindung, wenn auch diese Relation unklar ist. Mglicherweise gab es auch langfristigere Vernderungen, deren Einflu auf der regionalen Ebene der Hochlandtler aber nicht nachgewiesen werden kann. Es folgt mit einiger Sicherheit, da whrend der gesamten Zeitspanne menschlicher Besiedelung in den Hochtlern Ereignisse stattgefunden haben, die ebenso einschneidend waren, wie die whrend des kurzen Zeitraums, der mit Aufzeichnungen belegt ist-es kann aber auch sein, da die aufgezeichneten Ereignisse weniger gravierend waren als solche in frherer Vergangenheit. Wichtige ungelste Probleme fr die palogeographische Forschung werden aufgezeigt.
10.2307/3672961|A high frequency of slope failures, in both time and space, accounts for extremely high rates of denudation (about <tex-math>$14\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>) in the Kolpu Khola catchment area. The nature of the landslides has been defined by surveys of their morphometry and the mechanical properties of the material in 15 typical cases (about 10 percent of those available in the <tex-math>$30\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> basin). In addition, precipitation records from nearby stations provide an estimate of the role played by meteorological factors in landslide inception and development. These analyses point to the basic importance of material controls of the landslides. Particularly important is the brittle behaviour of the weathered bedrock in which the failures occur. Compared with this, the importance of rainfall is slight. Other factors which combine to help explain the high incidence of catastrophic landsliding in the catchment include its great relief, seasonally high water tables and a history of recent deforestation as agriculture has been extended onto steep slopes. /// La frequence leve des ruptures d'quilibre de pente,  la fois dans le temps et dans l'espace, a pour consquence un degr lev de dnudation (environ <tex-math>$14\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>) dans le bassin du Kolpu Khola. La nature des glissements de terrain a t tablie par des levs de leur morphomtrie et des proprits mcaniques du matrial dans 15 cas reprsentatifs (environ 10% des cas envisageables dans ce bassin de <tex-math>$30\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>). De plus, les donnes pluviomtriques des stations avoisinantes ont permis d'estimer le rle des facteurs mtorologiques dans le dclenchement et le dveloppement des glissements de terrain. Les rsultats ont fait ressortir l'influence dterminante du matriel rocheux sur les glissements de terrain. La nature friable du soubassement altr, dans lequel les ruptures d'quilibre apparaissent, est particulirement importante. En comparaison, les prcipitations ne jouent qu'un rle mineur. D'autres facteurs se combinent galement pour expliquer la frquence leve de glissements catastrophiques dans le bassin: la haute nergie, le niveau lev de la nappe phratique en certaines saisons et la srie de rcents dboisements dus  l'extension de l'agriculture sur les pentes raides. /// Die grosse zeitliche und rumliche Hufigkeit von Anbrchen in den Hngen fhrt zu extrem hohen Denudationsraten (zirka 14 mm/Jahr) im oberen Einzugsgebiet des Kolpu Khola. 15 typische Rutschungen (= zirka 10% der jngeren Rutschungen im <tex-math>$30\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> grossen Gebiet) wurden bezglich ihrer Morphometrie und der mechanischen Eigenschaften des betreffenden Erdmaterials untersucht und charakterisiert. Niederschlagsdaten von benachbarten Stationen erlaubten eine Abschtzung der Bedeutung von meteorologischen Faktoren fr die Auslsung und Entwicklung von Rutschungen. Diese Untersuchungen zeigen die wichtige Rolle der Materialeigenschaften auf. Wichtig ist vor allem das brchige, zerbrechliche Verhalten des verwitterten Festgesteins in welchem die Rutsche auftreten. Im Vergleich dazu spielen die Niederschlagsverhltnisse eine bescheidene Rolle. Zustzlich knnen folgende Faktoren ebenfalls fr die grosse Hufigkeit von schadenbringenden Rutschen im betrachteten Gebiet verantwortlich gemacht werden: Grosse Reliefenergie, saisonal hohe Wasserspiegel und jngere Waldrodungen mit anschliessendem Ackerbau in steilen Lagen.
25164097|Trade with Tibet and the factors associated with its maintenance (agriculture and livestock) were the prime occupation of Johaaris and Darmis tribesmen until 1962, when the Sino-Indian war brought an immediate end to this thriving lifeline. The loss of trade brought about drastic changes in the transhumant lifestyle-fewer households arriving at their summer homes, a smaller livestock population, disappearance of traditional handicrafts, and increased exploitation of wild medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs), with traditional crops being replaced by more remunerative crops such as chives (Allium stracheyii) and caraway (Carum carvi) as the chief source of livelihood. The present study highlights the causal factors behind changes in the lifestyles of these traditional people in Uttarakhand, India, and the concomitant changes in crop biodiversity and MAPs in the region. It concludes with proposals for possible alternatives for a sustainable future for these people.
25164131|Distribution and community structure of treeline birch (Betula utilis D. Don) forest in a trans-Himalayan dry valley was studied in Manang (central Nepal) with the major focus on regeneration. Along 5 vertical transects, a total of 41 square quadrats (10 m  10 m) were sampled to determine the importance value index (IVI) of tree species, distribution pattern of seedlings and saplings, and soil attributes. Regeneration was assessed by a density-diameter curve. Moisture plays an important role in spatial (horizontal) distribution of Betula utilis. Pure Betula forest forming the treeline was mature, with high basal area (2.3%), but mixed Betula forest at lower elevations was young. This might have developed after large-scale clear cutting of Abies spectabilis. If not severely disturbed, mixed Betula forest may be replaced by Abies spectabilis. In general, Betula utilis was regenerating, as evident from a reverse J-shaped density-diameter curve for both forests. However, the distribution of seedlings and saplings was spatially heterogeneous and appeared to depend on canopy cover. The stands with highest seedling and sapling densities of Betula utilis had no trees. Betula seedlings were absent where the tree density and basal area (BA) exceeded 20 stems/100 m and 1.0% respectively. It was apparent that Betula seedlings could not establish under their own closed canopy even if they produced viable seeds. Partial canopy opening may induce seedling establishment and hence continuous regeneration of Betula utilis at mature stands. The treeline formed by Betula utilis was abrupt-the anthropo-zoogenic type-without the krummholz zone.
10.2307/3673286|The representation of glaciers on maps has been practised for nearly 400 years. The first large-scale maps for glaciological purposes were drawn in the nineteenth century and since 1879 exact contour maps have been produced as a research tool in the field of glaciology. Three examples of glacier maps are described and their usefulness and possible application to glacier research are discussed. /// La reprsentation de glaciers sur cartes est pratique depuis presque 400 ans. Les premires cartes  grande chelle destines  des fins glaciologiques ont t dresses au dix-neuvime sicle, et depuis 1879 des cartes prcises  courbes de niveau ont t publies pour satisfaire aux besoins de la recherche dans le domaine. Trois exemples de cartes de glaciers sont passs en revue; leur utilit et leur application possible  la recherche glaciologique sont examines. /// Seit beinahe 400 Jahren sind Gletscherdarstellungen in Karten bekannt. Im 19. Jahrhundert entstehen gromastbige Karten zu gletscherkundlichen Zwecken. Ab 1879 werden exakte Hhenlinienkarten als Hilfsmittel fr die Gletscherkunde hergestellt. Aufgabe und Mglichkeiten solcher topographischer Gletscherkarten werden beschrieben. Dem Artikel liegen drei Kartenbeispiele bei.
3674345|On the basis of interviews in 2 Huli-speaking villages in the Papua New Guinea Highlands, genealogical charts for 1678 persons, alive or dead, representing 5 generations, were reconstructed to investigate the change in intrapopulation migration patterns in response to modernization and environmental degradation in their habitats. Migration flows from less modernized and thinly populated areas to more modernized and densely populated areas predominated among the older generations, whereas flows in the opposite direction prevailed among the younger generations. This observation is attributable to the disparities in modernization that have increased since the establishment of an administrative center and to the resulting shortage of garden areas around the overpopulated center, respectively. A gold rush in the end of the 1980s may also have been a cause for the migration flow toward the northern, less modernized area.
3674230|The Western Carpathian forests are of extraordinary importance, not only as production forests but also in terms of general and local public interest. Apart from being the source of economically vital products for local people, they play a very important role for neighboring countries in protecting soil and water resources in which these countries also have an interest. The total forest acreage in Slovakia has increased by more than 10% during the last 40 years, and total growing stock represents <tex-math>$190\ m^{3}\ per\ hectare$</tex-math>. But the condition of forests in the last decades has markedly deteriorated (Figures 1 and 2). Slovakia is currently exploring ways and means of restoring its forests to a healthy condition.
3674511|Amenity migration, the movement of people for pleasure rather than economic reasons, has become a major phenomenon in mountainous regions of western North America. Research suggests that planning to promote and manage amenity migration can contribute to the sustainable development of mountain communities. The present article reports the results of a rapid reconnaissance of the capacities of hinterland mountain municipalities in British Columbia, Canada, to plan for amenity migration. Low capacity was found in awareness and technical understanding of the phenomenon.
mounresedeve.33.1.29|Reforestation programs have been proposed as a remedial measure to tackle deforestation and forest ecosystems degradation. Because one of the main constraints to the implementation of restoration practices is lack of funding, these programs need to be carefully planned to efficiently use the economic and human resources invested. In this study we present a geospatial decisionmaking tool to identify suitable areas for restoration. The overall approach entails (1) the use of the simple multiattribute rating technique (SMART) to identify and rank the attributes according to their importance for prioritizing areas for restoration and (2) the implementation of 01 integer programming to select the areas that maximize the environmental benefit. The approach is exemplified through a case study in central Mexico's mountainous state of Estado de Mxico, encompassing an area just above 2 million ha. Specialists in different aspects of reforestation selected the following attributes to identify priority areas for reforestation: erosion, land use/land cover, position in the watershed, soil type, terrain slope, and precipitation. In total, 644,642 ha were classified under very high priority for reforestation. Of these, 17,059 ha were selected to maximize the environmental benefit without exceeding the available budget. The selected sites were mainly in the forested zones of steeply sloped mountains. Although the multiattribute decision analysis, the optimization model, and the spatial analysis were only loosely coupled, their combination proved to be an innovative and practical approach to systematically identify priority areas for reforestation on a yearly basis.
10.2307/3673285|The concept of the detailed geomorphological mapping of the GMK-priority project, German Science Society (DFG), in the Federal Republic of Germany, can be characterized as an analytical approach to a complex graphic relief representation. The information is presented on a map by several symbols which may overlie each other and yet are printed together. Thus, for every relief element, the relief properties, geomorphic interpretation, and additional data are given. The legend using a modular form has been successfully applied in regions with high relief in Europe and elsewhere. The geomorphological map sheet Knigssee is presented as an example and discussed. /// Le concept du lev gomorphologique dtaill utilis dans le cadre du projet prioritaire GMK du Conseil allemand pour la recherche (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft) peut tre caractris comme une approche analytique pour la reprsentation graphique complexe du relief. L'information est prsente sur la carte au moyen de plusieurs symboles qui peuvent tre superposs mais qui sont nanmoins imprims ensemble. De cette manire, les proprits du relief, l'interprtation gomorphologique, et d'autres donnes sont fournies pour chaque lment du relief. La lgende est prsente sous forme modulaire et a t applique avec succs aux rgions  haut relief de l'Europe et d'autres parties du monde. La carte gomorphologique Knigssee est prsente  titre d'exemple et passe en revue. /// Die Konzeption der geomorphologischen Detailkarten des GMK-Schwerpunktprogrammes der Deutschen Forschungsgemeinschaft in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland kann als ein analytischer Ansatz fr eine graphisch komplexe Reliefdarstellung charakterisiert werden. Die Informationen werden in verschiedenen trennbaren Schichten angeboten (z.B. Neigungen, Substrate u.a.), die auf der Karte zusammen ausgedruckt werden. So werden fr jedes Reliefelement Reliefeigenschaften, geomorphogenetische Erklrung und zustzliche Daten angegeben. Die Legende, die ein Baukastensystem verwendet, wurde erfolgreich innerhalb und auerhalb Europas angewendet, auch in Regionen mit Hochgebirgsrelief. Als ein Beispiel der GMK 25 (d.h. Geomorphologische Karte 1:25 000) ist das Blatt 16 Knigssee aus dem Alpenbereich beigelegt und wird erlutert.
3674650|Tanzania, with many mountain ranges, has outstanding biodiversity due to diverse ecosystems. It is one of 14 biodiversity hotspot countries in the world. The majority of Tanzanian men and women depend directly on natural resources, biodiversity, and knowledge and experience of how to ensure their family's food security. Women and local communities have possessed specialized knowledge and skills relating to selection and conservation of genetic resources and biodiversity for centuries. However, this knowledge is being eroded by modernization, underestimation, and lack of awareness. The FAO LinKS project (Gender, Biodiversity and Local Knowledge Systems for Food Security), which started in 1998, has worked mainly in the agricultural sector, aiming to raise awareness of men's and women's knowledge about the use and management of the agro-biodiversity systems that they depend on for food security. The project has strengthened the capacity of agricultural institutions to apply approaches that recognize the knowledge of men and women farmers in their programs and policies, and has assisted in the creation of a Trust Fund to propagate local knowledge issues in the country.
mounresedeve.36.1.56|In the Georgian Caucasus, unregulated grazing has damaged grassland vegetation cover and caused erosion. Methods for monitoring and control of affected territories are urgently needed. Focusing on the high-montane and subalpine grasslands of the upper Aragvi Valley, we sampled grassland for soil, rock, and vegetation cover to test the applicability of a site-specific remote-sensing approach to observing grassland degradation. We used random-forest regression to separately estimate vegetation cover from 2 vegetation indices, the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and the Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index (MSAVI
25578199|In far-western and mid-western Nepal, where food shortages are prevalent, migration to India for work purposes has been a common livelihood strategy for a large part of rural households for at least two or three generations. In this paper, the focus is on male migrants who are part-time peasants in Nepal and part-time workers in Uttarakhand, northern India. Strategies to choose both a destination and work are studied in order to understand the spatial dimensions of migration. Factors such as the availability of work, networks, proximity, and concepts about space influence the choice of a destination made by migrants, who have to find a balance between constraints and ambitions.
10.2307/3673688|The District of Laikipia on the northwest piedmont of Mt. Kenya has undergone rapid population growth through immigration of large numbers of subsistence farmers. Most of these small-scale farmers have retained the traditional land-use practices that evolved in a more moist and therefore more productive homeland. This is resulting in severe environmental pressure. Household strategies attempt to balance crop-farming, livestock production, off-farm employment, family networking, and community cooperation. Risk-avoiding strategies have not included adaptation of original farming techniques. Possible solutions to the increasing number of problems may lie in the development of small-scale and medium-sized economic enterprises in the small rural centers. However, further socioeconomic studies are urgently required. /// Le district de Laikipia sur le pimont nord-ouest du mont Kenya a subi une croissance dmographique rapide cause par l'immigration d'un grand nombre d'agriculteurs de subsistance. La plupart de ces petits fermiers continuent  pratiquer les formes traditionnelles d'utilisation des terres adaptes  un milieu plus humide et donc plus productif; une pression norme sur l'environnement en a rsult. Chaque famille dpend de la culture, de l'levage, du rseau familial et de la coopration au niveau de la communaut. Les stratgies visant  viter les risques n'ont jusqu' prsent pas inclus l'adaptation de techniques agricoles originales. Des solutions possibles au nombre croissant de problmes peuvent tre lies au dveloppement d'entreprises conomiques  petite chelle et de petite taille dans les petits centres ruraux. Nanmoins, des tudes socio-conomiques additionnelles ont besoin d'tre effectues d'urgence. /// Die Bevlkerungsdichte im Distrikt von Laikipia in den nordwestlichen Vorbergen des Mt. Kenia hat durch die verstrkte Zuwanderung von Subsistenzbauern schnell zugenommen. Die Mehrzahl dieser Kleinbauern hat die traditionellen Landnutzungsmethoden, die in ihrem feuchteren und daher ergiebigeren Heimatland blich waren, beibehalten. Daraus ergibt sich eine starke Belastung der Umwelt. Die Bemhungen der Haushalte gehen dahin, zwischen Feldfruchtanbau, Viehzucht, Arbeitsverpflichtungen auerhalb des Farmbetriebes, Familienverflechtung und Gemeindekooperation ein Gleichgewicht zu finden. Die Absicht, Risiken zu vermeiden, hat bisher eine Verbesserung der alten Bebauungsmethoden nicht zugelassen. Die Bildung von landwirtschaftlichen Klein- und Mittelbetrieben in den lndlichen Zentren knnte eine Lsung fr die stndig wachsenden Probleme sein. Weitere sozio-konomische Untersuchungen sind jedoch dringend notwendig.
mounresedeve.32.3.304|Pasture use in the Kyrgyz Republic has changed significantly as a result of fundamental political, economic, and societal changes following the collapse of the Soviet Union and the subsequent changes in people's livelihoods. Government institutions criticize current land use patterns as unsustainable and the cause of degradation. But at the local level, pasture quality is rarely seen as a major problem. This article uses a qualitative approach to examine the tension between these views and addresses current land use practices and related narratives about pasture degradation in rural Kyrgyzstan. By focusing on meanings ascribed to pastures, it shows how people closely relate current practices to the experiences and value systems of the Soviet period and to changing identities emerging in the post-Soviet transformation process. It argues that proper understanding of resource degradation issues requires adequate consideration of the context of meaning constructed by local resource users when they make sense of their environment.
3674629|The upper Yangtze River is extremely rich in hydropower, with 9 large-scale hydropower projects planned and 2 under construction. Current and projected large-scale hydropower projects pose difficult challenges as well as great hope for development of local impoverished areas. There are great difficulties in coordinating hydropower development and local regional development, owing to gaps in national policies, clear separation between enterprise and local communities, and problems with local management and the local economy. The local government faces the dilemma of supporting national hydropower development on the one hand, and safeguarding the interests of local people on the other. Local regional development requires general planning and a proper national policy for resettling dam migrants. A special national eco-district is proposed to delimit reaches in the upper Yangtze River area that will provide ecological security for the developed reaches and the dams lower down on the Yangtze River.
10.2307/3673511|The west-Pacific drought of 1972-1973 was accompanied in the highlands of Papua New Guinea by frosts of a severity not experienced since 1941. The food crops of between 130,000 and 150,000 people were severely damaged or destroyed. The Government instituted a major programme of famine relief, at the same time discouraging the traditional strategy of outmigration to stay with hosts, the importance of which the authorities were largely unaware. This paper, rewritten from a report prepared in 1973, reviews the event, then the famine relief programme and its effectiveness. Administration and mission perspectives are contrasted with those of the highland people, and an attempt is made to reconstruct what actually happened in 1972. The relief programme is criticized as an over-reaction on the part of the authorities, and in conclusion some later perspectives are introduced; in contrast to what happened in 1941, no one died and few were seriously hungry for long. None the less, the cost of Government intervention was high, and many mistakes were made. /// La scheresse qui a svi dans l'ouest du Pacifique en 1972-1973 a t accompagne dans les hautes terres de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine par des geles d'une rigueur inconnue depuis 1941. Les rcoltes destines  alimenter de 130.000  150.000 personnes ont t srieusement endommages ou dtruites. Le gouvernement a institu un programme important de secours aux victimes de la disette, tout en prenant des mesures pour dcourager la stratgie traditionnelle de migration qui consiste  aller se rfugier chez des htes, une stratgie dont les autorits avaient sous-estim l'importance. Cet article, rvis  partir d'un rapport crit en 1973, passe en revue les vnements, puis le programme de secours et son efficacit. Les perspectives de l'administration et de la mission sont compares  celles des habitants des haute terres, et une tentative est faite de reconstituer ce qui s'est effectivement pass en 1972. Le programme de secours est critiqu en tant que raction trop vive de la part des autorits et, en matire de conclusion, des perspectives nouvelles sont prsentes; compar  la situation de 1941, personne n'est mort de faim et peu de gens ont srieusement souffert de la disette pendant une longue priode de temps. Nanmoins, le cot de l'intervention gouvernementale a t lev et beaucoup d'erreurs ont t commises. /// Strenger Frost in den Hochlndern von Papua Neu-Guinea, wie es ihn seit 1941 nicht mehr gegeben hatte, war die Begleiterscheinung der Drreperiode im westlichen Pazifik in den Jahren 1972-73. Die Ernte von 130 000 bis 150 000 Menschen war schwer geschdigt oder vernichtet. Die Regierung veranlate ein umfangreiches Hilfsprogramm gegen Hungersnot; untersttzte aber nicht die traditionelle Strategie, zu Gastfamilien auszuweichen, da die Behrden die Wichtigkeit solcher Schritte nicht erkannt hatten. Die vorliegende Verffentlichung, auf einem Bericht von 1973 basierend, untersucht das Geschehen, das Hilfsprogramm und seine Wirksamkeit. Behrdliche und organisatorische Perspektiven werden denen der Hochlandbevlkerung gegenbergestellt, und es wird versucht, zu rekonstruieren, was 1972 tatschlich geschah. Das Hilfsprogramm wird als berreaktion der verantwortlichen Behrde kritisiert und abschlieend werden die gewonnenen Erfahrungen zusammengefat. Im Vergleich zu den Geschehnissen von 1941, gab es keine Todesflle und niemand litt fr lngere Zeit unter Hunger. Dennoch waren die Kosten fr das Eingreifen der Behrde hoch, und viele Fehler wurden begangen.
25164101|The present paper analyzes the changes in migration patterns of a Tibetan-style transhumance livelihood system for a period of 20 years in northwest Yunnan, China. Between 1984 and 2005, the average number of pastures for rotational use in the 12 investigated villages decreased from 6.2 to 3.9, and the average number of stops on the annual migration route decreased from 8.3 to 5.8. The number of days during which the animals depend on stall feeding and low-elevation shrubs increased from 231.3 to 270, while those spent in forest belts decreased by 32.6% and those in alpine rangelands by 25.5%. These changes have intensified the pressure on low-elevation ecosystems and grazing resources. Winter fodder supply, rather than carrying capacity based on overall grazing resources at all elevations, should be used to determine the scale of pastoral development. Encroachment of woody plants is a major cause of alpine rangeland degradation, which used to be unjustifiably attributed to a growing livestock population. Reintroduction of traditional management tools such as burning can effectively increase the area of available rangeland resources and curb localized degradation processes by evening out grazing pressure.
3674486|Biomass productivity, botanical composition, and soil physical properties were studied under conditions with and without application of manure. The study was conducted at the Debre Zeit station of the International Livestock Research Institute, located 5 km from Addis Ababa in the Ethiopian highlands. The aim of the study was to assess the effect of manure on botanical composition, plant biomass, and water infiltration rates. There were 3 treatments: no grazing, moderate grazing (MDG = 1.8 animal unit months [AUM]/hectare), and heavy grazing (HVG = 4.2 AUM/hectare), each replicated 4 times. Removing cow dung from grazed plots decreased biomass production. Species richness was higher on manured plots than on nonmanured plots. The water infiltration rate was low on grazed and nongrazed plots with no manure when compared with the manured plots.
10.2307/3673456|The Bale Mountains National Park area of Ethiopia is an extensive high-altitude montane plateau. It is the catchment area for four major rivers, supplying water to parts of Ethiopia and Somalia and supporting irrigation and hydroelectric schemes. The forested flanks of the massif regulate water flow to these rivers. Many endemic species of fauna and flora are found in the area, which is also an important reservoir of genetic material. Management of the area presently falls under several departments and needs to be coordinated for the long-term benefit of the area and its populace. /// Le Parc national du massif du Bal en Ethiopie est un plateau de grande tendue  l'tage montagnard. Il constitue la surface de captation des eaux de quatre fleuves importants, assurant l'alimentation en eau de certaines parties de l'Ethiopie et de la Somalie et permettant des projets d'irrigation et d'hydrolectricit. La couverture forestire des flancs du massif rgularise l'coulement des eaux vers ces fleuves. Un grand nombre d'espces endmiques de la faune et de la flore se trouvent dans cette rgion, qui constitue galement un rservoir important de matriel hrditaire. La gestion des ressources dpend maintenant de plusieurs organismes et devrait tre coordonne pour que cette rgion et sa population puissent en bnficier  long terme. /// Der Bale Nationalpark in Aethiopien umfasst ein ausgedehntes, hochgelegenes Gebirgsplateau sowie dessen tiefer gelegenes Umland. Die Einzugsgebiete von vier grossen Flssen beginnen in diesem Gebirge. Diese Flsse versorgen Teile Aethiopiens und Somalias und speisen Bewsserungssysteme und Wasserkraftwerke. Die aufgeforsteten Flanken des Massivs regulieren den Wasserhaushalt der Flsse. Viele endemische Faunaund Flora-Arten kommen in diesem Gebiet vor, das ein wichtiges Reservoir von genetischem Material darstellt. Die Verwaltung des Parks fllt zur Zeit in die Kompetenz verschiedener Institutionen und sollte besser koordiniert werden.
10.2307/3673539|Relationships between soil erosion on hillside farms and forest conversion to farmland in adjacent national parks were examined in the Bayhang watershed near Leyte Mountains National Park, Philippines, and the Sungai Ning watershed near Kerinci-Seblat National Park, Indonesia. A random sample of hillside farms revealed widespread evidence of accelerated soil erosion in both watersheds, including splash and sheet erosion, and rill and gully formation. Erosion under line transects and on enclosed runoff plots revealed mean soil losses of 422 t/ha during the first six months of cultivation on recently cleared farms in Bayhang and 3.8 t/ha during the cropping year on continuously cultivated farms in Sungai Ning. Analysis of eroded sediments and uneroded soils revealed erosion-induced reductions in soil productivity. Soil erosion and land degradation were found to contribute to forest conversion in both national parks. The farmers' response to land degradation in Bayhang was to clear forest for new farms in Leyte Mountains National Park, while farmers in Kerinci replaced nutrient-demanding crops with cassava, and cleared forest for new farms in Kerinci-Seblat National Park. Potentially sustainable and appropriate soil conservation and economic development activities for use in the two watersheds are reviewed. /// Dans le bassin hydrographique de Bayhang, prs du parc national des Montagnes de Leyte, et dans celui de Sungai Ning prs du parc national de Kerinci-Seblat en Indonesie, les rapports entre l'rosion du sol sur les fermes  flanc de coteau et la conversion de la fort en terres cultives dans les parcs nationaux qui leur sont contigus furent examins. Un chantillon prlev au hasard rvla d'importants signes d'rosion rapide du sol dans les deux bassins hydrographiques, y compris l'rosion  cause des clasboussures et des torrents d'eaux, et la formation de ruisselets et de ravines. L'rosion sous les lignes de sectionnement transversal et sur les surfaces d'coulement des eaux rvla des pertes moyennes du sol de 422 t/ha pendant les six premiers mois de culture sur les fermes recemment dfriches de Bayhang, et 3.8 t/ha pendant l'anne de recolte sur les fermes cultives constamment de Sungai Ning. L'analyse des sdiments rods et des sols non-rods rvla des rductions de productivit du sol des  l'rosion. Dans les deux parcs nationaux, il apparat que l'rosion du sol et la dgradation des terres contribuent  la conversion de la fort. Au Bayhand les fermiers ont ragi  la dgradation des terres en dfrichant de nouvelles fermes dans le parc national des Montagnes de Leyte, tandis que les fermiers de Kerinci ont remplac des cultures exigeant des substances nutritives avec la culture du manioc, et ont dfrich de nouvelles fermes dans le parc national de Kerinci-Seblat. Des activits menant au dvloppement conomique et  la conservation du sol, en utilisant des mthodes soutenables et adaptes aux deux bassins hydrographiques, sont examines. /// Die Beziehung zwischen Bodenerosion auf Bergfarmen und Rodung in benachbarten Nationalparks wurde an der Bayhang Wasserscheide nahe des Leyte Mountains National Park, Philippinen, und an der Sungai Ning Wasserscheide nahe des Kerinci-Seblat National Park, Indonesien, untersucht. Eine Zufallsauswahl von Bergfarmen erbrachte umfassendes Beweismaterial fr beschleunigte Bodenerosien an beiden Wasserscheiden, einschliesslich splash und sheet erosion und rill und gully. Erosionsstudien in abgegrenzten Parzellen und Untergrundtransekten ergaben Bodenverluste von 422 t/ha whrend der ersten sechs Monate der Bebauung auf frisch gerodeten Anbauflchen in Bayhand und 3.8 t/ha pro Anbauperiode auf Farmen mit durchgehender Kultivierung in Sungai Ning. Analysen von erodierten Sedimenten und unbeschdigten Bden demonstrierten eine erosionsbedingte Minderung der Bodenproduktivitt. Bodenerosion und Minderung der Bodenqualitt tragen zu Rodungen in beiden Nationalparks bei. Die Bauern in Bayhang reagieren auf den Bodenverfall mit Kahlschlgen und der Anlage neuer Farmen im Leyte Mountains National Park, whrend die Bauern in Kerinci teils anspruchsvolle Bodenfrchte durch Cassava ersetzen, teils neue Anbauflchen in den Kerinci-Seblat National Park roden. Mgliche Programme fr dauerhafte und angemessene Bodenerhaltung und wirtschaftliche Entwicklung werden diskutiert.
10.2307/3673097|The Northern Andes is ecologically unique among the world's equatorial mountain ecosystems and is also the most highly developed. Land-use practices since the European colonization and recent population increases have upset the ecological balance and resulted in agricultural utilization of steep slopes and lowland tropical forest areas. This had led to deforestation, accelerated erosion, increased runoff, flooding, silting of streams, and sedimentation of lakes and reservoirs. Loss of life and property due to natural disasters has increased as a result of settlement in hazard-prone sites. Measures to stabilize the environment and restore ecological balance include watershed management, land capability classification, and reforestation. Ecological research needs of the region include reforestation and forest protection techniques, mountain hazard mapping, watershed management models, indigenous agricultural and resource utilization systems, technologies to improve productivity of small farmers, and human population studies of migration and nutritional status. /// Du point de vue cologique, les Andes du Nord est une rgion unique parmi les systmes cologiques des montagnes sous l'quateur et c'est galement la rgion la plus dveloppe. Les modes d'utilisation des terres depuis la colonisation Europen et les augmentations dmographiques rcentes ont bouleverss l'quilibre cologique et ont donn lieu  une utilisation agricole des pentes raides et des rgions en fort dans les plaines tropicales. Par consquence, la rgion a subi du dboisement, de l'erosion acclre, des coulements plus importants, des inondations, de l'envasement des ruisseaux, et de la sdimentation des lacs et des rservoirs. Les pertes de vie et de proprit du fait des dsastres naturels ont augment  la suite d'une colonisation des sites susceptibles aux accidents. Des mesures permettant une stabilisation de l'environnement et une rtablissement de l'quilibre cologique comprennent la gestion des bassins versants, la classification de la capacit des terres, et le rboisement. Les domaines ncessitant une recherche plus approfondie de la rgion sont les techniques de rboisement et de protection des forts, la cartographie des zones dangereuses des montagnes, les modles de gestion des bassins versants, les systmes d'utilisation des ressources et de l'agriculture indigne, les technologies permettant d'amliorer la productivit des petits exploitants, et les tudes dmographiques de l'etat des migrations et de nutrition. /// Die Umwelt der nrdlichen Anden ist unter den quatorialen Bergregionen einzigartig und in der Kultivierung am weitesten fortgeschritten. Bodennutzungsmethoden, unverndert seit der europischen Kolonisation, und neuerliches Bevlkerungswachstum haben das kologische Gleichgewicht gestrt, verursacht durch die landwirtschaftliche Nutzung steiler Hanglagen und tropischer Waldgebiets im Tiefland. Die Folgen waren Abholzung, beschleunigte Erosion, erhhter Wasserablauf, berflutung, Versandung der Flsse und Ablagerungen in Seen und Reservoirs. Die Besiedelung gefhrdeter Gebiete hat ausserdem die Verluste an Leben und Eigentum durch Naturkatastrophen ansteigen lassen. Massnahmen, die Umwelt zu stabilisieren und das kologische Gleichgewicht wiederherzustellen, schliessen eine Regelung des Wasserablaufs, Klassifizierung der Boddennutzung und Aufforstung ein. Eine kologische Umstrukturierung dieses Gebietes ist in folgenden Bereichen notwendig: Aufforstung und Waldschutzmethoden, Kartieren von Berggefahren, Modelle zur Regelung des Wasserablaufs, lokale Nutzungsschemen fr Landwirtschaft und Naturschtze, Verfahren zur Ertragsteigerung der Kleinbauern und Studien ber Abwanderung der Bevlkerung und ihren Ernhrungszustand. /// Los Andes del norte es una zona ecolgicamente nica entre los ecosistemas de montaas ecuatoriales del mundo y es tambin la ms altamente desarrollada. Las prcticas en la utilizacin de la tierra desde la colonizacin europea y los recientes aumentos de poblacin han trastornado el equilibrio ecolgico y han producido como resultado el que se usen para la agricultura las laderas escarpadas y las zonas de bosques tropicales de las tierras bajas. Esto ha traido como consecuencia inundaciones, sedimentaciones de lodo en los arroyos, desforestacin, erosin acelerada, incremento en los escurrimientos y sedimentacin de lagos y embalses. Ha aumentado el nmero de vidas y de propiedades que se pierden debido a los desastres naturales por causa del asentamiento de la poblacin en lugares propensos a desastres. Las medidas para estabilizar el medio ambiente y restaurar el equilibrio ecolgico incluyen la administracin de las vertientes, la clasificacin de las tierras de acuerdo a su capacidad y la reforestacin. Las necesidades de las investigaciones ecolgicas de la regin incluyen tcnicas de reforestacin y proteccin de bosques, construccin de mapas que indiquen los peligros de las montaas, modelos de administracin de las cuencas, sistemas de agricultura indgena y de uso de los recursos, tecnologas para mejorar le productividad de los agricultores modestos y estudios de poblacin humana en el campo de las migraciones y de los estados de la nutricin.
10.2307/3673810|The cloud forest on Pasochoa Volcano is one of the last remnants in the inter-Andean valley of Ecuador. Both natural and human disturbances have contributed to the development of the present-day vegetation. Repeat air photography with subsequent ground truthing was used to quantify and describe changes in vegetation in two natural (pramo and forest) and two anthropogenic (crop and pasture) landscape categories. The proportion of spatial area covered by each of these categories in the study area was evaluated during four time intervals spanning 31 years (1956-1987) as human population increased in the region. These data indicated an overall decrease (-11%) of pasture and agricultural fields; an increase (+5%) of pramo, attributed to fire and grazing pressure at higher elevations; and an increase (+7%) of forest, in part the result of legal protection and active management. Transects revealed that populations of native bamboo, Chusquea scandens, accounted for some of the recent vegetation classified as forest from air photographs, particularly on unstable slopes and in areas of recent human disturbance; implications of bamboo density on patch dynamics and slope stability are discussed. Continued legal recognation and management are needed to protect this relict forest and to restore similar habitat in the northern Andes. /// La fort subtropicale du volcan Pasochoa constitue l'une des dernires forts reliques de la valle inter-andine de l'Equateur. Les perturbations naturelles et humaines combines ont contribu au dveloppement de la vgtation actuelle. Des photographies ariennes rptes, avec vrification ultrieure de la ralit du terrain, ont t utilises pour quantifier et dcrire les changements de vgtation dans deux catgories de paysages naturels (pramo et fort) et anthropogniques (cultures et pturages). Les superficies respectives des diffrentes catgories de paysages incluses dans l'tude ont t values sur quatre intervalles de temps couvrant 31 annes (1956-1987), en fonction de la croissance dmographique dans la rgion. Ces donnes indiquent une rduction gnrale (-11%) des pturages et des champs agricoles, une augmentation (+5%) du pramo, attribue aux feux de broussailles et au pacage  haute altitude, et une augmentation (+7%) de la fort, en partie due  la protection lgale et  une gestion active. Les transects ont rvl que les peuplements de bambou natif, Chusquea scandens, constituaient une partie de la vgtation rcente classifie comme fort sur les photographies ariennes, en particulier sur les versants instables et dans les zones de perturbations humaines rcentes; les implications de la densit du bambou sur la dynamique des parcelles et la stabilit des versants sont examines. Il faut reconnatre le statut de cette fort relique pour la protger et restaurer un habitat similaire dans les Andes septentrionales. /// Im Inter-Anden Tal von Ecuador hat sich ein Feuchtwaldgebiet am Pasochoa Vulkan, als eines von wenigen noch existierenden, erhalten. Zur gegenwrtigen Vegetation haben natrliche und anthropogene Einflsse beigetragen. Serien von Luftaufnahmen zusammen mit nachfolgender Besttigung der Gelndestruktur wurden ausgewertet, um Vegetationsvernderungen in zwei natrlichen (Paramo und Wald) und zwei anthropogenen (Feldfruchtanbau und Weideland) Gelndekategorien quantitativ zu erfassen und zu beschreiben. ber insgesamt 31 Jahre (1956-1987) wurde das Flchenverhltnis dieser Kategorien fr vier Zeitabschnitte, in denen die Bevlkerung im Untersuchungsgebiet zunahm, ausgewertet. Die Daten zeigten insgesamt einen Rckgang (-11%) an Weideland und bestellten Feldern, eine Zunahme (+5%) an Paramo, was in hheren Lagen durch Weidedruck und Abbrand erklrt wird, und eine Zunahme (+7%) an bewaldeten Flchen, zum Teil das Ergebnis von Waldschutz und aktivem Management. Einzelstudien der Luftaufnahmen zeigten, da fr Waldgebiete einheimische Bambusstnde, Chusquea scandens, als Teil der neuen Vegetation klassifiziert werden konnten, insbesondere an instabilen Hngen und auf Flchen, die anthropogenen Einwirkungen unterlagen. Es wird diskutiert, wie Flchendynamik und Hangstabilitt von der Wachstumsdichte der Bambusstnde beeinflut werden. Weitere Untersuchungen und die Problemerkennung der Ergebnisse sind notwendig, um diesen Reliktwald zu schtzen; auch um hnliche Bedingungen in den nrdlichen Anden wieder herzustellen.
10.2307/3673357|This paper delineates bioclimatic zones of the Colorado Front Range. It develops a methodology which might be useful for making inventories of mountain bioclimates in other parts of the world. Following a description of the vegetation and the climate of the Front Range some insight is gained into the bioclimatic systems of the area by examining the applicability of established climatic classifications. The main part of the paper explains procedures for distinguishing the bioclimatic zones. The variables employed in determining the zones are the ratio of growing season thawing degree days to growing season precipitation, summer mean temperature, and growing season soil moisture deficit. Aspect is examined as a possible method of determining second order bioclimatic divisions. In attempting to determine the bioclimatic divisions, the study (1) establishes the feasibility of applying existing climatic classifications to the area, (2) identifies important bioclimatic variables, (3) points out the limits of present understanding of the role of aspect in the area, and (4) provides information on the possibility of extrapolating the bioclimatic zones identified in Boulder County to other parts of the Front Range and beyond. /// Cette tude dfinit les zones bioclimatiques des contreforts des Montagnes Rocheuses au Colorado, et prsente une mthodologie qui pourrait tre utilise, sous une forme ou une autre, pour inventorier les bioclimats montagnards dans d'autres parties du monde. Partant d'une description de la vgtation et du climat des contreforts des Rocheuses, l'tude donne un aperu des systmes bioclimatiques de la rgion en examinant l'applicabilit des classifications climatiques actuelles. La majeure partie de cette tude concerne les techniques permettant de diffrencier les zones bioclimatiques. Les variables utilises pour dterminer les zones sont le rapport entre les degrs jours de dgel et la prcipitation pendant la saison de croissance, la temprature moyenne pendant l't, et le dficit d'humidit du sol pendant la saison de croissance. L'orientation est galement considr comme un moyen possible de dterminer les divisions bioclimatiques du second ordre. Cette tentative de dtermination des divisions bioclimatiques a permis d'accomplir les tches suivantes: (1) tablir la validit d'appliquer  cette rgion les classifications climatiques actuelles, (2) identifier les variables bioclimatiques importantes, (3) considrer les limites de la connaissance actuelle sur le rle de l'aspect dans la rgion, et (4) obtenir de l'information sur la possibilit d'extrapoler les zones bioclimatiques identifies dans le comt de Boulder  d'autres parties des contreforts des Montagnes Rocheuses et ailleurs. /// Diese Verffentlichung beschreibt die bioklimatischen Zonen im Gebiet der Colorado Vorberge. Eine Methodik wird entwickelt, die auch fr bioklimatische Zonengliederung in Berggebieten anderer Teile der Welt infrage kommt. Nach einer Beschreibung der Vegetation und des Klimas der Vorberge kann man die Anwendbarkeit bestehender klimatischer Klassifikationen berprfen und so Einblick in die bioklimatischen Systeme eines Gebietes gewinnen. Der Hauptteil dieses Beitrags erklrt die Methodik, die zur Unterscheidung bioklimatischer Zonen angewandt wurde. Die ausgewhlten Variablen sind, whrend der Wachstumsperiode, das Verhltnis der frostfreien Tage zu den Zeiten mit Niederschlag und das Defizit in Bodenfeuchte, und auerdem die mittlere Sommertemperatur. Es wird untersucht, ob die Hanglage eine mgliche, wenn auch nur untergeordnete Rolle bei der Feststellung bioklimatischer Gliederungen spielt. Der Versuch, zu bioklimatischen Einteilungen zu kommen, ergab folgende Einblicke: (1) die Mglichkeit, existierende klimatische Einteilungen fr das Gebiet anzuwenden, (2) die Identifizierung der wichtigsten klimatischen Variablen, (3) das beschrnkte gegenwrtige Verstndnis ber die Rolle, die die Hanglage in einem Gebiet spielt, (4) die Anwendungsmglichkeit der bioklimatischen Zonen - im Landkreis Boulder gewonnen - auf andere Vorgebirgsregionen und darber hinaus.
10.2307/3674099|A study of farming systems and the socioeconomic circumstances of ethnic minority farmers was carried out in the uplands of Northern Thailand. The region is susceptible to land degradation: soil fertility depletion; weed infestation; and soil erosion. In particular, soil erosion has attracted the attention and mobilized the efforts of many government organizations, non-government organizations, and others. However, most attempts to introduce soil-conservation technologies, thus far, have met with little success. The aim of the study was to better understand the reasons for the poor adoption of soil-conservation practices disseminated by various rural development projects and to propose alternative actions. The most popular soil-conservation practices used for extension purposes include hillside ditches, alley cropping with leguminous tree hedgerows, grass strips, and incorporation of perennials within cropping systems. These practices were developed on experimental stations in the region and else-where and delivered as 'technical packages' to farmers. Most farmers have remained reluctant to adopt them, regardless of whether they have participated in extension projects. The many reasons for this include agronomic inadequacy of some of them, poor financial returns, lack of capital, social marginalization of some farmers, labor constraints, the absence of land tenure, and poor interactions with extension services. Most farmers recognize that soil erosion is a problem, although soil fertility depletion and weed pressure are often their main immediate concern. To reduce the impact of soil erosion both in the fields and down-stream, more participatory interactions between extension agents and farmers are needed; this should lead to identification of solutions that are economically viable, ecologically sound, and politically realistic.
mounresedeve.32.3.294|As in many other high mountainous regions, local people in the Eastern Pamirs (Tajikistan) use biomass fuels, mainly teresken shrubs, to heat their houses during the winter months. This overuse of already scarce natural resources results in serious land degradation. Since 2006, thermal insulation measures have been disseminated and financed through microloans. This case study analyzes the impacts of thermal insulation in Murgab, the main town in the Eastern Pamirs, where thermal insulation measures have been implemented in 159 households since 2008. Although clients are more interested in increased comfort than in fuel savings, according to quantitative data collected in 2010 and 2011, thermal insulation measures led to a 20 to 30% savings in heating energy on average. However, it is mainly better-off households that are aware of energy efficiency issues and willing to invest in thermal insulation. In contrast, poorer households are the main teresken users, but they rarely have their houses insulated due to a lack of awareness and a low ability to repay loans. Therefore, the approach to introducing thermal insulation has only had a small effect on teresken consumption until now.
10.2307/3673729|The growth of a lake on the Imja Glacier, Khumbu Himal, was traced from maps and photographs supplied by several sources. There were five small ponds in the 1950s. A single lake with islands formed by 1975. A small island existing in 1978 had disappeared in 1980. The lake area was <tex-math>$0.54\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1984, and had become slightly larger by 1991. The comparison of the lake water volumes of "Imja Glacier Lake" and of the lakes which burst in 1977 and 1985 suggests that future outbursts of "Imja Glacier Lake" may cause catastrophic damage below. Today, the spillway morphology at the surface of the debris-covered ice near the glacier terminus is changing noticeably, indicating rapid expansion of the lake toward the west. As this proceeds, the possibility for catastrophic outburst will become greater, even if the lake level is lowered. Recent observations indicate a maximum depth of more than 90 m and an average depth of 40-50 m; thus the potential for a major outburst is much higher than previously anticipated. Glaciological and hydrological investigations and a monitoring program should be undertaken in order to mitigate potential catastrophic damage at the lower elevations. /// La croissance d'un lac situ sur le glacier Imja, dans le Khumbu Himal, a t retrace  l'aide de cartes et de photographies obtenues  partir de diffrentes sources. Cinq petits tangs taient prsents dans les annes 1950. Un lac avec des les s'est form en 1975. Une petite le apparente en 1978 a disparu en 1980. La surface du lac tait de <tex-math>$0,54\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> en 1984; en 1991, elle tait un peu plus grande. La comparaison des volumes d'eau du "lac du glacier Imja" avec ceux des lacs qui se sont dgorgs en 1977 et en 1985 suggre que dans le futur des ruptures du "lac du glacier Imja" risquent de causer des dgts catastrophiques plus bas dans la valle. A prsent, la morphologie du dversoir  la surface de la glace couverte de dbris, prs du front glaciaire, change sensiblement, indiquant une expansion rapide du lac vers l'ouest. Quand cela se produit, la probabilit d'une rupture catastrophique deviendra plus leve, mme si le niveau du lac est abaiss. Des observations rcentes indiquent une profondeur maximale de plus de 90 m et une profondeur moyenne de 40  50 m; pour cette raison, le risque d'une rupture majeure est beaucoup plus lev que prvu. Des tudes glaciologiques et gologiques, et un programme de surveillance doivent tre mis en oeuvre afin d'attnuer les dgts catastrophiques potentiels plus bas dans la valle. /// Anhand von Landkarten und Fotografien, die von verschiedenen Quellen stammten, wurde das Anwachsen eines Sees auf dem Imja Gletscher, Khumbu Himal, verfolgt. In den 50iger Jahren gab es fnf kleine Seen. Bis 1975 hatte sich ein einziger See mit Inseln gebildet. Eine kleine Insel, die 1978 noch vorhanden war, war 1980 verschwunden. Die Flche des Sees betrug im Jahre 1984 <tex-math>$0,54\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> und war bis 1991 noch etwas angewachsen. Ein Vergleich der Wassermenge im "Imja Gletschersee" mit der von Seen, die 1977 und 1985 barsten, zeigt, da eine hnliche zuknftige Katastrophe des "Imja Gletschersees" talabwrts schwere Schden verursachen wrde. Zur Zeit verndert sich nahe des Gletscherendes die Morphologie der berlaufrinne an der Oberflche des mit Gesteinsschutt bedeckten Eises bemerkenswert und zeigt eine schnelle Ausdehnung des Sees nach Westen an. Diese Entwicklung erhht die Gefahr einer berflutungskatastrophe auch dann, wenn der Wasserspiegel gesengt wird. Neuerliche Beobachtungen ergaben eine maximale Wassertiefe von ber 90 m und eine Durchschnittstiefe von 40-50 m; woraus folgt, da die Gefahr fr eine Flutkatastrophe viel grer ist, als bisher angenommen. Glaziologische und hydrologische Untersuchungen sollten in Verbindung mit regelmigen Aufzeichnungen gemacht werden, um potentielle Katastrophenschden talabwrts zu mindern.
10.2307/3673933|Mountain cloud forests (also known as nebelwald, fort nphliphile, bosque de ceja montaa, and several other names) are characterized by the presence of persistent or frequent wind-driven cloud. The net precipitation is significantly enhanced by direct canopy interception of cloud water. This, combined with low water use by the vegetation due to reduced solar radiation and vapor deficit, canopy wetting, and general suppression of evapotranspiration, results in net additions to the water yield of the watershed. If these forests are removed an important water supply function is lost. Cloud forests have great biological diversity value, especially because they contain a very high proportion of nationally or regionally endemic species. The most serious threats ranging from climate change to alien species introductions are described; strategies for achieving conservation and better management of cloud forests are discussed and, finally, from a symposium and workshop attended by cloud forest researchers and managers, a set of high priority research topics is presented. /// Les forts nphliphiles (mountain cloud forest, nebelwald, bosque de ceja montana, et bien d'autres dsignations) sont caractrises par la prsence de nuages persistants ou frquents, pousss par les vents. La hauteur nette des prcipitations est sensiblement augmente par l'interception directe de l'eau des nuages par la vote des arbres. Ce phnomne, combin avec la basse consommation d'eau par la vgtation, cause par la radiation solaire rduite et le dficit de vapeur, le mouillage de la vote des arbres, et une suppression gnrale de l'vapotranspiration, augmente nettement l'apport d'eau du bassin versant. Si ces forts sont limines, une importante source d'approvisonnement en eau sera perdue. Les forts nphliphiles prsentent une grande valeur du point de vue de la diversit biologique, en particulier du fait qu'elles contiennent un trs grand pourcentage des espces endmiques nationales ou rgionales. Les dangers les plus srieux, depuis les changements de climat  l'introduction d'espces trangres, sont dcrits; des stratgies de prservation et de meilleure gestion des forts nphliphiles sont examines. Finalement, une liste de sujets de recherche prioritaires, base sur les activits d'un symposium et d'un atelier auxquels ont particip des chercheurs et des responsables de la gestion des forts nphliphiles, est prsente. /// Montane Nebelwlder (mountain cloud forest, foret nphliphile, bosque de ceja montana, und viele weitere Bezeichnungen existieren dafr) sind dadurch charakterisiert, da in ihnen Bedingungen herrschen, die Wlder permanent oder zumindest hufig wind-verursachten Wolken aussetzen. Die Nettobetrge der zur Verfgung stehenden Wassermengen werden betrchtlich durch die direkte Aufnahme von Wolkenfeuchtigkeit im oberen Dachstock des Waldes erhht. Dieses Phnomen trgt in Verbindung mit einer geringen Wasseraufnahme der Vegetationsdecke infolge reduzierter Einstrahlung und Verdunstungsdefizite, Walddachbefeuchtung und einer allgemein verringerten Evapotranspiration zu einer hheren Netto-Wassermenge im Einzugsbereich bei. Falls diese Wlder vernichtet werden, wird eine wichtige Wasserversorgungsquelle aufgegeben. Nebelwlder weisen eine hohe Biodiversitt auf, insbesondere aufgrund ihrer Eigenschaft als Trger national oder regional endemischer Arten. Dieser Beitrag beschreibt die wichtigsten Gefahrenpotentiale fr den Erhalt der Nebelwlder in einem Spektrum von Klimawandel bis hin zum Einzug fremder Arten. Weiterhin werden Manahmen zur Erhaltung und verbesserten Verwaltung von Nebelwldern diskutiert. Letztlich werden die Ergebnisse eines Arbeitstreffens von Nebelwaldforschern und Verantwortlichen prsentiert, die eine Priorittenliste fr zuknftige Forschungen einfordern.
10.2307/3674254|This paper investigates changes in land cover, land-tenure policies, and market pressures in Baka village, Yunnan Province, China. Before 1950 local farmers engaged in many forms of collective behavior including common property management, religious rites, and other activities led by clan leaders. Between 1950 and 1978 peoples' communes governed the management of most lands. All farming activities were organized, and the amount of land to be farmed was determined according to instructions from upper administration levels. The implementation of the Household Responsibility System after 1979 gave individual households greater incentives to produce cash crops. These changes caused a demise in the planting of traditional crops, increased differentiation between rich and poor, and a gradual decline in collective forms of land management.
10.2307/3673949|Facilitation during plant succession is predicted to be an important mechanism in extreme environments whereby facilitating species moderate the micro-habitat and allow colonization by secondary species. This paper proposes two criteria for exploring facilitation. (1) Does the proposed facilitator modify the physical environment? (2) Does this modification enable colonization by later species? Failure to demonstrate either of these criteria is sufficient reason to reject the facilitation hypothesis. Criterion 1 can be addressed in a brief field season, and determines whether the more detailed physiologic and fitness studies of criterion 2 are warranted. These criteria can be used to allocate effort in extreme environments where research is difficult, and we apply them to evaluate possible facilitation by Chesneya nubigena on a glacial moraine in the Nepal Himalaya. This study demonstrates that Chesneya moderates the physical environment (criterion 1) by forming soil, increasing organic composition, and by raising soil temperatures, perhaps providing a micro-habitat suitable for colonization by grasses and forbs. Physiological and fitness benefits conferred on the secondary species (criterion 2) remain to be demonstrated. /// La facilitation pendant la succession vgtale constitue probablement un mcanisme important dans les environnements extrmes, de par le fait que les espces facilitatrices modrent le micro-habitat et permettent la colonisation par des espces secondaires. Cet article propose deux critres d'exploration de la facilitation. (1) Est-ce-que le facilitateur propos modifie l'environnement physique? (2) Est-ce-que cette modification permet la colonisation par des espces ultrieures? S'il est impossible de satisfaire l'un de ces critres, l'hypothse de facilitation doit tre rejete. Le critre no 1 peut tre abord lors d'une brve campagne sur le terrain; les rsultats dterminent si les tudes plus dtailles sur la physiologie et la valeur adaptative du critre no 2 sont justifies. Ces critres peuvent tre utiliss pour allouer des ressources aux environnements extrmes o la recherche est difficile; nous les appliquons pour valuer la facilitation possible par Chesneya nubigena sur une moraine glaciaire de l'Himalaya npalais. Cette tude dmontre que Chesneya modre l'environnement physique (critre no 1) en formant du sol, en augmentant la composition organique et la temprature du sol, peut-tre mme en fournissant un micro-habitat propice  la colonisation par des espces herbaces et des dicotyldones herbaces. Les avantages en termes de physiologie et de valeur adaptative pour les espces secondaires (critre no 2) restent  dmontrer. /// Bei der Frderung der Pflanzenfolge unter extremen Umweltbedingungen gibt es eine Hypothese, nach der geeignete Pflanzenarten den Mikro-Habitat dahin gnstig beeinflussen, da das Wachstum von Sekundrarten gefrdert wird. In dieser Arbeit werden zwei Kriterien vorgeschlagen, die hilfreich sind, Frderung der Pflanzenfolge zu erkennen. (1) Verndert der in Erwgung gezogene Frderer das physikalische Umfeld? (2) Lt diese nderung das Wachstum von spteren Arten zu? Wenn keines dieser Kriterien zutrifft, gibt es ausreichend Grund, die Frderungs-Hypothese abzulehnen. Kriterium 1 kann mit einer kurzen Feldstudie beantwortet werden und ihr Ausgang bestimmt, ob die detaillierten physiologischen und eignungsspezifischen Studien, die Kriterium 2 erfordert, gerechtfertigt sind. Beide Kriterien dienen dazu, den Untersuchungsaufwand, der unter extremen Bedingungen recht hoch sein kann, zu bemessen. Wir wenden beide Kriterien an, um mgliche Frderung durch Chesneya nubigena auf einer Gletschermoraine im Himalaya Nepals auszuwerten. Diese Studie zeigt, da Chesneya das physikalische Umfeld (Kriterium 1) durch Humusbildung, Zunahme der organischen Anteile und Ansteigen der Bodentemperaturen gnstig beeinflut, und dadurch Voraussetzungen fr das Wachstum von Grsern und Krutern schafft. Ob die Sekundrarten von den verbesserten Wachstumsbedingungen Nutzen ziehen, mu noch nachgewiesen werden (Kriterium 2).
mounresedeve.30.3.232|Direct seeding has recently regained favor as an alternative method to conventional planting for restoration of degraded and/or abandoned sites. This study reports the establishment and growth performance of 2 pioneer (Pinus kesiya and Schima wallichii) and 2 later-successional (Keteleeria evelyniana and Quercus serrata) native trees broadcasted or buried on 14 former grazing lands in Laos. Seedling establishment was assessed 9 months after sowing; height, diameter growth, and mortality were measured 1, 3, and 5 years after direct seeding and subjected to analysis of variance. Significant interspecies and intersite variations were detected for most of the measured parameters (P , .05). Seedling establishment success was better for buried seeds of Q. serrata (4965%) and K. evelyniana (2059%) than for broadcasted seeds of P. kesiya (1350%), S. wallichii (334%), and K. evelyniana (622%). Intersite variation might be related to topography-induced microhabitat conditions. The annual rate of mortality, averaged over all sites, was significantly (P, .0001) high for S. wallichii (38  1%) followed by P. kesiya (30  2.0%), Q. serrata (29  2%), and K. evelyniana (22  4%). The 2 pioneer species achieved better diameter and height growth than the later-successional species. We conclude that direct seeding seems to be possible for rehabilitation of abandoned sites, provided that the seeds are buried to avoid the risk of seed desiccation and predation; the seeding rate of pioneer species is reduced to avoid a high mortality rate, and species-site matching is well defined to minimize topography-induced changes in a microhabitat.
10.2307/3673404|Changes in vigour and demography of subalpine Picea abies (L.) Karst were assessed on a regional basis in the Swedish Scandes. The study was based on repeat photography from fixed points in 1972/73 and in 1985/86. Crown thinning was already in an advanced stage in 1972/73. Approximately 75 percent of the studied population had a crown thinning of more than 20 percent. This process progressed during the study period, when about 30 percent of the spruce experienced further thinning of 20 percent or more. The general character of vigour decline was unidirectional discoloration (reddish brown) of young supranival needles. It is suggested that the basic cause is summer (June-August) temperature decline since the early 1960s. It may be related also to increased frost hazard in late spring and early summer, due to earlier dehardening and growth initiation in response to a general warming in May and early June which has occurred since the early 1970s. /// Les changements de vitalit et de dmographie affectant l'espce subalpine Picea abies (L.) Karst ont t valus sur une base rgionale dans la chane des Scandes en Sude. L'tude repose sur des photographies prises en 1972/73  partir de points fixes, et rptes en 1985/86. L'tiolement des cimes tait dj prononc en 1972/73. Environ 75 pourcent de la population examine montrait alors un tiolement de cime suprieur  20 pourcent. Ce processus a continu au cours de la priode couverte par l'tude, si bien qu'environ 30 pourcent des spruces ont subi en tiolement additionnel de 20 pourcent ou plus. En gnral, le dclin de la vitalit est caractris par une dcoloration unidirectionnelle (brun rouge) des jeunes aiguilles supranivales. L'hypothse est avance que la cause fondamentale rside dans la baisse de temprature estivale (Juin-Aot) enregistre depuis le dbut des annes 60. Ce dclin peut aussi tre li au risque accru de gele vers la fin du printemps et le dbut de l't, d  et un dbut de croissance plus avancs en rponse  un rchauffement gnral en mai et dbut juin qui se manifeste depuis le dbut des annes 70. /// Vernderungen in Wachstumskraft und Demographie der subalpinen Picea abies (L.) Karst wurden auf regionaler Basis im schwedischen Scandes Gebiet untersucht. Der Studie wurden Photofolgen von einem fixierten Standort aus den Jahren 1972/73 und 1985/86 zugrunde gelegt. Bereits in den Jahren 1972/73 war das Ausdnnen von Baumkronen im vorangeschrittenen Stadium. Circa 75% des untersuchten Bestandes hatte Wipfel, die mehr als 20% gelichtet waren. Dieser Prozess schritt whrend der Untersuchungszeit voran, wobei ca. 30% der Fichten einen weiteren Nadelverlust von 20% oder mehr erlitten. Im allgemeinen uerte sich ein Verlust an Wachstumskraft in der Verfrbung (rtlich braun) der jungen, ber dem Schnee liegenden Nadeln. Ein Rckgang der Sommertemperatur (Juni-Aug.) seit Anfang der 60er Jahre wird als Hauptursache angesehen; daneben mag erhhte Frostgefahr im Sptfrhjahr und Frhsommer eine Rolle spielen, da seit den frhen 70er Jahren ein allgemeiner Wrmetrend im Mai und Juni beobachtet wurde, was zu verfrhtem Wachstum und Anpassung fhrte.
3674316|The Sky Walk-Sky Trek project is located in Monteverde at approximately 1700 m above sea level in the Tilarn Mountains of northern Costa Rica. It has been cited as an example of a totally rural tourism initiative, and its quality has been praised worldwide. The Sky Walk offers visitors-including the disabled-an opportunity to experience different levels of biodiversity in the cloud forest on a series of suspended bridges connected by trails. The Sky Trek is a more adventurous experience, consisting of a series of cables (for sliding across canyons) and trails. Besides having an educational component, the project has made a positive, well-recognized contribution to forest regeneration on abandoned pastureland. Moreover, it illustrates the problems and challenges of community participation in tourism microenterprises. Size is not necessarily a criterion for success in tourism projects: a small-scale tourism project must be creative and responsible and must show familiarity with its product and its customer base.
10.2307/3673686|This paper analyses the vertical distribution of people and their livestock in the Shewa and Wello regions of Ethiopia. The greatest concentrations of human population are in the 2,600-2,800 m belt and there is a clear decline between 2,200 and 2,400 m. The distribution of animals is similar to that of the population. These findings differ from those that were expected at the beginning of the study, based on the assumption that the pastoralists in the lowlands owned many more livestock than the peasant farmers in the upper belts. In-migration appears to be concentrated in the 2,600-3,000 m belt, with a secondary increase below 1,400 m. This may be due to the topography; the upper areas are relatively flat or undulating whereas the middle belts have a corrugated landscape and the steep slopes are a constraint to cultivation and settlement. The lowest belts have higher incidence of drought and environmentally-related diseases. To avert catastrophic population pressure between 2,600 and 3,000 m, it is necessary to raise agricultural productivity through the introduction of improved farming techniques. A longer-term solution may lie in the encouragement of small-scale specialized farming and agro-industrial enterprises. The development of irrigation and disease control could open up large areas in the lower belts. It is concluded that the traditional symbiotic relationship between highland peasant cultivation and lowland pastoral economy is giving way to market forces and that competition may replace cooperation. /// Cet article analyse la rpartition verticale des habitants et du btail dans les rgions du Shewa et du Wello en Ethiopie. Les plus grandes concentrations de population humaine se trouvent dans la ceinture altitudinale comprise entre 2,600 et 2,800 mtres; la population dcrot nettement entre 2,200 et 2,400 mtres. La rpartition des animaux est semblable  celle de la population humaine. Ces rsultats diffrent de ceux auquels on pouvait s'attendre au dbut de l'tude, si l'on se base sur l'hypothse que les pasteurs des basses terres possdent plus de btail que les cultivateurs des ceintures altitudinales suprieures. L'immigration semble tre concentre dans la ceinture comprise entre 2,600 et 3,000 mtres, avec une augmentation secondaire au-dessous de 1,400 mtres. La topographie peut en tre la cause du fait que les ceintures suprieures sont relativement plates ou vallonnes, alors que les ceintures moyennes prsentent un relief accident et les pentes escarpes s'opposent  la culture et au peuplement. Les ceintures altitudinales infrieures sont plus sujettes  la scheresse et aux maladies lies  l'environnement. Pour viter une pression dmographique catastrophique dans la ceinture altitudinale comprise entre 2,600 et 3,000 mtres, il est indispensable d'augmenter la productivit agricole en introduisant des techniques de culture plus avances. Une solution  long terme peut consister  encourager la culture spcialise  petite chelle et les entreprises agro-industrielles. Le dveloppement de l'irrigation et de la lutte contre les maladies permettrait d'exploiter des belts tendues dans les ceintures altitudinales infrieures. L'article conclut que la relation symbiotique traditionnelle entre la culture paysanne des hautes terres et l'conomie pastorale des basses terres cde progressivement aux forces du march et que la comptition risque de remplacer la coopration. /// Diese Verffentlichung analysiert die zahlenmige Verteilung von Mensch und Vieh in den Hhenlagen der Shewa und der Welo Region Athiopiens. Die Bevlkerungsdichte ist am grten im Grtel von 2,600-2,800 m und nimmt dann zwischen 2.200 und 2.400 m deutlich ab. Die Verteilung der Tiere folgt der der Bevlkerung. Diese Tatsachen widersprechen den Erwartungen zu Beginn der Studie, die annahmen, da Tierhalter in den Tieflanden mehr Vieh besen als Bauern in hher gelegenen beltn. Die Zuwanderung ist besonders auf den Grtel zwischen 2,600-3,000 m konzentriert; an zweiter Stelle folgt das Gebiet unter 1,400 m. Dies ergibt sich wahrscheinlich aus der Topographie. Die hheren Lagen sind relativ eben oder leicht hgelig, whrend die mittleren Grtel zerklfteter sind, wobei steile Hnge die Kultivierung und Besiedelung einschrnken. Die Tallagen dagegen werden wegen hufiger Drreperioden und umweltbedingter Krankheiten gemieden. Um im Gebiet zwischen 2,600 und 3,000 m eine katastrophale Entwicklung durch den Bevlkerungsdruck zu vermeiden, mu die landwirtschaftliche Produktion durch die Einfhrung von verbesserten Anbaumethoden gesteigert werden. Eine langzeitliche Lsung mag darin liegen, spezialisierten Anbau in kleinem Ausma und agro-industrielle Kleinbetriebe zu frdern. In den niedrigeren Lagen knnten groe Gebiete durch die Entwicklung verbesserter Bewsserungsanlagen und durch bessere Krankheitsberwachung erschlossen werden. Abschlieend wird bemerkt, da die traditionelle Symbiose zwischen Hochland-Farmbestellung und Tiefland-Weidewirtschaft den Weg fr eine Marktwirtschaft freigibt, und da Konkurrenz die bisherige Kooperation ersetzen knnte.
mounresedeve.31.3.252|The Indus River basin supplies water to the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world, providing water for 90% of the food production in Pakistan, which contributes 25% of the country's gross domestic product. But Pakistan could face severe food shortages intimately linked to water scarcity. It is projected that, by 2025, the shortfall of water requirements will be ~32%, which will result in a food shortage of 70 million tons. Recent estimates suggest that climate change and siltation of main reservoirs will reduce the surface water storage capacity by 30% by 2025. The per capita water storage capacity in Pakistan is only 150 m
mounresedeve.30.3.252|Invasive plants have spread all over the world, including the Himalayan region. In 2009, the distribution pattern of invasive alien plants was studied on 38 plots, from 100 to 4200 m, in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, India. Eighteen invasive alien plants (frequency >5%) from 7 families were recorded, of which 15 species (83.3%) were from North and South America. The most common plants by both frequency and coverage (>50%) were
mounresedeve.29.1.30|This study investigated the sustainability of combining forest grazing and timber harvesting with selection felling in a cool broadleaved community forest (CF) in Bhutan. Forest grazing and timber production are critical livelihood activities for many farmers throughout the world, so it is important to understand under what conditions the 2 activities can be combined. The study was based on a household survey to quantify livestock holdings and grazing patterns, a comparison of 2 forest inventories to assess forest structure and regeneration, and a study of stumps to quantify harvesting intensities. During a 5-year period the number of cattle grazing inside the CF significantly decreased and the number of naturally regenerated tree seedlings and saplings significantly increased. There were no other changes in forest management practices during the period that would affect natural regeneration, and there were no significant changes in the volume of wood harvested or the volume/number of standing trees (with a diameter at breast height 10 cm). We concluded that moderate intensities of forest grazing (0.4 cattle*ha
10.2307/3673129|The preliminary results of the 1981 Nepal Census are analysed with respect to urbanization and population movement to the Terai. The paper reports a process of transformation wherein Nepal is shifting from a rural hill and mountain society to an urban-subtropical plains state. /// Les rsultats prliminaires du recensement du Npal effectu en 1981 sont analyss par rapport  l'urbanisation et au dplacement de la population vers la rgion du Terai. Cette tude trace les lignes selon lesquelles la socit npalaise, jusqu'ici rurale et base dans les collines et les montagnes, se dplace vers un pays urbain des plaines subtropicales. /// Die vorlufigen Ergebnisse der Volkszhlung in Nepal aus dem Jahre 1981 werden im Hinblick auf die Urbanisierung und die Bevlkerungsabwanderung ins sdl. Nepal (Terai) analysiert. Die Verffentlichung berichtet ber die Umgestaltung Nepals von einem buerlichen Bergvolk zu einer mehr urbanisierten Bevlkerung im subtropischen Flachland.
3674347|The present article addresses the deterioration of 12 forest geosystems located in a mountain range to the west of Mexico City. On the basis of identification of plant species that are indicators of environmental deterioration, as well as application of a Deterioration Index that considers these species in relation to the richness, vertical structure, and total cover of the climax forest facies-representing the most developed and stable evolutionary stage of each geosystem-forest geosystems are classified according to the present stage of deterioration that affects the best preserved forests in each case.
10.2307/3674034|The paper reviews experiences of the Doon Valley Integrated Watershed Management Project, with emphasis on the evolution of a participatory "process orientated" approach aimed at developing community capabilities to sustain the increased natural resource production systems introduced by Project activities. The focus is on promoting convergent planning and strengthening the skills and institutional capacities of the rural communities, as well as of the government agency responsible for implementation. The major conclusions are: (1) that human resource development should precede external technical watershed management activities; (2) that under the participatory approach, external implementors need to be encouraged to merge their technical skills with the indigenous skills of villagers in order to achieve a convergent approach. The initial focus of watershed management projects should be on communities and the adjacent areas under their influence, rather than on the physical aspects of watersheds. Women proved to be most receptive and capable of forming cohesive groups to manage natural resources, with livelihood-generation as the primary trigger. Actual priorities perceived by villagers through participatory (PRA-based) planning frequently differ from "targets" and priorities defined by outside planners. Conventional watershed management activities are rarely perceived by villagers as priorities, creating frustration for the external implementors and demanding flexibility in inputs, budgets, and phasing. The project produced initial improvements in living conditions and in local involvement by people in man-again natural resources. This was supplemented by physical soil and water conservation measures and community-managed grass and fodder tree plantations. The consequent reduction in pressure on intervening forest areas should favor natural eco-regeneration. Moreover, the increased environmental awareness and involvement of the villagers is expected to facilitate protection of afforestation programs beyond the village limits.
mounresedeve.33.3.294|In the high mountain valleys of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, gravity-flow irrigation systems support the production of grains, fodder, vegetables, herbs, and fruits as well as wood for fuel and construction purposes. In the Soviet and post-Soviet periods, major changes in the organization of society and agriculture have occurred which, when combined with the effects of population growth and outmigration in recent decades, have fundamentally altered the normative and organizational arrangements that had sustained hill irrigation in the past. This article presents 2 case studies, one from the Alaikuu area of Tar Valley, Osh Province, Alai mountain range, southern Kyrgyzstan, and the other from the upper Shokhdara Valley in Gorno-Badakhshan, Pamir mountain range, eastern Tajikistan. A combination of rights and obligations form the foundation of self-managed offtake systems, the rules for which reflect existing social relationships. The importance of authority to the effective management of these systems is highlighted. Multiple forms of authority coexist at the local level in the Alai and Pamir ranges because of the recent introduction of formal local government and water governance reforms in both countries and the persistence of informal local political institutions, such as the court of elders in Alaikuu and the village headman in Shokhdara. Population growth and diversified livelihood strategies, especially migration, have encouraged a degree of individualisman attitude that undermines the recognition of authority required for the collective management of hill irrigation systems. An understanding of the heterogeneous role of authority in irrigation management that does not privilege externally created formal institutions is required for government and nongovernment agencies to support hill irrigation and mountain agriculture.
mounresedeve.30.4.320|Remote areas devoid of roads and tourist transport infrastructure are increasingly appreciated in urbanized countries because they provide the opportunity to experience tranquillity, solitude, and pristine nature, which are recreational qualities that contrast with the stress of urban life. In Switzerland as a whole, larger roadless areas are rare, but they are still common in southern Switzerland as the inventory of remote areas, which was established in this study, shows. A crucial dilemma for tourism development in remote areas is the paradoxical situation that the installation of tourism facilities and services can reduce the experiential qualities of these areas that attracted the tourists in the first place. This study seeks possible solutions for this dilemma by analyzing the attitudes of 230 visitors to 2 remote areas of southern Switzerland with a questionnaire-based survey. The case study areas represented one moderately remote area (Val Cama) and one extremely remote area (Val di Lodrino). The respondents were divided into 3 different visitor types along the purism scale: purists, neutralists, and nonpurists. The percentage of purists was 45% in the extremely remote Val di Lodrino versus 24% in the moderately remote Val Cama. There was a consensus among all visitor types that the existing traditional cultural landscape and the path network should be preserved and that the construction of new road or cable-car access should be avoided. The development of new huts, paths, and services was found to be controversial. A major policy recommendation of the study is to gear tourism supply in remote areas to the needs of different visitor types by carefully assessing the impact of measures on remoteness and concentrating new facilities and services in the more accessible parts of a remote area, while preserving more remote conditions in the other zones.
3674461|The tourist industry in the European Alps has always been greatly threatened by natural disasters. As far as tourism is concerned, the so-called "indirect" effects of these disasters have proven to be more important than the direct damages. The former consist mainly of loss of earnings, which can result for example from the closure of access roads or the decommissioning of cable cars and ski lifts. In fact, it is the combination of a drop in the number of overnight stays with the absence of day trippers over several days which makes the outcome of a natural disaster an extraordinary event for the tourist industry. As long as natural disasters remain relatively rare occurrences, tourist resorts in the Alps can generally cope with them. Should the frequency of these events increase substantially as a result of global warming, however, tourism and the entire Alpine economy could face serious problems in the future.
3674179|The spatial distribution of 961 debris flows in the Upper Aragn and Gllego valleys (Central Spanish Pyrenees) was analyzed. Most were located in the Flysch Sector (with a colluvium mantle derived from strongly tectonically modified materials), between 1000 and 1400 m above sea level, on 25-35 gradients with sunny exposure. These gradients were either hillslopes covered by frequently burned scrubland, abandoned fields, or reforested land, confirming the influence of land use and disturbed landscapes on the occurrence of debris flows.
mounresedeve.33.3.207|Improving water governance in the Andes is one of Peru's biggest challenges. This article examines the state's role in the water supply of an Andean community. Thirty years ago the community resisted the state's interference in its water management but now it has adopted a state model. The present article examines this change in the context of 2 occasions: the Peruvian state's investment in a new channel in the area and the community's confrontation with the state to gain access to this infrastructure. In the article, it is suggested that rather than viewing the confrontation as a form of resistance against the state's interference in Andean irrigation, we can see it as a way of opposing the state's water policy that privileges Peru's coastal desert at the cost of the country's highlands. It argues that, paradoxically, the community's success in challenging this policy and gaining rights to new water sources has prompted it to recognize the state as a legitimate water governor. The article concludes that, to overcome Andean communities' distrust of the state, the state must allow communities to play an active role in water management and assure water equity in Peru.
10.2307/3673061|The French Southern Alps have experienced a very extensive reafforestation during the last hundred years, both by spontaneous growth of trees and by deliberate replantation. This has been possible because of a major decrease in population that led to a reduction of agricultural activities and in the numbers of grazing animals, especially sheep and goats, and widespread abandonment of land. The new forests, however, are now partly threatened with disappearance in the future. This is because the manner of original plantation, leading to dense, uniform stands, severely reduces the possibilities for natural regeneration. The problem of thinning and cutting is expensive and further inhibited by a local population concerned with preservation of the forest cover. The problem requires serious attention if progressive deterioration is to be averted. /// La surface des forts des Alpes franaises du Sud a considrablement augment depuis un sicle  cause d'un reboisement  la fois spontan et volontaire. Ceci a t rendu possible par une importante diminution de la population,  l'origine de trs nombreux abandons de terres cultives et de pturages par les troupeaux de moutons et de chvres. Mais les forts d'origine anthropique sont menaces de disparation dans l'avenir. Elles ne se rgnrent pas spontanment  cause de la densit de leur couvert provoqu par le mode de plantation adopt. Il faudrait procder soit  des claircies onreuses soit  des coupes  blanc que la population rprouve. Ce problme doit srieusement retenir l'attention si l'on veut empcher qu'il ne s'aggrave. /// Die bewaldeten Flchen in den franzsischen Sdalpen haben sich im Laufe des letzten Jahrhunderts als Folge einer gleichzeitig natrlichen und von Menschenhand betriebenen Aufforstung betrchtlich ausgedehnt. Diese Aufforstung wurde durch einen erheblichen Rckgang der Bevlkerungszahl begnstigt, da gleichzeitig viele Acker- und Weideflchen fr Schafe und Zegen aufgegeben wurden. Auf lange Sicht aber sind knstlich gepflanzte Wlder in ihrer Existenz bedroht: Die gewhlte Anbauform mit viel zu dichter Belaubung regeneriert sich nicht von selbst. Es mssen sehr kostspielige Lichtungen und Kahlschlge vorgenommen werden, die aber von der konservierungsbewuten Bevlkerung nicht leicht akzeptiert werden. Dieses Problem verdient besondere Aufmerksamkeit, um einer Verschlimmerung der Lage vorzubeugen.
3674674|Initiating a process of informed decision-making for sustainable development requires the following: a) the values and objectives to be pursued need to be negotiated among all concerned stakeholders of a specific territorial unit; b) these stakeholders should have access to a comparable level of knowledge; and c) the decisions taken and the subsequent actions initiated should have a positive impact on all dimensions of sustainability. In the remote Tajik Pamir mountains, a special effort was made to fulfill the above 3 principles by developing and applying a new methodological approach to sustainable development. The paper presents the results of a multi-year baseline study project in which 10 sectors ranging from agriculture to natural hazards were assessed by a transdisciplinary Swiss-Tajik research team. This knowledge base was enhanced in a development strategy workshop that brought together stakeholders from the local to the international levels. The methodology applied was found appropriate to initiate a broad reflection and negotiation process among various stakeholder groups, leading to a joint identification of possible measures to be taken. Knowledge-and its enhancement through the involvement of all stakeholder levels-appeared to be an effective carrier of innovation and changes of attitudes, thus containing the potential to effectively contribute to sustainable development in marginalized and resource-poor mountain areas.
mounresedeve.31.4.357|Technical snowmaking has become an important measure in winter tourism destinations to deal with decreasing snow reliability, seasonal weather variability, and growing customer demand. This study analyzes tourists' attitudes toward technical snowmaking, their preferences for snow reliability, and other factors that influence destination choice. We interviewed tourists at 3 Swiss winter tourism destinations: Davos, Scuol, and Braunwald. In addition, we analyzed the impact of technical snowmaking on the regional economy in Davos with a scenario analysis based on a simplified model of the regional economy related to tourist behavior. The 3 destinations showed large regional and seasonal differences in tourists' attitudes toward technical snowmaking and the importance of factors that influence destination choice. Generally, technical snowmaking is being increasingly accepted among tourists. It can be considered as insurance for snow reliability. In major tourist destinations that focus on skiing for winter tourism, the potential damage to mountain railways and hotels from lack of snow can be great enough to justify the costs of technical snowmaking. But snow reliability is not the most crucial factor that affects the attractiveness of destinations in general. Our results show that the European Alpine landscape and a wide choice of activities in the winter as well as the summer season are the most important factors that influence destination choice. In some cases, therefore, it may be economically reasonable to refrain from technical snowmaking and redirect investment to tourist attractions independent of snow conditions.
mounresedeve.33.4.424|Although precipitation is important to climatology, hydrology, and agricultural research, the spatial pattern of precipitation over the Tibetan Plateau is difficult to determine because of complex surface conditions and a sparse rain gauge network. In the present article, a method we named FETCH_OCKbased on a combination of Yin et al's Fetch method (2008) and ordinary cokriging (OCK)is proposed; it was used to estimate monthly summer precipitation over the Tibetan Plateau, which has limited rain gauge observations and a restricted satellite precipitation dataset. First, the monthly ground observations measured by rain gauges were interpolated using OCK, with a digital elevation model (DEM) as the covariant. Second, the spatial variability of the precipitation monitored by satellite was extracted from the Climate Prediction Center morphing (CMORPH) satellite precipitation dataset by calculating a parameter (FETCH) developed from Yin et al's Fetch parameter. Finally, the precipitation datasets estimated by OCK were corrected by the FETCH parameter derived from the CMORPH satellite precipitation dataset. Summer (June to August) precipitation over the Tibetan Plateau from 2005 to 2009 was estimated using this model. The precipitation datasets estimated by FETCH_OCK were tested using ground observations from 55 independent rain gauges. The results indicate that the FETCH_OCK model not only is an improvement compared with the input precipitation datasets (OCK and CMORPH) but also performs better than other widely used precipitation datasets, including universal kriging with DEM as a covariant and Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission 3B43. The present study aims to correct the smoothing effect of kriging interpolation models and to provide a more accurate precipitation dataset for the Tibetan Plateau.
10.2307/3673986|This paper examines population change in the upper Braldu Valley of the Karakoram range in northern Pakistan between 1900 and 1990. Population has declined over the 90-year period of observation and the majority of that decline is accounted for by females. Thus, villages in the Braldu offer an apparent exception to the oft-cited pattern of population growth, not only in Baltistan but in the Himalaya region as a whole. The paper discusses apparent demographic trends in a contemporary and historical context and questions the extension of vague, unqualified, context-independent population statistics to an area where apparently they do not apply. It argues that only by interpreting demographic change from within such a local context can the relevance of population control policies be scrutinized. This paper is not an exhaustive demographic analysis but presents data from a little-studied region of the Himalayan area and is meant to open avenues for future research there. /// Cet article examine l'volution de la population de la valle du Braldu dans le massif du Karakoram, Pakistan du Nord, entre 1900 et 1990. La population a dclin pendant la priode d'observation de 90 ans et la majorit de ce dclin affecte les femmes. Les villages de la valle du Braldu constituent donc une exception apparente au phnomne familier de croissance dmographique, non seulement dans le Baltistan, mais aussi dans l'ensemble de la rgion de l'Himalaya. Cet article discute des tendances dmographiques apparentes dans un contexte contemporain et historique, et remet en question l'extension de statistiques dmographiques vagues, catgoriques et indpendantes du contexte  une zone o elles ne semblent pas s'appliquer. Il suggre que seule l'interprtation de l'volution dmographique dans un tel contexte local permet d'examiner la pertinence des politiques de rgulation dmographique. Cet article ne reprsente pas une analyse dmographique exhaustive, mais il prsente des donnes relatives  une rgion mal tudie de la rgion de l'Himalaya et se propose d'ouvrir des avenues pour de futures recherches  cet endroit. /// Diese Verffentlichung untersucht fr den Zeitraum von 1900 bis 1990 nderungen in der Bevlkerungszahl im oberen Braldu Tal in der Karakorum Kette des nrdlichen Pakistan. Whrend des Beobachtungszeitraums von 90 Jahren hat die Bevlkerungszahl abgenommen, wobei der weibliche Anteil grer war. Die viel zitierte Annahme, da die Bevlkerungsdichte im gesamten Himalaya Gebiet zunimmt, trifft fr die Gemeinden im Braldu Tal nicht zu. Vor modernem und historischen Hintergrund werden in der vorliegenden Verffentlichung demographische Entwicklungen diskutiert. Die Anwendung von vaguen, unqualifizierten, aus dem Zusammenhang gerissenen Statistiken ber Bevlkerungsdichte wird in Frage gestellt, wenn sie sich auf ein Gebiet beziehen, fr das sie berhaupt nicht zutreffen. Die Wirksamkeit von Manahmen zur Bevlkerungskontrolle kann nur dann vernnftig untersucht werden, wenn die demographischen Bedingungen des lokalen Rahmens bercksichtigt werden. Diese Studie liefert keine detaillierte demographische Analyse, sondern ihre Aussagen ber ein wenig untersuchtes Gebiet im Himalaya sollen dort weitere Untersuchungen anregen.
10.2307/3673874|The natural resources of the Atlas mountains play a vital role in the Moroccan economy and there is increasing concern that they will become afflicted by the levels of environmental damage already reported for the Rif. Although policies to protect watersheds have been operative for many years, population pressure and government policy have combined to encourage more intensive land-use practices giving rise to fears of widespread land degradation. However, a review of the existing evidence suggests that whilst sites of intense erosion damage can be found, there is little support for a general fall in productivity. There are signs that the mountain residents are attempting to adapt their production systems to the opportunities and pressures created by greater interaction with the rest of the economy. With few exceptions, existing research methodologies have polarized the relationship between physical and human factors whereas appropriate policy formulation demands that they are integrated. A number of new research techniques offer the opportunity to provide a more holistic planning framework. /// Les ressources naturelles des montagnes de l'Atlas jouent un rle primordial dans l'conomie marocaine, et l'on craint de plus en plus qu'elles ne soient affectes par le mme degr de dommage cologique constat dans le Rif. Bien que la politique de protection des bassins versants a t en vigueur pendant des annes, la pression dmographique et la politique gouvernementale ont conjointement encourag des pratiques d'utilisation des terres plus intensives, qui risquent de produire une dgradation des terres sur une grande tendue. Nanmoins, une valuation des observations existantes suggre qu'en dpit de l'existence de sites d'rosion pousse, une chute de productivit gnrale ne semble pas apparente. Il semblerait que les habitants des montagnes essaient d'adapter leurs systmes de production aux possibilits et aux contraintes issues d'une plus grande interaction avec le reste de l'conomie. A quelques exceptions prs, les mthodes de recherche existantes ont polaris la relation entre les facteurs physiques et humains, alors que la formulation d'une politique approprie ncessite que ces facteurs soient intgrs. Un certain nombre de nouvelles techniques de recherche offrent la possibilit de fournir une structure de planification plus holistique. /// Die Naturressourcen des Atlas Gebirges spielen eine wichtige Rolle in der marokkanischen Wirtschaft. Derzeitig gibt es Befrchtungen, da sie von hnlichen Umweltschden bedroht sind wie es bereits im Rif Gebirge der Fall ist. Obwohl Manahmen zum Schutz von Wassereinzugsgebieten seit vielen Jahren in Kraft sind, haben Regierungsplanungen und der zunehmende Bevlkerungsdruck zu intensiverer Landnutzung gefhrt, was zu einer weitreichenden Verschlechterung des Bodens fhren mu. Eine Untersuchung der vorliegenden Ergebnisse liefert jedoch kaum Anhaltspunkte fr einen generellen Produktivittsrckgang, wenn auch an vereinzelten Stellen Erosionsschden zu beobachten sind. Es gibt Anzeichen dafr, da die Bergbewohner ihre Produktionssysteme anpassen, um innerhalb der Mglichkeiten und Zwnge eine breitere Verflechtung mit der brigen Wirtschaft zu erreichen. Mit wenigen Ausnahmen hat die Entwicklungspolitik die Beziehungen zwischen physikalischen und menschlichen Faktoren dahin polarisiert, da es wnschenswert bleibt, mit den festgelegten Manahmen eine Integration zu frdern. Verschiedene neue Entwicklungsmodelle bieten sich fr die Planung eines ganzheitlichen Systems an.
3674559|The popularity of operating chairlifts at alpine ski areas in the summer to accommodate activities such as hiking and mountain biking is growing, especially in North America. Research has been conducted on environmental impacts of summer use at ski areas, but the social aspects have received little empirical attention. This paper describes summer visitors' (1) demographics; (2) activities and other trip characteristics; (3) motivations; and (4) experiences and satisfaction with lift ticket fees, management strategies, conflicting activities, and other on-site conditions. Data were obtained from visitor surveys (n = 548) conducted from July to September 2000 at 5 separate sites at the Whistler Mountain ski area in Canada. Hikers, sightseers, and mountain bikers were the main activity groups. Overall satisfaction was high, but visitors were not satisfied with every aspect of their experience. Many were displeased with crowding, environmental impacts, lift ticket fees, lack of educational/interpretive information provided, and overflights by helicopter tours. Responses, however, differed among the sites, suggesting the need for managing each site separately. Explanations for these findings and implications for managers and researchers are discussed.
mounresedeve.30.1.42|Editor's note: As a response to the reality of the impacts of climate change both on ecosystems and local people in the broader Himalayan region, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and two technical partners, UNESCOIHE Institute for Water Education and San Diego State University (SDSU), undertook scientific studies focusing on high-altitude wetlands. Around 200 papers were consulted by experts to write the review upon which the present article is based. A detailed report of the review is currently being produced; this article summarizes the key findings and recommendations.
mounresedeve.31.3.242|The Indus River Basin is characterized by downstream areas with the world's largest irrigation system, providing food and energy security to more than 215 million people. The arid to semiarid basin is classified as a net water deficit area, but it also suffers from devastating floods. Among the four basin countries, Pakistan is most dependent on water originating in high mountain catchments and is therefore most vulnerable to climatic, socioeconomic, and other global changes that are impacting both supply and demand. Given the consensus that there is a lack of systematic and consistent hydrological, meteorological, biophysical, and socioeconomic data to promote integrated water resources management (IWRM) at the basin scale, an international consultation of scientists, water managers, and development partners was organized in 2010. These experts suggested developing a long-term Indus Basin Research Program aiming to build a robust, consolidated, and shared scientific knowledge base and thus improve understanding of the coupled human and ecological processes and their interrelationships in the basin. This paper summarizes the rationale for initiating such a coordinated multidisciplinary research, knowledge management, and capacity development process aiming to support water management policies and programs from design stage to implementation, using the framework of integrated river basin management (IRBM). The paper further stresses the need to implement IRBM using IWRM tools, recognizing that multiple factors and actors play critical roles in improving management of water and other natural resources to enhance overall water productivity. The steps needed to initiate and consolidate national and international institutional coordination, capacity development, and policy support to operationalize an IRBM process are spelled out. A longterm research and capacity-building program for international organizations and scientists is recommended to foster transboundary cooperation and scientific collaboration.
mounresedeve.34.4.396|Natural regeneration was studied at 7-year-old native species regeneration sites on abandoned lands in central mountain areas of Hainan Island, off China's southern coast. Using linear sampling, 7 belt transects (each 5 m in width, with a cumulative length of 2000 m) were established and then subdivided into 400 plots (5  5 m). Plant regeneration was surveyed on each plot. For each woody species, the life stage, mature height, dispersal mode, and successional status were assessed. The regenerating woody community at the sites was found to be species-rich, with 40 species identified. However, the community was dominated by a subset of secondary forest pioneer species, such as
10.2307/3673554|This study deals with changing land-use patterns in the mountains and highlands of southeastern Africa, in the countries of Lesotho, Malawi, South Africa, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe. Here, destruction of the environment contrasts with strict conservation policies-policies that are incorporated into strong government legislation but which are not applied. The differences in land-use patterns, development strategies, and planning can be explained by different economic standards and stages of socio-economic development. /// Cet article traite des changements dans les modes d'utilisation du sol pour les montagnes et hautes terres du sud-est de l'Afrique, c'est--dire les pays suivants: Lesotho, Malawi, Afrique du Sud, Swaziland et Zimbabwe. Dans cette rgion, la destruction de l'environnement fait contraste avec de strictes mesures de conservation qui font partie de la lgislation gouvernementale mais qui ne sont pas appliques. Les diffrences entre modes d'utilisation du sol, stratgies de dveloppement et planification peuvent tre expliques par diffrents standards conomiques et stades de dveloppement socio-conomique. /// Diese Studie befat sich mit den sich verndernden Formen der Landnutzung, Planung und Anbaumethoden in den Bergen und Hochlndern Sdostafrikas, insbesondere in Lesotho, Malawi, Sdafrika, Swaziland und Simbabwe. Verschiedenartige Konzepte werden angewandt, um eine zerstrerische Landnutzung der Bergebiete zu vermeiden und geschdigte Gebiete wiederherzustellen. Strategien zur Landnutzung, -erhaltung und -entwicklung mssen vor dem Hintergrund sich verndernder sozio-konomischer Bedingungen gesehen werden. Bei der Planung von Erhaltungsmanahmen spielen die Regierungen eine immer wichtiger werdende Rolle Gleichzeitig mu bei Erhaltungsbemhungen die Aufklrung der lndlichen Bevlkerung verbessert und ihre Beteiligung gewonnen werden.
10.2307/3673435|Of the African continent, 45 percent of the land has slopes of at least 8 percent; more than 55 percent is higher than 500 m, more than 20 percent is higher than 1,000 m, and about one percent is higher than 2,000 m. Mountain ranges and massifs, deeply-incised gorges or escarpments, and highlands are huge resource areas of great importance for Africa's growing population. An integrated methodological approach is proposed as a basis for common research and development strategies and for comparative studies in Africa's differing mountain ecosystem. Generally adopted Resolutions opened the way for the foundation of an Association for Research and Development on African Mountains and Highlands or, in short, the African Mountain Association (AMA). /// Sur le continent africain, 45 pour cent des terres ont une pente d'au moins 8 pour cent; plus de 55 pour cent d'entre elles se trouvent  plus de 500 m d'altitude, plus de 20 pour cent  plus de 1.000 m et environ 1 pour cent  plus de 2.000 m. Les chanes de montagne et les massifs, les gorges profondes ou escarpements, et les hautes terres constituent de vastes ressources d'une importance primordiale pour la population croissante de l'Afrique. Une approche mthodologique intgre est propose comme base pour des statgies communes de recherche et dveloppement, et pour des tudes comparatives des diffrents cosystmes montagnards de l'Afrique. Des rsolutions adoptes en majorit ont permis d'tablir l'Association pour la recherche et le dveloppement dans les montagnes et hautes terres africaines, ou tout simplement l'Association pour les montagnes africaines (AMA). /// 45% des afrikanischen Kontinents besteht aus einem Relief mit Hangwinkeln ber 8%; mehr als 55% ist hher als 500 m, mehr als 20% hher als 1000 m und 1% ist hher als 2000 m. Gebirge im weitesten Sinne und Hochlnder sind Gebiete mit Ressourcen, die fr die rasch wachsende Bevlkerung Afrikas von hchster Bedeutung sind. Ein methodisch integraler Ansatz wird postuliert als Grundlage fr knftige Forschungs- und Entwicklungsstrategien, aber auch fr vergleichbare Untersuchungen in den sehr verschiedenen Gebirgskosystemen dieses Kontinents.
mounresedeve.34.4.344|This study investigated summer farming in the Chornohora and the adaptation strategies practiced in summer pasturelands, using field observations, in-depth interviews with local inhabitants, and official data from Ukrainian institutions. The indigenous Hutsul people have developed organizational forms of animal husbandryoften based on family farmingthat they try to follow despite the lack of support from the state. Which of the summer farming types practiced in the Chornohora adapts well to modern challenges? What can be learned from the Chornohora's example for the protection of traditional landscapes shaped by seasonal grazing in other mountain regions? We approach these problems through 5 case studies, chosen from more than 40 farms that were investigated during visits to the study area over 5 years, illustrating a range of practices from traditional transhumance to agritourism and including both private and collective farms, some within protected areas. Chornohora's 40 working farms present a unique contrast to the common pattern of grassland abandonment and afforestation in the Ukrainian Carpathians.
10.2307/3672963|The impact of trampling upon herbaceous vegetation was tested on the west slope of the Andes Range in central Chile at two sites near the ski resorts of Farellones and La Parva, located at 2,300 and 2,800 m above sea level. During the snow-free season, walking upon areas with herbaceous vegetation, caused displacement of stones and compaction of soils, along with a significant decrease in the number and density of species. This damage was slightly greater when the disturbance occurred during the period of maximum vegetative activity. Some effects, mainly reduction in the number of individuals, were still visible a year later. Conservation measures are discussed. /// Les effets des pitinements sur la vgtation herbace a t vrifi sur la pente ouest de la Cordillre des Andes dans le Chili central  deux sites prs des stations de ski de Farellones et de la Parva, situes  2,300 et 2,800 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer. Pendant la saison sans neige, les pitinements sur les endroits couverts de vgtation herbaces ont provoques de dplacements de cailloux et de compactage du sol accompagns d'une diminution importante du nombre et de la densit des espces. Cette dgradation a t lgrement plus importante lorsque le drangement s'est produit pendant une priode d'activit vgtative maximum. Quelques effets, particulirement la rduction dans le nombre des habitants, ont t observs quelques annes plus tard. Des mesures de protection sont prsentes. /// An den westlichen Hngen der Anden in Zentral-Chile wurde untersucht, welche Folgen sich aus dem Zertreten des Krautbewuchses ergeben. Die Untersuchungen wurden in zwei Gegenden nahe den Skigebieten von Farellones und La Parva in Hhen von 2.300 m und 2.800 m .M. vorgenommen. Das Gehen auf bewachsenen Flchen whrend der schneefreien Jahreszeit verursachte ein Loslsen von Steinen und ein Verdichten des Erdreichs. Gleichzeitig ging die Zahl und die Dichte der Pflanzenarten zurck. Der Schaden war noch grer, wenn die Zerstrung whrend der Hauptwachstumsperiode geschah. Einige Folgen, hauptschlich die des Rckganges von Pflanzenarten waren noch nach einem Jahr sichtbar. Massnahmen zur Erhaltung werden diskutiert.
mounresedeve.33.4.463|Glacier tourism, a multimillion-dollar industry in New Zealand, is potentially under threat by ongoing glacial retreat. Surface morphology changes associated with retreat and thinning result in increasingly difficult access for guided walks on the Franz Josef Glacier, but simultaneously, an enlarging proglacial lake is increasing tourism opportunities at Tasman Glacier. Steepening ice slopes, increased debris cover, and an increase in the rockfall hazard are just some of the challenges glacier tourism operators face as glaciers around the world retreat. To date in New Zealand, glacier tourism has kept pace with ongoing glaciological change, often by increasing mechanized access. Focusing scientific research on short-term process studiesfor example, determining thinning rates and assessing hazardswill help tour operators and policy-makers make decisions about future glacier utilization and accessibility.
10.2307/3673435|Of the African continent, 45 percent of the land has slopes of at least 8 percent; more than 55 percent is higher than 500 m, more than 20 percent is higher than 1,000 m, and about one percent is higher than 2,000 m. Mountain ranges and massifs, deeply-incised gorges or escarpments, and highlands are huge resource areas of great importance for Africa's growing population. An integrated methodological approach is proposed as a basis for common research and development strategies and for comparative studies in Africa's differing mountain ecosystem. Generally adopted Resolutions opened the way for the foundation of an Association for Research and Development on African Mountains and Highlands or, in short, the African Mountain Association (AMA). /// Sur le continent africain, 45 pour cent des terres ont une pente d'au moins 8 pour cent; plus de 55 pour cent d'entre elles se trouvent  plus de 500 m d'altitude, plus de 20 pour cent  plus de 1.000 m et environ 1 pour cent  plus de 2.000 m. Les chanes de montagne et les massifs, les gorges profondes ou escarpements, et les hautes terres constituent de vastes ressources d'une importance primordiale pour la population croissante de l'Afrique. Une approche mthodologique intgre est propose comme base pour des statgies communes de recherche et dveloppement, et pour des tudes comparatives des diffrents cosystmes montagnards de l'Afrique. Des rsolutions adoptes en majorit ont permis d'tablir l'Association pour la recherche et le dveloppement dans les montagnes et hautes terres africaines, ou tout simplement l'Association pour les montagnes africaines (AMA). /// 45% des afrikanischen Kontinents besteht aus einem Relief mit Hangwinkeln ber 8%; mehr als 55% ist hher als 500 m, mehr als 20% hher als 1000 m und 1% ist hher als 2000 m. Gebirge im weitesten Sinne und Hochlnder sind Gebiete mit Ressourcen, die fr die rasch wachsende Bevlkerung Afrikas von hchster Bedeutung sind. Ein methodisch integraler Ansatz wird postuliert als Grundlage fr knftige Forschungs- und Entwicklungsstrategien, aber auch fr vergleichbare Untersuchungen in den sehr verschiedenen Gebirgskosystemen dieses Kontinents.
mounresedeve.34.4.344|This study investigated summer farming in the Chornohora and the adaptation strategies practiced in summer pasturelands, using field observations, in-depth interviews with local inhabitants, and official data from Ukrainian institutions. The indigenous Hutsul people have developed organizational forms of animal husbandryoften based on family farmingthat they try to follow despite the lack of support from the state. Which of the summer farming types practiced in the Chornohora adapts well to modern challenges? What can be learned from the Chornohora's example for the protection of traditional landscapes shaped by seasonal grazing in other mountain regions? We approach these problems through 5 case studies, chosen from more than 40 farms that were investigated during visits to the study area over 5 years, illustrating a range of practices from traditional transhumance to agritourism and including both private and collective farms, some within protected areas. Chornohora's 40 working farms present a unique contrast to the common pattern of grassland abandonment and afforestation in the Ukrainian Carpathians.
10.2307/3672963|The impact of trampling upon herbaceous vegetation was tested on the west slope of the Andes Range in central Chile at two sites near the ski resorts of Farellones and La Parva, located at 2,300 and 2,800 m above sea level. During the snow-free season, walking upon areas with herbaceous vegetation, caused displacement of stones and compaction of soils, along with a significant decrease in the number and density of species. This damage was slightly greater when the disturbance occurred during the period of maximum vegetative activity. Some effects, mainly reduction in the number of individuals, were still visible a year later. Conservation measures are discussed. /// Les effets des pitinements sur la vgtation herbace a t vrifi sur la pente ouest de la Cordillre des Andes dans le Chili central  deux sites prs des stations de ski de Farellones et de la Parva, situes  2,300 et 2,800 m au-dessus du niveau de la mer. Pendant la saison sans neige, les pitinements sur les endroits couverts de vgtation herbaces ont provoques de dplacements de cailloux et de compactage du sol accompagns d'une diminution importante du nombre et de la densit des espces. Cette dgradation a t lgrement plus importante lorsque le drangement s'est produit pendant une priode d'activit vgtative maximum. Quelques effets, particulirement la rduction dans le nombre des habitants, ont t observs quelques annes plus tard. Des mesures de protection sont prsentes. /// An den westlichen Hngen der Anden in Zentral-Chile wurde untersucht, welche Folgen sich aus dem Zertreten des Krautbewuchses ergeben. Die Untersuchungen wurden in zwei Gegenden nahe den Skigebieten von Farellones und La Parva in Hhen von 2.300 m und 2.800 m .M. vorgenommen. Das Gehen auf bewachsenen Flchen whrend der schneefreien Jahreszeit verursachte ein Loslsen von Steinen und ein Verdichten des Erdreichs. Gleichzeitig ging die Zahl und die Dichte der Pflanzenarten zurck. Der Schaden war noch grer, wenn die Zerstrung whrend der Hauptwachstumsperiode geschah. Einige Folgen, hauptschlich die des Rckganges von Pflanzenarten waren noch nach einem Jahr sichtbar. Massnahmen zur Erhaltung werden diskutiert.
mounresedeve.33.4.463|Glacier tourism, a multimillion-dollar industry in New Zealand, is potentially under threat by ongoing glacial retreat. Surface morphology changes associated with retreat and thinning result in increasingly difficult access for guided walks on the Franz Josef Glacier, but simultaneously, an enlarging proglacial lake is increasing tourism opportunities at Tasman Glacier. Steepening ice slopes, increased debris cover, and an increase in the rockfall hazard are just some of the challenges glacier tourism operators face as glaciers around the world retreat. To date in New Zealand, glacier tourism has kept pace with ongoing glaciological change, often by increasing mechanized access. Focusing scientific research on short-term process studiesfor example, determining thinning rates and assessing hazardswill help tour operators and policy-makers make decisions about future glacier utilization and accessibility.
