41717010|Patterns in the community structure of darkling beetle (9 Eleodes spp., Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) assemblages in the shortgrass steppe of north central Colorado were monitored by live pitfall trapping for 4 summers. There were significant correlations among weather (temperature and precipitation), species richness, and number of individuals per species captured; effects from weather conditions also displayed 1-month and 1-yr delayed effects. Population densities of 2 eleodid species were monitored by mark-recapture methods. Densities of these species varied relatively little among years and sites, although density was correlated with temperature and precipitation. Abiotic influences on both density and richness differed between 2 macrohabitat types (shortgrass upland, shrub floodplain). The 4 largest species were most abundant in the floodplain, whereas the smallest species was most common in the upland. Affinities with cactus and shrub microhabitats (and an avoidance of bare soil) were evident, although a preference for shaded microhabitats was not detected. These results do not conform well to previous explanations of why darkling beetle assemblages are spatially and temporally heterogeneous, which primarily focused on prdation and thermorgulation. Therefore, an alternative mechanism concerning scale-dependent uses of heterogeneity and mobility is proposed to account for eleodid community patterns.
41717011|Twelve wild adult Colorado pikeminnow (Ptychocheilus lucius), captured in the tailwaters of Taylor Draw Dam on the White River, Colorado, were implanted with radio transmitters and their movement patterns monitored from 1992 to 1994. The spawning migration of these fish was extensive. In 1993, the only full year of the study, the fish migrated an average of 658 km from the White River to spawning sites in the Yampa or Green rivers and back to the White River. Eight of these fish were translocated in the river upstream of the dam in April 1993. These fish and the 4 others below the dam remained in the river until May 1993. All 12 had migrated down the White River to spawning sites in the Green and Yampa rivers by July 1993. The fish that were located above the dam successfully passed over the dam during their downstream migration. Seven fish migrated upstream toward the Yampa River Canyon spawning site and 5 migrated downstream toward the Green River Desolation/Gray Canyon spawning site. Five of 7 Yampa River fish were found at the spawning site. The other 2 were found 5-8 km downstream of the site. One of 5 Green River fish was found at the spawning site, the other 4 between 16 and 62 km upstream of the site. All fish migrated back to the White River by August 1993 and were found near the dam by October 1993. Two fish were recaptured and translocated above the dam in September 1993. Five fish were located below the dam and 2 above the dam in April 1994. By July 1994 seven of the same fish that had migrated toward the Yampa River in 1993 were found at the Yampa Canyon spawning site. At the same time, 3 of 5 fish that migrated toward the Green River in 1993 were found at the Desolation/Gray Canyon spawning site. This included 2 fish that had been found upstream of the site in 1993. The 12 fish traveled an average of 6 km d (range: 410 km d) during the migration period from May through October 1993. Generally, fish moved faster to the spawning site than back from the site to the White River. These fish moved very little within their home ranges in the White River. Six fish tagged in 1992 moved only 0.1-2.3 km in the tailwater reach below Taylor Draw Dam from September 1992 through April 1993. All fish, after their spawning runs, had moved up to or near the dam by October 1993. These fish were not tracked again until April 1994. Their movement patterns in April 1994 were similar to those observed in April 1993. The greatest amount of fish movement in the White River was displayed by the 8 fish placed above Taylor Draw Dam in April 1993 and the 2 placed in Kenney Reservoir in September 1993. They moved 1.1-40.6 km in the river before and after their spawning migration in spring and autumn 1993. These spawning migrations suggest that adult Colorado pikeminnow in the White River were recruited from both Green and Yampa river spawning populations and were presumably imprinted to these respective spawning sites. Those fish placed above Taylor Draw Dam established home ranges in habitats previously occupied by Colorado pikeminnow before the dam was completed. They remained there until they migrated downstream during the spawning period. Although we did not study fish passage, our study demonstrates that adult Colorado pikeminnow will use habitat if access is provided. Translocation of wild adult fish into historic but unoccupied habitats may be a valuable recovery option.
41717012|While a trend toward western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis spp. occidentalis) super-dominance in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) communities of the Pacific Northwest since the late 1800s has been well documented, establishment dates of western juniper in less disturbed environments have not. In this paper we document the establishment history of western juniper on 2 minimally disturbed research natural areas that have substantial differences in their physical characteristics. On each site we randomly established twenty 0.05-ha plots to obtain per hectare counts of mature and juvenile western juniper and to obtain a sample of 100 trees closest to the plot center. These trees were then dated using standard dendrochronological techniques. The lower-elevation, more xeric site has an establishment history that suggests it is an emerging western juniper woodland, with the majority of trees sampled establishing since 1978. The higher-elevation site is an older, well-established woodland with a more even temporal distribution of trees. These results suggest that suitable establishment sites may switch from canopy dependence in emerging woodlands to open sites in mature woodlands and that neither domestic livestock grazing nor active fire suppression is a required mechanism for establishment.
41717013|Mining in the Upper Arkansas catchment has polluted the river with heavy metals for 140 yr. Pupal and adult chironomid species distribution and sedimentary metal concentrations are provided for 22 stations along 259 km of main river during 1984-85. Complete species identification was achieved only recently. This has produced an unprecedented record of chironomid species distribution for a comparable length of river in the USA. Chemically or physically perturbed sites had poor species richness compared with the next site downstream, suggesting that larvae may drift through unfavorable habitats to benign ones. Using canonical correspondence analysis, we found species composition to be most strongly related to variables expressing the longitudinal axis of the river (distance/altitude, temperature, latitude), while toxicity to zinc was a significant secondary correlate. These river-related environmental variables accounted for a greater proportion of pupal species variation than for adults. This was considered to result from a proportion of adults emerging from habitats beyond the main river. Multivariate analysis identified metal-tolerant and -intolerant species. Generic data revealed the same major trends but indicator taxa were lost. The study provides a disturbed-state reference for monitoring effects of remedial actions begun in 1991, and for comparisons with other Colorado rivers.
41717014|The Upper Arkansas catchment has been polluted with heavy metals from mining for almost 140 yr. Adult Plecoptera and Trichoptera species distributions were recorded from 22 stations along 259 km of main river during 1984-85 so that these could be related to metal deposition and other environmental characteristics. Chemically or physically perturbed sites had poor species richness compared with adjacent sites. There was no sequential downstream increase in species numbers. Filter-feeders proportionally increased downstream as predators declined; these proportions were reset at a high-energy site before the trend resumed. Using canonical correspondence analysis, we found that species composition was most strongly related to changes in distance/altitude and to temperature, particularly after regulatory flows entered the river. The proportion of biological variation explained by river measurements indicated that collected adults were largely derived from the main Arkansas River. Species tolerant of high sedimentary metal concentrations were identified while some other species appeared to be sensitive. The study provides a disturbed-state reference for monitoring effects of remedial actions begun in 1991, and for comparisons with other Colorado rivers.
41717015|Woody riparian vegetation in western North American riparian ecosystems is commonly dependent on alluvial groundwater. Various natural and anthropogenic mechanisms can cause groundwater declines that stress riparian vegetation, but little quantitative information exists on the nature of plant response to different magnitudes, rates, and durations of groundwater decline. We observed groundwater dynamics and the response of Populus fremontii, Salix gooddingii, and Tamarix ramosissima saplings at 3 sites between 1995 and 1997 along the Bill Williams River, Arizona. At a site where the lowest observed groundwater level in 1996 (-1.97 m) was 1.11 m lower than that in 1995 (-0.86 m), 92-100% of Populus and Salix saplings died, whereas 0-13% of Tamarix stems died. A site with greater absolute water table depths in 1996 (-2.55 m), but less change from the 1995 condition (0.55 m), showed less Populus and Salix mortality and increased basal area. Excavations of sapling roots suggest that root distribution is related to groundwater history. Therefore, a decline in water table relative to the condition under which roots developed may strand plant roots where they cannot obtain sufficient moisture. Plant response is likely mediated by other factors such as soil texture and stratigraphy, availability of precipitation-derived soil moisture, physiological and morphological adaptations to water stress, and tree age. An understanding of the relationships between water table declines and plant response may enable land and water managers to avoid activities that are likely to stress desirable riparian vegetation.
41717016|Restoring coal mined land to pre-mining shrub cover, density, height, community composition, and diversity to renew wildlife habitat quality is a priority for reclamation specialists. Long-term shrub reestablishment success on reclaimed mined land in Wyoming and suitability of these lands for wildlife habitat are unknown. Fourteen reclaimed study sites, 10 yr old or older, were selected on 8 mines in Wyoming to evaluate shrub reestablishment and wildlife habitat value for antelope (Antilocapra americana) and sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). Five sites were categorized as fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens) sites and 9 as fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush (A. canescens/Artemisia tridentata spp. wyomingensis) sites. Published data describing antelope and sage grouse-preferred habitat requirements in sagebrush-grassland steppe ecosystems were used to evaluate shrub community value of sampled sites for wildlife habitat. Mean shrub canopy cover, density, and height for fourwing saltbush sites were 5.8%, 0.23 m, and 41.6 cm, respectively, compared to 5.6%, 0.61 m, and 31.1 cm for fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush sites. Two fourwing saltbush and 4 fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush sites provided sufficient cover for antelope, while 2 fourwing saltbush and 4 fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush sites were adequate for sage grouse. Only 1 fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush site provided high enough shrub densities for sage grouse. One fourwing saltbush and 7 fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush sites provided ample shrub heights for antelope, while 1 fourwing saltbush and 8 fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush sites were sufficient for sage grouse. One fourwing saltbush and 1 fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush site provided enough grass, forb, and shrub composition for antelope, while no site in either reclamation type was satisfactory for sage grouse. Shrub diversity was 3 times higher for fourwing saltbush/big sagebrush sites (0.984) than for fourwing saltbush sites (0.328). Individually, sites seeded with multiple shrub species had higher canopy cover, density, and diversity compared with single-species shrub seedings. Achieving premining shrub cover, density, height, community composition, and diversity within existing bond-release time frames is unrealistic, considering that some native shrublands require 30-60 yr to reach maturity.
41717017|Stemwood and understory production (kg ha) were estimated during 3 nonconsecutive years on 5 growing stock levels of ponderosa pine including clearcuts and unthinned stands. Stemwood production was consistently greater at mid-and higher pine stocking levels, and understory production was greater in stands with less pine; however, there were no differences in total (stemwood + understory) production. Based on loss of productivity, there is no argument that small clearcuts and unthinned stands should not be included in site plans. They contribute significantly to community structure, particularly to plant and animal species richness.
41717022|Fossil packrat (Neotoma) middens provide an important source of paleoecologic data in the arid West. This study describes and tests a predictive GIS model that uses the weights-of-evidence method for determining areas with a high probability of containing fossil middens in central Nevada. Model variables included geology, elevation, and aspect. Geology was found to be the most important variable tested. We produced a map of 4 probability classes validated by field-checking 21 randomly selected 1-km sites throughout the study area. Our high-probability category reduced the search area to only 3.5% of the total study area. Fossil middens were found on 8 of 21 sites (38%). Geologic types that contained middens were granite, limestone, and volcanic tuff. A 2nd run of the model with the new midden localities added to the training set helped narrow the total search area even further. This analysis demonstrates that the weights-of-evidence method provides an effective tool both for guiding research design and for helping locate midden sites within specific localities. With only a limited training dataset and a simple set of mapped criteria, a model can be constructed that is both predictive and testable. We intend to continue development of the model to improve our ability to predict the location of Pleistocene-age middens and to locate middens on low-probability sites. This method, designed for mineral exploration, has wide potential application within the natural sciences.
41717023|The evergreen oak Quercus turbinella and the deciduous Q. gambelii form natural hybrids in southwestern Utah and northern Arizona. Hybrid individuals also are found in northern Utah in a region where only Q. gambelii currently exists, indicating that Q. turbinella has recently retreated southward. Our objectives were to (1) examine the ecophysiology of parental taxa and hybrids under natural conditions in southeastern Utah, and (2) investigate the level of integration between leaf carbon isotope discrimination (a synthetic gas exchange trait) and structural and chemical traits of leaves in morphologically variable hybrid populations. Leaf length, width, mass-to-area ratio (LMA, g m), and nitrogen concentration (N, g g) within 2 hybrid populations near New Harmony, Utah, were highly intercorrelated. Variation within the hybrid populations spanned mean values for these traits observed in parental taxa from adjacent "pure" populations of each species. Carbon isotope discrimination (), an integrated measure of the ratio of intercellular to ambient CO concentration, ranged from 16.1% o to 19.6% o within the 2 hybrid populations and was positively correlated with leaf nitrogen concentration and negatively correlated with LMA; individuals in hybrid populations with leaves resembling Q. gambelii had the highest leaf  and N concentrations and lowest LMA compared with leaves from plants that resembled Q. turbinella. CO uptake is limited by stomatal conductance and possibly by mesophyll resistance to a greater extent in Q. turbinella phenotypes than in intermediate or Q. gambelii phenotypes. D of stem xylem water (an indication of active rooting depth) and predawn water potential during the peak monsoon period in August were not correlated to leaf  values within the hybrid populations. Several individuals that were morphologically similar to Q. turbinella in the hybrid populations maintained high predawn water potentials and derived moisture from winter recharge that presumably was taken from deep soil layers. Apparently, a few adult individuals of the Q. turbinella phenotype in hybrid populations accessed water from deep in the soil profile, which enabled them to avoid summer drought. Reduced monsoonal activity may have been an important, but not the single, determinant of Q. turbinella's retreat from northern Utah during the recent Holocene.
41717024|As part of a larger study on the aquatic life of streams in central Colorado, efforts were made to determine the distribution of interstitial organisms, with emphasis on the subterranean amphipod Stygobromus. In a preliminary screening-level study, sampling for Stygobromus was conducted in 1985 at 47 sites along the Front Range of Colorado at elevations generally matching the type locale for S. coloradensis and S. pennaki at the confluence of the North Fork of the South Platte River and its mainstem. A more intensive follow-up study was conducted in 1988 at 30 sites concentrating on the upper South Platte River basin. In the follow-up study both hyporheic and shore zone (phreatic) habitats were sampled using a variety of techniques (Bou-Rouch pump, Karaman-Chappuis technique, and a coarsemesh wide-mouth net, as appropriate). In the preliminary study Stygobromus spp. were collected at only 12 of 47 study sites, with all collections in the vicinity of the type locale. In the follow-up study Stygobromus were found at 16 of 30 sites sampled, extending the known distribution in Colorado of S. coloradensis and S. pennaki well beyond the type locale. The use of multiple sampling techniques was important in locating these organisms. In addition to the amphipod Stygobromus, sampling sites in the follow-up study contained a rich interstitial community, including copepods, bathynellids, tardigrades, archiannelids, and ostracods.
41717025|We experimentally reduced the food base of nesting Brewer's Sparrows (Spizella breweri) and Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) in a shrubsteppe region of south central Idaho in 1989 and 1990. Frequency and mass of "birdfood "arthropods in pitfall, sweep net, and stickyboard samples were generally lower on sites treated with a broad-spectrum insecticide (malathion) than on untreated sites though the effect varied among taxa. In 1990 O. montanus switched nestling diets to prey taxa not affected by the treatment. Time between nestling food deliveries was greater for S. breweri on the treated than untreated site in 1989. In 1990 there were no between-site differences, but there was an increase in delivery time on the treated plot after treatment; this difference was within the range of delivery times recorded on the untreated plot. Malathion applications did reduce the food base, but plasticity in passerine behavior and emergence characteristics of some prey taxa ameliorated indirect effects of food reduction to birds.
41717026|A quantitative review was conducted of the effects of cattle grazing in arid systems on 16 response variables ranging from soil bulk density to total vegetative cover to rodent species diversity. Various studies from North American arid environments that used similar measures for assessing grazing effects on the same response variables were used for the review; each study was assigned to serve as a single data point in paired comparisons of grazed versus ungrazed sites. All analyses tested the 1-tailed null hypothesis that grazing has no effect on the measured variable. Eleven of 16 analyses (69%) revealed significant detrimental effects of cattle grazing, suggesting that cattle can have a negative impact on North American xeric ecosystems. Soil-related variables were most negatively impacted by grazing (3 of 4 categories tested were significantly impacted), followed by litter cover and biomass (2 of 2 categories tested), and rodent diversity and richness (2 of 2 categories tested). Vegetative variables showed more variability in terms of quantifiable grazing effects, with 4 of 8 categories testing significantly. Overall, these findings could shed light on which suites of variables may be effectively used by land managers to measure ecosystem integrity and rangeland health in grazed systems.
41717027|During 1995-1997 we conducted a white pine blister rust (WPBR) disease survey in white pines of the Intermountain West. Incidence of WPBR in white pines was 59% overall, 73% in the northern Rocky Mountains, 55% in the middle Rocky Mountains, and 67% in the Sierra Nevada sample stands. Intensity within infected stands averaged 35% and ranged from 2% to 100%. Southward spread of the disease along the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains appears to have slowed or stopped, and the disease was found at the northern and western edges of, but not within, the Great Basin region. Smaller-diameter trees infected with WPBR sustained more severe damage than larger-diameter trees. Mortality and top kill caused by WPBR were very low across the entire study area, but incidence and intensity of the disease appear to have increased substantially in the northern and middle Rocky Mountains since the 1960s.
41717028|Distribution, movements, and habitat use of 10 wild adult razorback suckers (Xyrauchen texanus) were examined in Lake Mohave, Arizona-Nevada, from November 1994 through July 1997. Movement rates (0.00-17.35 km d) and ranges ($\bar x = 39km$) were similar to those for riverine populations. All study fish returned to spawning sites used in previous years, but they also visited other spawning areas. Spawning females were significantly (P = 0.031) more active than males (480 vs. 87 m d) and moved substantial distances between spawning sites during peak reproduction (1-28 February). Fish became most active (m d, km month) after spawning and moved to areas known to support higher algal production. Fish were typically within 50 m (F < 0.001) of shore and at average depths between 3.1 and 16.8 m (range 0.2 to > 30.0 m). Adults were detected throughout the available thermal gradient (12-30C), but during summer typically had body temperatures between 18 and 22C. Vertical movements within the water column showed no correlation with depth or time of day, but seasonal shifts suggest fish may regulate body temperature by seeking specific temperatures during reservoir stratification.
41717029|Physiological responses of Allenrolfea occidentalis to salinity and seedling density were investigated. Effects of salinity (0, 200, 400, 600, 800, and 1000 mM NaCl) and 3 planting densities (2000, 4000, 6000 plants m) on the growth, survival, and ecophysiology of A. occidentalis, a stem succulent inland halophyte, were studied under controlled greenhouse conditions. Plants were grown in a sand culture using subirrigation. Dry mass of roots was highest at 600 mM NaCl at low density (2000 plants m), but declined as salinity increased. Tissue water content was highest at the 200 mM NaCl treatment and decreased with increased salinity. Water potential of the plants became more negative with increasing salinity due to the accumulation of NaCl in the leaves. Inorganic ions, especially Na and Cl, contributed substantially to dry mass. Na and Cl concentration in shoots and roots increased when NaCl level was increased while K, Ca, Mg, SO, and NO contents decreased. Net photosynthesis increased at low salinity (200 mM), but photosynthesis at other salinities was not significantly different from the control. While A. occidentalis is very salt tolerant and photosynthesis functioned reasonably well at high salinities, extremely high salinity did decrease dry mass of roots and shoots.
41717030|History and technical literature describing potential effects of livestock grazing on mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) populations and winter range habitat are reviewed. Recommendations for livestock grazing on winter ranges within the Great Basin are advanced.
41717031|Embolism, the blockage of water transport in the xylem by air, is an important consequence of low water availability for all plant species. Riparian plants, since they typically experience mesic conditions, are not water stress tolerant and hence are vulnerable to xylem cavitation, the formation of emboli. We have constructed a composite vulnerability curve for Populus fremontii (Fremont cottonwood); assessed native state embolism, critical xylem pressure potential (cav), and safety margin; and determined predawn and midday leaf water potential (L) within a central New Mexico cottonwood population. Our results indicate (1) that this population of P. fremontii is extremely vulnerable to cavitation, with complete xylem blockage occurring at -2.25 MPa, and (2) that native state embolism is between 19% and 42%. cav was determined to be -1.36 MPa. Measurements of predawn L were typically near -0.5 MPa while midday L values averaged -1.7 MPa. Estimates of midday xylem pressure potential (px) were -1.1 MPa. These values suggest that these individuals maintain small safety margins (0.26 MPa) between px and cav. This small safety margin may be detrimental under increased variation in water availability caused by anthropogenic alteration of river systems.
41717032|Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) population densities are lower in the Intermountain West than elsewhere in the species' range. Throughout much of its range, the Ruffed Grouse is closely associated with quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides), in part because aspen buds are an important winter food. Because population fluctuations of Ruffed Grouse have been associated with changes in aspen abundance or chemical composition, we studied winter foraging of the species in the Intermountain West where it has received little attention. Aspen buds were the most prominent forage in the bird's diet, although in contrast to other Ruffed Grouse food habits studies, reproductive buds were not eaten more than vegetative buds, and buds of other deciduous plants were also important (> 20% of the diet). Excretion of high concentrations of ammonium nitrogen suggests that grouse in northern Utah are ingesting higher levels of secondary plant compounds than reported elsewhere. Our results show aspen is important in the winter ecology of Ruffed Grouse in northern Utah and suggest that continued loss of aspen may impact grouse populations.
41717033|Ring-billed (Larus delawarensis) and California Gulls (L. califomicus) have been implicated in depredations on migrating salmon smolt in the Columbia River. As part of a gull management program conducted in 1995 and 1996, we collected L. delawarensis (n = 120) and L. californiens (n = 45) near Priest Rapids Dam, Washington, and analyzed stomach contents to determine food habits and thus the importance of fish in gull diets. Percent volume measurements and index of relative importance rankings suggested a greater reliance on fish by L. californicus than by L. delawarensis. Peak percent consumption of fish by both species occurred in May, coinciding with peak salmon outmigration through Priest Rapids Dam; and for both species number of fish consumed by gulls was higher below Priest Rapids Dam. Gulls collected prior to, and after, peak smolt migration indicated low importance rankings for fish in both L. delawarensis and L. califomicus diets. However, the importance ranking of fish in gull diets changed over time and was higher for both species as the smolt migration peaked in May.
41717041|Although feral horses have inhabited western North America since the end of the 16th century, relatively little synecological research has been conducted to quantitatively characterize how they interact with ecosystem components. Because feral horses exhibit watering behavior markedly different from that of domestic cattle, it is particularly important to evaluate response of ecosystem elements near water sources to horse use. To assess this response, we performed live-trapping of small mammals and 2-tiered vegetative sampling in 2 mountain ranges in central Nevada in the interior Great Basin, USA. At low elevations, plots around horse-excluded springs exhibited notably greater plant species richness, percent cover, and abundance of grasses and shrubs, as well as more small mammal burrow entrances than plots at horse-grazed springs. At high elevations, meadows protected from grazing exhibited maximum vegetation heights 2.8 times greater than vegetation grazed by horses only and 4.5 times greater than vegetation grazed by horses and cattle. Species richness in quadrats was most different between the horse-and-cattle-grazed meadow and its ungrazed counterpart, suggesting the possibility of synergistic effects of horse and cattle grazing in the same location. This study, the first in the Great Basin to investigate quantitatively ecosystem consequences of feral horse use with exclosures, represents a preliminary step in identifying factors that determine the magnitude of horse grazing impacts.
41717042|The importance of maintaining healthy riparian communities to sustain natural stream processes and function is well documented. Land management agencies in the West are currently developing methods to assess and monitor riparian community condition to adapt land use practices that would better protect rangeland ecosystems. To determine whether these methods also provide an indication of abiotic and biotic stream condition, we compared the classification system of riparian communities developed by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) to physical parameters of stream condition and to aquatic invertebrate community assemblages. Thirty-three sites in 19 different streams of the Toiyabe Range in central Nevada were measured for water quality, substrate characteristics, and fish abundance and diversity. We sampled aquatic invertebrates and calculated community indices based on environmental tolerance levels, taxonomic diversity, and abundance of sensitive taxa. USFS personnel classified these sites by dominant riparian plant community type (meadow, willow, or aspen) and ecological status (low, moderate, or high) using plant abundance data, rooting depth, and soil infiltration to determine similarities to potential natural communities. Riparian condition indices as well as community diversity were significantly correlated to proportions of fine and small-diameter substrate in streambeds. Accumulation of silt was significantly related to plant community type, with meadow sites expressing highest proportions. Further examinations indicated that 2 of 6 invertebrate community indices were significantly related to ecological status, with highest diversity levels occurring mainly in willow-and aspen-dominated sites in moderate ecological condition. Nevertheless, we show that several other environmental variables, including substrate characteristics, dissolved oxygen, water temperature, and species richness of fish communities, were more strongly and consistently related to invertebrate assemblage patterns. Our results demonstrate that information on aquatic invertebrates and stream condition could augment the existing riparian classification system and provide useful monitoring tools to more thoroughly examine ecosystem health in rangelands.
41717043|We report life history characteristics for 4 recently established populations of western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis). Mosquitofish from thermally stable habitats, Bonham and Garrett, were characterized by maturity at large sizes, high fat reserves, and large embryos. In contrast, females from a thermally unstable habitat, Wabuska, matured at small sizes and had low fat reserves and small embryos. Females from Parker, a site with no appreciable thermal input, matured at intermediate sizes and had low fat reserves as well as large embryos. These populations shared a common ancestor in 1937; therefore, these results suggest either phenotypic plasticity or rapid evolution.
41717044|Genetics of Eusattus muricatus (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) populations within Silver State Dune Complex in the northern Great Basin of North America were assayed using allozyme electrophoresis. Hierarchical F-statistics showed no significant population subdivision among 3 valleys comprising Silver State Dune Complex. A regression of estimated pairwise gene flow (Nm) against pairwise geographic distance was not significant for populations within these valleys, but it was significant over larger distances. A neighbor-joining phenogram did not represent geographic relationships among populations in the 3 valleys but reflected the past geologic history of these dunes. Pairwise divergence times were low (<7000 yr) for populations within Silver State Dune Complex but were high (>18,000 yr) in out-groups.
41717045|Fourteen freshwater ostracod species collected from 24 springs in Nevada, Idaho, and Oregon between 1991 and 1994 were classified. Their ecology, based on major water parameters (i.e., temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, conductivity), and biogeographical distribution in North America were studied. Among these 14 species, 9 (Ilyocypris bradyi, I. gibba, Darwinuh stevensoni, Candona candida, Heterocypris incongruens, Herpetocypris reptans, H. chevreuxi, Prionocypns canadensis, P. longiforma) are new records for Nevada's ostracod fauna, while 3 (H. reptans, P. canadensis, and Cypria turneri) are new species for Oregon. H. reptans, P. canadensis, and Heterocypris salina are also recorded as new for the ostracod literature of Idaho. Scottia pseudobrowniana, collected from Nevada, is a new ostracod species for the United States. The occurrence of 5 Holarctic species in the northern Great Basin area may suggest a possible historical relationship with the European ostracod fauna.
41717046|Nonnative brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) have been implicated in declines of stream-living Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki henshawi), a threatened trout endemic to the Lahontan Basin of northeastern California, southeastern Oregon, and northern Nevada. Brook trout may displace Lahontan cutthroat trout through 2 mechanisms: interspecific predation and competition for food. To evaluate the evidence for these alternatives, we examined stomach contents of 30 trout of each species captured in the North Fork Humboldt River, northeastern Nevada, to compare number, size, and taxonomic composition of prey. Taxonomic dietary overlap was high (81.4%) between brook and Lahontan cutthroat trout. Both species were nonselective in their feeding habits. Lahontan cutthroat trout consumed over 2.5 times as many prey on average, but brook trout consumed significantly larger prey. No trout of either species occurred in fish diets. Only a single fish, a Paiute sculpin (Cottus beldingi), was found in stomachs, and the majority (>90%) of prey consisted of insect taxa. Size and number of prey consumed were positively related to fish size for Lahontan cutthroat trout, but not for brook trout. These results do not provide compelling evidence to suggest feeding by Lahontan cutthroat trout is limited by presence of large numbers of brook trout in the North Fork Humboldt River. However, fundamental differences in each species' utilization of food in this system indicate that a better understanding of observed differences may help to explain the variable success of brook trout invasions across stream habitats in the Lahontan Basin and their potential effects on Lahontan cutthroat trout.
41717047|Colonization of stream macroinvertebrates onto artificial substrates was examined in Sagehen Creek, California, during 1993. Substrate size and presence or absence of pupal cases of the caddisfly Anagapetus (Glossosomatidae) were examined as possible influences on macroinvertebrate colonization. Macroinvertebrates were collected from substrates after 60 d of incubation and identified to the lowest feasible taxonomic unit. Dry weight of the filamentous green alga Cladophora also was determined for each substrate. A general linear model indicated a significant positive relationship between both substrate size and presence of pupal cases on richness (P < 0.001). There was no significant effect of cases on the E5 evenness index, which supports the passive sampling model as a mechanism giving rise to the effect of cases on richness. A multivariate general linear model indicated a significant positive effect of Anagapetus cases on Micrasema bactro, Epeorus, and Rhyacophila sp. 1, and of substrate size on Hydropsyche occidentalis and Epeorus. Neither cases nor substrate size had a significant effect on Cladophora density (P > 0.05). There were significant negative correlations between Cladophora density and both Shannon H' and J' indices. There were significant positive relationships between Cladophora density with Baetis, Simulium, and Chironomidae density. Combined main effects of substrate size, Anagapetus pupal cases, and Cladophora have dynamic influences on this macroinvertebrate fauna. This study demonstrates the complex interplay of biotic and abiotic factors that determine macroinvertebrate distribution and abundance in this system.
41717048|The population structure of 2 Great Basin odonate species was assessed using protein electrophoresis. Analyses included 7 populations of Sympetrum corruptum (suborder Anisoptera), a migratory and highly mobile dragonfly, and 8 populations of Enallagma (suborder Zygoptera), a weak flier that is not known to migrate far from natal water sources. Though we expected the damselfly (E. carunculatum) to show greater genetic isolation than the dragonfly (S. corruptum), both species apparently had high levels of gene flow (theta = 0.0604 for S. corruptum, theta = 0.0485 for E. carunculatum) and showed no evidence for isolation by distance. These results suggest that both species are highly vagile and that the most important factors affecting population structure of these odonates may be ecological conditions such as habitat patchiness and the ephemerality of water sources.
41717049|The only remaining self-sustaining native population of lacustrine Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki henshawi) not affected by nonnative salmonids is in Summit Lake, Humboldt County, Nevada. Annual spawning runs in 1993 and 1994 were monitored at a fish trap on Mahogany Creek, the only spawning tributary for Summit Lake. Number of spawners was similar in both years, with 1290 upstream migrants observed in 1993 and 1255 in 1994. In 1993, 137 postspawners (10.6% of upstream migrants) returned to the lake, and in 1994, 434 postspawners (34.6% of upstream migrants) returned downstream through the fish trap. Two distinct groups of subadult Lahontan cutthroat trout were observed moving downstream in 1994. The first group passed downstream between 27 April and 29 July and included 1188 fish (average fork length = 90 mm). Between 1 August and 31 October, 1160 fish (average fork length = 42 mm) moved downstream. Size differences of these 2 groups suggest that the 1st group comprised fish that had overwintered in Mahogany Creek, while the 2nd group were probably young-of-the-year.
41717052|We analyzed the microtopography of microbiotic soil crusts at 3 sites on the Colorado Plateau of southern. Utah and investigated distributions of cyanobacteria and several lichens in distinctive microhabitats created by this topography. At all 3 sites the long axes of linear soil mounds were oriented nonrandomly in a NNWSSE direction. The conspicuous and consistent orientation of soil mounds may result from a combination of physical and biotic processes. Subtle differences across sites in mound orientation and organismal distribution suggest that these variables may be useful in comparing disturbance histories of crusts retrospectively. Differences in colonization frequencies, abundances, and distributions of microorganisms comprising the crusts, as a function of mound aspect or exposure, suggest that these organisms are associated with particular aspects due to distinctive and favorable microhabitats on these exposures. Polysaccharide sheath material, deposited by cyanobacteria, and associated filaments occurred in greater quantities on ENE than WSW mound exposures, and cover by Collema spp. lichens exhibited the same pattern. Colonization of mounds by common lichen species occurred significantly more frequently on ENE than WSW mound aspects at 2 of 3 sites. In contrast, the 3 most common lichen species, aside from Collema spp., did not exhibit a tendency for greater cover on ENE than WSW mound aspects. Physiological differences between gelatinous cyanolichens and green-algal lichens may explain the different distributional patterns of Collema spp. and the 3 other lichens.
41717053|Lathrocasis is a recently recognized genus of Polemoniaceae that circumscribes the species first named Gilia tenerrima A. Gray. This species, distributed primarily in the Great Basin and Rocky Mountain floristic regions, has previously escaped thorough taxonomic scrutiny. Surveys of herbarium specimens and living material show that some features of this species have been inaccurately characterized in the past, while other characteristics have not been previously considered in assessing its relationships. Lathrocasis possesses a distinct suite of morphological features that, considered as a whole, distinguish this taxon at the generic level. This suite of characters includes the mostly entire, nonmucronate leaves, effuse branching with diverging to retrorse and threadlike pedicels, uniformity of short stipitate glands throughout, uniovulate locules, spiriliferous seeds with verrucate seed coats, minute funnelform flowers with simple vasculature, and stamens equally inserted approximately mid-tube. Parsimony analyses of ITS, trnL, and matK genes recover similar trees that place Lathrocasis in Gilieae with possible sister relationships to Gilia, a group composed of Allophyllum, Collomia, and Navarretia, or both of these groups combined. A detailed description of L. tenerrima, a review of its taxonomic history, and notes on the type collection are presented.
41717054|Patterns of recruitment for Yucca brevifolia (Joshua tree) were investigated on 3 elevational transects, 1000-2000 m, in the Spring and Sheep Mountain ranges of southern Nevada. Yucca brevifolia is distributed throughout a broad range of plant communities dominated by Larrea tridentata and Ambrosia dumosa at low elevations, Coleogyne ramosissima at middle elevations, and an Artemisia-Pinus-Juniperus community at upper elevations. The density of Y. brevifolia gradually increased from the lowest elevations, peaked at 1600 m, and remained at intermediate levels at high elevations until reaching an abrupt upper elevational limit at 2000 m. Open substrate dominated the study areas; however, a large majority of Y brevifolia seedlings were found growing under the canopy of other woody shrubs. This pattern of recruitment did not vary by site or elevation. Thirty-five species of perennial shrubs were identified in the study areas, 16 of which were found in association with at least 1 Y brevifolia seedling. However, 4 shrubs were found in a nurse plant relationship with Y brevifolia above the frequency predicted by either their canopy area or numerical dominance. Seedlings exhibited significant variation in aspect, relative to the center of the nurse shrub. In Lee and Lucky Strike canyons, recruitment occurred predominantly on the east and west sides of nurse shrubs, indicating the importance of specific microhabitats. Local presence of specific perennial shrubs resulted in higher levels of recruitment, causing a distinct pattern of community development, presumably through amelioration of abiotic stresses.
41717055|Various abiotic and biotic factors are known to affect tree size, including age, genetics, and environment. Knowledge of size variation within natural riparian tree populations has both ecological and restorative importance. We determined tree sizes, basal area densities, and spatial distributions of 5 Populus fremontii Wats, populations within the Rio Grande watershed in New Mexico. At each site 10 randomly spaced plots, perpendicular to the river and extending from the river to the end of the forest, were established. Diameter at breast height (DBH) and distance to the river were determined for 1803 trees within the 5 populations, and stand cover (measured as basal area [BA] per hectare) was determined for each population. Significant variation in tree size and basal area density existed among sites. Mean DBH per site ranged from 11.7 to 58.4 cm and differed significantly (P < 0.0001) among sites. Mean BA per hectare also varied significantly (F < 0.0001) among sites and ranged from 13.2 to 28.9 m ha. Spatial distribution of trees in relation to the river also differed among sites. Mean distance from the river ranged from 50 to 353 m and differed significantly (P < 0.0001) among sites. Tree size was both linearly and nonlinearly related to distance from the river, with models varying among sites. Patterns of distribution in these New Mexico P. fremontii populations may be influenced by differences in water availability across a site; trees farthest from water sources may experience greater water stress and, therefore, growth limitation. Increasing BA cover with increasing tree size indicated no real thinning of mature trees within a population. Recruitment and establishment of cottonwood seedlings and saplings was evident only at sites with newly formed floodplains. For these 5 populations tree size appeared to be affected by environmental factors.
41717056|The Plumbeous Vireo (Vireo plumbeus) is a poorly studied songbird species that breeds within the interior western United States and Mexico. We studied the breeding behavior of Plumbeous Vireos within pinyon-juniper habitats in northeastern New Mexico in 1996 and 1997. Over both years we located and monitored 40 nests and conducted behavioral observations throughout the nesting cycle. From these observations we described and compared basic behavioral traits of male and female vireos during their nest-building, egg-laying, incubation, and nestling stages, and their response to potential predators near the nest. Male vireos displayed potential nest sites to females, but the females selected the site to be used and built most of the nest. Vireos often did not initiate egg-laying until 2-3 d after nest completion. The female tended to incubate eggs and brood nestlings more than the male, but both parents contributed equally in provisioning the young. Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) parasitized 77% of nests in 1996, 63% in 1997, and parasitism was the primary cause of nest failure in this population. The conspicuousness of vireos around the nest, particularly during the nest-building stage, may contribute to high parasitism levels. Vireo aggression near the nest may also act as a cue to help cowbirds locate nests.
41717057|The White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) is a California state and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service species of special management concern. We studied White-faced Ibis breeding ecology from May through July 1995 on Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) in the upper Klamath Basin of California. A total of 2029 pairs nested in 3 colonies exclusively in early-successional hardstem bulrush (Scirpus acutus). Nest initiation dates ranged from 10 May to 12 June, and mean clutch size was 3.16. Reproductive success averaged 87% apparent nest success (n = 115), 82% hatchability, 97% whole and partial brood survival, and 2.39 fledglings per successful nest. Mayfield estimates of nest survival were 79.1% during the laying and incubation period and 95% during the nestling period. Overall nest success as estimated by the Mayfield method was 75.4%. Our estimates of nest success are some of the highest reported anywhere in the literature for White-faced Ibis. Therefore, Lower Klamath NWR may maintain preferred White-faced Ibis breeding habitats in years of otherwise poor habitat conditions across the Intermountain West.
41717058|We examined algal flora in the aquatic system of Devils Hole, Nevada. The water is seasonally warm, near neutral in pH, and rich in dissolved carbonate, indicative of deeply circulating groundwater flowing through carbonate rock. Most algae were benthic, with only a few planktonic representatives. Eighty-four terminal identifications in 44 genera were recorded, with diatoms and blue-green algae the most speciose groups. Diatoms were major contributors to the grazing food web. Large, mat-forming filamentous algae have an important influence on the physicochemical and general structure of the benthic substrates in Devils Hole.
41717059|Several species of raptors winter at Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge (Refuge) including the Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), Ferruginous Hawk (Buteo regalis), Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis), and Rough-legged Hawk (Buteo lagopus). Raptors were monitored each winter from 1988-89 to 1996-97 using a standardized road survey. Black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) form a major component of the prey base for wintering raptors on the Refuge, with 1850 ha of active prairie dog towns mapped in 1988. Prairie dog town areas and population data were determined by mapping active towns and conducting visual counts on study plots to determine population density on an annual basis from 1988 to 1996. Large-scale plague epizootics were documented on the Refuge in 1988-89 and 1994-95, reducing prairie dog towns by 95% and 99%, respectively. A significant relationship was found in the numeric response of Ferruginous Hawks to changes in prairie dog town area (r = 0.96, P < 0.001) and minimum estimated population (r = 0.97, P < 0.001), but not to estimated prairie dog density (r = 0.07, P = 0.486). This contrasted sharply with the responses to prairie dog town area found for Red-tailed (r = 0.11, P = 0.377) and Roughlegged Hawks (r = 0.04, P = 0.612).
41717060|Descurainia torulosa was established in 1983 based on material collected in northwestern Wyoming. The species is now known from 2 disjunct populations in southwestern Wyoming, and recent collections have expanded the known distribution within the northern portion of its range. The north-south disjunct distribution and apparent habitat differences have stimulated questions concerning the degree of relatedness between the disjunct elements to the point that the southern populations have been suggested to be a distinct taxon. Recognition of D. torulosa as a distinct species has also been questioned. This paper is based on field examination of D. torulosa populations, study of all known D. torulosa herbarium specimens, and analysis of nucleotide sequence from the internal transcribed spacer regions 1 and 2 of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS-1 & 2) from population exemplars. Cladistic analysis of the sequence data support our conclusion, based on morphological analysis. Northern and southern populations of D. torulosa are conspecific. Western North American Descurainia is in need of modern, critical taxonomic revision.
41717061|Seeds from 12 grass species were studied relative to mode of wetting and time of exposure to water to document interspecific differences in imbibition characteristics. Imbibition causes seeds to become wet, and wet seeds are more detectable to consumers than dry seeds. Thus, germination potential and ability to remain undetected by consumers may represent an important trade-off. Seeds wetted for 0-192 h in vials imbibed water at rates equivalent to seeds wetted by contact with wet paper towels pressing against their seed coat, except for seeds of Avena sativa, which weighed more after wetting in 2-mL vials with free water (0.471 g vs. 0.432 g). Seeds from different species imbibed water at different rates. These data show that interspecific variation in imbibition for seeds is high and support an expectation that imbibition potential can interact with detectability to consumers in an evolutionary trade-off.
41717062|The influence of seed harvester ant (Pogonomyrmex rugosus) colonies on soil properties and soil surface and moisture characteristics was investigated through comparison of adjacent, nonnest (reference, 4 m beyond ant colony) areas in Las Vegas, Nevada. Effects of ant colonies on both terrace and slope sites were investigated. Soil moisture content and soil bulk density in a creosote bush (Larrea tridentata)dominatea shrubland were significantly lower, while soil temperature, soil organic matter, and percent pore space were significantly higher in soils with ant nests relative to adjacent reference soils. Soil pH and texture did not differ significantly between nest and reference soils. Among soil surface characteristics, percent bare soil and rock (gravel, cobble, and boulder) cover were not significantly different between nest and reference soils. In evaluating soil moisture characteristics, soils with ant nests had a significantly higher water infiltrability and greater depth of water penetration, but a significantly lower area of water spread (surface-water runoff) at both terrace and slope sites. Between the 2 geomorphic surfaces, water infiltrability and depth of water penetration were significantly greater at the terrace than at the slope. Water-borne soil movement (fluvial erosion) was significantly greater at the slope than terrace but did not differ significantly between nest and reference soils. The presence of active P. rugosus colonies in the L. tridentata-dominated shrubland altered certain soil properties and appeared to have a protective influence on the soil by fostering more infiltration and less runoff of surface water in southern Nevada.
41717063|We measured carbon isotope signatures (C) from 0-10 cm and 10-20 cm soil depth intervals for grassland soils near Boulder, Colorado. These grasslands included tall-, short-, and mixed-grass prairies that were grazed, ungrazed, or hayed. Soils exhibited C signatures consistent with observations that current sites are a mix of C and C species, with C plants more abundant in mixed-grass than in native tall- or shortgrass prairies. The C signatures were not significantly different for grassland types; however, management treatments (grazing, no grazing, haying) significantly influenced changes in soil C signatures from the 0-10 cm to 10-20 cm soil depth intervals. We observed a correlation (r = 0.63) between isotopic values of surface soils and percent native species in total vegetation cover. Overall, the community type with the lowest percentage of nonindigenous species cover had the most enriched C signature. Sites currently grazed by prairie dogs, cattle, or both herbivores had stronger C signatures, indicating that grazing may have increased C plant productivity in these communities at the expense of C grasses. This finding differs from studies of native shortgrass steppe where grazing has the opposite effect on the relative abundance of these 2 functional groups of plants. This result, along with the correlation between C isotopic values and nonnative vegetation abundance, provides evidence that management practices that maintain dominance of C grasses should be encouraged.
41717064|Oreohelix eurekensis uinta had not been found since its original discovery and had never been reported as a living taxon, and this had led to speculation that it is extinct. However, searches for O. e. uinta had been confounded by multiple errors in the original definition of the type locality. The type locality has now been relocated and is here redefined, and O. e. uinta is reported for the 1st time as a living taxon. Although the holotype has been lost, existing specimens believed to be paratypes have been examined, and correction of errors in the literature concerning its size and proportions is provided. O. e. uinta has been detected only in a surprisingly small area (~0.03 ha) where potential threats to its continued existence are evident.
41717066|The mayfly Baetisca lacustris is reported from the Humboldt River, Nevada, based on 3 relatively mature nymphs collected in 1997 and 2000. An annotated list of the mayfly fauna of the Humboldt River is given, which includes the section from Elko to Winnemucca.
41717070|Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) is an exotic tree considered invasive in the western U.S. There is concern it will replace native riparian forests, resulting in a loss of biological diversity. We studied the dynamics of Russian olive invasion on the Marias River in north central Montana and the lower Yellowstone River in southeastern Montana to determine where and in what habitats it occurs, how it is interacting with plains cottonwood (Populus deltoides) and green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica), the dominant native riparian trees, and how these interactions will alter future riparian forests. We measured size, density, and age of Russian olive, cottonwood, and green ash as well as vegetative composition and overstory canopy cover in sample plots in alluvial bar and terrace habitats at randomly chosen sites. Russian olive occurred in multiple-age stands on terraces along both rivers but was rarely found establishing in recently flood-deposited alluvium. Diameter growth rates decreased with increasing overstory canopy cover but did not vary significantly with soil moisture as reflected by ground-layer vegetation. Russian olive grew at nearly 3 times the rate of the native late-successional green ash at sites where both occurred together. Russian olive attained reproductive maturity at ca 10 years of age on both rivers, and, on average, there was less than 1 new plant recruited per mature tree per year. Beaver felled a high proportion of cottonwood within 50 m of both river channels, but Russian olive was little damaged. Russian olive will establish with increasing frequency in riparian forests as well as wet meadows and along ditches and overflow channels in eastern Montana. Native riparian forests will be replaced by Russian olive as old cottonwoods die on upper terraces or are removed by beaver near active channels. Cottonwood establishment and dominance will not be precluded on rivers where flooding regularly reinitiates primary succession beyond the zone of beaver activity. However, Russian olive may preclude cottonwood recruitment by shading seedlings along streams where flooding does not occur or merely deposits alluvium on top of existing vegetation rather than creating new channels or broad point bars. Because of its long maturation time and low recruitment rate, Russian olive invasion in Montana will proceed slowly compared with many exotics.
41717071|Branchinecta hiberna, a new species of fairy shrimp, is described from temporary pools in the Great Basin region of south central Oregon, northeastern California, and adjacent Nevada. The new species shares several characters with Branchinecta cornigera Lynch, 1958: males bear a similar large patch of small spines on the basal segment of antenna 2, and females bear the similar robust antenna 2 with medial spur, brood pouch shape, and resting egg (cyst) morphology. The new species differs from B. cornigera in the shape of the distal segment of antenna 2 and the number and size of spines on the paired penis warts of males, and in the thoracic spine pattern and lack of dorsal cephalic projections in females. Observations on behavior and ecology of B. hiberna are discussed.
41717072|Extensive Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii Parry ex Engelm.) mortality caused by the spruce beetle (Dendroctonus rufipennis Kirby) has been occurring at the southern end of the Wasatch Plateau in central Utah. This spruce beetle outbreak is the largest recorded in Utah history. An extensive ground survey was conducted in 1996 on the Manti-LaSal National Forest, Sanpete and Ferron Ranger Districts, to document mortality and impact of a major spruce beetle outbreak on post-outbreak forest composition. In 1998 the same sites were resurveyed. Survey results indicate Engelmann spruce basal area (BA) loss averaged 78% in trees 5 inches diameter breast height (DBH) in 1996. Ninety percent of BA 5 inches DBH was lost within the same sites by 1998. Tree mortality of spruce 5 inches DBH expressed in trees per acre (TPA) averaged 53% in 1996. In 1998 TPA 5 inches DBH mortality averaged 73%. Before the outbreak live Engelmann spruce BA 5 inches DBH averaged 99 square feet, and TPA 5 inches DBH averaged 97. In the sites surveyed in 1996 and resurveyed in 1998, Engelmann spruce BA 5 inches DBH averaged 21 and 9 square feet, and TPA 5 inches DBH averaged 43 and 25, respectively. Overstory tree species composition changed from stands dominated by spruce to subalpine fir. Stand ratings for potential spruce beetle outbreaks were high to mostly medium hazard pre-outbreak and medium to primarily low hazard by 1998, as a result of reduction in average spruce diameter, total basal area, and overstory spruce.
41717073|In a mixed desert shrub community we removed and added shrub canopies to examine above- and belowground influences of 3 species of shrubs on islands of soil fertility and the survival of transplanted Ambrosia dumosa seedlings. Soils sampled under shrubs in the wet season had higher pH, water content, organic matter, and both total and mineralizable nitrogen than soils in adjacent open areas, confirming a widely established pattern in arid lands. However, we also found species differences in soil parameters. Soils under Coleogyne ramosissima had highest pH, soils under A. dumosa had highest water content and nitrogen mineralization rates, and soils under Larrea tridentata had lowest water content. Soils sampled under shrubs in the dry season, 7 months after experimental shrub removal, maintained higher organic matter and total and mineralizable nitrogen content than adjacent open soils, but pH and water were altered by shrub manipulations. Species differences persisted only in soil water levels (A. dumosa soils were driest). Over a 1-year period, transplanted A. dumosa seedlings had highest survivorship in shrub removal and open treatments and died most rapidly under control shrubs of all 3 species, suggesting that shrubs had a strong negative effect on seedling survival, even in the presence of higher organic matter, nutrients, and (initially) higher water content of fertile islands. Our results suggest that nurse plants and islands of soil fertility have the potential to facilitate growth of other species by nutrient additions, but that the net effect of nurse plants can be negative due to shading and/or root competition.
41717074|Populations of leatherside chub (Gila copei), a little-known species native to the eastern Great Basin, have declined and their distribution has become fragmented. To determine habitat requirements and possible factors responsible for population decline, we quantified macrohabitats and microhabitats occupied by leatherside chub. Macrohabitat was surveyed at 59 sites in the Sevier River drainage of south central Utah, and microhabitats occupied by leatherside chub were measured at 3 locations spanning the species latitudinal range. Characteristics of points in the stream where leatherside chub occurred were compared to points where they did not occur. Abundance of brown trout (Salmo trutta) and elevation were weakly negatively correlated with leatherside chub distribution on a macrohabitat scale. Microhabitats occupied by leatherside chub were characterized by low water velocities (2.5-45 cm sec), intermediate water depths (25-65 cm), and low percent composition of sand-silt or gravel substrates. This study suggests that the presence of introduced brown trout may have led to the decline of leatherside chub.
41717075|Ecological impacts of invasive plants include displacement of indigenous species and declines in species richness and diversity. The objective of this study was to characterize the functional relationship between plant community composition and Centurea maculosa Lam. (spotted knapweed) within a Festuea idahoensis / Pseudoroegneria spicatum habitat type in Montana. Density, cover, and biomass of all species were collected along a gradient of spotted knapweed cover ranging from 0% to about 100%. Step-down regression was used to determine the relationship among C. maculosa, indigenous species, species richness, and Shannon-Weaver's diversity index. Regressions showed that indigenous perennial grass cover, species richness, and species diversity were inversely related to C. maculosa cover. There was no relationship between C. maculosa and indigenous forbs. While this study does not imply a causal relationship, the literature suggests that C. maculosa displaces indigenous species and/or invades areas of reduced indigenous plant cover, low diversity, or low species richness. Knowing levels of indigenous perennial grass cover will help managers predict the outcome of weed management on rangelands that are vulnerable to weed infestation.
41717076|Mourning Doves are the most commonly hunted game bird in New Mexico based on hunter harvest data collected by New Mexico Department of Game and Fish. Research is limited on the influence of rangeland ecological condition on Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) populations in the Chihuahuan Desert of New Mexico. Mourning Dove numbers were evaluated periodically (1988-1989) on ranges in late-and mid-seral conditions in south central New Mexico based on the Dyksterhuis quantitative climax procedure. Strip transect procedures were used to estimate Mourning Dove populations. Concurrently, vegetation canopy cover was determined by line intercept. On the basis of percent cover, grasses were the most abundant group on late-seral range while shrubs dominated mid-seral range. Mourning Dove sightings did not differ (P > 0.05) between late-and mid-seral ranges, nor did they differ (P > 0.05) among grassland, shrubland, and shrub-grass mosaic communities. Mourning Dove populations showed seasonal differences (P < 0.05), with numbers highest in summer and fall and lowest in winter and spring. Data from our study indicate that Chihuahuan Desert ranges in either mid- or late-seral stages provide equally suitable habitat for Mourning Doves.
41717077|A laboratory study was conducted to examine causes underlying variation in woodrat dung size. Eight bushy-tailed woodrats, Neotoma cinerea, were captured and sequentially fed 2 diets of 46% and 63% neutral detergent fiber (NDF). Dung pellets were collected for 2 days following 7 days of acclimation to each diet. Length and width of oven-dried pellets ranged, respectively, from 8.3 to 10.2 mm and 3.2 to 4.9 mm for diet 1, and 8.9 to 12.4 mm and 3.6 to 4.7 mm for diet 2. Body weight ranged from 232.0 to 504.5 g and did not significantly affect dung size. A series of 2-factor analyses of variance with repeated measures and sequential Bonferroni tests was used to assess the effect of dietary fiber consumption on dung size. An increase in fiber intake led to a significant increase in dung length and dry dung weight but not dung width or body weight. Results suggest a relationship between dung length in prehistoric woodrat middens and changing climate, although the relationship is not clearly understood and needs further evaluation.
41717078|While a variety of mammalian megafauna have been recovered from sediments associated with Lake Bonneville, Utah, sloths have been notably rare. Three species of ground sloth, Megalonyx jeffersonii, Paramylodon harlani, and Nothrotheriops shastensis, are known from the western United States during the Pleistocene. Yet all 3 are rare in the Great Basin, and the few existing records are from localities on the basin margin. The recent discovery of a partial skeleton of Megalonyx jeffersonii at Point-of-the-Mountain, Salt Lake County, Utah, fits this pattern and adds to our understanding of the distribution and ecology of this extinct species. Its occurrence in Lake Bonneville shoreline deposits permits a reasonable age determination of between 22 and 13 ka.
41717079|Survival and development of parasitic and autoparasitic Phoradendron califomicum (desert mistletoe) and their Acacia greggii (catclaw) hosts were quantitatively investigated during the 1997 drought in southern Nevada. Phoradendron califomicum was parasitic on other individuals of the same species (autoparasitic), and these in turn were parasitic on A. greggii hosts. An extensive drought from February 1995 to mid-July 1997 was characterized by extremely low seasonal rainfall and high summer air temperatures. Extensively mistletoe-infested hosts had significantly less canopy volume and produced significantly fewer leaves, flowers, and fruits than uninfested (control) or lightly infested hosts. Mistletoe plants on A. greggii hosts with fewer infections produced significantly more leaves and fruits and survived better than mistletoe plants on A. greggii hosts with extensive infestations. Autoparasites had significantly less canopy volume and fruit production than their parasitic hosts and parasites on hosts with fewer infections. Severity of infestation was significantly negatively correlated with A. greggii and P. califomicum survival, as it was with leaf, flower, and fruit development of A. greggii and parasitic and autoparasitic P. califomicum during the 1997 drought in southern Nevada.
41717080|Many shrub-steppe communities of the Great Basin have been converted to Bromus tectorum-domi nated communities. Seed production and seed bank traits of native perennials may be poorly suited to conditions of communities dominated by this introduced annual, and native perennials may be lost from the seed banks. Seed banks of former shrub-steppe communities now dominated by annuals were quantified on 3 sites in western Utah to determine if seeds of native perennials were present and to track changes in Bromus tectorum seed densities and species composition of seed banks after fire. Burned and unburned plots on 1 site were sampled for 3 years after a wildfire. Plots consisted of grids of 5.2-cm-diameter soil cores. Seeds were quantified by monitoring seedling emergence from these cores over an extended period of time in the greenhouse. On unburned plots introduced annuals, mainly Bromus tectorum, constituted > 99% of the seed bank, with Bromus densities of 4800-12,800 seeds m. Immediately after the fire, Bromus seed density was < 3% of unburned plots, but its seed bank density recovered in 2 years. The major change in species composition of the seed bank following fire was a shift in proportional abundance between Bromus and 2 other introduced annuals immediately after the fire. One native annual and a native annual/perennial (Oenothera pallida) increased in the seed bank the 1st year after the fire. Of all samples, only 4 perennial-plant seeds representing 3 species (excluding Oenothera) were found, for a total perennial-plant seed bank of 2-3 seeds m. Lack of perennial-plant seeds in annual-dominated communities impairs the reestablishment of native perennials. Because perennial-plant seeds are so few, the reduction of Bromus seed banks by fire provides no opportunity for reestablishment of native species.
41717081|Plants of different growth form may utilize soil nutrients in various spatial distributions through different scales of foraging. In this study we evaluated the ability of 6 species commonly found in the Great Basin to utilize nitrogen (N) distributed in different patterns. Three growth forms were represented by these 6 species. We applied N-labeled nitrogen in concentrated patches and over broader uniform areas (at approximately 1% the concentration of the patches) in large, outdoor sand-culture plots. Six weeks after N was applied, 2 plants adjacent to the patch (Patch Treatment) and 2 plants within the uniform application (Uniform Treatment) were harvested. One plant 35-45 cm from both applications (Distant Treatment) was also harvested. The proportion of application-derived N in the leaf N pool was calculated and the mass of N this represented was estimated. Winter annual species Aegilops cylindrica and Bromus tectorum utilized the concentrated patches to a greater extent than did perennial species. The mass of N acquired by Patch-Treatment annual plants was significantly greater than by Uniform-and Distant-Treatment plants. Annual plants in the Distant Treatment had very little application-derived N in their leaf tissue. The perennial tussock grasses Agropyron desertorum and Pseudoroegneria spicata differed in utilization of the N applications. Agropyron acquired a greater quantity of N from patches than from uniform applications, and Distant-Treatment plants acquired very little from treatment applications. On the other hand, Pseudoroegneria utilized N in the 3 treatments equally. The shrub species Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana and Chrysothamnus nauseosus also differed in their pattern of N acquisition. There were no differences in quantity of N acquired by plants from different treatments for Chrysothamnus; all treatment plants acquired appreciable amounts of N from the applications. In contrast, Artemisia tridentata was very effective at acquiring large quantities of N from patches relative to Uniform-and Distant-Treatment plants, and yet there was still appreciable acquisition of applied N by Distant-Treatment Artemisia plants. We compared our results for these species in utilizing N patches with their ability to utilize N pulses (Bilbrough and Caldwell 1997). The annual grasses, Artemisia, and Agropyron were capable of effectively acquiring N from both pulses and patches, whereas Pseudoroegneria was effective in exploiting pulses but not patches. Chrysothamnus was generally not responsive to either patches or pulses. Our results suggest that the 2 shrubs and 2 perennial grasses differed in the scale at which they foraged for nutrients. Some species exhibited a coarse-scale utilization of nutrients while others were clearly capable of fine-scale utilization of spatially distributed nutrient sources. This suggests the potential for at least some spatial niche separation among these species.
41717082|We conducted a trapping survey of small mammals along an elevational gradient in the La Sal Mountains and documented 4 species of shrews (Sorex), the largest number inhabiting any mountain range in Utah. Sorex palustris was restricted to very moist microhabitats near open water at mid-to high elevations where it was relatively common. Occurring in nearly all habitats across the entire sampling gradient, S. monticolus was the numerically dominant small mammal at many sites. Sorex nanus, a new record for the La Sals, was found in areas of rockfall at high elevations and in a rocky wash at mid-elevation. Sorex cinereus, a new record for southeastern Utah, was recorded at a single high-elevation locality. Most localities had 2 syntopic species of shrews, and at 1 site in and around a rockslide we recorded all 4 species. Despite their current isolation, the La Sal Mountains support a remarkably diverse shrew fauna. Their proximity to the main southern Rocky Mountains as a rich faunal source and the presence of abundant rockfall microhabitat appear to be important causal factors.
41717083|Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) are known to larder hoard food, but their scatter-hoarding behavior is poorly documented. Eleven deer mice were each presented with 150 Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi) seeds in 10 x 10-m enclosures in Jeffrey pine forests on the east slope of the Sierra Nevada. Subjects made a mean  1 s of 31.2  30.0 caches per trial. Caches were shallow (most 2-12 mm deep) and usually contained only 1 or 2 seeds. Most caches were made at the edge of antelope bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata) shrubs in mineral soil or in thin layers of plant litter. These results suggest that deer mice might make a significant contribution to the dispersal of Jeffrey pine.
41717084|We examined microhabitat use of sympatrically occurring Tamias minimus (least chipmunk) and T. rufus (Hopi chipmunk) in a pion-juniper/sagebrush vegetative community near Molina, western Colorado, from October 1994 to June 1999. This community is dominated by 2 major microhabitat types: shrub (sage; Artemisia spp.) and tree (pine and juniper; Pinus edulis and Juniperus scopulorum). Small mammals were live-trapped, marked, and released throughout this study. When it was the most abundant Tamias species on the study plots (19941997), Tamias minimus captures were associated with trees. Tamias rufus also exhibited this association but was captured at very low abundances during this period. Tamias rufus abundance was much greater, on average, than that of T. minimus between 1998 and 1999. During this time T. minimus captures were not associated with trees, but T. rufus captures remained associated with trees. As has been previously reported for other Tamias species, the greater abundance of 1 of 2 coexisting congeners in select areas may play a role in the microhabitat use of these 2 chipmunk species.
41717085|Movements of Columbia spotted frogs (Rana luteiventris) were determined after breeding to provide managers with information on habitat requirements. We radio-tagged 47 adults and observed movements occurring with 22 frogs. Eleven frogs remained in breeding ponds, and 11 moved to other ponds or river stretches during spring and summer 1998. Distances frogs traveled to other water bodies ranged from 15 to 560 m. Movements appeared to be influenced by availability of habitat and aquatic conditions. Eleven of 16 frogs located within 100 m of other permanent water sources moved, while no frogs at an isolated breeding pond moved. Frogs moved to river stretches in July where water temperatures averaged 5.6C cooler than ponds. Knowledge of Columbia spotted frog movements and habitat use in summer enables land managers to make decisions on activities that affect aquatic sites, vegetation, and stream structures that may influence frog populations.
41717117|Field surveys were conducted during 1997 and 1998 documenting the distribution and abundance of Colorado River cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki pleuriticus) in Escalante River tributaries. This documented occurrence of native trout in the Escalante River drainage of southern Utah represents an expansion of the known historic range of this subspecies as reported before the 1990s. We found 5 populations of native trout ranging in biomass from 3.0 to 104.2 kg  ha and occupying 13.2 km of stream of 130 km of estimated historic habitat. Current distribution and abundance of Colorado River cutthroat trout were compared to early introductions of nonnative trout stocked for sport fishing purposes. Native cutthroat trout have been displaced by nonnative cutthroat trout (O. c. bouveri), rainbow trout (O. mykiss), brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis), and brown trout (Salmo trutta) except where they were isolated by physical or biological barriers. Displacement may have been more extensive except for the remoteness of the drainage and relatively recent introductions of nonnative trout. These conditions limited the overall amount of the drainage stocked, numbers of nonnative trout stocked, and time over which stocking occurred. Discoveries of native trout populations within the Escalante River drainage have allowed expanded conservation of this subspecies by adding new populations to what was known to exist and by increasing the known natural range of this fish.
41717118|We used the computer program RAMAS to explore the sensitivity of an extinction-risk model for the Gila trout (Oncorhynchus gilae) to management of wildfires and number of populations of the species. The Gila trout is an endangered salmonid presently restricted to very few headwaters of the Gila and San Francisco river tributaries in southwestern New Mexico. Life history data for 10 extant populations were used to examine sensitivity of the species' viability to changes in a variety of factors including population size, fecundity, life stage structure, number of populations, severity and probability of forest fires, and a regulated fishery. The probability and severity of forest fires and number of populations had the greatest effect on viability. Results indicate that successful conservation of Gila trout requires establishment of additional populations and reduction of the severity of forest fires through a program incorporating more frequent, but less severe, fires.
41717119|The role of biotic interactions in structuring freshwater invertebrate communities has been extensively studied but with mixed results. For example, fish effects on invertebrates are most pronounced in pelagic and soft-sediment benthic habitats that lack structural complexity, yet appear insignificant in benthic rubble habitats. Backwaters of the Green River, Utah, are shallow, structurally simple, quiet-water embayments adjacent to the river. These habitats form in middle to late summer and are colonized by benthic and epibenthic invertebrates that produce standing crops significantly higher than the river. Backwaters are also utilized by a large number of fish species. We used cages to determine if selective exclusion of backwater organisms could significantly change invertebrate community structure. Results showed that backwater invertebrate community components changed significantly in response to exclusion treatments. Two taxa (both predators), the chironomid genus Tanypus (Diptera: Chironomidae) and the corixid genus Trichocorixa (Hemiptera: Corixidae), increased in density in exclusion cages while cladocerans, immature copepods, the cyclopoid copepod Eucyclops speratus, and the chironomid genus Frocladius all decreased in density. Diversity of adult copepods was reduced by exclusion treatments, though density of only a single species changed significantly.
41717120|Relict sites are geographically isolated areas that are undisturbed by direct and indirect human influences. These sites facilitate long-term ecological monitoring by providing a reference for gauging impacts occurring elsewhere. Knowledge gained through comparing vegetation change on matched relict and proximal disturbed areas can help partition the causes of change into natural and human-produced components. Fishtail Mesa in Grand Canyon National Park is a 439-ha relict site that is inaccessible to domestic livestock. Human visitation is infrequent and irregular, and fires have never been suppressed or managed. In 1958, U.S. Forest Service range scientists conducted a survey of Fishtail Mesa to gather reference data on vegetation, wildlife, and soils. Vegetation sampling was conducted using a method called the "elb." We returned to Fishtail Mesa in May 1996 to perform a general vegetation and floristic survey, assess the extent of vegetation change after 38 years, and evaluate the suitability of the site as a location for long-term surveillance of ecological change. Fishtail Mesa's vegetation consists primarily of a Pinus edulis (pinyon) and Juniperus osteosperma (Utah juniper) woodland with an Artemisia tridentata (sagebrush) understory, or tree-type (310.9 ha), and an Artemisia and Poafendleriana (mutton grass) steppe, or shrub-type (127.5 ha). Since 1958 vegetation changes in both shrub-and tree-types have been limited to only a few species. In the shrub-type we detected slight increases from 1958 to 1996 in both Pinus and Juniperus, and reexamination of 1958 photo sites confirmed that Pinus and Juniperus are reoccupying the shrub-type. Artemisia cover declined from 1958 to 1996, whereas Poa increased from near trace amounts in 1958 to moderate cover in 1996. In the tree-type, Poa has increased from 1958 to 1996, while Artemisia, Juniperus, and Pinus showed no apparent change. Other species such as Ephedra torreyana (Torrey joint-fir), Opuntia polyacantha (prickly pear), and Gutierrezia sarothrae (snakeweed) have decreased. Vegetation analysis aided by TWINSPAN revealed that the shrub-type is defined more on the basis of absence of Pinus ana Juniperus rather than any special association of differential species with a high preference for this type. We interpret the "invasion" of the shrub-type by Pinus and Juniperus as a "reoccupation." Indirect ordination using DECORANA inferred 2 environmental gradients, a moisture gradient and perhaps a substrate texture gradient, that appeared to influence vegetation distribution on Fishtail Mesa. Fishtail Mesa is a valuable relict area for studying the effects of livestock grazing and prescribed fire. It should be designated a Federal Research Natural Area based on its vegetation communities, size, and protection afforded by its location in Grand Canyon National Park.
41717121|Presence of a wetted edge during the period of seedfall was an effective predictor of suitable establishment (defined as germination and survival to the 1st autumn) locations for Populas deltoides subsp. monilifera, Salix amygdaloides, S. exigua, and Tamarix ramosissima seedlings during 3 successive years of a gravel pit revegetation project in Fort Collins, Colorado. At locations predicted to be suitable for establishment, position within the pit (possibly reflecting additional moisture provided by seepage) was a significant factor in determining whether establishment actually occurred. Cover of herbaceous species, which became established at the same time as, or after, woody seedlings, was positively related to probability of establishment for 8 of 11 species-year combinations, probably reflecting more favorable moisture conditions at certain locations. Herbaceous cover also was positively related to seedling height at the end of the 1st summer of growth for 9 of 11 species-year combinations. Neither establishment nor lst-summer growth was consistently related to overall decline in the water table as estimated by the drop in surface-water level during the growing season. Flooding in the 1st spring after establishment was negatively related to subsequent survival for 5 of 8 species-year combinations. The 4 species established at different elevations in the pit, depending on location of the wetted edge during the period of seedfall, and there was no evidence that differential mortality subsequently altered their distribution along the elevation gradient. However, the primary objective in this study was to restore native woody species, and we attempted to maintain conditions conducive to meeting this objective. Differential postestablishment mortality may be more important in structuring the riparian community in more rigorous riverine environments.
41717122|We conducted a 2-year survey, using sweep sampling and family-level taxon identification, of the predatory and parasitoid insects on grassland sites in the Gallatin Valley of southwestern Montana. The 25 sites were divided into 4 habitat classes: 2 native habitat types (Stipa comata/Bouteloua gracilis and Festuca idahoensis/Agropyron spicatum) and 2 that had been reseeded with either crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum) or smooth brome (Bromus inermis). Our major goal was to make quantitative comparisons of the abundance of insects among native and reseeded habitats. Of 51 families in 5 insect orders identified, 7 Hymenoptera (Encyrtidae, Braconidae, Ichneumonidae, Pteromalidae, Eulophidae, Scelionidae, and Torymidae), 3 Hemiptera (Lygaeidae, Nabidae, and Reduviidae), 1 Coleoptera (Coccinellidae), and 1 Dptera (Asilidae) comprised 90% of the natural enemies sampled. Ordination analyses provided no strong evidence that the 4 habitat classes contained distinct overall natural enemy communities. However, contiguous native and reseeded sites usually had relatively different overall natural enemy assemblages, suggesting that vegetation was often a more important correlate of community composition than was close spatial proximity of sites. Furthermore, several common families exhibited differential abundances across habitat classes in one or both years. For example, in 1989, Eulophidae, Pteromalidae, and Torymidae were more abundant on native Festuca/Agropyron sites, whereas Encyrtidae and Nabidae were more abundant on Festuca/Agropyron sites reseeded with Bromus inermis. Although analyses of insect assemblages classified to the family level provide somewhat limited information on functional ecological differences among habitats, they allow one to survey a broad array of taxa to identify focal groups for future conservation and land management studies.
41717123|Bruneau hot springsnail density, size class structure, recruitment, and mortality were measured monthly over approximately 2 years and compared to environmental variables at 3 hot spring sites in southwestern Idaho. Food resources (attached algae) and water chemistry were similar among sites, but temperature, population density, and size structure differed significantly. Density was highest at a warm, fairly constant temperature site. A cooler, highly variable temperature site and a site where temperatures frequently approached or exceeded thermal maxima tolerance limits had lower densities. Size class structure varied seasonally and distinctly among sites, with recruitment occurring year-round at temperatures < 36C. Mortality affected different size classes at different sites, with smaller snails incurring greatest mortality at site 3 (highest temperature variability). Growth rates were positively correlated with temperatures up to 36C. Mean snail size differed among sites and also appeared to be related to temperature, with the variable temperature sites having larger snails. Although these snail populations are found in a range of water temperatures, they appear best adapted to springs with mean temperatures between 32 and 33C and low thermal variance.
41717124|We compared the ability of global positioning system (GPS) radio collars deployed on elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) to obtain valid positions (position acquisition rate [PAR]) in seasonal home ranges with differing vegetation and topographical characteristics. We also compared GPS collar PARs under varying levels of cloud cover and within differing daily time periods. We recorded a mean PAR of 69% (n = 10 elk, s = 14%) for collared elk. Multiple regression analysis of seasonal home range characteristics indicated that vegetation cover type and slope, either as individual variables or in combination with one another, were not significant predictors of GPS collar PARs. We did not observe statistical differences in position acquisition rates between cloud cover classes or varying cloud base heights. PAR was significantly higher between 1600 h and 2000 h (mountain standard time) compared to 0000 h-1200 h, which may have been due to elk behavior. We believe using GPS collars is a more effective and efficient method of tracking elk in our study area than using very-high-frequency (VHF) collars since GPS collars can be programmed to obtain fixes automatically, have fewer logistical problems, and are more economical with long-term data collection efforts.
41717125|The known Mountain Plover population breeding on the Myton Bench, Duchesne County, Utah, is small, composed roughly of 30 adults and young after each breeding season. Currently, its location is peripheral to the species main range. This shrub-steppe breeding habitat differs from the shortgrass prairie habitat with which this bird is historically associated. Between 1996 and 1998 we made observations at nesting sites located consistently in 2 concentrated areas surrounded by large tracts of similar habitat. Activity may be focused in these specific areas because of breeding-site fidelity; this behavior is common among most shorebirds and has been documented for the Mountain Plover in Colorado. Also, Mountain Plovers are social and tend to choose nest sites near others. Most nests in Utah were located within close proximity of mounds of white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus), and all were situated near roadways or oil well pads. Mountain Plovers were often observed with broods on these bare areas at night. We conclude that Mountain Plovers on the Myton Bench are distributed in clumped breeding colonies within large areas of apparently favorable habitat.
41717126|Habitat use by Mountain Plovers was studied in Duchesne County, Utah, from 1996 to 1998. This area is a shrub-steppe habitat and is different from the shortgrass prairie where current Mountain Plover breeding densities are greatest. Mountain Plovers prefer areas of short, sparse vegetation. Habitat surveys quantified vegetation and open space composition at nest and randomly selected sites. Data gathered in 1998 showed significant differences between nest and random sites in maximum vegetation height (P = 0.0021) and percentage total rock cover (P = 0.0027). As percentage rock cover also reflects open space, these results are consistent with general habitat characteristics preferred by the Mountain Plover. White-tailed prairie dogs were present significantly more often near the 5 nest sites located in 1998 than the 20 random sites. Insects collected from the same nest areas and random points reflected food items known to be in the Mountain Plover diet, but there were no significant differences in diversity of insects between nest and random sites.
41717127|We described 15 Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) drumming logs and adjacent habitat within Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming. Drumming logs and adjacent habitat differed from 30 random non-drumming sites. Drumming logs had fewer limbs (8; P = 0.003) and a smaller percentage of bark remaining (12%; P = 0.0001). These logs were in advanced stages of decay but were still firm to the touch. Additionally, drumming logs were found close to clearings but in areas with increased amounts of undergrowth and mature trees. Adjacent habitat analysis (0.04-ha circular plot centered on logs) indicated drumming locations had significantly greater average canopy height, more vegetative cover consisting of conifer and total canopy cover, and more vertical foliage between 0.3 m and 3.0 m in height. Adjacent habitat was in advanced stages of maturity as indicated by significant numbers of both large-diameter logs and largediameter lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) and quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) snags. Tree species dominating the canopy and subcanopy were large-diameter Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii), lodgepole pine, and quaking aspen. Subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) and quaking aspen saplings were more numerous at used sites. Ruffed Grouse drummed in coniferous areas within close proximity of quaking aspen.
41717171|Exotics are species that are foreign to an ecological assemblage in the sense that they have not significantly adapted to resident biota or to local abiotic conditions, and resident species have not significantly adapted to them. Although they need not be human introduced nor damaging, when they are, a negative appraisal of such exotic species can be justified. Human introduction of exotics into natural systems typically increases human influence over those systems, thus diminishing their wildness. Valuing nature for its wildness is a rationale for the national parks' policy of letting nature take its course. Thus, Yellowstone Park has a strong reason for removing human-introduced exotics and for welcoming naturally migrating exotics. Disvaluing exotics that are neither human introduced nor damaging simply because they are foreign smacks of xenophobia. But given that wanton human mixing of species threatens to homogenize the earth's biological communities, biological nativism is justified as a way to preserve the diversity between such communities.
41717173|Yellowstone National Park's mission and policy can be clarified by analysis of the natural and the unnatural. Nature is a comprehensive word, in some uses excluding nothing; more useful is a contrast distinguishing nature and culture. Specifying "wild nature" denotes spontaneous nature absent human influence. Critics claim that the meaning of wild nature, especially of wilderness, is a foil of culture. Pristine nature, often romanticized, is contrasted with a technological and industrial culture. By this account, wilderness is a social construction. Nevertheless, wild nature successfully denotes, outside culture, an evolutionary and ecological natural history, which remains present on the Yellowstone landscape, jeopardized by numerous human influences, including the invasions of exotic species. Natural processes have returned in the past, as when Native Americans left the landscape. Natural processes can be preserved today, because of, rather than in spite of, park management. Over much of the North American landscape nature is managed and at an end. Yellowstone provides an opportunity to encounter and to conserve "untrammeled" nature as an end in itself, past, present, and future.
41717174|Humans have affected grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) by direct mortality, competition for space and resources, and introduction of exotic species. Exotic organisms that have affected grizzly bears in the Greater Yellowstone Area include common dandelion (Taraxacum officinale), nonnative clovers (Trifolium spp.), domesticated livestock, bovine brucellosis (Brucella abortus), lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush), and white pine blister rust (Cronartium ribicola). Some bears consume substantial amounts of dandelion and clover. However, these exotic foods provide little digested energy compared to higher-quality bear foods. Domestic livestock are of greater energetic value, but use of this food by bears often leads to conflicts with humans and subsequent increases in bear mortality. Lake trout, blister rust, and brucellosis diminish grizzly bears foods. Lake trout prey on native cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarkii) in Yellowstone Lake; white pine blister rust has the potential to destroy native whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) stands; and management response to bovine brucellosis, a disease found in the Yellowstone bison (Bison bison) and elk (Cervus elaphus), could reduce populations of these 2 species. Exotic species will likely cause more harm than good for Yellowstone grizzly bears. Managers have few options to mitigate or contain the impacts of exotics on Yellowstone's grizzly bears. Moreover, their potential negative impacts have only begun to unfold. Exotic species may lead to the loss of substantial highquality grizzly bear foods, including much of the bison, trout, and pine seeds that Yellowstone grizzly bears currently depend upon.
41717175|Because the relatively recent colonization of portions of Yellowstone National Park by introduced mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) from public game lands in Montana raises important policy and management questions for the park, it is necessary to understand the prehistoric and early historical record of mountain goats in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. We reviewed previous paleontological, archeological, and historical studies of goat presence and examined a large body of historical material for evidence of goats. Native mountain goat range most closely approached the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem to the west, but no modern authority claims goats were resident in the ecosystem in recent centuries. Historical accounts of goat presence in the region prior to 1882 (and thus prior to any known introduction of goats by Euro-Americans) are limited to one possible sighting by unreliable observers and a few casual mentions of goat presence by people of limited or unknown familiarity with the ecosystem. Other early observers in the region specifically stated that goats were not native. Between 1882 and 1926 other observers and residents agreed that mountain goats were not native to the park, or to the larger area around it. It is impossible to prove absolutely that there were no goats in the ecosystem prior to modern introductions, but historical evidence demonstrates that if present, such goats must have been exceedingly rare and uncharacteristically unsightable. National Park Service policy relating to exotic species developed gradually after the creation of Yellowstone National Park in 1872, moving from a general receptivity to introduction of at least some favored nonnative species to a general prohibition on all such introductions. Current policy, while disapproving of all nonnative species, seems to reserve special efforts at removal of nonnatives for those species that pose the greatest threat to native species and ecosystems. Current policy is not helpful in defining the minimum amount of evidence needed to prove a species was present or absent, or whether or not an introduced nonnative species is causing sufficient harm to justify its removal.
41717176|Nonindigenous species affect native ecosystems, communities, and populations in myriad ways, from plants (and a few animals) that overgrow entire communities, to plants and animals that hybridize individual native species to a sort of genetic extinction. Further, nonindigenous species sometimes interact to worsen each other's impact. These impacts are commonly seen in national parks throughout the United States. The key policy change required to alleviate this threat is a shift from blacklists of prohibited species and a presumption of harmlessness to combinations of white and blacklists and a presumption that any species may be damaging. This new guiding philosophy must be inculcated at international and national levels, which will not be easy during a period when free trade is seen as an unmitigated blessing. Within the United States, enhanced cooperation and coordination will be required among all parties (i.e., federal, state, and local agencies as well as private entities) charged with managing invasions. Internationally, the key forum is the World Trade Organization. Various management tools available to combat nonindigenous species have produced some striking successes, but new research could improve their effectiveness and reliability. There is a particular need for research on ecosystem management to control introduced species. In the face of the increasingly publicized onslaught of invaders, there is a widespread tendency to view increased biotic homogenization as inevitable. However, advances in both policy and technology could greatly slow this process and perhaps (in concert with restoration measures) even reverse it. The necessary pressure and resources to effect these changes must come from an increasingly alarmed and vocal public.
41717177|The role of climate and natural disturbance in the past provides a context for understanding present and future changes in biota. The vegetation history of the Yellowstone region, like that of North America as a whole, is largely one of plant invasions and extinctions in response to changes in climate and environment. When Holocene plant migrations are examined on multiple spatial and temporal scales, several generalities are apparent. First, at a continental and regional scale, plant migration patterns followed the direction of climate change, whereas at local scales plant colonization was governed by site-specific conditions and possibly by biotic interactions. Second, species were individualistic in their response to climate change, and, as their ranges shifted across the landscape, existing communities were dismantled and new ones were formed. Individual species met little resistance from existing communities. Third, rates of species invasion were astonishingly rapid, suggesting that rare long-distance dispersal events were critical. Fourth, fire during periods of climate change was an important catalyst in allowing the invasion of new species, but it is unlikely that a single fire event triggered irreversible vegetation change. Regional climate and biotic changes in response to projected increases in atmospheric CO in the next century suggest an even more complex picture than in the past. Model simulations portray changes in temperature and precipitation in the Yellowstone region that have not occurred in the last 20,000 years. Likewise, projected changes in species ranges, including latitudinal, longitudinal, and elevational shifts, require faster rates than anything observed in the fossil record. Increased fire occurrence may help maintain some native taxa but promote the decline of others. Thus, future conditions are likely to create evermore opportunities for exotic species to invade and establish within the Yellowstone region.
41717178|We demonstrate new multi-phase, multi-scale approaches for sampling and modeling native and exotic plant species to predict the spread of invasive species and aid in control efforts. Our test site is a 54,000-ha portion of Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, USA. This work is based on previous research wherein we developed vegetation sampling techniques to identify hot spots of diversity, important rare habitats, and locations of invasive plant species. Here we demonstrate statistical modeling tools to rapidly assess current patterns of native and exotic plant species to determine which habitats are most vulnerable to invasion by exotic species. We use stepwise multiple regression and modified residual kriging to estimate numbers of native species and exotic species, as well as probability of observing an exotic species in 30  30-m cells. Final models accounted for 62% of the variability observed in number of native species, 51% of the variability observed in number of exotic species, and 47% of the variability associated with observing an exotic species. Important independent variables used in developing the models include geographical location, elevation, slope, aspect, and Landsat TM bands 1-7. These models can direct resource managers to areas in need of further inventory, monitoring, and exotic species control efforts.
41717179|Documentation of the arrival of exotic vascular plants in Yellowstone National Park has been sporadic. An annotated checklist of exotic vascular plants is presented, with information about the approximate arrival time in the park of each species and the current extent of the infestation. Yellowstone's flora includes 187 exotic vascular plant species (14.8% of the flora), and the park has an extrapolated mean number of exotic species per 10 km of 47.3. The situation in Yellowstone is compared with other areas in North America. The increase in exotics mirrors a corresponding increase in visitation.
41717180|The number of documented exotic plants in Yellowstone National Park has increased from 85 known in 1986 to over 185 today. Exotic plants are substantially impacting the park's natural and cultural resources and are a high management priority. We have adopted an integrated weed management approach with regard to exotic vegetation, emphasizing prevention, education, early detection and eradication, control, and, to a lesser degree, monitoring. The program involves over 140 staff with program expenditures averaging approximately $ 190,000 annually. Prevention actions include requiring approved gravel on construction projects; banning hay in the backcountry and allowing transport of only certified weed-seed-free hay through Yellowstone; requiring construction equipment to be pressurecleaned prior to entering the park; and native species revegetation after road, housing, and other construction projects have disturbed ground. Over 4500 acres, primarily along roadsides and in developed areas, are surveyed annually in early detection efforts with emphasis placed on eradicating small, new infestations of highly invasive species such as sulfur cinquefoil (Potentilla recta L.) and leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula L.). Control efforts focus on about 30 priority species, such as spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa Lam.), oxeye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L.), and hoary cress (Cardara araba [L.] Desv.) using chemical, mechanical, and cultural techniques. A total of 2027 acres were treated during 1998, whereas control efforts for 12 species occurred on 2596 acres during the previous 3-year period, 1995-1997. Strong and expanding partnerships with other federal, state, and local agencies and private companies contribute to management efforts within the park. Future program goals emphasize increases in base funding to ensure continued weed management efforts as well as expanding survey, monitoring, and reclamation efforts. Ultimately, a more rigorous assessment of program effectiveness is desired.
41717181|Native salmonid status was evaluated with an index quantifying distribution and abundance of cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki) and grayling (Thymallus arcticus) in 41 watersheds comprising the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. We assessed hydrologie integrity with a percentile-based index measuring cumulative effects of reservoirs, surface water withdrawals, and consumptive water use. Status of native salmonids was poor in 70% of the watersheds; exceptions occurred in a north-south core extending from the Upper Yellowstone southward through the national parks to Bear Lake. Hydrologie integrity was highest in headwater areas and lowest in lower-elevation watersheds. Status of native and nonnative salmonid populations currently existing in the ecosystem was positively correlated with hydrologie integrity (r = 0.58), indicating that the hydrologie index performed well on a watershed scale in quantifying suitability of stream environments for salmonids. However, native trout status and hydrologie integrity were similarly correlated (r = 0.63) only when watersheds receiving the lowest possible native salmonid index score were removed from analysis because these watersheds were uniformly distributed across hydrologie integrity. We infer that nonphysical factors such as interactions with introduced fish species have played an important role in the disappearance of native salmonids. The highest priority for conservation is preservation of core watersheds, where both hydrologie integrity and native trout status are high. Restoration opportunities exist in the Teton, Idaho Falls, Willow Creek, Central Bear, and Bear Lake watersheds, where viable cutthroat trout populations remain but are threatened by habitat degradation.
41717182|The highly invasive New Zealand mudsnail, Potamopyrgus antipodarum, may compete with and displace native North American macroinvertebrates in freshwater systems wherever it becomes established. Densities and spatial distributions of 3 snail species including P. antipodarum and the threatened Taylorconcha serpenticola were compared among 3 adjacent habitat types (run, edge, and vegetation) in Banbury Springs, a tributary of the Snake River, near Hagerman, Idaho, USA. In all 3 habitats P. antipodarum was the most abundant snail species. All 3 species densities were highly variable within habitats, suggesting a nonrandom distribution pattern. Densities of P. antipodarum were significantly greatest in the vegetation habitat type, while densities of T. serpenticola were similar among habitats. Smallersized P. antipodarum were less abundant in the run habitat with its associated higher water velocities, and their densities were negatively correlated with velocity. Densities of P. antipodarum also were negatively correlated with distance from the highly infested, man-made Morgan Lake, while T. serpenticola densities were positively correlated with distance from Morgan Lake. Potamopyrgus antipodarum is a potential competitor with native aquatic species, although its colonization into some freshwater habitats may be limited.
41717134|This study investigated the distribution, abundance, and biology of Cicindela limbata albissima Rumpp, an endemic tiger beetle known only from the Coral Pink Sand Dunes (CPSD) in southwestern Utah. A recently implemented conservation agreement between BLM, USFWS, Utah State Parks, and Kane County protects most of the known habitat of this beetle from off-highway vehicle (OHV) use. A search of collection records and field surveys of 19 Great Basin sand dune sites indicated that this species occurs only at CPSD. Yearly index counts of adults (1992-1998) during peak season in May ranged from 331 in 1997 to 895 in 1993, but the actual population size is probably 2-3 times higher than the index counts. Nearly all of the population is found in the primary habitat, a 300-m-wide x 2.7-km-long area in the southern part of the dune field. Small numbers of adults and larvae have been found at the far north end of the dune field. Mark-recapture studies indicated that most adults moved only short distances (<300 m), but a few moved 1000 m. This beetle has a 2-year, modified spring-fall life cycle. Adults are most abundant from April through early June, but some adults from the following year's adult cohort emerge and can be found from late August to early October. Adults are active on warm or sunny days, but they dig burrows which they use at night or during unfavorable weather. We observed little evidence of parasitism or predation of larvae or adults, but these limiting factors were not fully studied. Surveys of dominant plant species, arthropod (potential tiger beetle prey) abundance, and OHV activity indicated that these vary throughout the dune field and may explain, in part, the distribution of C. l. albissima. The primary habitat is a transition area between the highly dynamic south end of the dune field and the more stabilized north end. Psoralidium lanceolatum Rybd., Sophora stenophylla Gray, and Stipa hymenoides R.& S. are the dominant plants in the interdunal swales of the primary habitat, but other species are dominant in other parts of the dune field. Numbers of arthropod individuals and taxa are greatest in the primary habitat. Off-highway vehicle activity was greatest at the south end of the dune field and lowest at the far north end. Run-over trials and observational data revealed that adult beetles are killed by OHVs, but more important impacts may be damage to vegetation, reduction of arthropod prey of C. l. albissima, and disturbance and increased desiccation of the larval microhabitat. We anticipate that the conservation agreement will provide long-term protection for this species at CPSD.
41717135|Calls of the red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus; n = 122) were recorded in wild populations from 15 localities in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, and Washington. Computer-generated audiospectrograms of 20- or 30-second samples from a calling bout of each individual were analyzed. Eighteen bark types (distinct forms of the bark call) were identified plus a 19th category that included rarely used, longer bark calls. The frequency of use of each bark type within the sample was recorded for each squirrel. Differences in frequency of use of the various bark types were found among subspecies, within subspecies, and within populations; additionally, the southern subspecies utilized a reduced number of bark types. The large number of different bark types and the variation in bark type usage within populations suggest the potential for communication of such information as individual identification, behavioral states, or gender identification.
41717136|Nanonemoura, a new genus of Nearctic Nemouridae, is described to accommodate Nemoura wahkeena Jewett. New descriptions and illustrations are provided for the adult male, adult female, and nymph collected at Wahkeena Spring, Columbia River George, Oregon. A diagnosis is furnished to distinguish the new genus from related genera of the subfamily Nemourinae.
41717137|Successful infection of white pine species by white pine blister rust (WPBR) is contingent upon environmental conditions that are favorable to the spread and development of Cronartium ribicola. Site and stand factors related to this process have been studied elsewhere within the distribution of the disease, but few studies have concentrated on the high-elevation white pine forests of southern Idaho and western Wyoming. We found that mean summer precipitation, average tree diameter, and elevation were the most important variables in 3 logistic regression models of WPBR presence and intensity. The models were tested on a randomly chosen portion of our data set. The model with 9 variables correctly predicted categories of low-, moderate-, and high-disease incidence in 79% of cases. The 2 models with fewer variables had lower predictive efficiencies but were more parsimonious and generally easy to measure. The ability to use easily measured or remotely sensed site and stand characteristics to predict WPBR spread or intensification could be an important asset to land managers who need to decide where to focus disease mitigation efforts and predict disease effects on water quality, wildlife habitat, recreation potential, and other land-management activities.
41717138|We determined the capacity of exotic plants to invade major environmental types of the northern Rocky Mountains. We did this by observing their presence on disturbed and undisturbed sites in relatively well inoculated locationscorridors adjacent to highwayson transects across the mountains in Glacier National Park and Grand Teton National Park and on low-altitude sites between them. We draw 3 primary conclusions. First, of 29 exotics commonly found, the most dominant are intentionally introduced grasses (Agrostis, Bromus, Dactylis, and especially Phleum pratense and Poa pratensis) and legumes (Melilotus, Medicago, and Trifolium) rather than the forbs more often listed as noxious. Second, in the environmental types studied, disturbed sites are invasible, except in the alpine. Third, invasion of undisturbed sites declines from grasslands and open forests to alpine to moist forests. This gradient probably represents a decline in resource (light, water, nutrients) availability for herbs, except in the alpine, where a physical limitation is suggested by the poor performance of exotics on noncompetitive disturbed sites.
41717139|Wildland managers need a method to predict which portions of the lands under their stewardship are susceptible to invasion by exotic plants. We combined a database listing exotic plant species known to occur in major environmental types (habitat types) throughout the northern Rocky Mountains with a digital vegetation map of environmental types for a major national park in the region (Yellowstone National Park) to produce maps of areas potentially threatened by major exotic species. Such maps should be helpful to managers concerned with monitoring and controlling exotic plants.
41717140|Four stocks of cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki) were exposed to high temperature, high salinity, and low dissolved oxygen to determine inherent differences. The fish tested included 2 stocks of Bonneville cutthroat trout (O. c. utah), a lacustrine stock derived from Bear Lake and a fluvial-origin stock from southern Utah (Manning Meadow Reservoir). The other 2 stocks tested were from Electric Lake (largely Yellowstone cutthroat trout, O. c. bouvieri) and Jackson Hole, Wyoming (fine-spotted Snake River cutthroat trout, O. c. subsp.). Temperature tests were either critical thermal maximum (CTM) or 96-hour trials using juveniles acclimated between 12.5C and 18.0C. Two CTM end points were temperature at first loss of equilibrium (CTMeq) and onset of spasms (CTM). There were no significant differences in CTMeq among test fish acclimated to 18.0C, but CTMs was significantly higher for Bear Lake Bonneville (30.0C) than for Snake River (29.6C) or southern Bonneville (29.7C) stocks. With fish acclimated at 13.0C, there were no significant differences among the stocks in CTMeq or CTMs. Differences among stocks varied significantly among nine 96-hour tests. Overall, it appeared that the southern Bonneville stock had slightly better survival at warmer temperatures than other stocks. In 24-hour survival tests at high salinities, the Snake River stock had the lowest tolerance, with significant mortality occuring at 18 (29.5 mS  cm conductivity). The southern Bonneville stock had the highest tolerance, with no mortality until 22 (38 mS  cm). Bear Lake Bonneville and Electric Lake stocks had 60% and 30% mortality, respectively, at 21 (36 mS  cm). Hypoxia tolerance measured by resistance time, 24-hour mortality, or probit analysis (LEC) did not differ among stocks. The 24-hour LEC was 2.34 mg O  L for all stocks combined.
41717141|Late instar nymphs and adults of a Colorado Hudsonian zone population of Isoperla petersoni Needham and Christenson were studied during the summer and early fall months of 1998, when stream temperature ranged from 3.3C to 8.9C. Early and middle instar nymphs were absent from July to October, and nymphs attained maximum size in mid-August during the 2nd week of adult field presence, suggesting a univoltine-slow life cycle. Nymphs were carnivorous and fed primarily on chironomid larvae. Adults were present from August to mid-October, with peak numbers of adult males and females occurring in mid-September and late September, respectively. Fecundity of field-collected females averaged 94.1  45.15 eggs per female in September (N = 81) and decreased to 85.2  57.6 in October (N = 12). Drumming duets were 2-way (male-female), and female answers followed male calls (nonoverlapped) or began before completion of the male call (overlapped). Male calls averaged 11.1  2.09 beats and female answers averaged 6.2  2.99, with mean intervals of 118 and 58 ms, respectively. The average number of female answer beats increased from 5.3  2.56 when duets were nonoverlapped, to 6.6  3.08 when overlapped.
41717142|The ability of a plant population to respond and eventually adapt to environmental stress ultimately determines that population's survival. This becomes especially significant in environments where important plant resource levels have radically decreased. Southwestern riparian areas have numerous plant species that are experiencing radical changes in water availability due to construction of dams, and thus their ability to respond to such changes is critical. One such species likely to be greatly affected by these hydrological changes is Populus deltoides var. wislizenii (cottonwood) because it relies heavily on both groundwater and river surface volume as primary water sources. Both water sources have been extremely impacted by impoundments along southwestern rivers. To understand how New Mexico populations of cottonwood may respond to environmental changes, we quantified environmental differences and characterized physiological and morphological variation among 4 cottonwood populations. Significant differences among study sites in water availability were indicated by both soil and groundwater salinity. The northernmost site, at Abiquiu, had the highest salinity levels in both soil and groundwater, followed by Bernardo, while San Antonio and Corrales sites had the lowest soil salinity. As expected, variation in physiological and leaf morphological characters existed among and within the tree populations, most likely in response to environmental factors. Midday xylem pressure potentials indicated that Abiquiu individuals suffered the greatest water stress and they also had the highest transpiration levels. Because of high specific leaf weights and high photosynthetic levels, cottonwoods at Corrales may better mitigate lower water availability. Such physiological and morphological trait variability among populations is ecologically important and may be of use in present reclamation and conservation efforts in these areas.
41717143|Predicted changes in regional precipitation patterns and soil moisture caused by anthropogenic trace gas emissions may affect the distribution and abundance of woody plants in arid and semiarid regions. To test the response of woody plants to potential changes in precipitation regimes, we manipulated summer and winter precipitation on plots that contained seedlings of Quercus emoryi Torr. (Emory oak), the dominant tree in oak savannas of the southwestern United States. Throughout the growing season, we monitored seedling survival and physiology (predawn leaf water potential, midday instantaneous gas exchange, and leaf carbon isotope discrimination). Seedling survival and physiological performance differed little between treatments, which embodied 50% changes to quantities of summer and winter precipitation, and encompassed a continuum of precipitation from 359 mm year to 846 mm year. However, survival and physiological performance of seedlings were negatively impacted by seasonal environmental conditions common to all treatments, especially during the annual pre-'monsoon' drought. Seedling predawn leaf water potentials, net CO assimilation, and stomatal conductance indicate that growing conditions for Q. emoryi seedlings at this site are generally restricted to periods with adequate soil moisture (i.e., April and August). Results contrast with an assumption implicit to the "two-layer" soil water resource partitioning hypothesis that woody plants in all life history stages are more dependent upon winter than summer precipitation. In fact, summer precipitation appears more important than winter precipitation for Q. emoryi seedling recruitment and growth.
41717144|Sasquaperla hoopa, a new genus and species of Chloroperlidae, is described from adults and preemergent nymphs collected in the Coast Range of northern California. Males are characterized by the epiproct reduced to a small, tablike structure bearing stiff hairs in a narrow band along the posterior margin. Females are similar to those of Sweltsa, but the nymphs bear several erect bristles lateral to depressed hair patches on the mesostemum. Modified keys are presented for adults and nymphs.
41717145|A habitat suitability model was developed for pygmy rabbit (Brachylagus idahoensis) habitat on the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) in southeastern Idaho. Suitable pygmy rabbit areas were characterized by greater cover and density of total shrubs and big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata), as well as greater forb cover. Soil texture also played an important role in distinguishing suitable pygmy rabbit areas from nonuse sites. Principal components analysis (PCA) of several vegetation variables and soil texture was used to develop a habitat suitability model for pygmy rabbit habitat. This model, which can be used to successfully distinguish between pygmy rabbit use and nonuse areas on the INEEL, has the potential for use throughout the pygmy rabbit's range.
41717146|The hypothesis that sagebrush taxa are equally utilized by mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) on winter range was tested. Five taxa were studied for 10 years at 2 locations. The taxa were Artemisia tridentata ssp.tridentata (basin big sagebrush), A. t . ssp. wyomingensis (Wyoming big sagebrush), A. t . ssp. vaseyana (mountain big sagebrush), A. tripartita ssp. tripartita (tall threetip sagebrush), and A. arbuscula ssp. arbuscula (low sagebrush). Possible mule deer preferences were determined each year individually for the 2 sites. Utilization was high enough to conclude all taxa are important forage, but not excessive enough to mask preference. Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (34.4%) and A. arbuscula ssp. arbuscula (35.6%) were preferred over A. t. ssp. wyomingensis (10.9%) and A. t. ssp. tridentata (6.8%) at the Ashbough site. At the Scudder site there were few differences in preference for A. t. ssp. vaseyana (32.1%), A. t . ssp. wyomingensis (28.8%), and A. tripartita ssp. tripartita (32.0%). While ungulates often demonstrate a preference among taxa, all sagebrush taxa are a potentially valuable forage source.
41717152|Detailed surveys of aquatic invertebrates in 28 springs along the western border of the Great Basin were made using pan traps, emergence traps, black lights, and benthic sampling devices from 1994 to 1998. Although all macroinvertebrate groups were collected, caddisflies (Insecta: Trichoptera) were sampled most intensively. Fifty-eight species of caddisflies were collected from the 28 springs, with up to 18 species from a single spring. Although several springs had very similar physicochemical characteristics, none had identical trichopteran species composition. Using Ward's minimum variance clustering technique, and with all macroinvertebrates identified to the lowest possible level, we found 3 taxa assemblages. These assemblages occurred in springs with the following physical conditions: (1) warm water (15.9C), low elevation (1794 m); (2) cold water (8.5C), mid-elevation (2334 m); and (3) cold water (6.6C), high elevation (1794 m). Although the warm water group had a distinct assemblage of invertebrates (amphipods, gastropods, Trichoptera), distinct assemblages did not separate the 2 cold water groups. Discriminant analysis indicated that temperature, conductivity, alkalinity, and elevation were most responsible for discriminating group 1 from groups 2 and 3; temperature and elevation distinguished the latter 2 groups. Spring permanence, lack of disturbance, and cold water temperatures were the factors most responsible for explaining higher species richness of Trichoptera.
41717153|The relationship between soil surface cryptogamic crusts and seed banks was investigated in the shrubsteppe in the Lower Columbia Basin. Seventy-four percent of the seeds in a disturbed bunchgrass community were found in crevices bordering cryptogamic crust polygons. In a sagebrush/bunchgrass community, 89% of the seeds were found in crevices. In a disturbed bunchgrass community, Bromus tectorum seeds were found in both the seed bank and aboveground vegetation communities. Bromus tectorum seeds were located in the seed bank of a sagebrush/bunchgrass community, although it had a minor presence in the aboveground community. Seeds of Artemisia tridentata Nutt. were not found in either the bunchgrass or sagebrush/bunchgrass communities. The high number of seeds found in crevices bordering the cryptogamic crust suggests that crevices play a role in determining the small-scale distributional pattern of shrub-steppe plants at the Fitzner-Eberhardt Arid Lands Ecology Reserve.
41717154|Three wild Penstemon hybrids are documented herein: Penstemon clevelandii x spectabilis, P. centranthifolius x spectabilis, and P. centranthifolius x eatonii Each putative hybrid was compared to its respective parental species using manifold floral and vegetative characters for which the parents differed. For each hybrid hypothesis, characters were counted as being intermediate or not intermediate. There were significantly more intermediate characters in all 3 cases (one-sided sign tests, P < 0.05). These Penstemon species evidently do hybridize naturally, and for nearly all characters the hybrids are consistent with the view that the parents differ largely by additive genetic effects.
41717155|Conservation biologists often use translocations to augment small populations, establish "refuge" populations, or reestablish populations into historic habitat. For reasons that are poorly understood, translocations often fail. Further, translocations have both short-and long-term consequences for the evolutionary ecology of the targeted taxa. Unfortunately, most information on translocations has been derived from descriptive studies. Recent experimental approaches have provided new data to address a variety of topics associated with translocations, including inbreeding, outbreeding, the relationship between heterozygosity and fitness, and rapid evolution in populations established by translocation. We focus on genetic and ecological aspects of translocations but recognize that contributions from other fields will be essential for the long-term success of many translocation programs. Ongoing research regarding host-parasite interactions points out the need for extensive ecological data as well as genetic data to make informed decisions regarding translocations. Hypotheses derived from this field are ripe for rigorous experimental examination.
41717156|Temporal stability of morphometric measurements is desirable when using avian morphology as a predictor of geographic origin. Therefore, to assess their temporal stability, we examined changes in morphology of Yellowheaded Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) from central North Dakota during summer. Measurements differed among age classes and between sexes. As expected, due to growth and maturation, measurements on hatching-year birds increased over summer. Measurements of adult plumage fluctuated with prebasic molt and exhibited age-specific discontinuities. Body mass of adult birds increased over summer, whereas both culmen length and skull length decreased. Only body length and length of internal skeletal elements were temporally stable in adult Yellow-headed Blackbirds.
41717157|This report establishes a baseline inventory of microorganisms in acidic hot springs of Yellowstone National Park (YNP). The analysis is based on observations carried out over the past 25 years using light microscopy, DNA staining, and electron microscopy of environmental samples. The inventory, while incomplete in that not all organisms have been cultured or examined using genetic approaches, represents a study of several solfatara (acid sulfate) geyser basins in YNP We found that the types of microorganisms in flowing springs had changed over time. In contrast, no such changes occurred in mixing pools. We solicited opinions of prominent YNP microbiologists to address the issue of change in the context of human cross-contamination of springs and to suggest sampling protocols. While the consensus is that research has not introduced exotic species, this explanation is always uncertain. The issues related to this uncertainty, including human cross-contamination, are discussed, and sampling methods designed to best preserve the springs for future investigations are described.
41717158|During late September 1996, approximately 7000 m of clay-to gravel-sized sediment was flushed from Halligan Reservoir, Larimer County, Colorado, into the North Fork Cache la Poudre River during dam inspections. Approximately 9.6 km of this river was partially or completely affected by this episodic sediment release. Pools up to 3.2 km downstream from the dam lost 50% of their volume. Hess samples taken from October 1996 to September 1997, 100 m downstream from the dam (site 1) and 3.2 km downstream (site 2), revealed effects of sediment on recovery patterns of benthic communities. A 2-way ANOVA was used to determine significant interactions using site and date as main factors. Pairwise differences were then compared using least squares means to determine significant dates within and between sites. Ten days after the sediment release, both density and taxa richness at site 1 (55 organisms per m, 5 taxa) were significantly lower (P < 0.05) than site 2 (1156 organisms per m, 25 taxa). These differences remained until June when species richness and densities increased. Plecoptera and Trichoptera colonized from June to September after being eliminated at site 1 and reduced at site 2. No permanently flowing tributaries exist within the study area; therefore, passive downstream drift from such inputs apparently did not influence recovery. Increased densities of taxa such as Baetidae, Hydroptilidae, Hydropsychidae, Chironomidae, Simuliidae, and Oligochaeta occurred plausibly by rapid reproduction. Based on pre-event data, community function completely changed at site 2 from a scraper community to one dominated by collector-gatherers.
41717159|Populations of a common burrowing rodent, Microtus californiens (the California vole), thrive in ungrazed or lightly grazed grasslands in coastal California. Two sites ungrazed by livestock, one dominated by native perennial grasses and another dominated by invasive annuals, were evaluated over 2 consecutive years for the relationship between plant species richness and location of M. californicus burrow entrances (burrows). Plant species and burrows were sampled as present or absent in contiguous 1-m quadrats on a 100-m grid. Quadrats with burrows averaged significantly more plant species than quadrats without them (11.3 vs. 9.9 species, P < 0.001). Burrows found in 1996 were not correlated with species richness in 1995, suggesting that voles affect richness rather than seek it out. Vole burrow locations showed significant clumping on the annual site and trended toward clumping on the perennial site in both 1995 and 1996. Because voles seem to create a clumped pattern with their burrow entrances, the associated increase in plant species richness may have a strong effect on the overall structure of the plant community. A quantitative comparison of the 2 sites showed that the plant matrix of the perennial site contained flora of the annual site. This similarity in plant species composition may allow for similar treatment of our 2 types of sites and potentially other California grasslands. Undetected increases in vole populations with livestock grazing reduction may account for the erratic results from grasslands management research and the inconsistent success of derived management practices.
41717160|We determined the distribution and estimated population number of Preston White River springfish (Crenichthys baileyi albivallis) in summer 1998 and winter 1999. The total population was < 5000 fish persisting in only 4 of 6 spring systems from which it had been previously captured. To improve its status, we recommend conservation measures.
41717161|Spatial heterogeneity has been examined only recently as a factor in studies of ecosystem processes. The effect of this factor on desert organisms is exemplified in the "fertile island"a concentration of essential soil nutrients under perennial shrubs. In this study we examined fertile island patterns in undisturbed desert areas and on abandoned roadways to see at what rate and magnitude these fertile patches reappeared after disturbance. Small-scale examination of patterns of soil P, organic matter, moisture, and bulk density showed that soils beneath Larrea tridentata (DC.) Cov. shrubs on the roads lacked the tight circular gradient in these variables that was characteristic of soils beneath control shrubs, even 88 years after road abandonment. The nature of the initial soil disturbance altered both spatial patterns of soil N and temporal patterns of fertile island development. Fertile island patterns for total soil N, available P, and organic matter were more circular than patterns for bulk density, texture, or pH. We suggest that patterns of soil heterogeneity may develop first for elements that may be limiting to desert shrub growth (N, P, organic matter), followed by spatial development in other less limiting soil factors (bulk density, texture, pH).
41717162|Salicornia rubra Nels. (Chenopodiaceae) is a salt-tolerant annual species occurring in salt playas of the Great Basin desert in western United States. It forms pioneer communities on the most saline location of an inland salt playa at Goshen, Utah. Seeds of Salicornia rubra are capable of germinating at 1000 mM NaCl at 25-35C alternating temperature regime. Dormancy-regulating chemicals were evaluated for their ability to alleviate the innate and salinityenforced dormancy in seeds of Salicornia rubra. Betaine, GA3, kinetin, fusicoccin, ethephon, thiourea, proline, and nitrate had no effect in alleviating primary dormancy. Increases in NaCl concentration progressively inhibited germination of Salicornia rubra seeds. Ethephon, fusicoccin, GA3, kinetin, thiourea, and nitrate promoted germination under low saline conditions. At high salinity fusicoccin had no effect, whereas GA3, kinetin, and ethephon substantially alleviated salinity effects. Application of these dormancy-regulating compounds could be of practical value in seeding a saline area for restoration purposes, particularly under high saline conditions.
41717163|Seventeen subadult, hatchery-reared razorback suckers (Xyrauchen texanus; (x = 456 mm total length) were implanted with sonic transmitters and tracked for 23 months in the lower 89.6 km of the San Juan River (San Juan arm of Lake Powell, Utah). Fish were released at 2 sites, and 9 made extensive up-and downstream movements (x = 47.8 km; contact was lost with 4, and 4 others presumably died or lost their transmitters). The San Juan arm is primarily inundated canyon; however, most fish contacts occurred in shallow coves and shoreline with thick stands of flooded salt cedar in the upper inflow area. Eight fish frequented the Piute Farms river/lake mixing zone, and at least 4 moved upstream into the San Juan River. Seven fish were found in 2 aggregations in spring (3 fish in Neskahi Bay in 1996 and 4 fish just downstream of Piute Farms in 1997), and these may have been associated with spawning activity. Continued presence of razorback suckers in the Piute Farms area and lower San Juan River suggests the San Juan inflow to Lake Powell could be used as an alternate stocking site for reintroduction efforts.
41717164|Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) populations are declining in many portions of their range, and research and management efforts into stemming declines are underway. One tool with promise is the artificial burrow, which can supplement nesting opportunities and play a role in research, mitigation, translocation, and reintroduction studies. However, few studies directly assess important burrow and surrounding topographic features upon which owls choose sites and then construct and install artificial burrows accordingly. In this study we (1) measure physical, vegetative, and topographic characteristics of Burrowing Owl nest sites in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (SRBPNCA); (2) compare used and unused burrows to determine features important in nest-site selection; and (3) use this information to help guide current and future construction and placement of artificial burrows in the SRBPNCA. Owls nested in abandoned American badger (Taxidea taxus) burrows in areas with more than one burrow, close to roads and irrigated agricultural fields, and characterized by sparse and low vegetation dominated by nonnative plant species. Only one feature studied, tunnel entrance angle, corresponded with choice by owls; odds of burrow use decreased 17% with each 1 increase in slope of the tunnel entrance. Owls nesting near irrigated agricultural fields also had higher productivity. We discuss applications of our results to construction and placement of artificial burrows in the SRBPNCA and similar shrub-steppe environs in western North America.
41717185|Pleistocene-age mollusks recovered from the Nelson-Wittenberg Site and Mammoth Site provide information on paleoenvironments of the southern Black Hills, South Dakota. New mollusk records for the Mammoth Site include Vertigo modesta, Catinella sp., and Gyraulus parvus. The presence of V. modesta, Columella columella alticola, and Pupilla muscorum at the Nelson-Wittenberg Site suggests cooler than modern conditions in the Black Hills during the Pleistocene. Although the majority of identified taxa are consistent with previous interpretations of an arid, shrubsteppe environment for the Black Hills during the Wisconsin Glaciation, V. modesta and C. c. alticola suggest the presence of at least some isolated, local mesic areas.
41717186|Regeneration of Pinus jeffreyi in the Sierra Nevada is often limited on sites dominated by Wyethia mollis. Allelopathic chemicals and competition for soil moisture have been suggested as possible mechanisms for limiting regeneration. We tested the hypothesis that soil chemical and microbial properties from sites in different stages of succession influence seedling growth of Pinus jeffreyi. Soil was collected from an early-seral site dominated by Wyethia mollis, a mid-seral site dominated by the shrubs Arctostaphylos patula, Ceanothus prostratus, C. velutinus, and Purshia tridentata, and a late-seral site dominated by mature Pinus. These sites were compared for nutrient content, Pinus seedling growth capacity, and microbial population size. Soil (0-33 cm) from the early-seral site had the lowest C, microbial biomass, and fungal and bacterial populations. There were no consistent trends in soil nutrient content among sites. The early-seral site had the lowest soil Ca and Mg contents but also had a lower C/N ratio and more than twofold greater P content than either the mid-or late-seral site. Pinus seedling growth and foliar nutrient concentrations were compared at 3 harvest dates (220, 314, and 417 days after germination) in a greenhouse bioassay. The treatment design was a 3  2 factorial with soil from each of the 3 sites either with or without Pinus seedlings. Pots without seedlings were used as controls to assess the effects of seedlings on microbial biomass. Seedling growth in the early-seral soil was initially suppressed in comparison to growth in the mid-seral soil, but by the final harvest total seedling weight was similar between these 2 treatments. The most obvious treatment effect was a reduction in growth for seedlings planted in lateseral soil, probably due to a nutrient imbalance in the soil. Seedlings grown in late-seral soil had Fe and Al levels that were nearly twice those of seedlings grown in early-and mid-seral soils. Microbial biomass followed a temporal pattern similar to that found for seedling growth. Differences in microbial biomass between the early-and mid-seral soils, although initially large, were not detected by the final harvest. We interpret these results to indicate that allelopathy or soil nutrient deficiencies resulting from the presence of Wyethia are unlikely to be responsible for limited growth of Pinus seedlings in Wyethia-dominated stands.
41717187|We examined the effect of oil-field development on movements and patterns of spatial use of San Joaqun kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis mutica) on the Naval Petroleum Reserves in California (NPRC) in the San Joaquin Valley. To do this, we compared movements and home ranges of kit foxes from June 1984 to September 1985 in areas developed for petroleum production (30% of native habitat lost to production facilities) and areas with little development (3%). Distances traveled nightly by kit foxes did not differ between levels of petroleum development or between sexes (P > 0.2). Mean length of nightly movements during breeding (14.6 km) was longer than during pup-rearing (10.7 km) and pup-dispersal (9.4 km) periods (P = 0.01). Mean size of home ranges was $4.6 \pm 0.4({s_{\bar x}})k{m^2}(n - 21)$ and did not differ between levels of petroleum development and sexes (P > 0.2). Overlap of home ranges of foxes from the same social group (78  4.3%) was greater than that of same-sex foxes (35  7.8%) and males and females of different social groups (32  8.0%, P < 0.01). Overlap of home ranges did not differ between kit foxes inhabiting developed and undeveloped areas (P > 0.4). Despite extensive overlap of home ranges, kit foxes on NPRC maintained relatively exclusive core areas, particularly adjacent foxes of the same sex. Future studies should examine which levels of habitat conversion impact spatial use of kit foxes.
41717188|One hundred eighty-three specimens representing 7 anuran species were examined for helminth parasites: Bufo kelloggi, B. mazatlanensis, Leptodactylus melanonotus, Pachymedusa dacnicolor, Rana forreri, R. magnaoculars, Smilisca haudini. The following species were found: 8 species of Trematoda, Cephalogonimus americanus, Clinostomum attenuatum (larva), Glypthelmins poncedeleoni, G. quieta, Gorgoderina attenuata, Haematoloechus comptexus, H. longiplexus, and Megalodiscus temperatus; 2 species of Cestoda, Cylindrotaenia americana and Nematotaenia dispar; 13 species of Nematoda, Aplectana incerta, A. itzocanensis, Cosmocerca podicipinus, Cosmocercella haberi, Cosmocercoides variabilis, Foleyellides striatus, Oswaldocruzia pipiens, Rhabdias americanus, R. ranae, Subulascaris falcaustriformis, Physaloptera sp. (larva), Physocephalus sp. (larva), and Spiroxys sp. (larva); and 1 species of Acanthocephala (cystacanth). Helminth species richness was 6.4  2.4 s. Thirty-five new host records are reported.
41717189|Platanus wrightii is a pioneer tree species of warm-temperate riparian deciduous forests in southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Dendrochronological analysis of populations in central and southern Arizona indicated that P. wrightii seedlings establish episodically. Long intervals (10-40 years) elapsed with no apparent establishment. Seedling establishment years were positively associated with winter flood size and annual flow rate, and weakly negatively associated with summer flood size. Large floods sometimes preceded multi-year establishment waves. During the past 2 decades an abundance of winter floods and very wet springs has allowed frequent establishment of P. wrightii For example, plants established at many sites during the winter flood years of 1993 and 1995, particularly along channels scoured and widened by flood waters. Platanus wrightii also reproduces asexually. Ramets were more abundant than genets in all populations, and ramets established more frequently than seedlings. Ramet density (mean number per genet) varied widely between populations, from 2 (Huachuca Canyon) to 9 (Haunted Canyon), and increased with tree size within 4 of 9 populations. Population size structure varied across a gradient of watershed area. Populations along streams draining the largest watersheds had an abundance of small trees (mean trunk diameter of < 10 cm), while those at headwater sites were dominated by mature trees with trunk diameter  190 cm and age 235 years. These observations suggest that population structure of P. wrightii is influenced by temporal as well as spatial differences in stream flow regimes.
41717190|Foraging workers of Formica planipilis and Pogonomyrmex salinus were collected at various distances from their colony by pitfall traps in the former species and by catching workers recruited to food at known locations in the latter. In F planipilis the number of larger workers increased in proportional representation to distance from the nest. Larger workers also weighed relatively less with distance from the nest, indicating that energy or water allocated for maintaining all foragers is patterned such that resource loss with forager mortality is minimized. However, the smallest size class involved in foraging shows the opposite pattern, with heavier individuals being found farther from the nest. Thus, it is possible that smaller size classes function as mobile reserves of energy or water to maintain foraging activity of larger classes at a distance from the colony. In P salinus all sizes of workers were equally likely to be found at any distance. Foragers weighed significantly less than mound workers of the same head size, again suggesting resource conservation in provisioning foraging workers. Differences in patterns of energy allocation to foragers are discussed relative to the species' ecologies.
41717191|Nonnative rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) are stocked into several reservoirs in the range of federally threatened Little Colorado spinedace (Lepidomeda vittata), and so have the opportunity to negatively impact Little Colorado spinedace populations. We examined rainbow trout escapement from Nelson Reservior into Nutrioso Creek, critical habitat for L. vittata. We also examined movements of L. vittata and incidence of predation by rainbow trout on L. vittata. We detected no movement of rainbow trout out of Nelson Reservoir over 4 years of study. Lepidomeda vittata marked in 3 streams did not move much; but sample sizes were too small to make any meaningful conclusions regarding movement. Most L. vittata we captured during surveys subsequent to marking were unmarked, suggesting movement out of the study area, low tag retention, mortality, or failure to capture marked fish. Lepidomeda vittata co-occurred with O. mykiss, Salmo trutta, and Salvelinus fontinalis and were typically less than half the size of the sympatric nonnative salmonids. Consequently, they are potential prey fish for these species. We found fish remains in stomachs of 33% of S. trutta, 6% of O. mykiss and 25% of S. fontinalis examined, but remains of L. vittata were found only in a single S. trutta. Because S. fontinalis are rare in the streams examined, they probably do not pose a great threat to L. vittata. Salmo trutta, which are no longer stocked, had the highest piscivory level and may thus pose more of a threat to L. vittata than O. mykiss.
41717192|Four species of Dipogon are recorded from Colorado for the first time. These are hurdi Evans, pulchripennis (Cresson), graenicheri Banks, and brevis (Cresson). All are inhabitants of wooded areas and are believed to nest in cavities in trees. Notes are presented on habitat and prey of these 4 species and of the recently described species kiowa Evans.
41717193|A reinvestigation of the type specimen of Araucarioxylon? obscurum Knowlton (1900) from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation in the Freezeout Hills of Wyoming has determined that this fossil should be transferred to Mesembrioxylon Seward (1919) as M. obscurum comb. nov. (Knowlton) Medlyn and Tidwell. Knowlton (1900), who was uncertain of its appropriate generic disposition, tentatively referred the wood to Araucarioxylon because it had obscure growth rings and relatively low ray height. Reexamination of Knowlton s slides demonstrates that the wood has uniseriate, rarely biseriate rays, podocarpoid pitting, and diffuse axial parenchyma, none of which Knowlton mentioned. Tracheary pitting is mostly separate, round, uniseriate, occasionally biseriate and, when biseriate, opposite to subopposite. The smooth-walled crossfields exhibit 1-3 thin-bordered podocarpaceous pits per field. All of these features are present in Mesembrioxylon Seward.
41717194|The jaguar (Panthera onca) has been classified as an opportunistic hunter that takes as many as 85 prey species, according to availability. In this study we analyzed jaguar food habits throughout its range to quantify the importance of small, medium, and large prey in the diet. Because peccaries (Tayassu) are present in most studies, we also tested their importance in relation to other prey items. We conclude that jaguars are equally using medium-and large-size prey, with a trend toward use of larger prey as distance increases from the equator. There was no significant difference between the importance of peccaries and other large prey.
41717195|Chlorophyll a and b analyses of cryptobiotic crusts from burned and unburned sites on the Snake River plain provided an estimate of crust recovery. In less than 3 years, chlorophyll a levels were approximately 50% of the unburned reference site. Chlorophyll a/b ratios indicated that the biotic composition of the recovering cryptobiotic crust consisted largely of eukaryotic algae and bryophytes.
41717208|A synecological study of aquatic macrophyte plant communities was conducted across northern Idaho and western Montana during the summers of 1997, 1998, and 1999. A total of 111 natural and man-made water bodies were sampled based on a stratification of environmental variables thought to influence plant species distribution (i.e., elevation, landform, geology, and water body size). Plant species foliar cover data were used to develop a hierarchical, floristic-based community type classification with TWINSPAN and DECORANA software. Six planmergent (conspicuous portion of vegetative plant body on the water surface) and 24 submergent (vegetative plant body found primarily underwater) community types were identified. Multivariate analysis indicated that all community types displayed significant differences in plant species composition, and the Sorenson's floristic similarity between communities averaged 10% for planmergent and 8% for submergent types. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to inspect relationships between abiotic factors and plant species abundance. Results of this analysis indicated some relationships between species distributions and abiotic factors; however, chance introduction of plant species to water bodies is a process considered to be equally important to the presence of the community types described.
41717209|We studied the influence of climate variables, stream flow, and topography on regeneration and growth of several riparian tree species (Acer negundo, Alnus oblongifolia, Fraxinus velutina, Juglans major, Platanus wrightii, Populus fremontii, Salix spp.) at an unregulated perennial stream, West Clear Creek, in central Arizona. A pulse of seedling regeneration occurred for Alnus, Fraxinus, Platanus, Populus, and Salix in 1995 and 1996 following high winter and spring surface flows in 1993 and high spring surface flow in 1995. In contrast, little regeneration occurred for Acer and Juglans under these conditions. Most seedlings occurred at the active channel topographic location, and few seedlings occurred at abandoned channel, gravel-boulder bar, and bench locations. Relationships between environmental variables and annual radial stem growth varied among species and between constrained and unconstrained reaches. High spring or winter surface flows were negatively related to growth of Acer, Alnus, and Platanus, whereas high spring surface flow was positively related to growth of Fraxinus. Positive relationships between precipitation and growth occurred only for Fraxinus and Juglans, suggesting greater use of surface soil water by these species. Annual radial growth was high for Platanus and Alnus, medium for Acer and Fraxinus, and low for Juglans. Overall, the tree species in our study responded individually, rather than collectively, in regeneration and growth to changes in stream flow and climatic variables.
41717210|Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia) occupy intensively managed agricultural areas within the Imperial Valley of California, where they occur at high densities relative to other areas in the state, and yet reproductive rates are often low. Understanding diet and food-niche breadth may lead to insights into factors contributing to their poor reproductive performance. We tested the relative contribution of sex, year, and season on diet composition and food-niche breadth from analyses of stomach contents of adult Burrowing Owls (n = 53). Orthoptera dominated the diet; it accounted for 58.9% of the total number of prey items in all stomachs and was found in 98.2% of all samples. Rodents, a source of potentially limiting dietary calcium, were found in only 2 stomachs. We detected yearly and seasonal effects on estimated food-niche breadth. Mean food niche for the breeding season was broader (antilog of Shannon s index: 2.38  0.15) and more even (Pielou's index: 0.67  0.06) than for the nonbreeding season (1.83  0.13, 0.49  0.07, respectively) partially because of a greater frequency of Araneida, Isopoda, Lepidoptera, and Solpugida in the diet during the breeding season. Mean food-niche breadth for 1997 (2.25  0.23) was broader than during 1994, 1995, and 1996 (2.07  0.23, 1.98  0.20, and 1.82  0.40, respectively) because of a greater frequency of Araneida, Dermaptera, Isopoda, Lepidoptera, and Solpugida. These results, and auxiliary diet information, suggest rodents were infrequent in the diet of Burrowing Owls in the Imperial Valley and may help explain their lower reproductive success relative to other areas of California.
41717211|Brewer's Sparrows (Spizella breweri) have two song typesa "short" song that has 1 to 3 trill types and a "long" song that has 5 to 10 or more trill types. I describe the short song and examine patterns of individual and geographic song variation from 15 sites on the Snake River Plain in southern Idaho. Territorial males sang the short song regularly during the breeding season. Two-trill song types comprised 72.9% of all song types, with 3-trill types (18.8%) and 1-trill types (8.2%) less frequent. Over 90% of the males sang their song type(s) essentially without variation. Many trill types appeared most often in only 1 of 3 possible song positions, i.e., 1st, 2nd, or 3rd trill. Trill types that occurred in different song positions differed in syllables per second, trill and syllable duration, and frequency variables. First trill types were more variable than 2nd or 3rd trill types. There was no evidence that birds at sites closer together shared more trill types or pairs of trill types than those farther apart. There was no tendency for territorial neighbors to sing similar song types. Brewer's Sparrows' small territories, dense populations, and apparently high rate of annual turnover may mediate against the evolution of song sharing or vocal dialects.
41717212|We evaluated relationships between soil depth and vegetation standing crop components over a 3-year period on 3 adjoining pastures with similar size, vegetation, and soils on the Chihuahuan Desert Rangeland Research Center in south central New Mexico. Soils on our study pastures are primarily light sandy loams varying from a few centimeters to 1 m or more in depth underlain by a calcium carbonate layer. Study pastures were ungrazed in 1995 and 1996 and conservatively grazed in 1997. Linear regression equations using perennial grass standing crop (kg ha) and honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torr.) cover (%) as dependent variables and soil depth as the independent variable were significant (P < 0.05) and similar for all 3 pastures. Deep soils had low perennial grass standing crop and high mesquite cover, while the opposite occurred for shallow soils. Within shallow soils, honey mesquite and perennial grass standing crop were not correlated (P = 0.78, n = 18), but a significant (P = 0.01) negative correlation occurred on deep soils (r = -0.67, n = 15). Perennial grass standing crop differed greatly among years when data were pooled across pastures, ranging from 64 kg ha in 1995 to 248 kg ha in 1997. Our study shows that soil depth has a major influence on Chihuahuan Desert vegetation. Perennial grasses are favored by shallow sandy soils while deep sandy soils favor honey mesquite.
41717213|Surveys for succineid snails were conducted to improve genetic and geographical information for the endangered Kanab ambersnail (Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis Pilsbry) and related taxa within the Succineidae. Surveys were carried out in the Bureau of Land Management Kanab District, at the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, on 3 private holdings, and along Highways 89, 12, and 14, all in south central Utah. A population of Kanab ambersnails was known to exist in the region; other populations of Oxyloma were discovered in primarily seep-fed wetlands in Kanab Creek and in tributaries of and wetlands along the Virgin, Sevier, and Escalante rivers in Kane, Garfield, and Piute counties. None of the newly discovered populations was identified as Kanab ambersnail on the basis of anatomical evidence, although one was at the type locale for that species. We list other snail species encountered and discuss the status of the Kanab ambersnail in light of recent genetic research.
41717214|Idaho populations of Eriogonum shockleyi are divided taxonomically into 2 varieties: E. shockleyi var. packardae, which is endemic to Idaho, and the typical variety, which is widespread in the western United States. Recent morphological investigations of E. shockleyi in Idaho have identified potentially reliable morphological characters for field identification of the subspecific taxa. This paper investigates the genetic basis for the separation of the 2 varieties of E. shockleyi using inter simple-sequence repeats (ISSR) markers. Although we found some morphological differences between the populations that correlated with the 2 varieties, we identified no molecular markers in this study to distinguish between them. Morphological measurements obtained in the field indicate that although a population may have an overall average morphology that defines the variety, some individuals in nearly all populations have putative diagnostic characters that define the other variety. The morphological characters used to distinguish the 2 varieties are most likely the result of environmental variability and could result from differences in precipitation and soil water retention. Alternatively, high levels of outcrossing through pollen flow could be obscuring selection for morphological characters at particular sites.
41717215|Roots of 15 Mojave Desert plant species were assessed for arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) colonization in spring and autumn 1999. Another 19 species were assessed in autumn only. Perennial species were AM colonized, whereas annual species contained very low levels of AM hyphae or were nonmycorrhizal. The nonnative tree Tamarix ramosissima was also nonmycorrhizal. Levels of hyphae changed over the season in 2 species, arbuscle levels increased in 1 species, and vesicles decreased in 7 species. Mycorrhizal inoculum potential (MIP) was assessed in the soils associated with spring-collected plants. All soils were found to contain MIP MIP values were not correlated with AM root colonization.
41717216|In autumn the vast majority of the North American population of Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) congregates for several months at Great Salt Lake, Utah, and Mono Lake, California. Because the lakes are so large, it has not been possible to monitor grebe migration with sufficient accuracy to determine when peak numbers are reached. To clarify migration phenology, we analyzed data from 2 isolated wetland areas in southwestern Wyoming where grebes land en route between breeding areas in the interior and Great Salt Lake. Occasional birds, probably nonbreeders or failed breeders, begin moving southward as early as mid-June. Migration of postbreeding birds starts in late July, peaks in late August and September, and is largely completed by the end of October, with very small numbers arriving into November. The pattern of migration and number of birds encountered varied annually, but 95% of the migration was usually completed by 15 October. As a result, censuses at the major staging lake made on or after 15 October but before the grebes depart for wintering areas can be used to study trends in size of the North American population.
41717217|U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service staff at Hart Mountain National Antelope Refuge (HMNAR), southeastern Oregon, documented high pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) fawn mortality, subsequent low fawn recruitment, and declining pronghorn numbers from 1996 to 1999. Coyote (Cants latrans) predation was the primary cause, accounting for 60-85% of fawn mortalities each year, and fawns were not physiologically predisposed to predation. Therefore, we investigated certain coyote population parameters (age structure, survival, density, physiology) to evaluate how or if these factors influence coyote prdation rates on pronghorn fawns. We captured 11 coyotes (5 male and 6 female) in December 1998. Age of captured animals ranged from 1.7 to 10.7 yrs (x = 5.0 years), and all coyotes appeared healthy upon capture. There were no known mortalities through December 1999. We estimated pre-whelping (December through February 1997-1999) density from howling surveys conducted within HMNAR to be 0.40-0.53 km. Compared to other published studies, we found significant (P < 0.05) differences in selected blood parameters (e. g., blood urea nitrogen, total protein, white blood cell counts), indicating coyote nutrition may be marginal to deficient during winter at HMNAR. A high percentage of coyotes (91%) tested positive for serum-neutralizing antibodies to canine parvovirus. We judged that parasite (Toxascaris spp., Alaria spp., Sarcocystis spp., and Isospora spp.) prevalence and intensity were not high enough to influence coyote condition. Based on our data, the coyote population at HMNAR is old aged, at a relatively high density, and stable, but their nutrition may be marginal to deficient during winter. Presently, we are unable to draw direct conclusions relating the parameters we sampled with prdation rates by this unexploited coyote population.
41717218|The uncontrolled, global increase in atmospheric CO concentration (ca 80 ppmv) and decline in air 13C air (ca 1.5%c) since industrialization provide experimental boundary conditions by which to assess physiological response of vegetation. To examine consequences of these global atmospheric changes in the southwestern U. S., 350 specimens of Atriplex confertifolia, A. canescens, Ephedra viridis, Pinus edulis, P. flexilis, Juniperus scopulorum, and Quercus turhinetta of precisely known age spanning the last 150 years were acquired from 9 herbaria. Cellulose analysis of Cplant and estimation of isotopic discrimination () permitted calculation of water-use efficiency (A/g). The Cplant chronologies of C Atriplex spp. show some promise as a reliable proxy for Cair because their mean trends approximate the known air chronology. However, the high variability would necessitate multiple samples at any time period to accurately represent the mean. The generally increasing A/g trends of the 5 C species are particularly pronounced for P. edulis and, after the 1950s, for J. scopulorum, but less evident for P. flexilis, E. viridis, and Q. turbinella, evidencing possible differences in species response to rising CO concentrations. The trends are statistically noisy, however, possibly due to complex microclimates, extreme seasonality, and great interannual variability typical of the southwestern U. S. Herbarium specimens, at least in the Southwest, may be less useful for precise detection of direct CO effects on plant physiology than tree rings, where the variability can be constrained to a single individual over time.
41717219|The goal of this study was to identify relationships between sampling effort, using a point frame, and the precision of estimates of vegetative cover in sagebrush steppe. Data for 208 point-frame samples were randomly drawn and 95% confidence intervals were identified for varying sample sizes of individual species and species groups. Confidence interval widths decreased rapidly as sample sizes increased from 1 to 50, and more slowly as sample sizes were increased further. For the more abundant species, sample sizes of fewer than 50 frames were sufficient to reduce the 95% confidence interval to less than one-half of average cover. For species with average cover less than 5%, the sample size required to achieve the same relative confidence was much larger. Analyses were repeated to compare point frames with 36 versus 50 sample points per frame. Using a point frame with 50 sample points decreased the number of frames required to achieve the same level of confidence; however, the reduction in sample size was less than the 28% reduction in sample points per frame. Because of the time required to establish transects and position the point frame, it may still be worth sampling more points per frame.
41717220|It has been hypothesized (1) that the compass direction in which woodpeckers excavate breeding cavities depends on nest thermoregulatory needs, and (2) that when multiple cavities are placed in the same tree across years, each new cavity is placed above previous cavities. We tested these hypotheses for Red-naped Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus nuchalis) in central Nevada and found some evidence that cavities are oriented for thermoregulatory advantage, but we rejected the hypothesis that active cavities are always the highest.
41717227|Mount Rainier National Park, with an area of 95,356 ha, is approximately one-third as large as the state of Rhode Island. The lowest point is 490 m in elevation in the southeastern corner near where the Ohanapecosh River crosses the southern boundary. Columbia Crest is the highest point at 4392 m. The entire park is a rugged landscape marked by the major topographical feature, Mount Rainier, comprising over 25,899 ha, almost one-third of the park. The park lies entirely west of the crest line of the Cascade Range. Most streams in the park originate on Mount Rainier; however, several large rivers meander through the park near its boundaries. One of the first attempts to summarize the stoneflies of Washington, including Mount Rainier National Park, was Hoppes 1938 work that reported ca 8 species. Jewett (1959) reviewed the stoneflies of the Pacific Northwest and listed 7 species that had type localities in the park: Megaleuctra kincaidi Frison, Doddsia occidentals (Banks), Soliperfofenderi (Jewett), Frisonia picticeps (Hanson), Isoperla rainiera Jewett, Megarcys irreguhris (Banks), and M. subtruncata (Hanson). Subsequently, Kathroperla takhoma Stark and Surdick (1987) was described from the park. Samples of adult stoneflies from 1994 to 2001 indicate the presence of at least 82 species, with 64% of these typical Pacific Northwest species, and 30 species, or 36%, widespread western North American species. Seventeen new Washington state records are listed, including a substantial range extension for Lednia tumana (Ricker). One undescribed species in the Sweltsa borealis complex was also discovered. We also present illustrations of male terminalia for Despaxia augusta (Banks) and Moselia infuscata (Claassen) to aid in the identification of these species.
41717228|Plant macrofossil analyses of 16 radiocarbon-dated woodrat middens spanning the past 4000 years from the Wind River Canyon region in central Wyoming provide information concerning late Holocene development of juniper woodlands. The study sites are currently dominated by Juniperus osteosperma, with J. scopulorum present locally. Woodlands in the region were dominated by J. scopulorum from ca 4000 yr BP until at least 2800 yr BP. Juniperus osteosperma invaded and expanded before 2000 yr BP This expansion fits a regional pattern of J, osteosperma colonization and expansion in north central Wyoming during a relatively dry period between 2800 and 1000 yr BP. At the time the Wind River Canyon region was colonized by J. osteosperma, the species had populations 50-100 km to both the north and south. Long-distance seed dispersal was required for establishment in the study area. Genetic studies are necessary to identify source populations and regions.
41717229|Much of western North America is dominated by dense, monotypic, late seral stands of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt.). These stands often have depauperate understories with limited species richness, diversity, and herbaceous cover. The National Park Service at Dinosaur National Monument, Colorado, is using both strategic and natural prescribed fire in Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis Beetle and Young) communities to foster intra-community (-scale) and landscape diversity. This study analyzed an accumulated foliar cover data set between paired burn and control areas on 6 different sites during the last 20 years. Across the monitoring period, mean total vegetation cover of all combined sites was 44% control and 42% burn. Total vegetation cover in burn areas was higher than or equal to paired control areas within 2-3 years post-burn. Shrubs were essentially eliminated in burn areas, but perennial grass cover was 10-35% higher. Mean number of species on all sites and years combined was 17 control and 18 burn. Species richness was different on only 1 site-year, Dry Woman 1995 (P = 0.001, 15 control, 9 burn). Species similarity by site and between treatments ranged from 44% to 75%. Differences in Shannon-Weiner diversity index values between paired sites occurred in 6 of 20 years (P < 0.05). Index value differences on these 6 sites were due to a large annual grass component in burn areas. Prescribed burning successfully shifted late successional sagebrushdominated communities to earlier herbaceous-dominated successional stages without lowering total vegetation cover, while maintaining -scale diversity and species richness.
41717230|Erigeron kachinensis, the Kachina daisy, is a rare species restricted to canyons in southeastern Utah. The species is known to exhibit low fecundity due to low percent fertilization of ovules and high percent abortion of fertilized ovules. Previous reproductive studies suggest that low fecundity is a consequence of small population size and inbreeding depression. This study examines genetic diversity within and among populations of E. kachinensis in Natural Bridges National Monument using enzyme electrophoresis. Field populations are found to have significantly different morphologies. However, morphological differences were less pronounced among populations grown in the greenhouse. The Kachina daisy exhibits levels of genetic variability in its populations similar to that of other outcrossed species. Genetic diversity statistics demonstrate that only 22.8% of genetic variation is distributed among populations. Genetic distance could not be correlated with geographic distance. Most of the populations showed significant deviation of fixation indices from zero for multiple loci. Observation of genotype frequencies demonstrates that populations are fixing on different genotypes and may be experiencing initial stages of genetic drift. Mean observed heterozygosity was 0.166 and was found to increase with increasing size and/or age in populations.
41717231|Okanagana striatipes and O. utahensis are species synchronous in location of activity and utilization of host plants. They possess similar acoustic behavior. Analysis of calling songs shows that calls overlap in frequency but differ in temporal pattern. Based on characteristics of the cicada auditory system and the species recognition mechanism, the potential for acoustic interference exists. Both species are ectothermic behavioral thermoregulators. Measurements of thermal preference and body temperature during singing show that although thermal preferences are similar, O. utahensis sings at a significantly higher body temperature. Differences in body temperature required to coordinate singing in the 2 species provide a partial temporal separation of acoustic signaling. We suggest the physiological mechanisms that permit synchronous utilization of a habitat by the 2 species are the production of calling songs of different temporal patterns and the presence of different thermal requirements, which may permit and/or facilitate temporal separation of the acoustic environment during the day.
41717232|The Brian Head mountainsnail, Oreohelix parawanensis, is reported for the 1st time as a living species, and for the 1st time its habitat is described. Preliminary determination of the very limited distribution of this species (< 2.3 ha inhabited in -11 ha overall area) is presented. Morphometric data previously had been reported only for the holotype and for 1 topotype; measurements from 37 new specimens as well as 20 paratypes are provided here, and these data show that the lost holotype was not typical of the species. Sizes of reproductive snails and of embryos are also reported.
41717233|Cluster analyses of values for hue, value, and chroma (based on Munsell soil-color charts) obtained at 6 points on pelages of 202 adult pifion mice (Peromyscus truei) from the northern Great Basin and environs produced dendrograms with specimens grouped into 5 clusters. In most instances distribution of specimens forming clusters reflected those published for nominal races. In instances in which previous distributions of nominal races were not supported and for specimens previously unclassified, geographic distribution of groups of color morphs was logical and suggested avenues for additional research on geographic variation in the species.
41717234|In autumn 1998 stream metabolism was measured in the Hassayampa River, Arizona, a Sonoran Desert stream, using single-station diel oxygen curves and an oxygen mass balance model. Oxygen consumption rates of parafluvial and channel sediments were determined with respiration chambers. Bedload of channel sediments (sand) prevented significant primary production by benthic autotrophs, despite favorable nutrient, light, and temperature conditions. Ecosystem respiration was relatively low (1.50 g O md) and presumably fueled by production in the riparian zone and riverine marshes. Respiration rates in the parafluvial zone and in channel sediments ranged from 0.6 to 1.4 g O m sediment h. Sediment organic matter (ash-free dry mass) was 4.0  1.8 kg m sediment and did not significantly differ between the channel and the parafluvial zone. Results indicate that heterotrophic processes may dominate the metabolism of desert stream segments over extended periods of time if unstable sandy bed sediments prevail.
41717235|Predispersal seed parasitism rates were quantified for buckbrush (Ceanothus fendleri Gray) in 3 Arizona ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Laws.) forest units that had been thinned for ecological restoration objectives. The chalcidoid wasp Eurytoma squamosa Bugbee (Eurytomidae) was responsible for 35% of total seed loss in a single year. These findings represent an expansion of the known range and host list for E. squamosa and increase our understanding of factors that may constrain regeneration of C. fendleri in Southwest ponderosa pine forests.
41717236|From 1999 through 2001 we located and monitored Western Tanager (Piranga ludoviciana) nests in public open-space properties in Boulder County, Colorado. Fifty-four of 58 nests were located in ponderosa pine and the remainder in Douglas-fir. Nests were generally placed near the midpoint of branches in areas of high canopy cover (> 50%) in the middle section of nest trees. Nest height varied as a function of nest tree height, and nests were oriented randomly in relation to trunks of nest trees. Tanager nesting success varied annually, with estimates using the Mayfield method ranging from 11.3% in 2000 to 75.3% in 2001. At least 8 nests were predated, and prdation was the primary cause of nest failure. Parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) occurred in 7 of 17 (41%) nests found during egg-laying or incubation. Clutch size averaged 3.8 in 10 unparasitized nests, but only 2.4 in 8 parasitized nests. Brood parasitism dramatically reduced the number of tanager fledglings produced per nest.
41717237|Capnia caryi, a new species of Nearctic Capniidae, is described from adults collected from high-elevation locations in the Southern Rocky Mountains of southern New Mexico and Arizona. Males are distinguished by their rounded club-shaped epiproct and sclerotized knobs on abdominal terga 8 and 9. Females possess a darkly sclerotized subgenital plate that covers most of tergum 8 and is produced posteriorly as a pair of broadly rounded lobes.
41717257|I assessed movements of North American porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum) in the Great Basin of northwestern Nevada in relation to reproductive activities during the late summer and fall periods of 1991 and 1992. Porcupines exhibit a mate-defense polygynous mating system and I hypothesized that (1) competitively dominant males would have larger home ranges than both subordinate males and adult females, and (2) variation in home range size among adult male porcupines would be positively correlated with reproductive success. Results indicated that dominant male porcupines ranged over larger areas (average 95% minimum convex polygon home range = 20.7 ha) than subordinate males (average 95% MCP home range = 2.9 ha) and adult females (average 95% MCP home range = 8.2 ha). Analyses of movements in relation to body size and energetic requirements revealed that home ranges of dominant male porcupines were larger than predicted based on body size (approximately 10.2 ha). Breeding period home ranges of dominant male porcupines encompassed portions of the home ranges of 3 to 10 adult females, and indices of reproductive success based on observations of mate-guarding behaviors suggested a strong positive relationship between home range sizes of male porcupines and mating success. Together these data suggested that larger home ranges among dominant males were related to increased mating opportunities and not increased metabolic requirements associated with larger male body sizes. In the study area, however, female porcupines congregated around small, patchily distributed riparian areas, and dominant males with relatively small home ranges encompassing riparian areas may have gained mating access to multiple females. Finally, analyses of overlap among core home ranges (60% MCP) of adult male and adult female porcupines suggested that both sexes maintained relatively exclusive core home range areas, with males exhibiting significantly less range overlap with other males (x = 9.4%) than females with other females (x = 27.1%). It is possible that the small, patchily distributed riparian areas in this desertljke area were such a limited resource that females were unable to maintain exclusive use of their home range areas.
41717258|We studied differentially stained karyotypes of the leporids Lepus californicus, L. callotis, and L. flaviguhris and described their banding patterns of euchromatin to decide whether results fit expectations of chromosomal rearrangements leading to the karyotypic evolution ancestral of the L. californicus-L callotis-L flavigulars lineage. Results confirmed previous findings on numbers of chromosomes (2n's) and fundamental numbers (FNs; except for L. calif ornicus). Homologous G-banding patterns allowed identification of chromosome rearrangements such as pericentric inversions and addition and deletion of euchromatin. Chromosomal rearrangements that we deduced mostly support hypotheses on karyotypic changes in the chromosomal evolution of the Lepus ancestral lineage that we examined. The karyotypic pattern coincides with patterns of geographic variation and distribution of the species examined.
41717259|Extensive collecting using a variety of methods was conducted in 1994 and 1995 in association with Pleasant Creek in south central Utah, USA, in an effort to inventory the aquatic insects. Collecting efforts yielded 133 insect taxa from 12 sample sites in 8 study areas from near the headwaters of Pleasant Creek and downstream to where it flows out of Capitol Reef National Park. Applying Protocol III methodology of Plafkin et al. (1989), we determined species assemblages of benthic insects and calculated selected ecological indices based on monthly collections from March through August 1994. Richness, equitability index, and mean diversity index values at all sample sites approached, or were greater than, the generally accepted values for clean-water streams in the mountains of the western United States.
41717260|In northwestern Colorado, flow regulation on the Green River has created a transitional plant community that features encroachment by upland vegetation into cottonwood (Populus fremontii)-dominated, riparian forest on topographically high floodplain sites and reduced cottonwood regeneration on low floodplain sites. To assess how these changes might have affected small mammal distributions, in 1994 and 1995 we live-trapped during periods surrounding spring flooding at 3 sites: above and below the confluence of the regulated Green River and at the ecologically similar, but unregulated, Yampa River (reference site). More species were captured at the most regulated site along the Green River above its confluence with the Yampa River. Within sites, more species were captured in riparian habitats than adjacent upland habitats. Despite river regulation-induced habitat changes, we did not detect changes in species distributions within low and high floodplain habitat for Peromyscus maniculatus or Microtus montanus, but changes may have occurred for Dipodomys ordii. The total effect of regulation-induced habitat change on small mammal populations may not be fully revealed until current, mature cottonwood forests disappear and associated woody debris decomposes.
41717261|Seasonal wildlife observations were made along transects on 2 pastures conservatively grazed (36% use of perennial grasses) and 2 pastures moderately grazed (47% use of perennial grasses) in south central New Mexico in non-drought (1997) and drought years (1998). Experimental pastures were similar in soils, terrain, spacing of watering points, and brush cover. Average ecological condition score for the conservatively grazed pastures was 60% compared with 64% for moderately grazed pastures. Throughout the study total standing vegetation understory herbage levels were higher (P < 0.05) on conservatively grazed than moderately grazed pastures. Total wildlife, total gamebird, and total songbird sightings did not differ (P > 0.05) between conservatively and moderately grazed pastures. Black-tailed jackrabbit (Lepus californicus) sightings were higher (P < 0.05) on moderately grazed than conservatively grazed pastures. Sightings of pronghorn (Antihcapra americana), scaled quail (Callipepla squamata), mourning doves (Zenaida macroura), and desert cottontails (Sylvilagus auduboni) showed no differences (P > 0.05) between conservatively and moderately grazed pastures. Dry conditions in 1998 depressed total wildlife sightings by >50% compared to 1997. Both songbird and gamebird (particularly mourning dove) sightings were severely reduced in the dry compared to wet year (P < 0.05). Our results are consistent with Nelson et al. (1997) that livestock grazing at intermediate levels had no effect on most Chihuahuan Desert upland wildlife species, and that drought years severely depress wildlife sightings.
41717262|Resource specialists at Dinosaur National Monument utilize both planned and unplanned wildland ignitions in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata)-dominated plant communities to restore successional processes, maintain vegetation vigor, and promote diversified landscapes. Short-and long-term effects of prescribed burning on small mammal populations are not well understood. The objectives of this study were to (1) compare small mammal species richness, similarity, and diversity between paired burned and unburned treatment plots, and (2) assess long-term trends of small mammal community responses to burning. Five paired burned/unburned sites having similar vegetation, soils, elevation, and annual precipitation were selected. Prescribed or natural fires occurred on all sites between 1981 and 1995, followed by periodic small mammal removal (trapping) sampling (1-12 years post-burn). Small mammal species richness and diversity were generally higher on unburned than burned plots across post-burn sampling years and sites. Increased abundance of the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) following burning resulted in decreased community diversity. Species similarities between burned and unburned plots were low in early post-burn years but increased in later post-burn years. Short-term shifts in diversity and species similarity resulted from increased deer mouse abundance after burning. However, burning had no long-term impact on species richness and similarity, indicating minimal effect to other small mammal species.
41717263|To determine the potential effect of habitat disturbance, Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus) diets were quantified in disturbed and undisturbed habitats over a 2-year period at Dugway Proving Ground in the Great Basin Desert of Tooele County, Utah. Invertebrates were the most abundant prey by count, whereas mammals constituted the majority of diet by biomass. Species richness in the diet did not differ between habitats or among seasons after correcting for the number of pellets in each sample. However, the number of vertebrate species was greater than the number of invertebrate species in the diet, and this ratio differed between disturbed and undisturbed habitats. Invertebrate species made up a greater proportion of total species richness in the diet in the undisturbed than the disturbed habitat. Nineteen species occurred in the diet in only 1 of the 2 habitat types (7 unique species in disturbed habitat, 12 unique species in undisturbed), but all such species were rare and contributed little both by count and biomass to the overall diet. Of the 20 most important species found in owl diets in both habitats (based on percent biomass), none were more common in 1 habitat than the other after correcting for multiple tests. Although there were minor differences in the diet between disturbed and undisturbed habitats, habitat alteration arid degradation of native vegetation on Dugway Proving Ground did not affect the major components of the diet of Great Horned Owls.
41717264|Nest-boxes were monitored from 1988 to 1992 on 5 grids in the pinyon-juniper (Pinus-Juniperus) woodlands of the White and Inyo Mountains, California, to determine breeding phenology and productivity of cavity-nesting birds, and characteristics of used and non-used nest-boxes. We found a total of 112 nests of 6 species. Bewick's Wrens (Thryomanes bewickii; 64 nests), Mountain Chickadees (Poecile gambeli; 18), Ash-throated Flycatchers (Myiarchus cinerascens; 12), and Juniper Titmice (Baeolophus ridgwayi; 11) were the most common species utilizing the boxes. Nest phenology and numbers of young were similar to values reported elsewhere in the literature for the species, although nesting success for Mountain Chickadees appeared lower in our study. Chickadees were associated with relatively dense, mature vegetation on southern slopes. Juniper Titmice used areas with tall juniper shrubs and generally sparse vegetation. Bewick's Wrens used areas with short trees, sparse vegetation, and many stumps. Nest-boxes were underutilized (< 15% use) by most species relative to their availability and relative to detected abundances of the species. We suggest that nest-boxes can provide valuable breeding biology information and can potentially increase the productivity of rare and cavity-limited species.
41717265|I used measurements of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) from the Yellowstone region, USA, to investigate relationships between widths of foot pads and widths of tracks, foot loading and pad size, incidence of tracks and type of activity, and widths of front-foot pads and gender and age-class. Track width was affected by substrates and increased relative to pad width as sizes of both pads and tracks increased. Foot loading (kgcm) did not vary substantially with foot size and so did not explain the proportionately larger tracks of larger animals. Tracks were most commonly associated with feeding activity that entailed excavation of fossorial foods (roots and rodents); they were least common when bears were feeding in the forest, feeding on ungulates, or traveling. Adult males and females could be differentiated by the width of their front-foot pads. Virtually all pads > 14.5 cm wide belonged to adult or large subadult males. The pads of subadult females were most commonly < 12.5 cm wide, whereas those of adult females were most commonly 12.5-14.5 cm wide.
41717266|Genetic variation within populations reflects population-level social and demographic processes and influences how a population behaves as an evolutionary unit. We examined partitioning of genetic variation in striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) from the Southern High Plains of Texas during 1994-1995. Sixty-nine male and 35 female skunks were sampled on four 12.8-km study plots. Plot centers ranged from 17.6 to 61.6 km apart. We used multi-locus DNA fingerprinting with 2 probes, pV47 and CTTxAGG, to test 3 hypotheses: (1) females are more genetically similar to other females than males are to other males on the same plot (indicating greater female philopatry than male philopatry), (2) genetic similarity is greater within plots than among plots (indicating partitioning of genetic variation in space), and (3) genetic similarity of males decreases as the distance separating males increases (indicating geographic distance affects rates of gene flow). In general, males on a plot had lower average genetic similarity than females. Genetic similarity within plots was not different from genetic similarity among plots for males or for females. Genetic similarity of males did not decrease with increasing distance among plots. The lack of geographical genetic structure in striped skunks suggests at the scale of this study (< 60 km) that gene flow of biparentally inherited genes is not distance-mediated. However, the higher similarity values for females than for males on the same plot supports an effect of male-biased dispersal and female philopatry on partitioning of genetic variation between sexes.
41717267|To aid the conservation and management of Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus), we developed a spatially explicit model of breeding habitat for the shrub-steppe of western Wyoming. Points of Mountain Plover presence and absence were determined by field surveys conducted May through June 1999. At each point we measured topographic slope and a cover type suitability index related to vegetation height and density. Logistic regression revealed a strong negative relationship between presence and slope, and a weaker and positive relationship between presence and cover index. A multiple logistic regression model using slope and cover index to predict presence successfully classified 87% of the points in an independent data set covering much of western Wyoming. The spatial expression of this model will help managers target future surveys and identify currently unsuitable habitat that could be improved via vegetation management. Patches of suitable breeding habitat of the Mountain Plover in western Wyoming are probably functions of poor soil, low precipitation, and wind scour, and thus are likely rather persistent in space and time. Combined with the relatively large proportion of publicly owned land here, this may make conservation and recovery of the Mountain Plover easier in western Wyoming than in the more dynamic and privately controlled Great Plains.
41717268|When removed from the field and maintained under laboratory conditions, meadow voles exhibited significant change in body composition. Voles increased body mass due primarily to large gains in lipid mass combined with small losses in fat-free mass. Lipid deposition amounts increased as dietary fat was increased, and animals demonstrated a leveling of body mass instead of continuous unregulated obesity. When dietary fat content was changed, lipid deposition or utilization responded directly. Thus, meadow voles regulate overall body mass and body composition (lipid and fat-free mass) at levels that correspond to dietary quality (fat) and abundance in the laboratory, and they deposit considerably more lipid than do animals in the field. Our experiments demonstrate that food quality has a substantial effect on the body composition of wild-caught animals maintained in the laboratory.
41717269|We report the first specimen records for Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) collected in Colorado, provide the location, describe the habitat, and briefly discuss the rarity of this species within the state. Three Ruffed Grouse were collected, an adult male in September 1988 and a juvenile male and adult female in September 1990, on Hoy Mountain, Moffat County, Colorado, within 0.6 km of Utah. The habitat is primarily open Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forest with scattered clumps of quaking aspen (Populus tremuhides) and Utah serviceberry (Amelanchier utahensis). Habitats to the north, east, and south are primarily dominated by sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) steppe and pionjuniper (Pinus spp.-Juniperus spp.) woodland. We hypothesize that natural expansion of Ruffed Grouse further east, north, and south is prohibited by unsuitable habitat exacerbated by the limited flight range capability of the species.
41717270|Water temperature at which Columbia spotted frog (Rana luteiventris) eggs were deposited and developed was determined at 18 oviposition sites in northeastern Oregon in 2000. Mean daily water temperature on the day of initial egg deposition ranged from 7.6C to 16.0C with a mean of 9.6C. Maximum water temperatures on the 1st day of egg deposition ranged from 9.8C to 20.2C and averaged 15.5C. Eggs were not deposited on days when maximum water temperature was below 9.4C. Duration of egg deposition ranged from 1 to 20 days at the 18 sites. Embryos hatched after 12-21 days. Mean and maximum daily water temperatures were significantly correlated with number of days to hatching.
41717271|Basal leaves of Nicotiana attenuata are frequently found neatly excised at the petiole and piled on rocks or soil in the sun until dry, after which they disappear, sometimes to be found again in the nests of Neotoma lepida. In response to herbivore attack, N. attenuata increases the concentration of nicotine in its leaves, where it functions as an induced defense. Since excision of leaves at the petiole allows for leaf removal without substantially activating this induced defense, and air-drying at high temperatures can volatilize nicotine, we examined the hypothesis that the observed leaf "curing" behavior decreased nicotine contents. In a natural population, replicate bundles of excised leaves were allowed to dry in the sun for up to 96 hours and harvested in 10 intervals. Even though surface temperatures reached 63C during drying, no significant loss of nicotine was observed. In the laboratory, significant losses of nicotine were not observed until leaves were dried at 100C. Nicotine contents of naturally "cured" leaf piles at 4 populations were found to be marginally higher than those of neighboring intact plants from which the leaves were likely harvested. We conclude that mammalian "curing" behavior does not reduce nicotine contents and may allow the leaves to be used for insect repellant purposes.
41717272|We examined the breeding behavior of the endangered Comanche Springs pupfish (Cyprinodon elegans) during 3 separate breeding seasons in a pool of springwater originating in Phantom Cave, near Balmorhea State Park, Texas, in relation to behaviors reported for the species in swift-flowing canals (Itzkowitz 1969). In the quiet pool, unlike in swift water, the breeding system was characterized by 3 different male mating tactics: territorial defense, satellite positioning, and sneak spawning. Although the breeding strategies adopted by the males were conditional, mating tactics generally reflected male size. Territorial residents were the largest, satellites were medium-sized, and sneakers were the smallest adult males observed in the population. Territorial males traversed the least amount of area, defending compact territories, while satellites and sneakers covered more area in attempts to spawn. Although preferred territories in swift water centered on algal mats, territorial residents in quiet water seemed to prefer territories around large rocks. Males defending rocks had higher reproductive successes than males occupying other substrate types. The flexibility of the males' tactics was exhibited during one year of study when large males appeared to be absent from the population. During that year, medium-sized males switched from the satellite to territorial tactic, while small males remained sneakers.
41717273|Brood movement in response to temperature by Pogonomyrmex salinus (seed-harvester ant) nurse workers was examined in the sagebrush steppe of southeast Idaho. Shading the mound surface of P. salinus colonies at dawn caused a decrease in mound temperature and led to significantly less brood accumulation near the surface. In a related experiment, a lab colony of P. salinus was offered an artificial thermal gradient during the cool/dark portion of the daily cycle. Nurse workers removed brood from the 21-22C range to soils with temperatures between 29C and 36C. Daily brood relocation by P. salinus nurse workers is a highly flexible behavior, capable of immediate response to temperature, and does not appear to follow a strict endogenous rhythm.
41717278|Twenty-two high-elevation lakes (>3000 m) in Rocky Mountain National Park and Indian Peaks Wilderness Area, Colorado, were surveyed during summer 1998 to explore relationships among benthic invertebrates, water chemistry (particularly nitrate concentrations), and other environmental variables. Water samples were collected from the deepest portion of each lake and analyzed for ions and other water chemistry parameters. Benthic invertebrates were collected from the littoral zone using both a sweep net and Hess sampler. Physical and geographical measurements were derived from maps. Relationships among benthic invertebrate assemblages and environmental variables were examined using canonical correspondence analysis, and the importance of sampling methodology and taxonomie resolution on these relationships was evaluated. Choice of sampling methodology strongly influenced the outcome of statistical analyses, whereas taxonomie resolution did not. Presence/absence of benthic invertebrate taxa among the study lakes was best explained by elevation and presence of fish. Relative abundance and density of benthic invertebrate taxa were more strongly influenced by sampling date and water chemistry. Nitrate (NO) concentration, potentially on the rise due to regional nitrogen deposition, was unrelated to benthic invertebrate distribution regardless of sampling method or taxonomie resolution.
41717279|Using multivariate analysis techniques, we analyzed variation in the structure of the benthic macroinvertebrate community in the North Fork and East Fork of the Virgin River in and above Zion National Park in concert with a number of naturally occurring and anthropogenic environmental variables. Correspondence analysis revealed that the community structure in the 2 streams was markedly different despite occurring in areas similar in topography, elevation, and terrestrial vegetation cover. Subsequent analyses of the 2 streams separately using canonical correspondence analysis to test for strength of association of environmental variables with variations in benthic macroinvertebrate community structure revealed that communities in the East Fork of the Virgin River were more associated with nitrogen-related variables influenced by agricultural and urban activities along the river and that communities in the North Fork were most strongly associated with naturally occurring physical variables.
41717280|The sequential effects of feeding by grass bugs (Irbisia pacifica [Hemiptera: Miridae]) and of drought stress on the growth of 2 crested wheatgrasses (the hybrid Agropyron cristatum  desertorum and A. cristatum cv. 'Fairway') were investigated in a controlled greenhouse experiment. Growth rates of genotypes that were previously selected for resistance to grass bug feeding were not consistently greater than those of unselected genotypes when plants were exposed to bug feeding. Thus, the mechanism of resistance to bug feeding for the selected genotypes does not appear to be "tolerance," i.e., rapid growth rates that allow the resistant genotypes to compensate for damage to green leaves caused by bug feeding. In addition, previous bug feeding did not exacerbate the effects of drought stress on plant growth rates; droughted plants generally had lower growth rates, independent of the presence or absence of prior bug feeding. Thus, we suspect that the selection process may have inadvertently favored green, robust plants rather than true resistance to bug feeding.
41717281|Call counts and brood counts are frequently used to evaluate Ring-necked Pheasant (Phasianus cohhicus) populations and to forecast harvest. Given the variability commonly observed in these counts, I evaluated their utility in performing these functions in the state of Washington. Pheasant harvest, call counts, and brood counts have all declined in Washington State since 1982. Power for detecting trends in call counts was higher than for brood counts, but substantial sampling was required to reliably detect even large changes in the short term (e.g., power = 0.9 for a 40% decline between 2 years with 12 routes). Brood counts predicted harvest with greater precision than did call counts, but predictions were meaningful only at the statewide scale (i.e., not for counties or major river basins). This was true for predicting total harvest and relative harvest (high, medium, or low).
41717282|Juniperus osteosperma-Pinus monophylla or P. edulis (P-J) woodlands are the most widespread plant community in Zion National Park (ZNP), southwestern Utah. These woodlands dominate nearly half of the park's land area. Our study of this vegetational complex is based on a sample consisting of 115 macroplots (each 0.01 ha in area) objectively distributed across the entire area of ZNP We recognize 3 subtypes within the P-J complex: Juniperus osteosperma (Utah juniper) alone, juniper with P. monophylla (single-leaf pinyon), and juniper with P. edulis (two-leaf pinyon). The 2 pinyon pines rarely occur together, and thus the foregoing subtypes do not overlap geographically to a significant extent. The first 2 subtypes occur primarily below 1800 m elevation, while the latter is most commonly found above that elevation. Because of the scarcity of sizable expanses (over ~10 ha) of well-developed soils in ZNP, the P-J complex occurs primarily on sites where exposed bedrock covers a large portion of the habitat. As a result, over 90% of stands assigned to the P-J complex support less than 50% tree canopy cover (64% have less than 25% tree cover). Shrub cover increases along the woodland successional gradient. Pinyon cover increases faster than juniper cover. Microbiotic soil crust cover is consistently greater in J. osteosperma-P monophylla woodlands than in J. osteosperma-P. edulis woodlands, but total living cover increases significantly along the successional gradient in both communities. To enhance plant and animal biodiversity, we recommend that pinyon-juniper woodlands of Zion National Park be managed so that late serai stages do not dominate large tracts.
41717283|Sage-grouse (Centrocercus spp.) were abundant in all of Utah's 29 counties at the time of European settlement wherever sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) occurred. Greater Sage-Grouse (C. urophasianus) inhabited areas north and west of the Colorado River, and Gunnison Sage-Grouse (C. minimus) occupied suitable habitat south and east of the Colorado River. The largest Greater Sage-Grouse populations in Utah are currently restricted to suitable habitats in Box Elder, Garfield, Rich, Uintah, and Wayne Counties. A remnant breeding population of Gunnison Sage-Grouse occurs in eastern San Juan County. We stratified Greater Sage-Grouse populations (1971-2000) by counties where the 1996 to 2000 moving average for estimated spring breeding populations was > 500 (GT500) or < 500 (LT500). Males per lek declined in all populations from 1971 to 2000; however, there were consistently more males observed on GT500 than on LT500 leks. Juveniles per adult hen (including yearling hens) Greater Sage-Grouse in the 1973-2000 fall harvest in Box Elder, Rich, and Wayne Counties did not differ from 2.25, a ratio suggesting sustainable or increasing sage-grouse populations. Declines are attributed to loss, fragmentation, and degradation of sagebrush habitat. Sage-grouse conservation ultimately depends on management and enhancement of remaining sagebrush rangelands in Utah.
41717284|Brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis), native to eastern North America, have invaded many montane coldwater systems of western North America, and these invasions are implicated in the decline of native cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki). If fisheries biologists are to be effective in managing brook trout invasions, demographic models that predict invasion success will need to incorporate life history variation in different environments. We tested whether brook trout populations invading streams at 2 different elevations varied in life history characteristics that influence population dynamics and potential invasion success. In the high-elevation stream (3195 m), water temperatures were colder and brook trout apparently grew more slowly (i.e., had shorter lengths-at-age), became sexually mature 2 years later, and had life spans 2 to 3 times longer than those in the mid-elevation stream (2683 m). This flexibility in life history may allow brook trout to maximize their chance of establishment and invasion success among elevations. We propose that in mid-elevation streams fast growth and early maturity maximize fitness and can lead to rapid establishment and high population growth rates. In high-elevation streams, slow growth, later maturity, and a long reproductive life span may allow brook trout to successfully establish populations in these marginal habitats where recruitment is often poor.
41717285|Homed Larks (Eremophila alpestris L.), sampled during the first 2 weeks of alkali bee (Nomia melden Cockerell) emergence at bee nesting sites in 2 alfalfa seed-growing regions in central Nevada, ate significantly more male than female alkali bees. Exploitation rates suggest that individual Homed Larks consume 10 to 200 alkali bees per day and feed an additional 300 to 1000 bees per day to nestlings.
41717286|Genetically effective and adult population sizes of the Apache silverspot butterfly (Speyeria nokomis apacheana) from the central Great Basin of North America were tracked from 1991 to 1997. Speyeria nokomis inhabits mesic habitats in the Great Basin, and its recent declines in abundance have raised concerns about its future persistence. Adult population size estimates determined from mark-recapture methods ranged from 100 to 1900 individuals from 1993 through 1997. Genetically effective population sizes based on temporal changes in allozyme frequencies ranged from less than 1 individual to 20 individuals between 1991 and 1995. Despite these small annual estimates, it is likely that gene flow resulted in overestimation of genetically effective population sizes. These results, combined with observations in the field, suggest that suitable but vacant habitat patches be maintained for potential recolonization by S. n. apacheana.
41717287|Two endemic locoweeds of Washington County, Utah, Astragalus holmgreniorum and A. ampullarioides, were recently listed as federally endangered plant species (Federal Register 2001). They both occur in few, small populations surrounded by increasing human activity in the St. George, Utah, area. Demographic and habitat studies have been ongoing since 1992 and results of those studies are presented here. Astragalus holmgreniorum (Holmgren locoweed) is presently limited to 1 larger population and 2 smaller, isolated populations on the eastern and western edges of its range. It is a short-lived perennial that grows primarily on the Virgin limestone member of the Moenkopi Formation. Density of A. holmgreniorum over the 10-year study averaged about 2 plants per m. The number of living plants of this species perhaps never exceeds 10,000. In drought years A. holmgreniorum populations are as much as 95% smaller than in years with adequate water, and few plants produce flowers that successfully contribute to the seed bank. Astragalus ampullarioides (Shivwits locoweed) occurs in 4 populations where plant density fluctuated between 0.5 and 4.8 plants per m during our study period (average = 2.6). This locoweed is restricted to clay soils of the Chinle Formation. Direct threats to both Astragalus species include widespread urbanization, road construction, population fragmentation, and off-highway vehicle use. Indirect threats include competition from aggressive, introduced annual species such as Bromus rubens, B. tectorum, Malcolmia africana, and Erodium cicutarium. Our data show that 3 of 4 species most closely associated with these Astragalus species are introduced. Studies of seed banks and reproduction biology, as well as continued monitoring of these Astragalus species, are critically needed. Studies of the consequences of competition from alien and native species on seedling establishment of these locoweeds are especially needed.
41717288|We studied nest success, burrow longevity, and rates of burrow reuse for a migratory population of Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) in north central Oregon from 1995 to 1997. Nest success varied annually from 50% to 67%. Principal causes of nest failure were desertion (26%) and depredation by badgers {Taxidea taxus; 13%). Reuse of available nest and satellite burrows in subsequent years was 87% in 1996 and 57% in 1997. Reuse was highest at burrows in sandy soils, which may indicate that nest-site availability is a limiting factor in sandier soil types. Trampling by livestock resulted in the loss of 24% of all burrows between one season and the next, and natural erosion resulted in closure of 17%. Both causes of burrow failure occurred more frequently in soils with a sand component due to their friable nature. We recommend that habitat used by livestock be evaluated for use by Burrowing Owls, that occupied areas be managed to minimize destruction of burrows by livestock, and that predator-control efforts be revised to exclude mortality of badgers.
41717289|We investigated genetic variation within and between 3 populations of Gaura neomexicana ssp. coloradensis, a. federally listed threatened species, using inter-simple sequence repeats. The data matrix included 24 individuals scored for 88 bands, with 3.4% missing data. Cluster analysis showed that members of the 3 populations are very similar and are intermixed in the phenogram. Principal coordinate analysis indicated that members of the Crow Creek population are different from the Diamond Creek and "unnamed drainage" populations. This could be the result of historic differences, current changes in vegetation at the Crow Creek site, or an artifact of limited sampling. In any case, for management purposes it is best to preserve the dwindling population at Crow Creek as well as the thriving populations at the other 2 sites.
41717296|Management decisions affecting the rare plant Arizona willow (Salix arizonica) will be aided by understanding genetic similarities among populations of this species. Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was conducted on 20 populations of S. arizonica, 12 populations of 5 congeners, and 2 samples of an outgroup, Populus tremuloides. A phenogram based on DNA markers shows clear separation of populations of S. arizonica from those of co-occurring willow species, but similarity is low (~37%) between Utah and Arizona populations of S. arizonica. Evaluation of the relationship of habitat characteristics and geographic distance to genetic similarity reveals that environment and genetic similarity are poorly correlated. Considering Arizona versus Utah populations, we found a significant negative relationship between geographic distance and genetic similarity (r = 0.936), but no significant relationship between interpopulation distance and genetic similarity within Arizona or Utah. The wide geographic disjunction of S. arizonica populations in Utah and Arizona appears to have existed for a long period during which genetic drift, random mutations, and selection for somewhat different habitats have pushed the 2 regional complexes along separate evolutionary trajectories. Preservation of genetic variation within S. arizonica will require protection of multiple populations in Arizona and Utah.
41717297|The blackbrush vegetation type is dominated by Coleogyne ramossisima, which is thought to preclude the coexistence of many other plant species. Fire can remove blackbrush cover and possibly increase plant species richness and evenness. Fire also may increase the frequency and cover of alien annual grasses, thereby intensifying landscape flammability. We tested these predictions in unburned and burned (6-14 years postfre) blackbrush at 3 sites spanning the range of this vegetation type in the Mojave Desert. Species richness in unburned blackbrush was similar to published values for other vegetation types in western North America, but richness varied significantly among the 3 sites and 4 spatial scales (1, 10, 100, and 1000 m). Richness values declined in order from annual forbs, woody perennials, herbaceous perennials, annual grasses, cacti, to perennial grasses. Fire reduced Coleogyne cover, thus boosting species evenness. In contrast, species richness decreased after burning, although the results varied among spatial scales. Total cover was unaffected by fire because cover of woody perennials decreased, while cover of annual forbs, annual grasses, herbaceous perennials, and perennial grasses increased. Native species richness and cover decreased, whereas alien richness and cover increased after burning, especially where the alien forb Erodium cicutarium was present. Fire had no effect on frequency and variable effects on cover of alien annual grasses. These results indicate that in blackbrush species richness can vary among sites and local spatial scales, and effects of fire can vary among plant life-forms and between natives and aliens.
41717298|The chalk barrens of the Niobrara Formation in the Arkansas River valley of Colorado exhibit a high degree of plant endemism and rarity. We examined their geochemistry and structure as well as the reproductive ecology of their signature species Mirabilis rotundifolius to assess factors influencing endemism. While no single component consistently identified the barrens soils, the natural locations that support Mirabilis can be identified using elemental profiles from a cluster analysis of soil extracts. Because seeds germinate and plants proliferate in transplant gardens with non-calcic soils, bedrock and soil chemistry do not appear to be determinant components of endemism. Mirabilis rotundifolius utilizes diverse pollinators but is capable of autogamy when insects are excluded; seed prdation by harvester ants may be a limiting factor for population spread outside the barrens habitat. Mirabilis rotundifolius is a disturbancetolerant species, part of a barrens cohort that shares traits of suffrutescence, woody caudices, or multibranched rhizomes penetrating the chalk strata. Its presence may be enhanced when disturbance inhibits the presence of other species that compete for limited water resources. We conclude that endemism is dictated not by unusual soil chemistry requirements but rather by structural components of the barrens. In a water-limited environment, shallow soils and thin chalk strata coupled with a functionally adaptive growth habit allow M. rotundifolius to survive when other species are excluded by disturbance or the physiochemical aspects of the barrens.
41717299|The Mexican long-tongued bat (Choeronycteris mexicana) is a nectar-eating species that seasonally inhabits the southwestern United States. Since 1906, fewer than 1500 individuals of C. mexicana have been documented throughout the range of the species. We conducted a field survey in Arizona and New Mexico during summer 1999 to check historically occupied areas for recurrence of C. mexicana. We observed C. mexicana occupying a majority (75%, n = 18) of visited sites. Multiple individuals were observed at many sites, including young-of-year. Choeronycteris mexicana roosted in lighted areas close to entrances within mine adits, abandoned buildings, wide rock crevices, and caves. All occupied sites were in Madrean evergreen woodlands or semidesert grasslands where species of Agave were present. Most sites were located near a water source and, with the exception of a single site, near areas of riparian vegetation. Sites at which we did not encounter C. mexicana were frequently disturbed, difficult to search, or historically occupied by single individuals. Based on the relatively high rate of bat recurrence, we do not believe that populations of C. mexicana in the region have declined dramatically over the past several decades.
41717300|Henry Rogers Durkee collected 74 egg sets of 27 avian species in 1870 at Gilmer, Uinta County, in southwestern Wyoming. Despite the paucity of documented breeding evidence from this region during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, his material at the Smithsonian Institution was generally overlooked and has never been critically examined. Durkee's egg sets included 5 species (Sandhill Crane, Grus canadensis; Northern Rough-winged Swallow, Stelgidopteryx serripennis; Grasshopper Sparrow, Ammodramus savannarum; Fox Sparrow, Passerella iliaca; Cassin's Finch, Carpodacus cassimi) whose breeding distribution was then poorly known, 25 to more than 70 years before nests and eggs were otherwise documented in Wyoming. Durkee also collected complete egg sets of Lark Bunting (Calamospiza melanocorys) over 70 years before breeding was confirmed at other peripheral locations in Wyoming. In addition, Durkee's incomplete egg sets of Grasshopper Sparrow were the 1st for the western subspecies (A. s. perpallidus); his incomplete egg set and nest of the Fox Sparrow collected at Gilmer constituted the 2nd locality for the species or species group (P. i. schistacea). Although the number of egg sets Durkee collected is modest, he made a meaningful contribution to the early history of avifaunal exploration in Wyoming.
41717301|Field experiments on the pollination biology of slickspot peppergrass, Lepidium papilliferum L. (Brassicaceae), a rare species endemic to microsites in sagebrush-steppe habitat in southwestern Idaho, were conducted at 2 sites from May to July 2001. Site KB contained over 10,000 plants, whereas site WG contained less than 150 plants. Insect exclusion experiments revealed that seed production in L. papilliferum is dependent on insect-mediated pollination; median percent seed set dropped from 70% to 2% when insects were excluded from flowers. A total of 25 insect families from 5 orders visited L. papilliferum flowers: 24 families at KB and 11 families at WG. Only 9 families contained more than trace amounts of pollen on their bodies: HymenopteraAnthophoridae, Apidae, Colletidae, Halictidae, Sphecidae, Vespidae; ColeopteraCerambycidae, Dermestidae; DipteraSyrphidae. Insects from these families are likely responsible for pollination of L. papilliferum, although some may be of only minor significance due to their infrequent visits to flowers. Two of the 4 most common and pollen-laden insects found at KB, honey bees (Apis mellifera) and colletid bees, were absent or rare at WG. Three other pollen-carrying families present at KB, Sphecidae, Vespidae, and Halictidae, were not found at WG. We raise several possible explanations for this disparity in pollinator communities between sites and discuss the importance of pollinator diversity to the long term viability of L. papilliferum.
41717302|Thirty-six species of aquatic Oligochaeta (Lumbriculidae, Haplotaxidae, Naididae, Tubificidae) are now known from Utah. Aquatic habitats in 27 counties were sampled, with 32 oligochaete species identified. An additional 4 species were added from other published investigations. The majority of species are cosmopolitan and occur in other areas of North America. Nais barbata, N. alpina, and N. pardalis are reported from the western United States for the first time. Ilyodrilus frantzi was found to be a major component of the oligochaete fauna in the Great Basin lentie environment. The North American distribution of Telmatodrilus vejdovskyi is extended significantly eastward. Two undetermined species of Tubifcidae are discussed.
41717303|Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) were captured in north central Oregon, USA, during autumn 1999 and 2000 as a pilot study on migration in the Pacific states. We captured 70 individuals, with annual capture rates comparable to those reported for larger studies in the eastern and midwestern U.S. We investigated differential capture by time of night, time of season, and age. No results were significant due to small samples and brief duration of the study, although some results tended toward significance (P < 0.10). Here we provide a descriptive account of our observations of Northern Saw-whet Owl migration in north central Oregon, the first such study to be presented for the Pacific states.
41717304|Like many seed-harvesting ants, the western harvester ant (Pogonomyrmex occidentale) can act as both a seed predator and a seed disperser. Dispersal results when seeds are dropped en route to the nest, are left in nest granaries when colonies die or are abandoned, or are removed from granaries and discarded in nest middens. This study examined the density and species identity of seeds discarded in harvester ant nest middens and compared them with those found in nearby soils. Nineteen species of seeds were recovered from middens, compared with 13 species in 5-m reference areas and 9 species in adjacent disk areas. Total density of sound seeds was nearly 3 times higher in middens than at 5 m from the nest and nearly 50 times higher than in disk soils. Moreover, 4 of the 6 most common species overall were significantly more abundant in middens. One species, Munro globemallow (Sphaeralcea munroana), was recovered from nearly 50% of middens but was not found in the other 2 areas. These findings suggest that the western harvester ant is a potentially important disperser of some sagebrush-steppe plant species.
41717305|Populations of breeding Swainson's Hawks (Buteo swainsoni), Red-tailed Hawks (B. jamaicensis), and Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) present in 1999 were compared with populations present between 1975 and 1982 at a 129-km site in north central Oregon. Populations of Red-tailed Hawks and Golden Eagles remained unchanged, but the number of Swainson's Hawk pairs increased from 15 to 17. In 1999 Golden Eagles used nests occupied between 1975 and 1982, and 7 of 31 pairs of Red-tailed Hawks used nests occupied in the earlier years. No Swainson's Hawks nested in trees occupied earlier. Few changes in territorial boundaries were detected.
41717306|A colony of Mexican free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis) roosting in an interstate highway overpass in Belton, Bell County, Texas, was studied weekly from 28 June to 21 November 1996 (except for the week of 4 July). We examined 2 aspects of roosting behavior: site-specific fidelity to locations within the roost and gender-related segregation within the roost. Colony estimates based on guano production showed a marked decrease in the number of bats from 19 to 26 July; many of these departing bats were adult females. No female bats sampled after this interval were pregnant. Male bats outnumbered females on nearly all sampling occasions. Throughout the study, one section of the roost was dominated by males, ranging from 83% to 100% of total bats. The majority of bats recaptured at least once were faithful to specific locations within the roost, and more than 70% of bats recaptured multiple times were faithful to specific roost locations.
41717307|In this report we analyze patterns of size-assortative mating in an insect genus by (1) describing the consistency and strength of assortative mating among populations of a species and among species of a genus, and (2) determining the role of sampling artifacts in generating this nonrandom pattern of mating. Our data consist of 18 samples of soldier beetles (8 species of the genus Chauliognathus) from 17 sites within the southwestern United States. Of the 18 samples, just 6 exhibited significant correlations between elytron lengths of mating pairs. We show how these and other significant correlations are generated by 3 kinds of sampling artifacts: mixed-species samples, mixed-population samples, and mixed-microsite samples.
41717308|The relative incidence of mistletoes found in pinyon-juniper woodlands is estimated for the Coconino National Forest, Arizona, using a roadside survey. Approximately 50% of the pinyon-juniper woodlands surveyed were infested with juniper mistletoes (Phoradendron juniperinum or P. capiteUatum). In contrast, only about 12% of the areas surveyed were infested with pinyon dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium divaricatum). In these infested woodlands, 70% with juniper mistletoes and 44% with pinyon dwarf mistletoe were lightly infested. Most areas where pinyon dwarf mistletoe populations were observed (90%) also had juniper mistletoe (P. juniperinum) present, but many juniper mistletoe populations observed had no pinyon dwarf mistletoe (50%), although pinyon pine was common at those locations. Therefore, pinyon dwarf mistletoe is frequently co-distributed with juniper mistletoe as has been suggested by other investigators, but juniper mistletoe frequently occurs where there is no pinyon dwarf mistletoe present.
41717309|Discovery of distinct mid-elevational bands of blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima Torr.) shrublands on desert mountain slopes in the Mojave Desert caused an investigation of the relationships between environmental factors and Coleogyne distribution. Environmental factors were quantitatively examined to determine which were significant predictors of Coleogyne density at upper-elevational limits (ecotones) in the Spring Mountains of southern Nevada. Path analysis revealed significant, direct causal effects of air temperature, soil moisture, soil depth, and percent litter cover on the distribution of Coleogyne. Specifically, air temperature was a significant positive predictor, while soil moisture, soil depth, and percent litter cover were significant negative predictors of Coleogyne density, with the effects of other environmental variables parceled out. Path analysis also indicated that indirect effects of soil pH, bulk density, compaction, percent pore space, organic matter, soil temperature, salinity, cryptogam, and percent bare soil and rock cover on Coleogyne density were substantially more potent than their direct causal effects. Environmental attributes associated with elevational changes correlate with and may determine the density of Coleogyne shrubs at upper ecotones in southern Nevada.
41717315|Mycorrhizae are common plant-fungal symbioses occurring in most land plants. Despite their ubiquity, little is known about the distribution of arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) in extreme environments. We surveyed for the presence of AM in thermal sites in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) where soils are characterized by extreme pHs, elevated temperatures, and toxic element concentrations. Plants at 5 sites, growing in soils with rooting-zone temperatures up to 48C and soil pH values as low as 3.4, were mycorrhizal (colonization levels from 4% to 34%). Soils from a sparsely vegetated thermal area and an adjacent, continuously vegetated transition area differed significantly in rooting-zone temperature (35C vs. 26C), acidity (pH 3.8 vs. 5.4), electrical conductivity (2.22 vs. 0.49 mmhos cm), Fe (181.3 vs. 48.5 mg kg), Mn (7.2 vs. 98.2 mg kg), and Zn (2.3 vs. 4.5 mg kg). Mycorrhizal infectivity potential (MIP) was 77% greater in the transition soils, with colonization levels of 26% and 46% in thermal and transition soils, respectively. Furthermore, colonization of Agrostis scabra, Dichanthelium lanuginosum, and Mimulus guttatus was found to be consistently high throughout the growing season (from 48% to 72%). It is possible that AM are essential for plant life on the edge of thermal areas, and that either or both symbionts are specifically adapted to their environment. Further research is required to elucidate AM function in and specific adaptations to YNP's thermal areas.
41717316|Invasive alien plants have long been recognized as a threat to low-elevation, disturbed environments, but the case of Linaria vulgaris Mill, in Yellowstone National Park and Gallatin National Forest shows that invasions can also spread to high-elevation natural reserves. Because invasions in protected areas are a product of complex processes occurring over a broad range of scales, we argue that a multi-scale research approach is needed to capture both patterns and potential mechanisms of the invasion process. Mapping L. vulgaris at the landscape scale, we found the species occupying a broad range of sites, apparently originating from just 2 historical sources, colonizing both human-caused and natural disturbances. Analyzed at the stand scale, patches tend to aggregate in newly invaded areas and disperse in heavily infested areas. The data suggest that patches grow in size by clonal growth and in number by creation of new satellite patches. Radial patch growth rates are related to site characteristics. Clonal patch scale analysis shows that ramet densities and Linaria's effects on native plants are highest in patch centers. Both mean ramet height and reproductive vs. vegetative ramet height ratio are higher in patch cores. These results suggest that L. vulgaris may displace natural vegetation by maintaining vigor even in large and old clonal patches. Our results confirm that L. vulgaris is a significant threat to native biodiversity in open, human- or naturally disturbed environments in protected areas of the Rocky Mountains. A multi-scale method can allow managers to better understand patterns of invasion and prioritize management activities to control invasive alien plants, especially in heterogeneous protected area landscapes.
41717317|We analyzed attributes from 23 nests (10 renests) and 46 brood locations of radio-marked Chukars (Alectoris chukar) in the lower Salmon River canyon of west central Idaho in 1995 and 1996. Nesting effort was 100%, apparent nest success was 45%, and estimated time from destruction or abandonment of a nest to initiation of laying a subsequent nest averaged 13  5 days ${S_{\bar x}}$. Average clutch size for 1st nests (14.5  1.0) was greater (P = 0.017) than renests (10.4  1.1). Cover types used by nesting Chukars included grass/forb (48% of nests), rock (43%), and shrub (9%), whereas the most common structure used for nests was rock outcrop (57%). Chukars did not use yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis) habitats differently from what was expected (P = 0.08) for nesting, but birds with broods selected areas with less starthistle (P < 0.001). Chukar broods, which averaged 12.0  1.1 chicks, used shrub and grass/forb cover types approximately equally (43% and 47% of locations, respectively) but rock habitats infrequently (11%).
41717318|We examined attributes of pion pine (Pinus edulis) associated with the probability of infestation by pion ips (Ips confusus) in an outbreak in the Coconino National Forest, Arizona. We used data collected from 87 plots, 59 infested and 28 uninfested, and a logistic regression approach to estimate the probability of infestation based on plotand tree-level attributes. Pion pine stand density index was a good predictor of the likelihood of infestation by pion ips at the plot level, and a cross-validation analysis confirmed that the model correctly classified 82% of the cases. Diameter at root collar and pion dwarf mistletoe infestation level were good predictors of individual tree infestation, and a cross-validation analysis indicated that the model correcdy classified 72% of the cases. Results suggest that the occurrence of pion ips infestations may be related to stress factors associated with increased stocking and pion dwarf mistletoe infestations.
41717319|Since Euro-American settlement, fire exclusion and other factors have dramatically altered interior western coniferous forests. Once open and parklike, present-day structure in many southwestern Pinus ponderosa forests consists of dense stands of young, small-diameter trees, with small patches of larger, old trees, and relict open bunchgrass areas. Our objectives were to assess differences in soil properties associated with these different vegetation patches. We examined soil morphological characteristics, pH, organic C concentration, total N concentration, C:N ratio, and phytolith concentration from profiles within 6 transects (18 soil pedons) crossing patches of dense stands of smalldiameter trees, patchs of old-growth trees, and open grassy areas. Results indicate that old-growth plots had significantly lower A horizon pH and thicker horizons than grass plots. In general, we found vegetation patches had statistically similar C and N concentrations and C:N ratios for A and B horizons; however, C in the A horizon was positively correlated with horizon accumulation (r = 0.79). Greater accumulation of organic C in the A horizon of forested areas contrasts with commonly reported results from mesic, mid-continental prairie-forest ecosystems but is typical for many arid, semiarid, and humid savanna ecosystems. Phytolith concentration was similar among old-growth pine, dense younger pine, and open grassy plots; the lack of a spatial pattern in phytolith distribution could indicate that grass cover was more spatially continuous in the past. Additionally, this interpretation is consistent with current theories regarding historical vegetation change in these forests.
41717320|The effect of flow regulation on plant-herbivore ecology has received very little attention, despite the fact that flow regulation can alter both plant and animal abundance and environmental factors that mediate interactions between them. To determine how regulated flows have impacted beaver (Castor canadensis) and sandbar willow (Salix exigua) ecology, we first quantified the abundance and mapped the spatial distribution of sandbar willow on alluvial sections of the flow-regulated Green River and free-flowing Yampa River in northwestern Colorado. We then established 16 and 15 plots (1 m  2.7 m) in patches of willow on the Green and Yampa Rivers, respectively, to determine whether rates of beaver herbivory of willow differed between rivers (Green versus Yampa River), seasons (fall-winter versus spring-summer), and years (spring 1998-spring 1999 versus spring 1999-spring 2000). Areal extent of willow was similar on each river, but Green River willow patches were smaller and more numerous. Beavers cut more stems during fall and winter than spring and summer and cut over 6 times more stems (percentage basis) on the Green River than on the Yampa River. We attribute the between-river difference in herbivory to higher availability of willow, greater beaver density, and lower availability of young Fremont cottonwood (Populus deltoides subsp. wislizenii; an alternative food source) on the Green River. Flow regulation increased willow availability to beaver by promoting the formation of island patches that are continuously adjacent to water and feature a perimeter with a relatively high proportion of willow interfacing with water.
41717321|Natural and anthropogenic changes in basin lake levels in the western U.S. expose saline, alkaline substrates that are commonly colonized by shrubs in the Chenopodiaceae. On a chronosequence of recently exposed substrates at Mono Lake, California, Sarcobatus vermiculatus has greatest biomass accrual, seed production, seedling establishment, and leaf N at younger sites where soils are extremely saline and alkaline. These field observations and an understanding of the role of N-containing compatible solutes in salinity tolerance of halophytes led to our prediction that Na and N interactions stimulate Sarcobatus performance. To test this, we grew Sarcobatus juveniles for 2 years in the greenhouse at 4 levels of NaCl (5, 100, 300, and 450 mM) and 3 levels of N (0.04, 0.4, and 8 mM) in a randomized, complete-block design. Contrary to our expectations, high N availability did not induce salt-stimulated growth nor did it increase salinity tolerance in Sarcobatus. Increased N nutrition also had no significant effect on leaf cation ratios or selectivity. Plants grown at high salinity had significantly lower leaf K: Na, Ca:Na, and Mg: Na ratios than plants grown at lower salinity. However, plant selectivity for the macronutrient cations remained high, even at 450 mM NaCl. Without such high selectivity, the cation nutrition of Sarcobatus would decline to even lower levels, resulting in severe nutrient deficiencies. This study suggests that the ability of Sarcobatus to attain high leaf N, rather than an interaction between Na and N, enhances its performance at saline sites. In addition, the ability of Sarcobatus to maintain high macronutrient cation selectivity despite high salinity allows its distribution to extend to extremely saline and alkaline substrates in this arid system.
41717322|Two subspecies of Colorado chipmunk (state threatened and federal species of concern) occur in southern New Mexico: Tamias quadrivittatus australis in the Organ Mountains and T. q. oscuraensis in the Oscura Mountains. We developed a GIS model of potentially suitable habitat based on vegetation and elevation features, evaluated site classifications of the GIS model, and determined vegetation and terrain features associated with chipmunk occurrence. We compared GIS model classifications with actual vegetation and elevation features measured at 37 sites. At 60 sites we measured 18 habitat variables regarding slope, aspect, tree species, shrub species, and ground cover. We used logistic regression to analyze habitat variables associated with chipmunk presence/absence. All (100%) 37 sample sites (28 predicted suitable, 9 predicted unsuitable) were classified correctly by the GIS model regarding elevation and vegetation. For 28 sites predicted suitable by the GIS model, 18 sites (64%) appeared visually suitable based on habitat variables selected from logistic regression analyses, of which 10 sites (36%) were specifically predicted as suitable habitat via logistic regression. We detected chipmunks at 70% of sites deemed suitable via the logistic regression models. Shrub cover, tree density, plant proximity, presence of logs, and presence of rock outcrop were retained in the logistic model for the Oscura Mountains; litter, shrub cover, and grass cover were retained in the logistic model for the Organ Mountains. Evaluation of predictive models illustrates the need for multi-stage analyses to best judge performance. Microhabitat analyses indicate prospective needs for different management strategies between the subspecies. Sensitivities of each population of the Colorado chipmunk to natural and prescribed fire suggest that partial burnings of areas inhabited by Colorado chipmunks in southern New Mexico may be beneficial. These partial burnings may later help avoid a fire that could substantially reduce habitat of chipmunks over a mountain range.
41717323|We report genetic microsatellite data from analysis of 71 American black bears (Ursus americanas) from the East Tavaputs Plateau in eastern Utah. Heterozygosity was 52.9%, which is lower than other mainland North American populations and possibly reflects low recruitment into the study area. We used a combination of known pedigrees (mother/cubs), relatedness estimates, and paternity estimation using CERVUS to infer single and possible multiple paternity within litters, breeding by pairs over consecutive years, and the possibility of a single male successfully breeding with multiple females in a single year. Estimates of inbreeding effective population size indicate the East Tavaputs Plateau population is part of a larger black bear population.
41717324|Douglas-fir beetle (Dendroctonus pseudotsugae Hopk.) infestations frequently result from disturbance events that create large volumes of weakened Douglas-fir trees, Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco. Previous research has focused on determining susceptibility of forest stands to Douglas-fir beetle and predicting the amount of tree mortality from Douglas-fir beetle infestations following disturbance events. Little work has been done on consequent changes in the forest overstory and understory. In the early 1990s, populations of Douglas-fir beetle increased in fire-scorched trees, subsequently infesting undamaged neighboring stands in the Rocky Mountains of western Wyoming, USA. In 1999 transect sampling and 25 pairs of previously infested and uninfested plots were used to quantify changes in forest stand conditions and ensuing responses in the understory caused by Douglas-fir beetle infestations. Significant effects of the Douglas-fir beetle infestation comprised 3 general categories: (1) overstory effects: basal area was reduced by 40%-70%, average tree diameter decreased by 8%-40%, and the Douglas-fir component of the overstory decreased by more than 12%; (2) regeneration effects: conifer seedling regeneration increased nearly fourfold in infested plots and 90% of the regeneration was Douglas-fir; (3) understory effects: understory vegetation (forbs, grass, and shrubs) had a threefold increase in infested compared with uninfested plots. In addition, basal area of Douglas-fir killed by the Douglasfir beetle was significantly correlated with initial Douglas-fir basal area and percentage of Douglas-fir, but not with stand density index, tree diameter, or trees per hectare. Significant inverse relationships also were found between postinfestation basal area and abundance of forbs, grass, and shrubs, and understory height. Thus, we found that Douglas-fir beetle infestations cause significant short-term effects in both the overstory and understory and contribute to an altered mosaic in forest structure.
41717325|Avian species with expansive ranges or those that occupy more than one vegetative association may vary in aspects of their life histories across their ranges. The distribution of Dusky Flycatchers encompasses a variety of vegetative associations, including riparian communities. However, much of the literature on this species details studies conducted in upland areas. Our objectives were to describe the breeding ecology and fecundity of Dusky Flycatchers nesting in montane meadows of the central Sierra Nevada, California. We monitored 36 territories and located 37 Dusky Flycatcher nests in 8 meadows. Average clutch size was 3.9 eggs. Egg laying, incubation, and nestling stages were 4, 15.4, and 16.4 days, respectively. Eighteen nests successfully fledged young, with an average of 3.3 fledglings per successful nest. Nest success was 43% and nest prdation was the leading cause of nest failure. Estimated annual fecundity was 1.62 fledglings per pair; however, because all renesting attempts were not located, this should be viewed as the minimum annual fecundity. Dusky Flycatchers we monitored may have had higher fecundity than those nesting in upland areas because riparian areas often have higher arthropod abundances. While the importance of riparian conservation to riparian-obligate bird species is obvious, our study indicates that these areas also may be of value to Dusky Flycatchers that breed in riparian areas and upland areas.
41717326|The breeding ecology of the Western Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma californica) in the midwestern United States is relatively unknown compared with Aphelocoma species in other geographic regions. We examined Western Scrub-Jay breeding biology in Colorado between 1970 and 1992. Incubation was initiated in early April and lasted 16 days, while the nestling stage lasted approximately 17-18 days. Clutch size averaged 4.0 eggs per nest, reproductive success was 25%, and productivity averaged 0.66 fledglings per nest. The low reproductive success and productivity measures may be due to high predator densities in the surrounding suburban landscape. Western Scrub-Jays preferred nesting in eastern red cedar (Juniperus virginianus) with nests placed on southern exposures. Western Scrub-Jays bred monogamously and were more similar in their breeding biology to the Island Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma insularis) than to the Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens).
41717327|Members of the algal class Phaeophyceae (brown algae) are almost entirely marine species. A few genera have been described from freshwater habitats, but their distribution and ecological requirements, especially in North America, are very poorly known. The 1st specimens of a freshwater species of brown algae from Oregon, Heribaudiella fluviatilis, were discovered in 3 localities of the McKenzie River, near McKenzie Bridge and Belknap Springs (4422'N, 12200'-15'W). This is the 4th extant population of this species known from the United States. The alga forms distinctive, macroscopic, dark brown patches on rocks in rapidly flowing water. In the McKenzie River it co-occurs, apparently year-round, with several other macrophytic algal species, including Prasiola mexicana, Zygnema sp. (sterile), Nostoc parmelioides, N. verrucossum, and Phormidium cf. autumnale. In cooler months the macroalgal species Ulothrix zonata and Hydrurus foetidus are also present with Heribaudiella Photographs and ecological information are provided. We report a 380-km range extension south for the species, and thus far the most southerly population known from North America. This new record suggests that the alga may be more widespread than previously recognized and that other localities may be discovered with further study.
41717335|Five implications of a biogeographic model of pygmy rabbits (Brachylagus idahoensis) in eastern Washington proposed in 1991 are confirmed by 11 new late-Quaternary records. Pygmy rabbits from eastern Oregon colonized eastern Washington during the late Pleistocene and occupied their largest range during the middle and late Holocene. Disjunction of the eastern Washington population from that in eastern Oregon occurred during at least the late Holocene. Nineteenth-century cattle grazing and 20th-century agricultural practices reduced habitat preferred by pygmy rabbits. Conservation of the small remaining population of pygmy rabbits will necessitate altered land use practices.
41717336|Spruce aphid, Elatobium abietinum (Walker), is a new invasive pest in high-elevation forests of southwestern USA. Plots in the White Mountains of Arizona were evaluated over several years to assess the extent and severity of damage in high-elevation forests and to identify tree and site characteristics associated with defoliation and mortality. Large areas were defoliated in each of 4 recent outbreaks. Impact from a single defoliation episode included an overall mortality of 10.3% to Picea engelmannii Parry, 24%-41% in severely defoliated trees. Defoliation severity was much greater on P. engelmannii than on P. pungens Engelm. and was more severe in the lower canopy layers. Retention of foliage in the upper-crown third of individual trees was a critical factor in tree survivorship. Mortality was associated with defoliation severity and severe infection by Arceuthobium microcarpum (Engelmann) Hawksworth & Wiens. Picea pungens was much more susceptible to A. microcarpum than was P. engelmannii. The combined effects of high levels of defoliation and mistletoe infection were lethal, resulting in almost 70% mortality. mortality continued to occur at least 3 years after defoliation. This aphid will affect natural disturbance regimes and tree population dynamics in mixed-conifer and spruce-fir forests of the American Southwest.
41717337|Density and biomass of redband trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss gairdneri) relative to stream temperature were examined in headwater reaches of Big Jacks and Little Jacks Creeks in southwestern Idaho. Stream shading was greater (mean of 80% versus 46%) and solar insolation was lower (mean of 7.9 versus 15.1 mJ  m  day) in Little Jacks Creek (P < 0.04); otherwise the 2 streams were similar (e.g., width, depth, gradient, median substrate size). Maximum water temperatures increased with distance from headwater springs in both streams (P  0.07) but increased more rapidly and to higher levels (24-26C) in Big Jacks Creek. Daily maximum water temperatures (23 km downstream of headwater springs) during July 1996 were lower in Little Jacks Creek (ranged from 18 to 22C) than in Big Jacks Creek (20.2 to 26 C, P < 0.001). Daily temperature fluctuations also differed between streams, averaging 3.6C for Little Jacks Creek and 7.8C for Big Jacks Creek (P < 0.001). Redband trout density and biomass were greater in Little Jacks Creek (means of 0.8 fish  m and 25.0 g  m) compared to Big Jacks Creek (0.3 fish  m and 8.9 g  m , P = 0.01). Trout density was negatively correlated with increases in water temperature (P = 0.03) and solar insolation (P = 0.09) in both streams. Trout biomass increased with stream shading and was negatively correlated with solar insolation (P < 0.1). Warmer water temperatures in Big Jacks Creek were likely due to historical summerlong livestock grazing, which drastically reduced riparian shading.
41717338|We measured C of tree ring holocellulose to assess intra-and interannual variation in integrated leaf gas exchange responses of Frmont cottonwood (Populus fremontii) to monsoonal moisture inputs in southeastern Arizona. We predicted that C of trees growing along drought-susceptible intermittent reaches of this semiarid river system would be more responsive to monsoonal moisture inputs than trees found along perennial reaches, where groundwater is consistently available. We sampled stem xylem cores from 7 trees, each at an intermittent and perennial reach of the San Pedro River near Tombstone, Arizona. We identified and subdivided individual rings from 1990 to 2000. C of holocellulose from these subdivisions was compared with precipitation amount, atmospheric vapor pressure deficit (Da), and 90% exceedence flows (Q) calculated from seasonal flow duration data. C values were higher at the intermittent reach than at the perennial reach. Furthermore, annual ring C values at the perennial reach were not correlated with stream flow, precipitation, or Da. C values for trees at the intermittent reach were negatively correlated with monsoon season (1 July-15 September) Q (r = 0.50, P = 0.015) and positively correlated with Da (r = 0.45, P = 0.03). Shifts in C between the inner-and outer-third of the annual ring were used as a measure of intra-annual variation. These shifts were correlated with monsoon season Da (r = 0.57, P = 0.01) and Q (r = 0.59, P = 0.005) for trees growing along the intermittent reach. Intra-and interannual variation in integrated photosynthetic response exists at the population-scale for these native, riparian forests. Changes in monsoonal precipitation and stream flow may differentially alter photosynthetic gas exchange of P. fremontii and function of these riparian ecosystems.
41717339|Lepidomeda albivallis (White River spinedace), a fish species endemic to the White River, Nevada, appeared headed toward extinction. In 1991 only 1 population remained, and it comprised fewer than 50 individuals in a 70-m stream reach. We monitored population recruitment and distribution and studied life history and habitat use from 1993 through 1998. We determined that L. albivallis was not reproducing and was continuing to decline, and as an emergency measure we relocated the population (14 in spring 1995 and 6 in spring 1996) downstream 200 m to a secure habitat that we judged more favorable for reproduction. The relocated population reproduced, and by September 1998 it had increased to 396 individuals that inhabited more than 1 km of stream including both pond and stream habitats. In streams they oriented near the bottom but frequently moved up in the water column to strike at drift items. Gut analysis of museum specimens indicated L. albivallis is omnivorous but feeds primarily upon aquatic invertebrates. Conservation of L. albivallis will require reestablishing additional populations within its former range.
41717340|In spring and summer 1991 and 1992, we surveyed fishes of the White River system, Nye and White Pine Counties, Nevada, to determine the status of natives. There are 5 known native fishes to the White River: Lepidomeda albivallis (White River spinedace), Crenichthys baileyi albivallis (Preston White River springfish), Crenichthys baileyi thermophilus (Moorman White River springfish), Catostomus clarki intermedius (White River desert sucker), and Bhinichthys osculus ssp. (White River speckled dace). All 5 had declined in range. Lepidomeda albivallis had experienced the greatest decline, with less than 50 remaining, and these were restricted to a 70-m stream reach. Rhinichthys osculus spp. was most widespread, found in 18 spring systems. Cottus bairdi (mottled sculpin) was collected for the 1st time from the White River system, where it was probably native. Protective measures should be implemented to conserve all native White River fishes to include C. bairdi.
41717341|Use of 2 cattle carcass areas was determined for radio-collared coyotes (Canis latrans) in northwest Texas from January 1999 to January 2000. When 0-3 dead cattle were located at the carcass areas, resident and transient coyotes visited the carcass areas 4% and 8% of the time, respectively. However, when 30-35 dead cattle were located at 1 carcass area due to a disease epizootic, resident and transient coyotes had increased visitation rates of 19% and 63%, respectively. Resident coyotes traveled as far as 12.2 km from the center of their home ranges, suggesting that carcass areas influenced residents over a 468-km area. Transient coyotes traveled from as far as 20.5 km away, suggesting that carcass areas influenced transients over a 1320-km area. Our results indicate that carcass areas can influence coyotes over large areas and may concentrate both resident and transient coyotes in relatively small areas, at least for short periods.
41717342|Little is known about stopover habitat use by neotropical migratory birds in the deserts of North America. We determined distribution, abundance, and habitat associations of neotropical migrants during spring migration in the Sonoran Desert of southwestern Arizona along large washes that supported xeroriparian scrub vegetation. We detected 91 bird species during surveys, 50 (52%) of which were passage neotropical migrants. Although xeroriparian scrub covered less than 55% of the area surveyed, 97% of all detections of passage migrants were from this vegetation type. By calculating habitat breadth for each species, we classified 87% of passage migrants as xeroriparian specialists. Richness of passage migrants was strongly associated with the presence of overstory (> 2.5 m) mesquite and paloverde. The highest species richness of breeding neotropical migrants was associated with width of the xeroriparian corridor. Habitat characteristics we have shown to be important to neotropical migrants can be preserved and managed by protecting xeroriparian areas, particularly those supporting mature (> 2.5 m) paloverde, mesquite, desert willow, and catclaw acacia trees. Additionally, xeroriparian scrub within the creosote-bursage vegetation type may be particularly important to passage neotropical migrants.
41717343|No published data exist on responses of grassland passerines and their habitat to combined grazing and burning treatments in northern mixed-grass prairie. At Lostwood National Wildlife Refuge (LNWR) in northwestern North Dakota, we monitored breeding bird occurrence, abundance, and habitat during successive annual grazing treatments (1998-2000) on 5 prescribe-burned, mixed-grass prairie management units (range = 50-534 ha, each burned 3-6 times in the previous 10-20 years). All breeding passerine species characteristic of upland, northern mixed-grass prairie were common (>10% occurrence) during at least 1 of 3 years on burned and grazed units, except Chestnut-collared Longspur (Caharius ornatus), which was uncommon. Vegetation was generally shorter and sparser than that found on 4 nearby units treated by fire only (1999; density, visual obstruction, and height, all P < 0.01). Regardless, occurrences of individual bird species resembled those previously documented on prairie units at LNWR with similar fire histories but no grazing; however, Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) occurred 2.4 times more frequently on burned and grazed units studied. Our data suggest that species diversity of breeding grassland passerines changes little during initial years of rotation grazing at moderate stocking rates in fire-managed, northern mixed-grass prairie at LNWR.
41717344|We studied spawning ecology of cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki) in streams that originate as springs along the Salt River, a Snake River tributary in western Wyoming. We assessed (1) relative numbers of upstream-migrant and resident adults present during the spawning period in spring streams, (2) influence of habitat modification on use of spring streams for spawning, and (3) habitat features used for spawning in spring streams. Four spring streams were studied, 2 with substantial modification to enhance trout habitat and 2 with little or no modification. Modifications consisted primarily of constructing alternating pools and gravel-cobble riffles. Only a small portion of adult fish in spring streams during the spawning period had migrated upstream from the Salt River between March and the middle of June. Larger numbers of adult fish and more redds were observed in the 2 modified streams compared with the 2 streams with little or no modification. Most spawning occurred on constructed riffles with small gravel and over a narrow range of depths and velocities. Cutthroat trout, rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), and their hybrids were observed in 1 stream with habitat modifications, indicating that measures to halt invasion by rainbow trout, as well as habitat improvement, are needed to preserve this native trout within the Salt River valley.
41717345|Southwestern Wyoming constitutes the northern limit of the ranges of the cliff chipmunk (Tamias dorsalis), pinyon mouse (Peromyscus truei), and canyon mouse (P. crinitus). In addition to trying to determine their presence in the region, we wanted to identify habitat characteristics commonly used by each of these species. We used Sherman live-traps to sample 14 sites representing 2 distinct habitat types in 1998 and 1999: juniper-rocky slopes and juniper cliffs. Seventeen habitat characteristics were measured at capture locations for each species and compared with randomly located points. Best subsets multiple logistic regression was used to construct models that distinguish between used and available habitat for each species. The cliff chipmunk occurred in both rocky slopes and cliffs. The pinyon mouse was also captured in rocky slopes and cliffs and was most often captured in locations in the interior of the juniper woodland with high tree canopy cover, high forb cover, and low density of rock outcrops. The canyon mouse was captured only in cliffs at sites consisting of high forb cover, high rock cover, and high tree density.
41717346|Russian olive and tamarisk are introduced woody plants invading western North American riparian communities. Beavers can play an important role in structuring these communities by removing the dominant cottonwood trees. Our study explored the way in which beavers interact with cottonwood, Russian olive, and tamarisk along 4 rivers on the Great Plains of eastern Montana. We sampled cottonwood stands that supported populations of 1 or both exotic species, recording beaver damage and density in addition to size and age of cottonwood, Russian olive, and tamarisk. In stands where beaver had been present, they felled an average of 80% of cottonwood trees while rarely using Russian olive or tamarisk. Beaver foraging was apparent in nearly 90% of stands within 50 m of the river channel but only 21% of stands farther away, creating a sunny corridor along the river channel that may increase the invasive potential of Russian olive and tamarisk. Growth rates of both Russian olive and tamarisk were substantially higher where beavers had reduced the cottonwood canopy cover. Managers wishing to reintroduce beavers should consider the potential effect on invasive exotic plants.
41717347|Reared specimens from Bridge Creek, Idaho County, Idaho, provide the bases for the first descriptions of Caurinella idahoensis egg and alate stages and redescription of the larval stage. Larvae are distinguished from other Nearctic Ephemerellinae species by the distinctive posterolateral projections on abdominal segment 9. Male adults have a unique combination of characters associated with their genitalia. Larvae were associated with the colonial bluegreen alga Nostoc parmelioides in a clear, cold headwater stream. Several other Diptera, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera also were found in cohabitation with C. idahoensis. Amorphous detritus appears to be a major component of the diet of C. idahoensis, and larvae may defend small territories on rock surfaces. Larvae exhibited prolonged preemergence behavior in the laboratory rearing apparatus.
41717348|Onopsis foliosa var. foliosa and var. monocephala are endemic to short-grass steppe of southeastern Colorado and until recently were considered geographically disjunct. The only known qualitative feature separating these 2 varieties is floral head type; var. foliosa has radiate heads, whereas var. monocephala heads are discoid. Sympatry between these varieties is restricted to a small area in which a range of parental types and intermediate head morphologies is observed. We used distribution mapping, morphometric analyses, chromosome cytology, and pollen stainability to characterize the sympatric zone. Morphometrics confirms that the only discrete difference between var. foliosa and var. monocephala is radiate versus discoid heads, respectively. The outer florets of putative hybrid individuals ranged from conspicuously elongated yet radially symmetric disc-floret corollas, to elongated radially asymmetric bilabiate-or deeply cleft corollas, to stunted ray florets with appendages remnant of corolla lobes. Chromosome cytology of pollen mother cells from both putative parental varieties and a series of intermediate morphological types collected at the sympatric zone reveal evidence of translocation heterozygosity. Pollen stainability shows no significant differences in viability between the parental varieties and putative hybrids. The restricted distribution of putative hybrids to a narrow zone of sympatry between the parental types and the presence of meiotic chromosome-pairing anomalies in these intermediate plants are consistent with a hybrid origin. The high stainability of putative-hybrid pollen adds to a growing body of evidence that hybrids are not universally unfit.
41717349|Soil compaction from human trampling, biking, and off-road motor vehicle traffic was quantitatively investigated in a blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima) shrubland in Kyle Canyon of the Spring Mountains in southern Nevada. A significant difference was detected in soil compaction, bulk density, and percent pore space at a particular frequency of visits in each of 4 disturbance types. On average a single vehicle pass was equivalent to 10 human footprints. Ten and 100 footprints were equivalent to 1 motorcycle pass and 10 vehicle passes, respectively. Soil compaction is a product of increased bulk density and decreased pore space. The degree of soil compaction is a function of disturbance type and visit frequency when examining these 2 factors independently. However, interactive effects of disturbance type and visit frequency on soil bulk density, compaction, and percent pore space were not significantly different. The greatest effects occurred during the first few passes, with changes per pass decreasing as the number of passes increased in all 4 trails. Results of this study suggest that the effects of hiking and biking slowly increase over time relative to the effects of motor vehicle traffic in the Coleogyne shrubland of Kyle Canyon in southern Nevada.
41717357|Described here are 4 species of mountain snails, Oreohelix, isolated on mountains in the central Great Basin of Nevada and Utah since the end of the Pleistocene. Forty-three mountains were searched during an 18-year period, resulting in 24 mountains found with no oreohelicids present. One population, Oreohelix loisae (19 mm to 23 mm in shell diameter), is described here as a new species related to, but geographically isolated from, the species Oreohelix nevadensis (17 mm to 22 mm diameter). Oreohelix loisae is present only in the Goshute Mountains while O. nevadensis is represented in 3 geographically adjacent ranges in the central Great Basin. These 2 species are possibly related to the Oreohelix haydeni group from the northern Wasatch Range. The subspecies Oreohelix strigosa depressa (15 mm to 21 mm diameter) is present on 11 ranges from western Utah west to east central Nevada. This subspecies is closely related to populations found today in the northern Wasatch Mountains of Utah. The smallest species in diameter (8 mm to 14 mm), Oreohelix hemphilli, is centered in the central Great Basin and found on 16 ranges often in sympatry with 1 or 2 of the larger conspecifics. Both qualitative and quantitative information on shell characters and soft anatomy is provided here for these 4 species. Shell characters, soft anatomy, geographical isolation, and statistical analysis suggest that 4 distinct species inhabit the central Great Basin today. Xeric and calciphilic species include O. hemphilli and O. loisae, while O. strigosa and O. nevadensis typically are associated with permanent water and both metamorphic and limestone mountains.
41717358|Cryptobiotic crusts make up an important part of the ground cover in arid systems. Along with their roles of retarding soil erosion and enhancing soil fertility, crusts may also be supporting local and regional arthropod biodiversity. We inventoried arthropod species in mossy, lichen, and mixed (lichen and mossy) cryptobiotic crusts at 2 sites in central New Mexico pion-juniper habitat. We collected 240 crust samples and used a heptane flotation technique to extract the microarthropods. We found 39 species of microarthropods and small macroarthropods, with significantly fewer species on lichen. Species richness was higher in March than in August, but diversity was lower because of dominance by the mite Neonanorchestes sp. Mean area differed significantly for different crust types, but arthropod species richness did not follow the pattern of more species on crusts with larger area. Arthropod species may be influencing such processes as nutrient cycling; therefore, the crust/arthropod interaction may be critical to aridland health.
41717359|We examined selection of ants as food by black bears (Ursus americanus) in Utah by comparing the genera of ants we sampled from study plots in 5 vegetation types with those found in bear scats. In the plots we found 641 ant colonies representing 18 genera. Five genera comprised 85% of all colonies sampled: Formica, Lasius, Camponotus, Tapinoma, and Myrmica. Thirteen genera were found in scats, but 99% were composed of the same 5 listed above. Limited utilization of some ant genera by black bears may reflect body size, colony size, nest type, and presence or absence of a functional sting. Fifty-three percent of all ant colonies in sample plots were found under rocks. Energy values of ants ranged from 4.9 to 6.2 cal  g dry weight. Pupae of Formica and Camponotus contained slightly more fat than respective workers, but the relationship was reversed for Lasius. Pupal cases were found in 33% of the scats, and bears may prefer ant brood because they are more digestible than adults and lack mechanisms of defense. Ants are a predictable and ubiquitous food source for black bears.
41717360|A Teotihuacn population of the Sceloporus grammicus complex was compared with other previously studied populations (Parque Nacional Zoquiapan [PNZ], Monte Alegre Ajusco [MAA], Pedregal San Angel [PSA], Cantimplora [CA], Capuln, Laguna, Paredon, Michilia, and south Texas) for variations in several life history characteristics (SVL at sexual maturity, reproductive period, ovulation and gestation time, and litter size). Mean body size at sexual maturity of females from Teotihuacn was larger than PNZ, MAA, CA, and Capuln. Reproductive period (vitellogenesis, ovulation, gestation, and birth) for the Teotihuacn population was the shortest of all populations. In the Teotihuacn population, gestation time was similar to the Capuln and MAA populations but was shorter than all other populations except the Michilia population. Embryonic development at ovulation varied among populations, with Teotihuacn and Capuln showing earlier stages (stages 1) at ovulation than all other populations. Teotihuacn, PSA, PNZ, and Texas all showed similar litter size, which were larger than Laguna, Paredon, MAA, Capuln, and CA populations. Differences in reproductive characteristics of these populations could indicate phylogenetically constrained, reproductively isolated populations, or they may be explained as merely responses to different environments.
41717361|Carnivores were recorded at prairie dog towns and non-prairie dog town paired sites in the Oklahoma Panhandle over 4 sampling sessions from October 1995 to February 1997. We established carnivore presence through the use of baited tracking plates dusted with chalk and matched with infrared-triggered cameras. Five carnivore species were recorded at both prairie dog towns and paired sites across the Oklahoma Panhandle. Of these, 4 were recorded with sufficient regularity to permit analyses. Carnivores were analyzed at prairie dog towns across the entire Panhandle and in the Panhandle's westernmost county (Cimarron County) only. Canids showed no significant preference for prairie dog towns or other areas. In the Oklahoma Panhandle and Cimarron County only, occurrence of swift fox (Vulpes velox) between prairie dog towns and control sites was insignificant. Badgers (Taxidea taxus) and spotted skunks (Spilogale putorius) occurred significantly more often at prairie dog towns in Cimarron County but not in the Panhandle. No single mustelid species showed a significant association with either prairie dog towns or non-prairie dog town habitats. Our results indicate that whereas prairie dog towns do attract some carnivore species, the presumption that prairie dogs are "keystone species" for so many organisms (especially threatened or endangered species) in the current plains ecosystem may not be as clear as previously thought.
41717362|Atriplex rosea L. (Chenopodiaceae; tumbling orach), an annual herb, is a widely established weedy species of disturbed sites in all counties of Utah. Seeds of Atriplex rosea were collected from a salt marsh in Faust, Utah, and are dimorphic, light brown, and 2-2.5 mm wide, or black and 1-2 mm wide. Seed germination responses of the black and brown seeds were studied over a range of salinity and temperature. Both brown and black seeds germinated at 1000 mM NaCl, and the optimal temperature for germination of both types was 20-30C. Variation in temperature, however, affected germination of black seeds more than brown seeds. At lower thermoperiod only 40%-50% black seeds germinated in nonsaline control, and germination was almost completely inhibited with the inclusion of salinity. However, all brown seeds germinated in control at temperatures above 5-15C, and inhibition caused by salinity was comparatively lower. Brown seeds had a higher germination rate than black seeds at all temperature and salinity treatments. The highest rate of germination of both seeds occurred at the temperature regime of 5-15C. Recovery of germination for black seeds when transferred to distilled water after being in various salinity treatments for 20 days was quite variable. Recovery decreased with increase in salinity at lower temperature regimes, increased with salinity at optimal thermoperiod, and had no effect at 20-30C. Brown seeds recovered poorly from salinity at all thermoperiods except 5-15C, where recovery decreased with an increase in salinity. Brown seeds are adapted to germination in the early part of the growing season, whereas black seeds are capable of surviving harsher conditions and can germinate in later time periods. Characteristics of the dimorphic seeds increase chances for survival in the harsh saline desert environment.
41717363|Yellow starthistle (Centaurea sohtitialis) is native to Europe and Asia and has quickly invaded disturbed grasslands and rangelands in the western United States. The purpose of our study was to determine the effects of starthistle on rodents at Beale Air Force Base, Yuba County, California, by examining rodent species diversity, species abundance, age structure, and reproductive condition among locations with low, medium, and high percent cover and height of starthistle. Listed in decreasing order of abundance, the rodents were house mouse (Mus musculus), California vole (Microtus californicus), deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), western harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys megahtis), and roof rat (Rattus rattus). Indices of diversity did not differ among starthistle cover categories. Regression analyses showed that Reithrodontomys megalotis was more abundant in high-cover starthistle plots, with 90.5% of captures occurring in at least 40% starthistle cover. Significant differences were found in capture rates, reproduction, and age between season only. To manage for all rodent species, an area with medium percent cover and height of starthistle will likely provide adequate protective cover.
41717364|Factors associated with seed cone production in Pinus ponderosa were reviewed to identify broad patterns and potential effectiveness of restoration activities. Cone and seed production are quite variable, with differences between (1) years, (2) sites, and (3) individual trees. Between-year, population-wide crop failures suggest large-scale triggers for cone and seed production, perhaps high temperatures and dry weather. Stem diameter is the most important determinant for cone production at the tree level, with other factors such as genetic disposition, moisture, soil nutrients, and insect pests and disease playing a smaller role. Some extrinsic factors affect growth rate, indirectly affecting cone production. For example, less competition and lower stand densities result in P. ponderosa trees that increase in diameter more quickly, possibly because of more light, and produce seeds earlier. This literature suggests that restoration activities, especially thinning, will result in trees better able to produce larger seed crops. The effect of prescribed fire is less clear, with contradictory effects depending on site conditions, burn severity, and nutrient status of the site.
41717365|This study quantified species and functional group diversity in a grassland plant community in southwestern Montana. Specific objectives were to measure the richness and density of functional groups within the grassland community, measure the biomass of each functional group, and calculate diversity indices for each functional group. We hypothesized that diversity would be greater than previous descriptions for the Festuca idahoensis/Agropyron spicatum habitat type because our multiple-season method would recognize seasonal and environmental variations in community composition. Of the species present, we hypothesized that forb functional groups account for the majority of richness and biomass of this grassland plant community. Species richness and density were measured during spring, summer, and fall of 2000, and biomass was collected during spring, summer, and fall of 2001. Species richness was measured by counting all species present on 4-m plots. We measured forb density per 4-m plot and determined grass density by counting tillers per species within a 0.2 x 0.5-m frame. Diversity indices were calculated for each functional group. Biomass by functional group was clipped from three 0.2  0.5-m frames per 4-m 2 plot. Data support the hypothesis that multiple-season sampling recognizes greater species diversity at one location because both sites were more diverse plant communities than previously described for this habitat type. We documented 14 graminoids and 69 forbs from just 2 sites. Total diversity of a 4-m 2 plot averaged 42 species, consisting of 5 grasses, 12 deep-rooted forbs, and 25 shallowrooted forbs. Our data also support the hypothesis that forb functional groups represent the majority of the richness and biomass of the grassland community. Forbs account for 83% of species richness in this research. In addition, forbs represent a greater proportion of plant biomass than grasses on our sites. Functional group diversity and forb diversity should be a larger consideration in Festuca idahoensis/Agropyron spicatum grassland management decisions. We recommend that land managers recognize forb species and forb functional group diversity in grassland classifications. Maintaining diversity should be a primary objective of land managers because increased diversity has been found to increase community stability and productivity, and decrease the risk of invasion by undesired species. To encourage land managers to put more resources into monitoring diversity, a simple and repeatable sampling procedure applicable to both community and landscape scales needs to be developed.
41717366|New geographic, reproductive, and seasonal records are presented for 11 of 13 bats inhabiting Nebraska. New geographic records are presented for 10 species, most notably Myotis lucifugus (120 miles west of nearest known record), M. septentronalis (42 miles west of nearest record), Nycticeius humeralis (72 miles west of nearest record), and Pipistrellus subflavus (258 miles northwest of nearest record). New reproductive localities are recorded for 9 species, particularly the 1st records of breeding by Pipistrellus subflavus in Nebraska (Cherry and Dixon Counties) and the 2nd record of breeding by Lasionycteris noctivagans in Nebraska (Lancaster County). New records of timing of lactation and appearance of flying-young are reported for 7 species, and new records of seasonal activity are reported for 3 species. Lastly, captures of adult males of Lasiurus borealis and L. cinereus in summer are reported from sites across the state; summer populations of these species previously were thought to consist entirely or primarily of adult females and young in some regions. Records presented here are the result of geographic range expansion of several species and of fieldwork conducted in previously unsampled areas.
41717367|Fire often positively affects the growth and nutrient content of plants regrowing after a burn. These changes have been associated with preferential feeding by herbivores in burned areas. In this study in southeastern Wyoming, Chrysothamnus nauseosas Pursh (rubber rabbitbrush) regrowing after a fire produced new shoots with a distinct growth form. Shoots were longer than those on unburned control sites and had longer leaves with longer internodes between leaves. We conducted feeding trials to detect whether C. nauseosus shoots regrowing after fire were nutritionally superior to shoots from unburned plants for the specialist leaf beetle, Trirhabda lewisii Crotch (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae). We also measured C:N ratios and nitrogen and water contents of leaves from burned and unburned plants. Trirhabda lewisii adults preferred shoots from burned plants when given a choice. The beetles ate similar amounts of burned and unburned plants when fed only a single type. Females that were fed either burned or unburned plants did not differ in number of eggs laid. Chemical analyses revealed no significant differences in nitrogen or water content of leaves from burned versus unburned plants. Carbon-to-nitrogen ratio of burned plants was marginally lower compared with unburned plants. In contrast to previous studies, which suggest that herbivore attraction to burned areas leads to enhanced performance, our study shows that performance is not necessarily enhanced after fire.
41717376|Montane wetlands provide valuable habitat for nesting waterfowl and other waterbirds in the western United States, but relatively little information is available about the nesting ecology of their waterbird communities. We describe the general nesting ecology of breeding waterbirds at a large, shallow, montane wetland in southeastern Idaho during 1997-2000. Habitats include upland grasslands and intermittently to semipermanently flooded wetland habitats. We located a total of 1207 nests of 23 bird species: Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis), Canada Goose (Branta canadensis), Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), Gadwall (A. strepera), American Wigeon (A. americana), Green-winged Teal (A. crecca), Blue-winged Teal (A. discors), Cinnamon Teal (A. cyanoptera), Northern Shoveler (A. clypeata), Northern Pintail (A. acuta), Redhead (Aythya americana), Canvasback (A. valisineria), Lesser Scaup (A. affinis), Ruddy Duck (Oxyura jamaicensis), Northern Harrier (Circus cyaneus), American Coot (Fulica americana), Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola), Greater Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis tabida), American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana), Long-billed Curlew (Numenius americanus), Wilson's Snipe (Gallinago delicata), Wilson's Phalarope (Phalaropus tricolor), and Short-eared Owl (Asio flammeus). Most nests were initiated in May-early June and were terminated (hatched or destroyed) by the 3rd week of June. Mean daily survival rate (DSR) for Canada Goose nests was 0.954  0.005 $({s_{\bar x}};n = 127nests)$, equivalent to Mayfield nest success of 21%. Mean DSR for dabbling duck nests over all 4 years was 0.938  0.006 (n = 41), equivalent to Mayfield nest success of 11%. For all other species where we found >10 nests each year (Eared Grebe, Redhead, Canvasback, Coot, Sandhill Crane, American Avocet, and Wilson's Snipe), >50% of nests found hatched at least 1 young. Success rates for geese, cranes, and ducks were lower than reported for Grays Lake during 1949-1951 and lower than most other wetlands in the region.
41717377|We compared 3 naturally ignited burns with unburned sites in the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument. Each burn site was restored with native and nonnative seed mixes, restored with native seeds only, or regenerated naturally. In general, burned sites had significantly lower native species richness (1.8 vs. 2.9 species), native species cover (11% vs. 22.5%), and soil crust cover (4.1% vs. 15%) than unburned sites. Most burned plots, seeded or not, had significantly higher average nonnative species richness and cover and lower average native species richness and cover than unburned sites. Regression tree analyses suggest site variation was equally important to rehabilitation results as seeding treatments. Low native species richness and cover, high soil C, and low cover of biological soil crusts may facilitate increased nonnative species richness and cover. Our study also found that unburned sites in the region had equally high cover of nonnative species compared with the rest of the Monument. Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) dominated both burned and unburned sites. Despite the invasion of cheatgrass, unburned sites still maintain higher native species richness; however, the high cover of cheatgrass may increase fire frequency, further reduce native species richness and cover, and ultimately change vegetation composition in juniper woodlands.
41717378|Pelagic fish communities (waters with depths >20 m) of Lakes Powell and Mead were examined quarterly from 1995 to 1998 using vertical gill nets and a scientific echosounder. Nets captured a total of 449 fish consisting of striped bass (57%/45% [Lake Powell/Lake Mead]), threadfin shad (24%/50%), common carp (15%/4%), walleye (3%), channel catfish (2%), and rainbow trout (<1%). Each reservoir contained concentrations of pelagic species separated by expanses of habitat with few fish (<10 kgha). Reservoirs experienced dramatic seasonal and annual fluctuations in pelagic biomass. Lake Powell's biomass peaked at the Colorado River at 709.7 ( 46.5) kg  ha and Lake Mead's reached 291.9 ( 58.2) kg  ha at Las Vegas Wash. These locations supported estimated fish densities of 124,668 fish  ha and 15,131 fish  ha, respectively. Maximum reservoir biomass peaked in August 1996, with Lake Powell supporting 10,852,738  5,195,556 kg (27.6  10 fish) and Lake Mead 1,926,697  892.994 kg (10.8  10 fish). Biomass ebbed in May (1996 and 1997), when Lake Mead supported 65% (296,736 kg vs. 453,097 kg) and 62% (101,016 kg vs. 162,262 kg) of biomass levels found in Lake Powell.
41717379|Accurate time-and cost-efficient mapping is central to successful rangeland invasive plant management. In this study sampling together with Inverse Distance Weighted (IDW) interpolation modeling was tested as a mapping alternative to expensive full-coverage delineation survey mapping methods. Our objective was to examine accuracies of presence/absence maps generated from 18 sampling strategies (3 sampling methods x 6 sample densities) using IDW. Invasive plant field survey maps with known accuracies were used to generate samples and to test interpolation results at 2 sites. Site 1 was approximately 6.0 km, dominated by Russian knapweed (Acroptifon repens L.). Site 2, an upland area of approximately 13.5 km, was dominated by spotted knapweed (Centaurea macuhsa Lam). Sampling method x sample density combinations were gathered from field survey infestation maps using repeated computer-based sampling methods. IDW modeling was applied to each of the sample data sets. Accuracies of the IDW interpolation results were calculated by re-referencing field survey maps. We determined that sampling at density of 0.25% (about 1 point per ha) using a systematic sampling method was the preferred sampling strategy for both sites. This combination of sampling density and method yielded 85% accurate presence/absence maps. We conclude that sampling combined with IDW interpolation modeling can generate accurate invasive plant maps and is a potential alternative to current delineation survey methods.
41717380|Galls induced by insects are specialized plant tissues thought to provide a suitable microclimate and high-quality food for insect development. Galls are also hypothesized to provide protection from predators, and particularly from parasitoids, because larger galls may be too deep for parasitoid oviposition (enemies hypothesis). However, galls may actually increase the risk of parasitism by making the location of gallformers more apparent (apparency hypothesis). Rhopalomyia pomum (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) forms soft, lobed galls on big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata: Asteraceae). The volume of the largest galls can be 600X that of the smallest. Here I explore the relationships of the number of lobes per gall and gall volume with the emergence of R. pomum and its parasitoids. I collected 159 galls from 4 locations in southern Utah in spring 2002, measured them, and monitored emergence from each. Lobing was not related to midge emergence (F, = 2.35, P = 0.13) but was positively associated with parasitoid emergence (F, = 15.27, P < 0.001), suggesting that early season parasitoids attacking before gall development may contribute to lobe formation by disrupting cues from eggs or larvae to the plant, or that flies in lobed galls are more accessible to oviposition by late season parasitoids. More midges emerged from larger galls than from smaller galls (F, = 22.0, P < 0.001), but gall size was not related to parasitoid emergence (F, = 0.3, P = 0.6), providing no support for either the enemies or apparency hypothesis.
41717381|We estimated survival rates for 232 radio-tagged native (n = 157) and translocated (n = 75) Mountain Quail (Oreortyx pictus) from 1997 to 1999 in Hells Canyon National Recreation Area (HCNRA) in northeastern Oregon and in the Cascade Mountain Range (CMR) of southwestern Oregon. For the combined areas the estimated survival rate during 150-day intervals was 0.42  0.04. Estimated survival was 0.41  0.04 for Mountain Quail in HCNRA and 0.34  0.34 for quail in CMR. There were no differences in survival functions for native quail in HCNRA and CMR (P = 0.91), for translocated and native quail in HCNRA (P = 0.93), for native quail in CMR and translocated quail in HCNRA (P = 0.97), or for birds released in the fall and birds released in the winter (P = 0.57). Male and female survival functions were significantly different (X = 4.61, P = 0.02). The estimated risk ratio for males was 0.66 that of females. Translocated wild Mountain Quail appeared to have survival rates similar to native quail. Mountain Quail experienced mortalities of >50% over a 150-day interval in both the conifer forests of the western Cascade Mountain Range and the semiarid habitats of northeastern Oregon. With the ability to rapidly expand their populations and exploit marginal habitats, Mountain Quail are excellent candidates for reintroduction programs, and translocated wild Mountain Quail could be used to supplement declining populations.
41717382|We examined radio-marked Chukar (Alectoris chukar) habitat use and selection in west central Idaho during spring and summer of 1995 and 1996. Use of habitats also was compared with abundance and distribution of yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis), an exotic species that is increasingly abundant in Chukar habitats. During summer Chukars used areas of southeast aspect 12% less (P = 0.002) and areas of northwest aspect 11% more (P = 0.008) than in spring. Chukars also used areas that averaged 9% steeper slopes (P < 0.001) and 83 m lower elevations (P = 0.054) in summer than in spring. Shrub cover types were used 22% more (P < 0.001) in summer than in spring, whereas rock cover types were used 12% less (P < 0.009). Chukars used both rock and shrub cover types more than expected in spring (26% and 11% more, respectively) and summer (14% and 33%; P < 0.05). Grass use and forb use by Chukars were high in both seasons, ranking 1st in spring (42% of locations) and 2nd in summer (35%); however, observed use was less than expected use (76%) during both seasons (P < 0.05). Areas with greater ground cover of yellow starthistle also were used 33% less (P < 0.05) than expected, implicating the detrimental effects of this exotic plant on habitat use of Chukars.
41717383|As a parallel study of a survey of fleas of trapped small mammals in montane southern Utah, we removed 77 adult fleas from 12 of 13 nests of voles (Microtus longicaudus, M. montanus and M. richardsoni) collected from montane meadows in the Abajo and La Sal Mountains, the Markagunt Plateau and Pine Valley Mountains, and the Uinta Mountains, May 1991July 2002. Six species and subspecies of fleas parasitic on Microtus spp. were found, 1-3 species in each nest. Three specimens of the ubiquitous deer mouse (Peromyscus spp.) flea Aetheca wagneri (Baker) were also found. We collected the following 7 taxa from the locations indicated: CataUagia decipiens Rothschild in 5 nests: Abajo and Pine Valley Mountains and Markagunt Plateau; Hystrichopsylla dippiei truncata Holland in 2 nests: La Sal and Uinta Mountains; H. occidentalis sylvaticus Campos & Stark in 5 nests: Pine Valley Mountains; Peromyscopsylla selenis (Rothschild) in 1 nest: Markagunt Plateau; A. wagneri in 2 nests: Abajo and Pine Valley Mountains; Megabothris abantis (Rothschild) in 5 nests: Abajo and Uinta Mountains and Markagunt Plateau; Malaraeus telchinus (Rothschild) in 2 nests: Abajo and Pine Valley Mountains. One preserved larva was identified as Hystrichopsylh prob, occidentalis sylvaticus, and 2 dead larvae, the only specimens found in nest 13, were identified as probably the same. Kane County is a new record for C. decipiens and P. selenis; Kane and Summit Counties are new for M. abantis. Nest surveys can generally supplement rather than replace trapped-host surveys. Their main value is in population studies. They are also a source of larvae for morphology and taxonomy research.
41717384|Silver-haired bats (Lasionycteris noctivagans) were thought only to migrate through Nebraska; however, recent surveys in eastern Nebraska report summer records of females and their young. Our study in western Nebraska also shows that silver-haired bats are summer residents. We discovered the 1st reproductively active L. noctivagans in this part of the state. We caught lactating females and volant young in riparian forests along the North Platte River and in forested areas of the Pine Ridge. Previously, adult males were not known from Nebraska in summer, and only 4 records of L. noctivagans were known from western Nebraska during migration. On 28 July we captured an adult male in a coniferous forest of the Wildcat Hills, and we have more than 100 records of migrating individuals. Lastly, an obese L. noctivagans captured on 4 November may represent an individual preparing to hibernate in the state.
41717385|Diets of Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) in western and eastern North America show regional differences. This variation may be explained by the opportunistic feeding behavior of Northern Goshawks and the greater number of potential prey species in western North America. We predicted that a population of Northern Goshawks in the Warner Mountains of California would take significantly more mammals than birds as prey. Goshawk diet in the Warner Mountains was determined by pellet analysis and prey remains. A total of 33 samples from 23 nest sites was collected and analyzed. Diets were quantified by determining the minimum number of individuals per sample at each nest site. As predicted, Warner Mountain Goshawks preyed more heavily on mammalian than avian prey species. Of the 221 individuals identified, 126 (57%) were mammals, while 95 (43%) were birds. These results are in accord with the suggestion that there are potentially more mammalian prey species in western North America than in eastern North America.
41717386|Cinara edulis (Wilson), C. terminalis (Gillette and Palmer), and C. wahtolca Hottes were all larger when feeding on Pinus monophylla Torr. & Frem. than when feeding on P. edulis Engelm. Almost all nonsetal morphometric characters were longer in aphids on the former of these pinyon pines. Although mouthpart characters also followed this pattern of size in C. edulis and C. wahtolca, rostrum length showed the opposite pattern in C. terminalis and was shorter when on P. monophylla. This reversal in size pattern suggests that mouthpart size can be independent of overall aphid size. Principal components analyses corroborate the univariate statistics and we discuss the contribution of various characters to the principal components. We compare environmental induction and environmental selection as explanations for the observed size differences and discuss the taxonomic implications of our results.
41717387|We compared vegetation structure used by 14 bird species during the 1998 and 1999 breeding seasons to determine what habitat features best accounted for habitat division and community organization in Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) woodlands of southwestern Wyoming. Habitat use was quantified by measuring 24 habitat variables in 461 bird-centered quadrats, each 0.04 ha in size. Using discriminant function analysis, we differentiated between habitat used by 14 bird species along 3 habitat dimensions: (1) variation in shrub cover, overstory juniper cover, mature tree density, understory height, and decadent tree density; (2) a gradient composed of elevation and forb cover; and (3) variation in grass cover, tree height, seedling/sapling cover, and bare ground/rock cover. Of 14 species considered, 9 exhibited substantial habitat partitioning: Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura), Bewick's Wren (Thryomanes bewickii), Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptih caerulea), Mountain Bluebird (Sialia currucoides), Plumbeous Vireo (Vireo plmbeas), Green-tailed Towhee (Pipih chlorurus), Brewer's Sparrow (Spizella breweri), Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis), and Cassin's Finch (Carpodacus cassinii). Our results indicate juniper bird communities of southwestern Wyoming are organized along a 3-dimensional habitat gradient composed of woodland maturity, elevation, and juniper recruitment. Because juniper birds partition habitat along successional and altitudinal gradients, indiscriminate woodland clearing as well as continued fire suppression will alter species composition. Restoration efforts should ensure that all successional stages of juniper woodland are present on the landscape.
41717388|Natural gas extraction and field development are pervasive throughout the sagebrush steppe of Wyoming. We conducted this study to determine how roads associated with natural gas extraction affect the distribution of breeding songbirds in sagebrush steppe habitat. The study encompassed dirt and paved roads in the Jonah Field II and Pinedale Anticline Project Area in Sublette County, Wyoming. Sites are dominated by Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata), and common passerines include sagebrush obligates: Brewer's Sparrows (Spizelh breweri), Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli), and Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus); and non-obligates: Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) and Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus). Species relative density was measured using 50-m-radius point counts during spring 1999 and 2000. Four roads with low traffic volumes (700-10 vehicles per day) were surveyed and point counts were centered at variable distances from the road surface such that relative densities were measured 0-600 m from the road's edge. Density of sagebrush obligates, particularly Brewer's and Sage Sparrow, was reduced by 39%-60% within a 100-m buffer around dirt roads with low traffic volumes (700-10 vehicles per day). While a 39%-60% reduction in sagebrush obligates within 100m of a single road may not be biologically significant, the density of roads created during natural gas development and extraction compounds the effect, and the area of impact can be substantial. Traffic volume alone may not sufficiently explain observed declines adjacent to roads, and sagebrush obligates may also be responding to edge effects, habitat fragmentation, and increases in other passerine species along road corridors. Therefore, declines may persist after traffic associated with extraction subsides and perhaps until roads are fully reclaimed.
41717397|Locations of 73,219 vascular plant vouchers representing 2438 species were digitized from the Atlas of the Vascuhr Plants of Utah (Albee et al. 1988). Source maps consist of 1:6,000,000-scale shaded relief maps of Utah with points representing collection locations by species. Location points, representing 1 or more specimens, were transposed onto these maps from the approximately 400,000 herbarium records of 3 major universities and federal land management agencies. These source maps were digitized into an ARC/Info database in order to reproduce the atlas in digital form. Analysis of all locations revealed a mapping bias of the original authors to avoid placing sample locations on county boundaries and over major river corridors. A comparison between ecoregions and elevation showed that the Colorado Plateau and Wasatch/Uinta Mountains have the highest species diversity, and that areas of low elevation (1000-2000 m) have the highest number of unique species in the state. Further, species richness is related to elevation and to ecoregion boundaries.
41717398|The previously unknown male of the biting midge, Culicoides reevesi Wirth, is described and illustrated; the female is also redescribed and this species is reassigned to the leoni group. Previously known from California, Arizona, and New Mexico, C. reevesi is recorded for the 1st time from Utah (new record). Females of this aggressive, hematophagous species were collected while biting humans during evening crepuscular periods in California. Females exhibited a strong attraction to CO traps, and seasonal surveillance demonstrated that host-seeking occurred from late May until mid-October in both California and Utah. Small numbers of males were also collected in CO traps; however, both sexes showed little attraction to ultraviolet and incandescent light traps.
41717399|Two of the Little Dell Dam fossil localities produced the 1st Pleistocene records of the jumping mouse Zapus from Utah. We describe these teeth in detail and compare their morphology with both extinct and extant jumping mouse taxa. Although it is not possible to confidently assign these specimens to a particular species, the Little Dell Dam fossils are clearly distinct from the only living jumping mouse (Zapus princeps) currently known from Utah. The paracone is attached to the rest of the occlusal surface of the upper 1st and 2nd molars in modern Z. princeps from Utah; the paracone is isolated in the molars from Little Dell Dam. The fossils from Little Dell Dam are the 1st reported records of Pleistocene Zapus west of the Rocky Mountains.
41717400|Relocations of black-tailed prairie dogs have occurred both to save individual prairie dogs from urban development and to reestablish populations that have been extirpated. Unfortunately, however, many past relocation efforts rarely exceeded 40% retention. Many factors have contributed to very low retention rates in past relocation efforts including lack of (1) suitable habitat, (2) proper artificial burrow systems, (3) aboveground acclimation cages or pens, and (4) skilled people conducting the relocations. In an attempt to increase prairie dog relocation success, we developed techniques that are easy to implement, promote high retention, and effectively conserve labor, financial resources, and prairie dog populations. We conducted 3 relocations along the Front Range of Colorado in 2001 and 2002. Relocation techniques we developed resulted in at least 46%-92% retention. Our results suggest that a large percentage of prairie dogs can be retained by (1) ensuring that habitat is suitable, (2) using underground nest chambers modeled after natural nest chambers, (3) acclimating prairie dogs to the release site in large retention pens rather than in retention caps or other small acclimation cages (i.e., rabbit hutch), and (4) providing supplemental feed and water ad libitum to the prairie dogs.
41717401|Seven Anagapetus species [aisha Denning, bernea Ross, chandleri Ross, debilis (Ross), hoodi Ross, schmidi (Levanidova), thirza Denning] have been described from eastern Russia and western North America Anagapetus thirza Denning is proposed as a synonym of A. chandleri Ross. Anagapetus schmidi is returned to Glossosoma. Descriptions, distributions, and figures are provided for both males and females of the remaining 5 Anagapetus species.
41717402|Townsendia aprica (Asteraceae: Astereae), a rare pulvinate perennial of the Southern Utah Plateau, was listed as threatened under the U.S. Endangered Species Act in 1985. Here we report on the reproductive biology and pollination of this little-known species and provide an estimate, for a single site-year, of size-specific reproductive effort. Last Chance townsendia appears a short-lived perennial that begins reproducing in its 2nd year (1.5-2.0 cm diameter). Maximum reproductive effort is attained with the 2.5-4.0 cm diameter size class: 38% of these plants produced 84% of the flower heads. Few plants survived past the 4-cm size class. The species is primarily self-incompatible: neither autogamous nor geitonogamous breeding system treatments produced a significant number of achenes. Unlike some populations of some congeners, the Ivie Creek population was not apomictic. Outcrossing is the primary means of reproduction and native solitary bees are the most important pollinators. Paramount are several species in the genus Osmia, and the ground-nesting species Synhaloniafulvitarsis, which nests among the T. aprica plants. Synhahnia fulvitarsis also visits a contemporaneous blooming phlox (P. austromontana), which may facilitate pollination of the rare townsendia. The Townsendia-Phlox-Synhalonia interaction may represent another example of why we must consider communities rather than individual species in our conservation efforts.
41717403|In this study I describe the distribution and habitat associations of yellow-bellied marmots (Marmota flaviventris) in the Great Basin, compare my findings with those of E.R. Hall during his 1929-1936 survey and later surveys, and discuss potential reasons for changes in marmot distribution over time. I found 62 marmot burrow sites in 18 mountain ranges, mostly in rocky meadows situated on well-drained slopes between 2100 m and 3000 m elevation. Marmots were generally found near burrows dug within talus slopes, talus-like rock piles, or clusters of massive boulders. Oceanspray (Holodiscus discolor) was the shrub most commonly associated with occupied rock formations. Marmots were most abundant in the Ruby/East Humboldt Range and were common in the Desatoya, Shoshone, Toiyabe, Toquima, Cherry Creek, Schell Creek, Deep Creek, and Stansbury Ranges. Marmots appeared to be uncommon in the Monitor Range and rare in the Clan Alpine, Roberts, and Snake Ranges. I was unable to find marmots in the Diamond, Egan, Spruce-Pequop, White Pine, and Oquirrh Ranges, although I located old, weathered marmot scats in all but the latter 2 ranges. Other evidence confirms that marmots do actually occur in the Oquirrh Range, but extensive searches of the White Pine Range, including some of the same rock formations where E.R. Hall collected marmots, revealed no sign of marmots. My distribution data suggest that marmots may have gone extinct in some Great Basin mountain ranges during the last century. These disappearances may represent a natural extinction-recolonization dynamic, but a more alarming possibility is a recent die-off linked to climate change, which is predicted to force montane vegetation zones further upslope, shrinking the habitat of associated faunas. However, marmots in this study were observed as low as 1550 m elevation, indicating an altitudinal flexibility that may allow this species to survive climatic change better than more specialized boreal species such as pikas (Ochotona princeps) and water shrews (Sorex palustris).
41717404|A population of the dwarf bear-poppy (Arctomecon humilis Coville, Papaveraceae) at Red Bluff, Washington County, Utah, was monitored twice annually between 1987 and 2002. This is a narrowly endemic, gypsophilous species that has been formally listed as endangered since 1979. During the 16 years of observation, density of this species has fluctuated between 3 and 1336 individuals on the 0.07-ha monitoring plot. Moderate to large recruitments of seedlings occurred in 1992, 1995, and 2001. Seedling recruitments from a large, long-lived seed bank are triggered by abundant precipitation during the February-April period. At least 5.0 cm of rainfall is required during that interval to produce any seedlings. Seedlings experienced considerable mortality in the 1st few months of life in all observed cases. The average seedling initiated in the very large recruitment event of 1992 survived for only 2.6 years. Seedlings in that cohort that were alive 1 year after germination had an average longevity of 4.6 years. None of the seedlings that emerged in 1992 were still alive in October 2002. Mortality in this species was poorly correlated with fluctuations in precipitation or temperature. No epidemics of parasites or herbivores were observed. Mortality in the species appears to be caused by a variety of factors acting over a cohort's lifetime.
41717405|The Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) is a shorebird species endemic to the dry, terrestrial ecosystems of the Great Plains and southwestern United States. Breeding Bird Survey data suggest that Mountain Plover populations have declined by >60% in the last 30 years. A better understanding of the population dynamics of the Mountain Plover is important in determining future management goals for this species. However, this effort is hampered by the inability to determine the sex of Mountain Plovers accurately under field conditions. In an effort to develop a simple method for sexing plovers in the hand, we measured external morphometric characteristics from 190 museum specimens of adult Mountain Plovers in alternate (breeding) plumage. Logistic regression and discriminant function analyses were performed on 10 external morphometric measurements (lengths of unflattened wing chord, 10th primary, central rectrix, outer rectrix, total head length, exposed culmen, culmen, bill depth, bill width, and tarsus). The results of these analyses indicated that Mountain Plover sexes were similar for all measures except culmen length. However, further analysis determined that culmen length accurately predicted sex in less than two-thirds of the specimens, suggesting that this measure is a poor predictor of sex in Mountain Plovers. Structurally, Mountain Plovers appear to be nearly identical between the sexes, and other methods of sexing birds (e.g., plumage characteristics, behavioral observations, or molecular markers) should be further assessed for devising a simple method for sexing Mountain Plovers under field conditions.
41717406|The life cycle of Cheumatopsyche analis (Banks) is described from 2 urban streams located in north central Colorado. Larvae were collected every 15 days during spring, summer, and fall and every 30 days in winter from August 1999 through August 2000. A total of 8652 larvae were collected, and head capsules were measured to the nearest 0.01 mm. The life cycle of C. analis at both sites appears to be partially bivoltine with a long, almost continuous period of recruitment after peak emergence in June. Some offspring from the early generation that emerges in May probably emerge as adults in September, while the remainder of the population overwinter as instars III through V Life cycle patterns for C. analis in these 2 urban streams were most similar to other populations of Cheumatopsyche from Virginia.
41717407|Many studies have assessed genetic changes in exotic plant species in their native and introduced ranges, but none have focused on genetic variation in native plant species in response to exotic invasion. We examine characteristics of native plant communities within and outside old (>25 year) invasions of Acroptilon repens (Russian knapweed) and Cardara araba (hoary cress). We also document genetic variability of 4 native grass populations (Hesperostipa comata [needle and thread], Achnatherum hymenoides [Indian ricegrass], Sporobolus airoides [alkali sacaton], and Poa secunda [Sandberg bluegrass]) from 2 areas: adjacent to and within weed invasions. Native plant species richness and diversity did not differ between invaded and noninvaded areas. Inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) analysis of individual native perennial grasses of each of the 4 species suggests that populations exposed to long-term coexistence with exotics may differ from adjacent noninvaded populations. We suggest that future research efforts should focus on intraspecific diversity of native plant species to identify possible candidates for restoration following weed control.
41717408|Nine species of fleas were collected incidental to a survey of rodents for molecular studies in Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, and Utah, south of latitude 38N. Three species were parasites of woodrats, Neotoma spp.: Orchopeas neotomae Augustson was confirmed for Texas, and the distribution patterns of O. agilis (Rothschild) and O. schisintus (Jordan) were more clearly defined. Four species were parasites of mice, Feromyscus spp.: Aetheca wagneri (Baker) was a new flea for P. gratus Merriam, the distribution of O. leucopus (Baker) was extended to far west Texas, Plusaetis sibynus (Jordan) was new for Utah and N. lepida, and the range of Stenoponia americana (Baker) was extended west of the Continental Divide in New Mexico. Other species included FoxeUa ignota (Baker) and Meringis dipodomys Kohls.
41717409|Using sweep samples, we surveyed leafhoppers (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) on grassland sites in the Gallatin Valley of Montana during 1988 and 1991. We sampled 12 sites representing 2 habitat types defined by their dominant plant species in an undisturbed state (Stipa comata / Bouteloua gracilis and Festuca idahoensis / Agropyron spicatum). At half of the sites the native plant communities were present, whereas the remainder had been reseeded with either Agropyron spicatum (to replace the S. comata / B. gracilis assemblage) or Bromus inermis (to replace the F. idahoensis / A. spicatum assemblage). We found at least 66 species of leafhoppers among 44,428 adults collected. Seven taxa comprised 83% of all individuals collected: Doratura stylata (26%), Ceratagallia spp. (18%), Endria inimica (17%), Orocastus perpusillus (7%), Sorhoanus spp. (6%), Athysanella spp. (5%), and Psammotettix lividellus (4%). Sites with similar vegetation had broadly similar leafhopper assemblages, and assemblages differed most between the relatively xeric Stipa comata / Bouteloua gracilis sites and the more mesic sites dominated by Bromus inermis. The composition of a leafhopper assemblage at a site tended to be more similar to those on noncontiguous sites with the same overall vegetation than to those on contiguous sites with different vegetation. These patterns are likely related to the fact that many Cicadellidae are host specialists. In fact, variation in abundance of some of the most common leafhopper taxa on our sites was correlated with the percent cover of their known host plants. Our analyses of the leafhopper assemblages generally support the contention that terrestrial plant associations are among the more useful indicators of insect community composition.
41717410|The scolopendrid centipede genus Arthrorhabdus Pocock, 1891, comprises 6 species: A. formosus Pocock, 1891, the type species, occurring in southern Africa (Mpumalanga, Free State, Western and Northern Cape Provinces, South Africa, and southern Namibia); A. somalus Manfredi, 1933, in Somalia and Yemen; A. jonesii Verhoeff, 1938, from southern India (Kerala Province); A. mjobergi Kraepelin, 1916, and A. paucispinus Koch, 1984, in Australia (Western and South Australia, Northern Territory, and Queensland); and A. pygmaeus (Pocock, 1895), in the south central and southwestern United States, Mexico, and, potentially, Belize. This sporadic occurrence suggests that the genus is polyphyletic, and the monotypic synonym, Arthrorhabdinus Verhoeff, 1907, is available for pygmaeus, which is not referrable to another established genus. Arthrorhabdus spinifer (Kraepelin, 1903), known only from Belm, Para State, Brazil, is transferred to Rhoda Meinert, 1886, thereby constituting a new combination. Sixteen new localities are reported for A. pygmaeus, 14 in Mexico and 2 in the U.S.; a specimen from Belize, intercepted in quarantine in Miami, suggests occurrence in this country. The 2 U.S. sites, in Cameron County, Texas, and Pima County, Arizona, extend the generic and specific ranges around 400 miles (640 km) to the southeast and west, respectively. In Mexico, A. pygmaeus ranges southward through the mainland, possibly excluding the Yucatan Peninsula, and also inhabits the southern half of Baja California Sur (BCS). Its apparent absence from the rest of the Baja peninsula suggests that the BCS populations may result from rafting across the Gulf of California from Sinaloa, where the species occurs.
41717417|We compared functional attributes of streams draining catchments burned by wildfire 20 years previously to those of streams in unburned catchments. Long-term analyses of channel profiles indicated most channel change occurred within the first 10 years after fire with little subsequent change the following 10 years. Much of the standing dead timber had fallen, and its effect on stream morphology was directly related to stream size, with important ramifications for future years as decay progresses. The volume of wood in the active channel was 5X higher in a 3rd-order burn stream than in other burn or reference streams, but >80% of this wood was still bridging the stream. Retention of leaves was strongly associated with channel morphology and location of debris dams. Sediment respiration was significantly greater (1.7X) in streams of burned catchments, resulting from greater amounts of loosely attached organic matter in the sediments of these streams. In concordance with respiration results, coefficients of exchange (kex) were almost 5X higher in burn streams than in reference streams, although estimates of transient storage were similar between stream types. We expect the input of large woody debris to increase in the next 10 years in fire-impacted streams as bridging trees collapse into the stream, thereby enhancing channel complexity and habitat heterogeneity, instream metabolism and retention, and consequently stream function. The results emphasize the importance of landscape history, such as large-scale wildfires, on present patterns and processes in stream ecosystems.
41717418|Lepidium papilliferum is an ephemeral species that occupies "slick spot" microhabitats in the matrix of sagebrush steppe vegetation of the southwestern Snake River plains, Idaho, USA. We related population demographic data collected from 1993 to 1996 to on-site precipitation data on the Orchard Training Area west of Boise. We also carried out field seed-retrieval and in situ seed bank studies. We found that L. papilliferum has a dual life history strategy. A fraction of each cohort sets seed as summer annuals, while the remaining plants remain vegetative and potentially biennial. Surviving biennials flower and set seed along with the annual cohort of the following year. The switch to flowering as an annual appears to be based on threshold rosette size. Probability of survival to flowering was much lower for biennials than for annuals of the same cohort, but surviving biennials sometimes had enhanced seed production. The summerdry environment of the Snake River plains combined with the slick spot habitat has apparently selected for a primarily summer annual life cycle for this species. Seeds were highly dormant at dispersal and were not responsive to dormancy-breaking cues. Those from a given cohort of L. papilliferum remained viable in the soil for at least 11 years. This persistent seed bank provides a buffer against extinction in sequences of years when seed production is low or absent. Estimated seed bank size varied from near zero for a heavily disturbed site that formerly supported the species to 18 viable seeds  dm for an extant population in high-quality habitat. Management for population preservation for L. papilliferum should focus on protecting the seed bank from destruction caused by livestock trampling and other anthropogenic disturbances.
41717419|Late Holocene bison bones eroding from the badlands topography of Cathedral Gorge State Park in southeastern Nevada have been identified as the remains of Bison and date between approximately 400 and 850 years old. The bones were originally thought to be turn-of-the-century cattle and then early bison, so park personnel had need to solve this interpretive problem. A multidisciplinary team sought information on archaeology, geomorphology, paleontology, and paleoenvironment to document the 1st established occurrence of bison in this part of Nevada and to develop a hypothesis explaining their demise.
41717420|During 1999 and 2000 we trapped and radio-marked 156 Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) on leks in Conservation Reserve Program (CRP, n = 73) and mine reclamation (MR, n = 83) lands in northwestern Colorado. Median spring-fall home range sizes using the 95% fixed kernal and minimum convex polygon estimators for 54 grouse were 86 ha and 61 ha, respectively. Median fixed kernal home range size did not differ between males (79 ha) and females (87 ha). Home ranges of grouse associated with CRP (112 ha) were larger than those of grouse in MR (75 ha). Directional orientation of movements from leks of capture to wintering areas was nonrandom, and there was a positive elevation gain (median = 102 m) associated with these movements. Movements did not differ between grouse captured in CRP and MR for any season but did differ between genders for the spring-fall period. Males exhibited stronger fidelity and less variation in their movements than females; 96% of males compared with only 77% of females remained within 2.0 km of their lek of capture from spring through fall. Ninety percent of females nested within 2.5 km of their lek of capture. During winter all grouse were found farther (median = 21.5 km) from lek sites than in any other season. Males remained on the breeding range longer in the fall and returned earlier in the spring than females even though they wintered similar distances away (median males = 21.5 km, median females = 21.4 km). Our findings support the 2.0-km radius used in the Habitat Suitability Index model for Columbian Sharptailed Grouse to assess nest and brood-rearing cover around leks, but not the 6.5-km radius used to evaluate winter cover.
41717421|The effects of fire on nonbreeding songbird species in riparian habitat have not been studied. We compared body condition, within-year site fidelity, and between-year site fidelity of 3 songbird species (Passerella iliaca, Fox Sparrow; Catharus guttatus, Hermit Thrush; and Regulus calendula, Ruby-crowned Kinglet) at 2 coastal riparian sites. Wildfire, which is rare in this habitat, had occurred at 1 of the sites before data collection. A significantly larger proportion of Passerella iliaca was recaptured in subsequent winters at the unburned site than at the burned site, but little difference was found between sites for Catharus guttatus or Regulus calendula. Body mass of all 3 species declined during winter at the burned site, but differences between sites were not significant. Similarly, body mass indices of new captures were lower at the burned site than the unburned site for all 3 species, but these differences were not significant. The within-year recapture rate for all 3 species combined declined at the burned site over the course of the study, possibly due to changes in vegetation structure caused by the fire. Overall, our data suggest that wintering songbirds were resilient to this disturbance, but that response to the post-fire environment differed among foraging guilds. Well-replicated studies that include pre-burn data are needed to evaluate the effects of this disturbance in riparian systems.
41717422|Understanding the upstream and downstream effect of impoundments on stream fish assemblages is important in managing fish populations and predicting the effects of future human activities on stream ecosystems. We used information collected over a 41-year period (1960-2001) to assess changes in fish assemblage structure resulting from impoundment of the Laramie River by Grayrocks Reservoir. Prior to impoundment (i.e., 1960-1979), fish assemblages were dominated by native catostomids and cyprinids. After impoundment several exotic species (e. g., smallmouth bass [Micropterus dolomieu], walleye [Sander vitreus; formerly Stizostedion vitreum], yellow perch [Perca flavescens], brown trout [Salmo trutta]) were sampled from reaches upstream and downstream of the reservoir. Suckermouth minnows (Phenacobius mirabilis) were apparently extirpated, and hornyhead chubs (Nocomis biguttatus) and common shiners (Luxilus cornutus) became rare upstream of Grayrocks Reservoir. The lower Laramie River downstream from Grayrocks Reservoir near its mouth retains habitat characteristics similar to those prior to impoundment (e.g., shallow, braided channel morphology) and is the only downstream area where several sensitive species persist, including suckermouth minnows, hornyhead chubs, and bigmouth shiners (Notropis dorsalis). Grayrocks Reservoir serves as a source of exotic piscivores to both upstream and downstream reaches and has altered downstream habitat characteristics. These impacts have had a substantial influence on native fish assemblages. Our results suggest that upstream and downstream effects of impoundment on fish assemblage structure are similar and that downstream reaches which retain habitat characteristics similar to pre-impoundment conditions may serve as areas of refuge for native species.
41717423|We examined the effect of natural and artificial perch sites on Western Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura marginella) nest density in shrubby habitat. Nest density in shrubs was strongly correlated with the density of natural perch sites. This relationship occurred in 2 vegetation types with differing shrub composition. The correlation was stronger in areas with a homogenous shrub layer. Nest density was also higher in plots with artificial perch sites than in adjacent control plots. Nest density increased between years in plots where artificial perch sites were constructed but remained the same in adjacent control plots. Knowledge of perch-site effects has practical management applications in areas where doves nest in shrubby habitat. The possibility exists that perch sites could be managed for nest density in these habitats.
41717424|In 1994 ground fire ignited in forests of Douglas-fir, Pseudotsuga menziesii var. glauca (Mirb.) Franco, on Beaver Mountain, Utah. The Douglas-fir beetle, Dendroctonus pseudotsugae Hopkins, attacked a range of moderately fire-injured host conifers in 1995. Logistic regression models run for 1995 data illustrated that 1 year after the fire event the Douglas-fir beetle selected and attacked large-diameter Douglas-fir with 60%-80% bole char, 60%-80% crown volume scorch, and 50%-70% probability of mortality due to fire. In 1996 beetle preference shifted to smallerdiameter trees with lighter fire injury, because most large, fire-damaged conifers were colonized by beetles in 1995. Although beetle populations did not reach outbreak proportions outside the fire boundary, host selection shifted to green trees in 1997 along the burn perimeter. Log linear analysis indicated that increased brood production was conditioned by increased diameter and moderate fire damage to the trees.
41717425|Elevated atmospheric CO may cause long-term changes in the productivity and species composition of the sagebrush steppe. Few studies, however, have evaluated the effects of increased CO on growth and physiology of species important to this ecosystem. Since the response of plants to elevated CO may be limited by environmental factors, soil temperature was also examined to determine if low soil temperatures limit CO response. To determine how CO and soil temperature affect the growth of species native to the sagebrush steppe, bottlebrush squirreltail [Elymus elymoides (Raf.) Swezey], Thurber needlegrass (Stipa thurbenana Piper), and Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis Beetle) were grown in ambient (374 mL L) or high (567 mL L) CO and low (13C) or high (18C) soil temperature for approximately 4 months. Although soil temperature affected the growth of squirreltail and needlegrass, temperature did not modify their response to elevated CO. Total biomass of sagebrush was consistent across soil temperature and CO 2 treatments, reflecting its slow-growing strategy. All 3 species had higher leaf water-use efficiency at elevated CO due to higher net photosynthesis and lower transpiration rates. We conclude that elevated CO and soil warming may increase the growth of grasses more than shrubs. Field studies in the sagebrush steppe are necessary to determine if differences in biomass, resulting from changes in CO and soil temperature, are exhibited in the field.
41717426|We compared bat use by mist-netting at 4 different types of wildlife water developments in southwestern Arizona during summer 2000 and 2001. Scaling our results by netting effort, we caught bats more frequently and observed higher species diversity at tinajas (modified natural rock pools) with larger open-water area compared with "guzzler" type water developments that had less open water and more obstacles to bat flight. We caught the fewest bats at guzzlers with buried concrete vault drinkers, which impede bat access and have the smallest areas of open water. Water development designs that minimize evaporative water loss by reducing the amount of open water apparently reduce use by bats in this area.
41717427|Nineteen exclosures on sagebrush steppe and shadscale rangelands, varying in age from 18 to 38 years, were sampled for plant species richness, plant composition, indicators of soil erosion, ground cover, vegetative cover, and herb-low shrub layer screening cover. Features within the exclosures were compared with adjacent sites of the same size that were open to grazing by livestock and wildlife. Species richness typically was slightly greater inside exclosures than in adjacent grazed sites (median = 2 more species inside exclosures), but the difference was not significant (P = 0.16). Similarity of plant community composition between exclosures and adjacent grazed sites ranged from 45% to 82%. Evidences of soil movement, soil pedestals, and soil flow patterns were all more pronounced outside exclosures than inside (P  0.02), even though many sites were on flat to mild slopes (median slope = 12%). Meta-analysis of the 19 exclosure sites indicated that grazing exclusion resulted in less bare ground cover compared with adjacent grazed sites (P  0.05). The effect of grazing exclusion on visible soil surface cryptogams was significant (P  0.05), with generally greater cover inside exclosures. Cryptogam cover differences between grazed sites and exclosures tended to increase with the number of years of grazing exclusion (r = 0.64, P = 0.046). Pseudoroegneria spicata, a principal livestock forage, averaged greater basal cover inside exclosures than outside on 4 of 10 sites where it occurred, although no exclosure sites had greater F spicata cover on grazed sites. Meta-analysis of the 10 sites indicated that grazing exclusion resulted in greater F spicata cover compared with adjacent grazed areas (P  0.05). Poa secunda, a short-growing grass that initiates growth early in the spring and is not important livestock forage, averaged greater basal cover outside exclosures on 5 of 15 sites where it occurred. Meta-analysis of the 15 sites indicated a significant treatment effect (P  0.05), with greater Poa secunda basal cover outside exclosures. Grazing exclusion resulted in greater screening cover in the herb-low shrub layer (0-0.5 m height; P  0.05). These results indicate that despite improved livestock grazing management over the past half century, livestock grazing still can limit the potential of native plant communities in sagebrush steppe ecosystems, and that the health of semiarid ecosystems can improve with livestock exclusion in the absence of other disturbances. A few exclosure sites were similar for the measured parameters, suggesting that these sites were ecologically stable and that exclusion of livestock grazing was not sufficient to move succession toward more pristine conditions, at least within the time periods studied. Managed disturbance such as fire or mechanical brush treatments may be necessary to restore herb productivity on these ecologically stable sites.
41717428|Symphyotrichum expansum (Puepp ex Spreng.) Nesom is reported new to Utah from the Escalante River drainage. A major range extension is reported for Aralia racemosa L. in the Escalante drainage, and additional populations are reported of the rare species Imperata brevifolia Vasey in Utah, including the 1st record for the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument. Heterotheca grandiflora Nutt. is reported new to north central Arizona. New locations and notes on an additional 22 rare species in Glen Canyon National Recreation Area are listed.
41717429|Scytonotus granulatus (Say, 1821) (Polydesmida: Polydesmidae), the most widely ranging polydesmid species in North America and the 4th most widely distributed indigenous continental milliped, is recorded from LeFlore and Latimer Counties, Oklahoma, and Jackson County, Alabama, the 1st records from these states. It also occurs in Logan and Independence Counties, Arkansas. The Latimer County record corresponds approximately to the terminus of the eastern forested biome and extends the distributions of the species and the genus some 255 miles (408 km) westward; along with literature records from Shawnee County, Kansas, and Cass County, Nebraska, it constitutes the western range limits. The projected overall distribution extends around 1100 miles (1760 km) east-west and 985 miles (1576 km) north-south and encompasses parts of Ontario, Qubec, and 19 states, including all of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. New localities are detailed as are those from Missouri and that from Dare County, on the Outer Banks of North Carolina.
41717440|The widely distributed and fragmented populations of the tiger beetle Cicindela amargosae are documented for dorsal coloration, elytral maculation, habitat, and adult escape behavior. Currently, there are 2 recognized subspecies, C. a. amargosae and C. a nyensis. The analysis of populations indicated that the variation in dorsal coloration did not coincide with the accepted subspecific criteria for this species, thus illustrating the difficulty in applying a subspecific category unequivocally to tiger beetles.
41717441|We investigated interference and exploitative competition between endangered San Joaquin kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis mutica) and nonnative red foxes (V. vulpes). Seven kit foxes and 16 red foxes were radio-collared and tracked via radiotelemetry near Lost Hills, California. One kit fox was killed by a red fox. Home ranges of the 2 species did not overlap extensively. Although both species used similar habitats, they used different parcels of land. Kit foxes and red foxes primarily consumed rodents on the study site, and dietary overlap was considerable. Red foxes also may have been using dens formerly used by kit foxes. Thus, red foxes were engaging in both interference and exploitative competition with kit foxes, and red foxes constitute a potentially significant threat to kit foxes. Coyotes (Canis latrans) co-occur with kit foxes and may limit red fox abundance and distribution. Therefore, although they occasionally kill kit foxes, the presence of coyotes may benefit kit foxes by excluding red foxes.
41717442|We report the 1st record of the crayfish Orconectes virilis (Hagen 1870) from Idaho and the Pacific Northwest, USA. We also provide an updated checklist of recent Idaho crayfishes, which now includes 2 families (Astacidae and Cambaridae), 3 genera (Pacifasticus, Orconectes, and Procambarus), and 7 species and subspecies (Pacifasticus connectus (Faxon 1914), P. gambelii (Girard 1852), P. leniusculus leniusculus (Dana 1852), P. leniusculus klamathensis (Stimpson 1857), P. leniusculus trowbridgii (Stimpson 1857), O. virilis, and Procambarus clarkii (Girard 1852). Native crayfish were not found at the O. virilis collection sites. The localities where O. virilis was found were characterized by low-gradient streams impacted by fine sediment. Aquatic invertebrates found in association with O. virilis tended to be the more pollution-tolerant taxa.
41717443|We examined the distribution of Brechmorhoga mendax and B. pertinax (Libellulidae) in northern Arizona and southern Nevada. Brechmorhoga mendax occurs widely throughout the Southwest and in Arizona up to the Mogollon Rim, and up the Colorado River from the west to at least River Mile 132 (downstream from Lees Ferry, Arizona) at elevations of 110-1460 m. In Grand Canyon it occurs along small to large tributaries and on the mainstream at elevations below 650 m. The only previously reported locality for B. pertinax in the United States is in southeastern Arizona, where it was presumed to be accidental. We report B. pertinax along 5 small, perennial tributaries emanating from Redwall Formation aquifer springs on the south side of central Grand Canyon. Those springs habitats may be threatened by regional groundwater depletion. Brechmorhoga pertinax appears to be somewhat more stenotolerant in its habitat requirements than B. mendax, a finding in keeping with these differences in range. The presence of isolated populations of B. pertinax in Grand Canyon is an example of a Neotropical influence on the fauna and indicates biogeographic corridor and refuge functions of this large, deep canyon.
41717444|Studies have demonstrated that some riparian trees may switch their reliance on surface soil water (unsaturated or vadose zone) to groundwater (saturated zone) sources during the growing season in association with changes in moisture availability. A closely related question is: How do these trees respond to pulse increases in water availability in previously dry zones? We tested the whole-tree physiological response of 6 natural Populus genotypes to water additions during the peak of summer drought in northern Utah, USA. We found clear evidence that trees were insensitive to water additions to the surface soil that were twice the magnitude of whole-tree transpiration rates. Our results suggest that some cottonwoods may have little immediate transpiration or leaf conductance response to pulse soil moisture increases. This lack of response may be related to a water-use strategy associated with regional climate patterns (i.e., genetic or environmental programming), cavitation recovery, or other physical determinants of water use such as depth to groundwater. Our data suggest that it is important to consider potential nonresponsiveness to changes in soil water availability when evaluating the impact of climate change on these important and productive ecosystems.
41717445|Eighty-two soil samples and additional hand-collection in Wind Cave National Park yielded over 2000 terrestrial gastropod specimens. The specimens represent 26 different species, including a South Dakota species of concern, Vertigo arthuri. New South Dakota state records for Gastrocopta pellucida and Vertigo tridentata were recorded. Samples from grassland habitats were less likely to contain snails and had lower species richness than samples from either forest or shrubland habitats. Canyons, creek beds, bases of limestone cliffs, and shrublands are important habitats for snails in the park.
41717446|Nest predation on artificial nests was examined in relation to nest type, grassland type, and shrub encroachment in Chihuahuan Desert grasslands in southern New Mexico. Open-cup ground, open-cup shrub, and spherical shrub nests (n = 210), mimicking Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna), Black-throated Sparrows (Amphispiza bilineata), and Cactus Wrens (Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus), were placed in 10 grasslands of tobosa (Pleuraphis mutica) and black grama (Bouteloua eripoda) with low and heavy levels of mesquite encroachment. Nest predation varied among nest types, grassland types, and shrub encroachment, with highest levels of prdation occurring on open-cup shrub nests in tobosa grasslands with heavy shrub encroachment. We detected a significant interaction between nest type and shrub encroachment, but not between grassland type and nest type or grassland type and shrub encroachment. Combined predation rates from the 3 nest types were positively associated with shrub density. The encroachment of shrubs into desert grasslands may act as a corridor for a diversity of species historically not associated with desert grasslands to occupy or move through a patch, increasing vulnerability to nest predation.
41717447|We studied the reproductive characteristics of 2 syntopic lizard species, Sceloporus gadoviae and Sceloporus jalapae (Phrynosomatidae). Specimens of S. gadoviae (N = 105) and S. jalapae (N = 41) were collected in a tropical arid forest from Tehuacn Valley, Puebla, Mxico. Males of S. gadoviae reached sexual maturity at the same snoutvent length (SVL; 45.0 mm) as S. jalapae, and a similar pattern occurred in females of both species (SVL; 41.0 and 42.0 mm, respectively). Males of S. gadoviae exhibited reproductive activity throughout the year, with a longer activity during the dry (November to May) and part of the wet season (June to September). In contrast, reproductive activity in S. jalapae males occurred during the wet season (July to September). Females of S. gadoviae showed continuous reproduction, whereas females of S. jalapae exhibited seasonal reproduction. Mean SVL of sexually mature females was higher for S. gadoviae $(\bar x \pm {s_{\bar x}} = 50.4 \pm 0.52)$ than for S. jalapae (46.0  0.54, P < 0.0001). Mean clutch size for S. gadoviae was lower (3.9  0.14 eggs) than for S. jalapae (5.6  0.43). There was no significant correlation between snout-vent length of females and clutch size of S. gadoviae (r = 0.22, P > 0.05) or S. jalapae (r = 0.48, P > 0.05). Our study suggests that although both species inhabit the same environment, they have different reproductive characteristics.
41717448|We collected 532 fleas, 526 of which were Foxella ignota ignota, from 247 northern pocket gophers, Thomomys talpoides, in Elbert County, Colorado, over 13 months. Other fleas included 1 Hystrichopsylla dippiei ssp., 3 Spicata rara, 1 Oropsylla idahoensis, and 1 female flea tentatively identified as Oropsylla (Opisocrostis) sp. These are new records for H. dippiei ssp. and S. rara in Elbert County. Fleas were cleared using standard methods and were placed on microscope slides in Canada balsam. The number of fleas per host ranged from 0 to 26. The highest median number of fleas per host (n = 5) was in May with a low median (n = 0) in August. Mean intensity and relative density of fleas peaked in April and May, respectively. Total flea abundance peaked from April through July. Approximately 72% of the male gophers (N = 99) were infested with fleas, whereas 57% of the females (N = 148) had fleas. Flea abundance on male gophers did not decrease nor did flea abundance on females increase as would be expected if flea breeding were influenced by hormones of the host. We suggest further randomized studies of fleas on T. talpoides to investigate parasite abundance throughout the year.
41717449|The spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) has been virtually unknown in Oregon despite the existence of potential habitat in many areas of the state. In 2002 and 2003 we searched for spotted bats along the John Day, Deschutes, and Crooked Rivers and at a remote dry canyon southeast of the city of Bend in central Oregon. The species was documented through the use of mist-nets, a bat detector, and recognition of audible spotted bat calls. Spotted bats were found at 11 locations in 6 Oregon counties. Nightly activity patterns of spotted bats were unpredictable. Spotted bats were found in 78% of search areas but on only 48% of survey nights. We observed spotted bats foraging above fields and low upland slopes adjacent to rivers and creeks and along the rims of cliffs. Estimated flying heights of spotted bats ranged from 3 m to 50 m aboveground. The species was difficult to capture and was captured only after considerable experimentation with methods and materials. Three spotted bats were captured toward the end of the project in 2003 and accounted for only 0.5% of all bats captured during the study. Although we attached radio transmitters to 2 spotted bats, we found no roost locations. We believe additional spotted bat surveys in Oregon are warranted, especially in higher-elevation habitats, but recommend that to increase their effectiveness, surveys accommodate the unique foraging behavior of the species.
41717450|Although previous research has considered habitat associations and breeding biology of Mountain Plovers in Wyoming at discrete sites, no study has considered these attributes at a statewide scale. We located 55 Mountain Plover nests in 6 counties across Wyoming during 2002 and 2003. Nests occurred in 2 general habitat types: grassland and desert-shrub. Mean estimated hatch date was 26 June (n = 31) in 2002 and 21 June (n = 24) in 2003. Mean hatch date was not related to latitude or elevation. Hatch success of nests was inferred in 2003 by the presence of eggshell fragments in the nest scrape. Eggs in 14 of 22 (64%) known-fate nests hatched. All grassland sites and 90% of desert sites were host to ungulate grazers, although prairie dogs were absent at 64% of nest sites. Nest plots had less grass coverage and reduced grass height compared with random plots. More than 50% of nests occurred on elevated plateaus. The Mountain Plover's tendency to nest on arid, elevated plateaus further substantiates claims that the bird is also a disturbed-prairie species.
41717451|Field research on the dispersal of fecal sacs by parent White-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta carolinensis) was conducted on the eastern slopes of the Sierra Nevada in northwestern Nevada. Fecal sacs were dropped 660 m from the nest, with 56% of the total droppings (n = 66) being dropped 4860 m away. Ninety-five percent of sac dispersal was in the southwest quadrant, the food-foraging site. Also, 75% of non-sac flights during the nestling phase were in the direction of the foraging area, a dead, mature Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi). Fecal sac dispersal by parent Whitebreasted Nuthatches may reduce or eliminate detection of nestlings by avian predators.
41717452|Some perturbations differentially influence invasive plant and grass production. For example, growth regulator herbicides and biological control agents can dramatically reduce leafy spurge production while having little or no influence on grass production, and overgrazing can reduce grass production while not substantially influencing leafy spurge production because cattle typically ingest little or no leafy spurge. To predict how grass production will respond to a perturbation that influences only leafy spurge and to predict how leafy spurge production will respond to a perturbation that affects only grasses, competitive relationships must be understood. Seeding mixtures of leafy spurge and 2 grasses were planted in experiments and grown for 127 days to determine whether different water application regimes influenced competition among these 3 species. Competition became less intense as the number of water applications increased. If this finding holds true under field conditions, then it indicates that competition is less intense in years and locations with numerous precipitation events. Competitive interactions (i.e., competition coefficients) were less variable when water was applied more frequently, but the ability of models to account for variation in plant weight (i.e., r) was not influenced by the frequency of water application. This suggests that models will predict invasive plant and grass biomass with equal accuracy in years with few or many precipitation events. Competitive effects were similar regardless of grass species, which suggests that grasses might be considered collectively in predicting response to perturbations in the field.
41717453|Patterns of mineral nutrient uptake and distribution within the roots, stems, and leaves of Artemisia pygmaea and in the vascular parasite Orobanche fasciculata were investigated. All nutrients studied were magnified over concentrations found in the soil into the host and parasite. Nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and zinc were magnified along the flow gradient of soil-roots-stems-leaves of the host. All others increased in the roots and then decreased in the stems and leaves. Orobanche fasciculata concentrated phosphorus, potassium, and sodium over soil and root concentrations while excluding to some degree all others.
41717454|Yellow pine chipmunks (Tamias amoenus) scatter-hoard food during summer and autumn but must form a larder as a winter food source before winter begins. Yellow pine chipmunks do not larder-hoard large quantities of food during the summer, apparently because a summer larder could not be defended from pilferers. We tested the assumption that the rate of pilferage from an unguarded larder would be significantly greater than the rate of pilferage from surface caches (which are also unguarded by yellow pine chipmunks) during the summer and autumn. Buried plastic buckets were used as artificial nests containing larders of 1000 sunflower seeds or 200 Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi) seeds. The pilferage of larder contents was monitored daily and compared to pilferage of surface caches. Animals (yellow pine chipmunks and deer mice, Peromyscus manicuhtus) removed sunflower seeds from caches much faster than from larders, but caches of Jeffrey pine seeds disappeared much more slowly than pine seeds in larders. Further, animals removed pine seeds from larders more quickly than they did sunflower seeds from larders. The difference between seed species was probably because sunflower seeds have much stronger odors, which rodents readily detect, and because chipmunks prefer pine seeds over sunflower seeds. Yellow pine chipmunks must spend a considerable portion of their time foraging for seeds and may not be able to defend a large larder during summer.
41717455|Virgoiulus minutus (Brandt 1841) (Julida: Blaniulidae), the only indigenous representative of the family in the New World, occurs, or can be expected, in parts or all of 24 states east of the Central Plains plus the District of Columbia; it is documented for the 1st time from Mississippi, Oklahoma, and Texas. The northern-, southern-, and westernmost localities are in Berrien County, Michigan; Putnam County, Florida; and Angelina/Rusk Counties, Texas, respectively. New England, Utah, Wyoming, Canada, and Mexico are deleted from the range, and specific localities are reported to augment previous generalized citations; those from Mexico represent misidentifications of Nopoiulus kochii (Gervais, 1847), an introduced European species that is recorded from Mexico City, Distrito Federal. Records of V. minutus from Pennsylvania, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, West Virginia, Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, and Missouri are the 1st definite localities from these states; a sample from "Anechar," believed to be a misspelling of "Arrochar," a neighborhood in Staten Island, is considered the 1st definite record from New York. The published statement of occurrence in Delaware in general is the only known record of an indigenous diplopod from this state.
41717462|Land managers and scientists need context in which to interpolate between or extrapolate beyond discrete field points in space and time. Ecological classification of land (ECL) is one way by which these relationships can be made. Until regional issues emerged and calls were made for ecosystem management (EM), each land management institution chose its own ECLs. The need for economic efficiency and the increasing availability of geographic information systems (GIS) compel the creation of a national ECL so that communication across ownership boundaries can occur. ECOMAE an 8-level, top-down, nested, hierarchical, multivariable approach designed to solve this problem has been endorsed by the Federal Geographic Data Committee. While the coarsest, upper 4 levels of ECOMAP have been produced for the entire U. S., the task of completing the 4 finer-grained levels has been left to local practitioners. We tried to apply the suggestions of ECOMAP for completing an ECL for a 4.5-million-hectare area centered in western Utah. Due to the lack of complete and consistent sets of spatial databases suggested as necessary by ECOMAP for completing the ECL for this area, we developed alternatives to complete the ECL using extant information. We stressed 1 dominant landscape feature per hierarchical level, using repeatable protocols to identify landscape units. We added 2 additional levels below the 8 suggested by ECOMAP Ecological sites (ESs), the 9th level, are designed to overcome the nestedness of ECOMAP that we found prevented us from using important data on ESs already available from the Natural Resources Conservation Service. Vegetation stands (VSs), the 10th and finest-grain level, are subdivisions of individual polygons of ESs based on differences in disturbance histories that have led to differing current vegetation structure and composition. The ECL we created should help federal, state, and private land managers in western Utah more easily communicate about issues that cross ownership boundaries.
41717463|Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) have been declining in many states and provinces of North America, and North and South Dakota hold no exception to these declines. We studied effects of cultivated land on Greater Sage-Grouse lek abandonment in North and South Dakota. Landscape-level data were assessed using satellite imagery within a geographic information system. Comparisons were made of 1972-1976 and 1999-2000 percent cultivated and noncultivated land. These comparisons were made between land uses surrounding active leks versus inactive leks, active leks versus random locations, and abandoned regions versus active regions. The 1999-2000 imagery illustrated that percent cultivated land was greater near abandoned leks (4-km buffers) than near active leks in North Dakota or random sites, but this did not hold true in South Dakota. Comparison of an extensive region of abandoned leks with a region of active leks in North Dakota illustrated a similar increase as well as dispersion of cultivation within the abandoned region. However, 1972-1976 imagery revealed that this relationship between percentage of cultivated land and lek activity in North Dakota has been static over the last 30 years. Thus, if the decline of Greater Sage-Grouse is the result of cultivated land infringements, it occurred prior to 1972 in North Dakota.
41717464|In desert environments seeds are often heterogeneously distributed in small patches that vary in number of seed species and in seed density. Because seed harvest by rodents is often density dependent (a larger proportion of seeds is removed from high-density seed patches than from low-density patches), the proportion of residual or post-harvest seeds should be greater in low-density patches. In addition, seed preference can affect harvest. We tested whether the residual proportion of a highly preferred seed (Indian ricegrass, Oryzopsis hymenoides) was less when in a seed patch with a 2nd species (mixed-species patch) than when in a monospecific seed patch. We predicted that the increased overall seed density due to the presence of 2 species in a patch would result in a lower residual proportion of ricegrass seeds in the mixed-species seed patches than in the monospecific patches. As predicted, the residual proportions of Indian ricegrass seeds were less each time ricegrass was paired with one of 6 other species in mixed-species patches. Similarly, the residual proportion of each of those 6 species was less when paired with ricegrass than when in a monospecific patch. We speculate on the potential implications of these results for the population dynamics of plant species and the physical structure of plant communities.
41717465|We tested the hypothesis that elk in Rocky Mountain National Park (RMNP) were at ecological carrying capacity by determining herd-specifc levels of nutritional condition and fecundity. Ingesta-free body fat levels in adult cows that were lactating were 10.6% (s = 1.7; range = 6.2-15.4) and 7.7% (s = 0.5; range = 5.9-10.1) in November 2001 for the Horseshoe and Moraine Park herds, respectively. Cows that were not lactating were able to accrue significantly more body fat: 14.0% (s = 1.1; range = 7.7-19.3) and 11.5% (s = 0.8; range = 8.6-15.1) for the Horseshoe and Moraine Park herds, respectively. Cow elk lost most of their body fat over winter (April 2002 levels were 3.9% [s = 0.4] and 2.9% [s = 0.4] for the Horseshoe and Moraine Park herds, respectively). Nutritional condition indicated that both Horseshoe Park and Moraine Park elk were well below condition levels elk can achieve on very good-excellent nutrition (i.e., >15% body fat; Cook et al. 2004) and were comparable to other free-ranging elk populations. However, condition levels were higher than those expected at a "food-limited" carrying capacity, and a proportion of elk in each herd were able to achieve condition levels indicative of very goodexcellent nutrition. Elk in RMNP are likely regulated and/or limited by a complex combination of density-independent (including significant heterogeneity in forage conditions across RMNP's landscape) and density-dependent processes, as condition levels contradict a simple density-dependent model of a population at ecological carrying capacity.
41717466|Archaeological sites in the Salton Basin of southeastern California and along the lower Colorado River provided opportunities to determine which fish species were present prior to extirpations, environmental degradation, and the recession of Lake Cahuilla. These remains also represent the fishes exploited by Native Americans. Bonytail (Gila elegans), razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus), Colorado pikeminnow (Ptychocheilus lucius), striped mullet (Mugil cephalus), and machete (Elops affinis) have been recovered from 117 sites in the Salton Basin, once filled by the Colorado River forming Lake Cahuilla. Bonytail and razorback sucker comprise nearly 99% of the remains. Along the lower Colorado River itself, fragmentary elements of bonytail, razorback sucker, Colorado pikeminnow, and roundtail chub (G. robusta) have been recovered, documenting a disappearing native fish fauna. Anatomical details are described that permit identification of diagnostic materials commonly recovered during archaeological excavations.
41717467|Lewisia kelloggii has been understood as a rare plant with a disjunct range in California and Idaho. Examination of herbarium specimens and analysis of isozymes in 6 Idaho and 7 California populations revealed consistent differences between plants of the 2 states. Fixed differences in alleles at 2 loci (AAT2 and PGI1) distinguished Idaho from California plants. Genetic identities based on isozymes between Idaho and California populations averaged 0.58, lower than the average for congeneric plant species. Idaho plants were smaller than most California plants, but California plants were variable. The most consistent morphological difference between Idaho and California specimens was the difference in the number of glands on the margins of bracts and sepals. Idaho plants had 0 (-5) pink glands on each margin of these organs, all on teeth near the tips. In California plants these organs had 12-25 glands on each margin, the distal ones elevated on teeth and the proximal ones sessile. We recognize the Idaho plants as a new species, L. sacajaweana, and retain the name L. kelloggii for the California populations.
41717468|Arrowleaf balsamroot, Balsamorhiza sagittata (Pursh) Nutt, is a common, sometimes dominant, longlived forb that flowers early in spring from the foothills to upper-montane areas of the northern Rocky Mountains and Intermountain West. Public land managers desire its seed for rangeland rehabilitation. Through manual pollination field trials, the species was found to have a mixed pollination system. It is primarily xenogamous (46% of ovules yielded plump achenes) but partially self-compatible (31% of achenes were plump). Unvisited flower heads formed virtually no mature achenes; only plump achenes contained seeds with endosperm. Freely visited flower heads in 2 populations produced as many achenes as manual outcross pollinations of flower heads, suggesting that seed production was not pollinator limited. Two species of Osmia bees rely mostly on Balsamorhiza and its close relative, Wyethia, for pollen. At least 165 females per hectare will need to be stocked to achieve thorough flower visitation in cultivated seed production fields.
41717469|New species of Mentzelia and Phacelia are described from northwestern New Mexico, USA, as Mentzelia todiltoensis, N. Duane Atwood & Stanley L. Welsh, and Phacelia sivinskii N. D. Atwood, sp. nov. The new Mentzelia is compared to M. humilis based on similarities in seed, fruit, leaf, and flower morphology and to M. memorabalis in stem, leaf, and fruit morphology. Phacelia sivinskii is compared to P. constancei N. D. Atwood on the basis of seed, leaf, and flower morphology.
41717470|Changes in global climate may exacerbate other anthropogenic Stressors, accelerating the decline in distribution and abundance of rare species throughout the world. We examined the potential effects of a warming climate on the greenback cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki stomias), a resident salmonid that inhabits headwater streams of the central Rocky Mountains. Greenbacks are outcompeted at lower elevations by nonnative species of trout and currently are restricted to upper-elevation habitats where barriers to upstream migration by nonnatives are or have been established. We used likelihood-based techniques and information theoretics to select models predicting stream temperature changes for 10 streams where greenback cutthroat trout have been translocated. These models showed high variability among responses by different streams, indicating the usefulness of a stream-specific approach. We used these models to project changes in stream temperatures based on 2C and 4C warming of average air temperatures. In these warming scenarios, spawning is predicted to begin from 2 to 3.3 weeks earlier than would be expected under baseline conditions. Of the 10 streams used in this assessment, 5 currently have less than a 50% chance of translocation success. Warming increased the probability of translocation success in these 5 streams by 11.2% and 21.8% in the 2 scenarios, respectively. Assuming barriers to upstream migration by nonnative competitors maintain their integrity, we conclude that an overall habitat improvement results because greenbacks have been restricted through competition with nonnatives to suboptimal habitats, which are generally too cold to be highly productive.
41717471|Disturbance in riparian areas of semiarid ecosystems involves complex interactions of pulsed hydrologie flows, herbivory, fire, climatic effects, and anthropogenic influences. We resampled riparian vegetation within ten 10-m  100-m plots that were initially sampled in 1992 in 4 watersheds of the Snake Range, east central Nevada. Our finding of significantly lower coverage of grasses, forbs, and shrubs within plots in 2001 compared with 1992 was not consistent with the management decision to remove livestock grazing from the watersheds in 1999. Change over time in cover of life-forms or bare ground was not predicted by scat counts within plots in 2001. Cover results were also not well explained by variability between the 2 sampling periods in either density of native herbivores or annual precipitation. In contrast, Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) exhibited reduced abundance at all but the highest-elevation plot in which it occurred in 1992, and the magnitude of change in abundance was strongly predicted by plot elevation. Abundance of white fir (Abies concolor) individuals increased while aspen (Populus tremuloides) individuals decreased at 4 of 5 sites where they were sympatric, and changes in abundance in the 2 species were negatively correlated across those sites. Utility of monitoring data to detect change over time and contribute to adaptive management will vary with sample size, observer bias, use of repeatable or published methods, and precision of measurements, among other factors.
41717478|A nearly complete, but highly fractured, proboscidean tusk was unearthed during parking lot construction near Moxee City in central Washington in May 2001. Schreger angle analysis revealed that the tusk was from a mammoth. AMS radiocarbon dating of the tusk established that the mammoth died 14,570 C yr BP The age, combined with the biogeography of proboscidean finds in the Pacific Northwest, suggests the tusk is from a Columbian mammoth (Mammuthus columbi). The condition of the tusk and its association with basalt and crystalline erratics suggest that a locally derived tusk was swept up in the advancing flood and transported to ~ 320 m elevation, where it was deposited in the sediments of the 3rd of 3 Missoula Floods that are preserved in the area. The tusk's weathering indicates subaerial exposure prior to burial in the slackwater sediments. Slackwater deposits at the site are pale, ~30100 cm thick, calcareous, fine-textured strata that include occasional coarse basalt and crystalline sand and gravel. They are intruded by numerous clastic dikes. The sediments encapsulating the tusk lack rhythmites because of their deposition in the nearshore zone of an ephemeral slackwater lake. The first 2 floods inundated the site between 15,300 C yr BP and 14,570 C yr BP, stripping the A horizon from a well-developed soil formed in alluvial fan sediments sitting above an Ellensburg Formation pediment. The last flood to reach the site occurred later than 14,570 14 C yr BP as indicated by the presence of the dated tusk. Post-flood and post-MSH S tephra loess derived from the Yakima River floodplain mantles these slackwater deposits. The Warden soil is forming in the now-stable loess parent material.
41717479|Coastal erosion at central Whidbey Island reveals a cross-section view of dune sands that contain the only known record of animals that inhabited the Pacific Northwest coast during the early Holocene. Mammal fossils include bones and teeth of deer, wolf, brown bear, and several species of rodents. A deer vertebra from basal beds yielded a C age of 8840  50 yr BP. The faunal diversity suggests that the region was repopulated relatively quickly following the final retreat of the Cordilleran sheet. This paleofauna was quite different from that of the late Pleistocene, when the region was inhabited by mammoth, musk oxen, giant sloth, and other large mammals. Avian remains include hawks, geese, and seabirds, 3 groups that occupied quite different ecological niches. Early Holocene bird fossils from Whidbey Island are dissimilar to late Pleistocene avifaunas from inland sites in California and Oregon, evidence that the coastal environment offered habitat conditions quite unlike those of interior wetlands.
41717480|Observing survival and how individuals allocate time can provide insight into a species' ability to tolerate environmental constraints. We studied the Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax trallii) in the Sierra Nevada to determine if there were behavioral differences between pairs that successfully produced offspring and those that did not. This information will advance understanding of why these birds are declining in the Sierra Nevada and contribute to recommendations that may help to conserve them. We studied birds in 13 meadows in 2000 and 2001 using continuous focal-animal observations. Of the 43 territories we observed, 11 were occupied by males who never paired with a female, leaving 32 pairs for analysis. Of the 32 pairs, 13 were successful at breeding on their 1st attempt, and 9 pairs failed at their initial try but were successful on their 2nd breeding attempt. Throughout the breeding season, Willow Flycatchers spent 77%78% of the day loafing during territory establishment and nest building, and loafing reached a low of 49% of the time budget during the nestling stage. Unsuccessful pairs spent on average 34% more time perching than their successful counterparts, while successful pairs spent on average 48% more of their time on the nest than unsuccessful pairs. Willow Flycatchers doubled the time spent foraging during the nestling phase because they had to meet the daily intake requirements for their young and themselves. Our results suggest that birds that spent more time on the nest and less time vocalizing had a significantly higher probability of successfully producing young because they were able to protect nests from predators, nest parasites, and inclement weather.
41717481|The retreat-building midge Pagastia prob, partica (Roback) is an abundant and conspicuous member of the benthic community of the upper Colorado River. We investigated the ecology and behavior of P. partica in this regulated stream using both qualitative observations and quantitative surveys. Our studies revealed that P. partica foraged primarily by grazing algae from their retreats and adjacent surfaces and exhibited territorial behavior toward other P. partica larvae. Pagastia partica were widely distributed among streambed surfaces but preferred those with higher biomasses of periphyton and swifter currents. The retreats of P partica were composed largely of silk and colonized algae and were important structural habitat features for other benthic fauna. We found numerous small benthic invertebrates cohabiting retreats, while larger insects were observed to have distinct affinities for or aversions to retreat-structured surfaces. Our results indicate that P. partica is not only an abundant member of this benthic community, but also a habitat engineer whose retreats represent an important component of streambed habitat for upper Colorado River benthos.
41717482|Several amphibian species historically inhabited sparsely distributed wetlands in the Mojave Desert of western North America, habitats that have been dramatically altered or eliminated as a result of human activities. The population status and distributional changes of amphibians were investigated over a 20,000-km area in the eastern Mojave Desert in 2 ways. For upland sites (i. e., sites outside of major valleys and river floodplains), where wetland habitat is almost exclusively springs, encounter surveys were conducted at 128 sites in 19971999, and results were compared to historical (pre-1970) locality records. For lowland sites (i. e., sites within major valleys and river floodplains), locality records and field surveys in 19952004 were reviewed to detect changes in distribution over time. Amphibians were found at 79% of upland sites. By far the most common species was the red-spotted toad (Bufo punctatus, 73% of sites), followed by the Pacific chorus frog (Pseudacris regilla), Woodhouse's toad (B. woodhousii), relict leopard frog (Rana onca), and the introduced American bullfrog (R. catesbeiana). Taxa observed or collected in the lowlands since 1990 were Woodhouse's toad, Pacific chorus frog, American bullfrog, and the introduced tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum). Four taxa (Vegas Valley leopard frog [Rana sp.], Arizona toad [B. microscaphus], Great Plains toad [B. cognatus], and Great Basin spadefoot [Spea intermontana]) had historical records but no evidence of occurrence in the study area within the past 5 decades. The amphibian fauna of the study area has changed dramatically in the past century, primarily at lowland sites where habitat loss and modification have been extreme. Striking changes are the nearly complete replacement of native leopard frogs (i. e., Vegas Valley and relict leopard frogs) with the introduced bullfrog, and the complete replacement of the Arizona toad in Las Vegas Valley with Woodhouse's toad or hybrids with predominantly Woodhouse's traits. In contrast, the distributions of 2 species characteristic of upland springs, red-spotted toad and Pacific chorus frog, appear to have changed little from their historical distributions, despite habitat modification at many sites.
41717483|We examined morphology of 4 sucker species (Catostomidae) from Klamath and Rogue River basins, Oregon and California. Different pairs of these species have been suspected of hybridizing, and field biologists have experienced difficulty identifying individuals in some areas. The suite of morphological characters used for initial identification was poorly supported by other morphometric characters but well supported by meristic charac ters, especially when analyses were restricted geographically. In some species sexual dimorphism was evident, with males having longer pectoral fins and females having longer pre-anal counts and measurements. Each species showed geographic differentiation, either between the Lost River subbasin and other Klamath subbasins or between Klamjath and Rogue basins. Classification was most difficult for Catostomus snyderi, which was frequently misclassified as all other species, but especially as Chasmistes brevirostris. Despite this, the 2 species are ecologically segregated in the u pper subbasins with lake-spawning Ch. brevirostris spatially segregated and river-spawning Ch. brevirostris temporally segregated from river-spawning C. snyderi. We discuss the possibility that a large-headed, thin-lipped species has become extinct in Upper Klamath Lake and alternatively suggest that the form could represent an ecophenotype of Ch. bre virostris that is no longer produced in hypereutrophic Upper Klamath Lake.
41717484|Pygmy rabbits (Brachylagus idahoensis) are a small sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) obligate lagomorph found within the Great Basin of northwestern United States. Because of its reliance on sagebrush, this species is thought to be experiencing a major range reduction as a result of loss of sagebrush habitat. To aid in conservation of this species, we need to better understand its use of the sagebrush environment. We estimated summer home range use patterns by relocating 5 radio-collared pygmy rabbits (3 females and 2 males) over a 24-hour cycle. We then compared soil texture, shrub density, height, and canopy cover between areas close to burrow entrances and areas of high use and low use. Mean home range sizes of female and male rabbits were 37.2 and 67.9 ha, respectively. Rabbits had disproportionate amounts of time (68.4%  9.1, s${s_{\bar x}}$) and travel (63.0%  5.7, s${s_{\bar x}}$) in areas within a 60-m radius of their burrows. Soil texture did not differ among the 3 areas, but shrub density, specifically big sagebrush, and forb density were significantly higher close to the burrow than in the high-and low-use areas. We conclude that pygmy rabbits are possibly burrow obligates and that their abundance and distribution are likely limited by available burrow sites.
41717485|Introduced brown trout, Salmo trutta, are common to many streams of western North America. However, the ecological interactions between brown trout and native stream fishes are not well understood, particularly the nature and extent of antipredator responses of native species. We examined the effects of brown trout presence on diurnal habitat use by 2 small native fishes at a mesohabitat scale (e. g., pool, riffle, run, backwater, etc.). Adult and juvenile southern leatherside chub (Lepidomeda aliciae, formerly Gila copei) and juvenile mountain sucker (Catostomus platyrhynchus) were located in main channel pools in the absence of brown trout, but they were found almost exclusively in backwaters and cutoff pools (i. e., off-channel habitats) in streams where brown trout were abundant. Off-channel habitat appears to provide a refuge for native fishes in streams with abundant brown trout populations. Altered or degraded streams may not include sufficient off-channel refuge habitats to allow coexistence of native species and introduced brown trout.
41717486|The restoration of perennial grasslands in western North America often depends on effective weed control. We took advantage of a grassland restoration site on the Nature Conservancy's Agate Desert Preserve in southern Oregon (TNC 1997), where 3 sites had been previously burned, mowed, or both. At these sites we carried out a series of controlled, replicated experiments designed to test the effectiveness of 3 weed control measures: (1) sawdust, (2) glyphosate herbicide, and (3) herbicide plus an alfalfa mulch. All plots were seeded with a mix of 3 native perennial grasses. The soils of the 3 areas differing in previous vegetation management were similar, with the exception of total available soil nitrogen, which was significantly lower in the 2 burned sites. The sawdust treatment reduced total available soil nitrogen, but only in the unburned site, and only in the first few months after application. In all 3 areas the alfalfa mulch significantly increased total available soil nitrogen. However, none of these soil nitrogen differences significantly affected the success of weeds or planted perennial grasses. The herbicide treatment reduced exotic annual grasses and forbs and greatly increased the success of native forbs and the planted perennial grasses. The herbicide increased both initial establishment of the native grasses and their absolute cover and biomass. These results suggest that neither nitrogen impoverishment nor nitrogen enrichment was a useful restoration technique at this site, but weed control by herbicides can be of considerable assistance in restoring native perennial grasses.
41717487|Understanding the relative ability of forages to meet the needs of prime-age females, the productive component of elk (Cervus eL  phus) populations, is necessary to decipher reasons for declines and potential for population growth. Information on forage nutrient dynamics for elk on Great Basin summer-fall ranges is lacking. Our primary objectives were to estimate nutrient levels in common elk forage species in northeastern Nevada at 3 time periods and evaluate whether nutrient levels met good requirements for lactating cow elk at time periods across summers. We compared crude protein, digestible energy, and macromineral levels in 2 forbs, 6 grasses, and 4 woody browse forage species to requirements for lactating cow elk in early summer, midsummer, and early fall 1999 and 2000. Spurred lupine (Lupinus caudatus) and snowbrush ceanothus (Ceanothus velutinus) were the most proteinaceous plants, exceeding requirements across all seasons. By midsummer, protein levels in all grasses were below elk requirements (12%). Digestible energy was the most limiting nutrient with woody browse meeting lactating cow elk requirements only in early fall (2750 kcal  kg). Sodium levels never exceeded about 10% of the required 600 g  g. The potential for maintaining a relatively high density of elk at forage-quality levels that fulfill requirements declines as summers progress on Great Basin summer ranges. Maintaining highly productive elk herds in the Great Basin requires that managers maintain plant communities with a diversity of forbs, grasses, and browse to provide for nutritional needs of lactating cows and their growing calves.
41717488|Pityopus califomicus is a rare mycoheterotrophic herb that occurs in coniferous and mixed forests of western North America. Previous authors have speculated that Pityopus califomicus is not a true species but is a recurring hybrid. The reputed parental candidates of P. califomicus include the closely related Pleuricospora fimhriolata, Hemitomes congestum, and Monotropa hypopithys. However, a phylogenetic analysis of large ribosomal subunit (26S) rRNA gene sequences suggests that Pityopus califomicus is sister to Monotropa hypopithys and not a recurring hybrid.
41717492|Saltcedar (Tamarix spp.), a shrub native to Eurasia, is associated with major alterations to wetland and riparian systems in the southwestern United States. Since the 1960s saltcedar has been naturalized in northern states of the U.S. where its growth potential and impacts are not well known. Here, we describe the occurrence, age, size, and relative cover of saltcedar populations in several river basins in central eastern Montana, USA, to identify potential patterns of spread across the region and changes in individual populations as they age. Stands were aged according to the oldest saltcedar individuals and were sampled for dominant plant cover and soil properties. Multiple introductions appear to have occurred in Montana, with the oldest stands occurring on the Bighorn River in southern Montana. Saltcedar absolute and relative cover and stand area increased significantly with stand age, while native tree and shrub relative cover remained low across all stand ages. These results suggest that saltcedar stands establish where woody natives are not abundant and that they persist and expand over time. Although soil salinity remained constant, soil pH decreased with saltcedar stand age, indicating a possible effect of organic matter inputs. An analysis of annual wood increment of saltcedar and sandbar willow (a native with analogous growth form) stems along a latitudinal gradient showed that stem growth of both species did not differ significantly among regions. Stem growth decreased inversely with elevation for both species while growth responses to elevation did not differ between species. Our results show an increase in number of populations and continued viability of these populations. Mechanisms of saltcedar increases in this region are yet to be determined. Anthropogenic influences, such as saltcedar plantings, watershed alterations (e.g., river flow control), and habitat disturbances (e.g., cattle grazing or habitat clearing) may facilitate its spread in similar climates of the Great Plains.
41717493|Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) use the Great Salt Lake (GSL) primarily as a fall staging area. They feed on brine shrimp (Artemia franciscana) to build up energy reserves to complete their southward migration. Whereas it has been speculated that timing of grebe departure from the GSL is due to declining shrimp density, this hypothesis has not been tested. We monitored grebe weight, behavior, and departure dates to test this hypothesis and to determine the effects of declining shrimp densities on Eared Grebes during 1999, 2000, and 2001 when there were different shrimp densities. Despite differences in shrimp densities, grebes left the GSL about the same time each year. Juvenile and subadult mass was significantly lighter (P < 0.001) in 1999 than in 2000 or 2001; however, adult grebe mass was similar in 1999 and 2000, despite the large difference in available of food. While there was no difference (P > 0.05) in dive or surface duration between 1999 and 2000, there were differences in the percentage of time spent foraging. Our results indicated that at shrimp densities < 0.1 shrimp L, grebes increased their foraging effort to offset the declining food resource instead of departing the GSL at an earlier date.
41717494|From a landscape perspective, riparian corridors can be viewed as mosaics of vegetation patches. We delineated 10 patch types within the floodplain of the San Pedro River (Arizona) on the basis of physiognomy, dominant overstory species, and tree size class; and we assessed differences in hydrogeomorphology, vegetation structure, plant species richness, and soil chemistry and texture. Patches of tamarisk (Tamanx), an introduced species, fell within the continuum of variation shown by other patch types in the landscape mosaic. Among the tree-dominated types, cottonwood-willow (Populus-Salix) and tamarisk patches were inundated more frequently than mesquite (Prosopis) patches, while cottonwood-willow patches had shallower groundwater than tamarisk or mesquite patches. Due to the wetter conditions, cottonwood-willow patches had a high relative abundance of wetland and exotic species in the understory. Tamarisk patches and wet shrublands (Baccharis salicifolia-Salix exigua) had high woody stem densities while cottonwood-willow patches had dense canopy cover. In association with differences in canopy cover, cottonwood-willow patches had low herbaceous species richness but high woody species richness, while tamarisk patches had high herbaceous and low woody species richness. Soil electrical conductivity, silt content, organic matter content, and available phosphorus increased from young to old stands of both tamarisk and cottonwood-willow, often resulting in greater differences between patches of different size/age class than between patches with different dominant species. Surface soil salinity (electrical conductivity) was low in all patches, including those dominated by tamarisk. Nitrate was abundant in soils of tamarisk patches (perhaps reflecting their high clay content) and wet shrubland patches. Dry shrublands (Hymenoclea-Ericameria) and wet shrublands were similar to young forest patches in having coarse soils with little organic matter.
41717495|The xystodesmid milliped tribe Pachydesmini is supported by the autapomorphic absence of bold aposematic pigmentations and possibly also by relative somatic inflexibility; it comprises 3 component genera: Pachydesmus Cook, 1895; Dicellarius Chamberlin, 1920; and Thrinaxoria Chamberlin and Hoffman, 1950. Three representatives occur west of the Mississippi RiverP. clarus (Chamberlin), P. crassicutis crassicutis (Wood), and T. lampra (Chamberlin). New localities are documented in Louisiana and Texas, and literature records are summarized for these states and Arkansas; records of P. claras from Cherokee County, Texas, are the westernmost in this state for the east-Nearctic xystodesmid fauna. An apparently allopatric population of P. crassicutis crassicutis occurs in Evangeline and Lafayette Parishes, Louisiana. These are the first records of this species from west of the Mississippi River, and new localities of this form are cited from east of the watercourse. Thrinaxoria lampra, known previously in Texas from only Gregg County, is documented from Bowie, Cass, Harrison, Rusk, Sabine, and Titus Counties plus Webster Parish, Louisiana. Diagnoses and pertinent anatomical illustrations are provided for each species including the first cyphopod drawings for P. clarus and T. lampra; occurrences west of the river are depicted on a map. A new tribal diagnosis is published along with a distribution map.
41717496|Our main objective was to improve understanding of herbicide effects on community dynamics to refine the use of technology and advance the development of ecologically based weed management strategies. We hypothesized that native grasslands would exhibit reductions in culturally sensitive forb cover, biomass, and density relative to the rate of application of selective rangeland herbicides, and that hand-removal of sulfur cinquefoil (Potentilla recta L.) would increase indigenous species cover, biomass, density, species richness, and diversity. Treatments consisted of 3 rates each of 2,4-D + clopyralid (0.28 kg ai  ha + 0.0532 kg ai  ha, 0.56 kg ai  ha + 0.1064 kg ai  ha, 0.84 kg ai  ha + 0.1596 kg ai  ha); 2,4-D amine (0.532 kg ai  ha, 1.064 kg ai  ha 1.596 kg ai  ha); metsulfuron (0.0042 kg ai  ha 0.021 kg ai  ha 0.032 kg ai  ha); picloram (0.14 kg ai  ha, 0.28 kg ai  ha kg ai  ha lopyralid (0.05025 kg ai  ha, 0.21 kg ai  ha, 0.42 kg ai  ha). This experiment was replicated 3 times at 2 lateseral, noninfested sites in southeastern Montana. In a companion study, sulfur cinquefoil was removed adjacent to paired nonremoved controls in 5 replicates at 2 sites in 1-m plots for 2 growing seasons. Canopy cover, density, and biomass were collected 24 months after initial treatment at all sites. Indigenous perennial grass cover and biomass increased with herbicide application; however, picloram, metsulfuron, and clopyralid reduced native forb density at 1 site, and picloram reduced forb cover at both sites regardless of rate. Effects of herbicides on species richness or diversity were not detected. Hand-removing sulfur cinquefoil increased total plant richness, especially that of native forbs. Restoring species richness and diversity may be difficult using selective broadleaf herbicides because key functional groups, such as forbs, appear to be at risk.
41717497|We use macroscopic charcoal analysis to reconstruct fire history in sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata var. wyomingensis and A. tridentata var. tridentata), in Newark Valley, Nevada. We analyzed charcoal at continuous 1-cm intervals (~7-127 years), and pollen at 2-to 10-cm intervals (~70-263 years) in a core spanning the last 5500 cal yr BP (calendar years before present). A charcoal peak in the historic period was associated with a >1400-ha fire dated to 1986 that burned in the watershed. We reconstructed the prehistoric fire history by inferring fires from similar charcoal peaks that were significantly greater than the background charcoal accumulation. Our results suggest the fire regime is climate and fuel driven. During periods of wetter climate, sagebrush increased and fires were more abundant, and during extended dry periods when sagebrush decreased, fires were less frequent. Our method does not allow calculation of a fire-return interval; however, our results support models that estimate a mean fire-return interval of up to a century in Artemisia tridentata var. wyomingensis. The charcoal record indicates that fires have increased within the historic period. This contrasts with pinyon/juniper studies that indicate an expansion of woodland associated with fewer fires in the historic period. We suggest that in the central Great Basin, a regime of frequent fires in sagebrush that limits woodland expansion is true for the sagebrush-woodland ecotone, but in sagebrush-dominated valleys with lower fuel loads, fires have always been less frequent. Protecting sagebrush-dominated valleys from frequent fire would appear to be consistent with the prehistoric fire regime.
41717498|This study explores how the relationship between flow and riparian vegetation varies along a montane river. We mapped occurrence of woody riparian plant communities along 58 km of the San Miguel River in southwestern Colorado. We determined the recurrence interval of inundation for each plant community by combining step-backwater hydraulic modeling at 4 representative reaches with Log-Pearson analysis of 4 stream gaging stations. Finally, we mapped bottomland surficial geology and used a Geographic Information System to overlay the coverages of geology and vegetation. Plant communities were distinctly arrayed along the hydrologie gradient. The Salix exigua Nuttall (sandbar willow) community occurred mostly on surfaces with a recurrence interval of inundation shorter than 2.2 years; the Betula occidentalis Hooker (river birch) community peaked on sites with recurrence intervals of inundation between 2.2 and 4.6 years. The hydrologie position occupied by communities dominated by Populus angustifolia James (narrowleaf cottonwood) was strongly related to age of trees and species composition of understory shrubs. The fraction of riparian vegetation on surfaces historically inundated by the river decreased in the upstream direction from almost 100% near Uravan to <50% along the South Fork of the San Miguel River. In upstream reaches much of the physical disturbance necessary to maintain riparian vegetation is provided by valley-side processes including debris flows, floods from minor tributaries, landslides, and beaver activity. Where valley-side processes are important, prediction of riparian vegetation change based on alterations of river flow will be incomplete.
41717499|We present an approach to quantitatively assess nonnative plant invasions at landscape scales from both habitat and species perspectives. Our case study included 34 nonnative species found in 142 plots (0.1 ha) in 14 vegetation types within the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, Utah. A plot invasion index, based on nonnative species richness and cover, showed that only 16 of 142 plots were heavily invaded. A species invasive index, based on frequency, cover, and number of vegetation types invaded, showed that only 7 of 34 plant species were highly invasive. Multiple regressions using habitat characteristics (moisture index, elevation, soil P, native species richness, maximum crust development class, bare ground, and rock) explained 60% of variation in nonnative species richness and 46% of variation in nonnative species cover. Three mesic habitats (aspen, wet meadow, and perennial riparian types) were particularly invaded (31 of 34 nonnative species studied were found in these types). Species-specific logistic regression models for the 7 most invasive species correctly predicted occurrence 89% of the time on average (from 80% for Bromus tectorum, a habitat generalist, to 93% for Tamarix spp., a habitat specialist). Even with such a modest sampling intensity (<0.1% of the landscape), this multiscale sampling scheme was effective at evaluating habitat vulnerability to invasion and the occurrence of the 7 most invasive nonnative species. This approach could be applied in other natural areas to develop strategies to document invasive species and invaded habitats.
41717500|We documented distribution, relative abundance, diet composition, and body condition of Sacramento pikeminnow Ptychocheilus grandis during 2001 and 2003 at 5 sites in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, California. Sacramento pikeminnow densities in nearshore habitats were higher in 2003 than 2001. In both years, spatial distribution of beach seine densities was similar. There were no significant differences in density among sampling sites except for the southernmost site where the catch was near zero. Based on rotary screw-trap data from a 6th site, we found relative abundance of Sacramento pikeminnow entering the Delta via an artificial floodplain was positively correlated with flow. Most individuals collected using all 3 gear types were age 1 or older, and appeared to grow quickly based on data from previous studies. Sacramento pikeminnow had diverse diets composed of freshwater and estuarine invertebrate and fish taxa. Incidence of piscivory was only 2% of the diet of individuals <150 mm, but increased to 50% for fish over 150 mm. No salmonids were observed in foregut contents during the study. In both years body condition declined abruptly in July. Our results suggest Sacramento pikeminnow are more common in the turbid, tidal freshwater habitats of the Delta than was previously recognized. Stream flows may play an important role in moving juvenile Sacramento pikeminnow into the Delta from upstream areas. Similar to northern pikeminnow P. oregonensis, but in seeming contrast to endangered Colorado pikeminnow P. lucius, the present study showed that Sacramento pikeminnow can be successful in altered habitats.
41717501|We examined stomach contents of preserved specimens of larval Pacific giant salamander (Dicamptodon tenebrosus) and Cope's giant salamander (D. copei) collected from sympatric and allopatric stream populations. The dietary components of these specimens were used to calculate dietary overlap between the 2 species and to determine if changes in overlap existed between sympatric and allopatric populations. To statistically test overlap values, a randomization algorithm was used to construct a simulated data matrix (i.e., null model) in order to compare observed values of dietary overlap to a distribution of overlap values from the null model. Significant levels (P < 0.05) of dietary overlap occurred in all cases of sympatry as well as allopatry. Average dietary overlap in sympatry was significantly lower than in allopatry, suggesting a dietary shift when in sympatry to reduce competition. Diet composition also differed between sympatric and allopatric populations of each species, further suggesting a partitioning of food resources by one or both species when in the presence of its congener.
41717502|Using livestock as seed dispersal agents may be an effective method for increasing species diversity on degraded and previously seeded rangelands. We quantified seed passage and recovery rates, and post-passage germinability of Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. wyomingensis Beetle & Young), bottlebrush squirreltail (Elymus elymoides [Raf.] Swezey), and gooseberry globemallow (Sphaerahea grossidariaefolia [H. & A.] Rydb.) by feeding Holstein heifers seeds of each species at 3 levels (15,000; 30,000; and 60,000 seeds) over a period of 3 weeks. One-kg fecal samples were collected 1, 2, 3, and 4 days after seed ingestion. Undamaged seeds were extracted from the samples and tested for germinability. Globemallow had the highest percentage of recovered, undamaged seed, followed by squirreltail and sagebrush. Globemallow and sagebrush seed passage was highest on Day 1, after which seed numbers dropped sharply. Squirreltail passage and recovery were more consistent through time, with higher seed recovery at lower seed feeding levels. Post-passage germinability was highest for squirreltail and globemallow on Day 1. Sagebrush germination was negligible. Differences in physical seed properties (size, shape, and seed coat) likely influenced interspecies variation in passage, recovery, and germinability. Globemallow and squirreltail seeds may be suited for livestock dispersal, but sagebrush seeds are not.
41717509|We examined landscape patterns in the physical conditions and vegetative composition of montane riparian zones to identify their most important sources of variation. Information on plant species cover and on physical characteristics that occur at coarse, medium, and fine scales was collected for 144 riparian plots located throughout the Lake Tahoe Basin, which straddles the California-Nevada border in the western United States. Constrained and unconstrained ordination analyses were used to identify the most important correlates of physical form and plant species composition. Through multivariate analysis of environmental variables (principal components analysis), vegetation data (detrended correspondence analysis), and the combined relationship between the environmental and vegetation data (canonical correspondence analysis), we consistently found that the greatest variation occurred along a gradient of decreasing valley width, decreasing stream sinuosity, and increasing stream slope. Although surface characteristics reflected a 2nd important source of variation in physical conditions, plant species distribution was not strongly correlated with riparian surface conditions. Strong correlations among physical variables that occur at different scales, such as between valley form and geofluvial surface and between geofluvial surface and surface conditions, support the use of a physically based hierarchical framework for organizing riparian zones within the landscape. Such a hierarchical framework would be useful for interpreting patterns in riparian structure and process at different scales and could be applied to riparian zones in other mountain landscapes of the western United States and elsewhere. Moreover, our finding that riparian plant species composition is most strongly correlated with environmental variables that occur at coarse to moderate scales, most of which can be derived from existing data, supports the idea that modeling montane riparian community distribution using topographic and remotely sensed data could be useful; however, a large degree of species variation, unexplained by the variables we collected, indicates that other variables, perhaps disturbance regime, should be included in such a venture.
41717510|Twenty-eight sites along the Wasatch Front, north central Utah, representing the range of urban land use intensity for wadeable streams of the area, were sampled in September 2000. Fish communities were assessed by single-pass electrofishing, and physical habitat and water-quality characteristics were measured. On average, nonnative species comprised 54% of species richness and 53% of relative abundance, although only Salmo trutta and Pimephales promelas were very abundant at any 1 site. Salmo trutta and Catostomus platyrhynchus, a native species, were the most widely distributed and abundant species captured. Analysis of fish communities using nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) revealed a community gradient from sites dominated by Salmo trutta and Cottus species (C. bairdi, C. beldingi) to sites dominated by Catostomus platyrhynchus. Sites dominated by C. platyrhynchus were smaller in size and had less habitat cover, smaller average substrate size, higher concentrations of dissolved constituents, and higher water temperature than sites dominated by S. trutta. Sites dominated by C. platyrhynchus were located in more intensely urbanized watersheds at lower elevations. Stream size and associated instream habitat availability appear to limit S. trutta distribution and abundance, while native species appear more tolerant of decreased water quality and increased water temperatures in more urbanized streams. Most of the study sites are affected by development of water infrastructure for human water use (e.g., dams and iversions), and this infrastructure may play a role in dispersal of species.
41717511|There is a paucity of information on the effects of wildfire on carnivores. We studied the effects of a 237-km catastrophic wildfire in the Mazatzal Mountains, Arizona, on gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) and coyotes (Cants latrans). We indexed relative abundance 3 times each year from 1996 to 1998 using scat transects in burned and unburned areas. We collected scats to estimate diet and measured small mammal abundance and mast availability in 1997 and 1998. We also measured vegetation cover in burned and unburned sites. Gray fox indices declined 3 months postfire, but after 30 months, indices returned to preburn levels. Coyote indices did not change. Primary foods for both species in burned and unburned sites were mast (fruits of shrubs) and rodents, and diet comparisons between sites became similar as plant succession continued. Scat indices did not correlate with seasonal small mammal abundance. We suspect that the lower abundance indices of gray foxes were related to reduction in cover and food availability, because indices increased as vertical cover and mast crop increased. These data indicate that the effects of this catastrophic fire were short-term but also highlight the importance of preserving shrub and vegetation diversity for gray fox.
41717512|I compared acute tolerance of Gila topminnow, Poeciliopsis occidentalis, and western mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, to ammonia and high water temperature and also compared diet, food selectivity, and impact on invertebrate populations to evaluate the potential for each species to effectively control mosquitoes (Culicidae) in wetland habitats. Critical thermal maxima differed among species, sexes, and lifestages, but these differences were likely not biologically significant due to their small magnitude and the ability of wild populations of both species to adapt to high temperatures. In 24-hour tests, G. affinis displayed about twice the ammonia tolerance as did P. occidentalis. However, longterm survival in habitats with high ammonia concentrations is questionable, thus reducing the perceived benefit of using G. affinis for mosquito abatement in these habitats. Diet overlap was significant between sexes within species but was not significant between species. However, both species exhibited significant dietary selection for mosquito larvae and pupae under experimental conditions. Shared dietary preference for mosquito larvae and pupae, in addition to similarity in temperature tolerance between species, suggests that P. occidentalis, a native and historically widespread species, can be used in place of nonnative G. affinis for mosquito control. There is no evidence to suggest that nonnative G. affinis is better suited for mosquito abatement, and since G. affinis is replacing P. occidentalis throughout the native species' former range, it should no longer be introduced into the Gila River basin for mosquito control. However, managers who would use P. occidentalis for mosquito abatement must take care not to interfere with conservation efforts by disrupting the genetic structure of natural populations of P. occidentalis.
41717513|In the southwestern United States, the nonnative athel pine (Tamarix aphylla) was presumed to be sterile and therefore not as likely to spread as its widely distributed, nonnative congener, T. ramosissima. However, at Lake Mead National Recreation Area (LMNRA) in southern Nevada, populations of T. aphylla have recently spread beyond their limited pre-1990 distribution and now form extensive monospecific stands. Over a 3-year period, we quantified seed production and germination from 60 T. aphylla trees at LMNRA. The annual mean seed production period was 50.6 days, and the mean potential germination (under laboratory conditions) was 22%, indicating that T. aphylla trees at LMNRA are capable of sexual reproduction in southern Nevada. No seeds germinated in field experiments, apparently because of high soil salt levels. However, seedling regeneration is becoming increasingly common at LMNRA. Tamarix aphylla trees occupied a distinct zone along the shoreline of Lake Mead, above T. ramosissima in elevation and below native Larrea tridentata communities, suggesting either competitive exclusion or differential resource utilization. The T. aphylla zone tended to have the highest mean values for total vegetation cover, leaf litter depth, soil salinity, soil moisture, pH, total Kjeldahl nitrogen, and soil organic matter. The capacity for sexual reproduction of this alien plant, combined with a suite of characteristics shared with the invasive T. ramosissima (e.g., drought tolerance and copious saline leaf litter), makes T. aphylla a potentially invasive species along the shores of LMNRA and other mesic areas in the desert Southwest.
41717514|Many desert perennials are long-lived, but there are few data on ages or population structures of desert plants. We used 2 methods to estimate ages of a population of Yucca brevifolia (Joshua tree) in southwestern Utah from a 14-year census of plant sizes. Plant height at the 1st census ranged from 0.08 m to 6.0 m, and trees grew in height at a mean rate of 3.75 cm  yr. Plants also increased slowly in basal diameter (0.142 cm  yr) and branch length (0.024 m  yr), but basal diameter varied greatly from year to year, with many plants decreasing in diameter between sequential censuses. Forms of a nonlinear growth equation (the Richards function) did not ft the data on growth in height, but a simple linear relationship ft the data well. Using height as a linear predictor of age, we estimated that ages of a sample of 69 Joshua trees ranged from < 20 to > 300 years old, with 75% of the trees between 20 and 100 years and 11% over 150 years old. These data support the assumption that Joshua trees are indeed long-lived.
41717515|Species richness in Madrean mixed-grass prairies dominated by native or exotic species in southeastern Arizona was characterized at the community and point scales using ten 1-m quadrats nested within each of eight 1000-m plots. In the 1000-m plots average richness was significantly higher in oak savanna (OS, 121.0 species) than in exotic grassland on mesa tops (EMT, 52.0 species), whereas native grassland on mesa slopes (NMS, 92.5 species) and native grassland on mesa tops (NMT, 77.0 species) did not differ significantly in richness from OS or EMT. When richness was partitioned by life form, EMT was notably poorer than other community types in species of perennial grasses, perennial herbs, and summer annuals. In the 1-m quadrats, OS (21.2 species), NMS (20.9 species), and NMT (20.7 species) were significantly richer than EMT (5.9 species). Cover in 1-m plots was significantly higher in EMT than in NMT, NMS, or OS. Species richness at the point scale showed a unimodal relation to canopy cover, with cover accounting for 30% of the variation in number of species in 1-m quadrats. Competitive exclusion and allelopathy have perhaps limited species richness at the point scale in exotic grassland. There was no evidence of a species-pool effect between point and community scales, but such an effect between community and landscape scales was supported. Madrean mixed-grass prairies are landscapes with high species richness in comparison to other grassland types in North America, providing a large pool of potential colonizing species at the community scale. Beta-diversity (between communities) within the landscape of the Appleton-Whittell Research Ranch was consequently high despite a relative lack of habitat diversity.
41717516|This study examined the effect of livestock grazing on a common herbivore in semiarid grasslands of the Southwest: the rainbow grasshopper, Dactylotum variegatum. Population attributes and key environmental variables were compared between sites on active cattle ranches and sites on a 3160-ha ungrazed sanctuary. Although density of D. variegatum nymphs did not differ significantly between grazed and ungrazed sites, adult density was significantly lower on grazed sites, and sex ratios differed between grazed and ungrazed sites over time. Grazed sites had higher percentages of bare ground and fewer Baccharis pteronioides, a common shrub. However, only bare ground was highly correlated with adult D. variegatum density; lower adult densities were associated with more bare ground. At a smaller scale, D. variegatum tended to be more abundant in areas with B. pteronioides on grazed sites and less abundant in areas on ungrazed sites. This study suggests that cattle grazing influences ecological variables important in determining density, sex ratio, and spatial distribution of D. variegatum at both large and small spatial scales.
41717517|We investigated the temperature tolerance and growth of 2 federally protected freshwater gastropods from southern Idaho: Valvata utahensis and Pyrgulopsis idahoensis. Snails were collected in the Snake River and transported to the laboratory where they were kept under highly controlled conditions. In varying-temperature, short-duration experiments, the temperatures tolerated by both species were between 7C and 34C. In constant-temperature, longduration experiments, growth rates were between 0.004 mm  d and 0.016 mm  d , and we created growth curves for both species that were previously lacking. Our results are among the first to report temperature tolerances and growth rates of native Snake River snails, and we discuss implications for the biology and management of both species.
41717518|The swift fox (Vulpes velox) was classified in 1995 as a candidate for listing under the Endangered Species Act. Since then, several studies have addressed survey methods for monitoring swift fox populations. The purpose of this paper is to assist field researchers in documenting the presence of swift foxes by identification of recently active den sites. We propose that swift foxes have unique external den characteristics that can be distinguished during aerial surveys. We collected data from 30 swift fox den complexes on both continuous rangeland and landscapes fragmented by cropland in northwest Texas. There were no differences in den characteristics between landscape types (P > 0.10). The number of openings per den ranged from 1 to 8 and had an average opening height of 20 cm. As number of openings increased, the maximum distance between openings also increased (r = 0.88, P < 0.001). One of the most distinguishing characteristics of swift fox dens was their dirt tailing. Of 74 den openings examined, all but 3 had conspicuous dirt tailings that averaged 267.0 cm long by 63.4 cm wide. We found that swift fox den openings were smaller than those of coyotes (Cants latrans) and red foxes (Vulpes vulpes), 2 species that can be sympatric with swift foxes. We suggest that aerial den searching followed by ground verification may be an effective technique for determining presence of swift foxes in areas of short-grass prairies and fragmented habitats.
41717519|We observed a breeding Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) pair nesting in a short-grass prairie and agricultural community on the southern Great Plains of the Texas Panhandle in 2004 and 2005. The nesting eagles produced 1 fledgling in 2004 and 2 fledglings in 2005. Our assessment of landcover types within a 5-km radius of the nest indicated that grasslands accounted for most of the area (90%), followed by agricultural lands (8%). Black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies occupied 2.5% of the area, and single human residences with associated structures (i.e., barns) occupied < 1%. The nearest source of permanent surface water > 2.5 ha in surface area was 51 km from the nest. An analysis of regurgitated castings collected near the nest revealed a mammalian-dominated, breeding-season diet with black-tailed prairie dogs occurring in 80.9% of the castings. Other identified prey included cottontails (Sylvilagus spp., 15.9%), black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californiens, 3.2%), pronghorn (Antihcapra americana, 3.2%), and plains pocket gopher (Geomys bursarus, 1.6%). Bird remains were also present in 34.9% of the castings. This is the first reported successful nesting of Bald Eagles in the panhandle region of Texas since 1916; the nest is particularly unique because of its distance from any substantial body of water.
41717531|Playas are ephemeral wetlands that are the only source of aboveground freshwater in the southern Great Plains, making them of vital importance to aquatic and amphibious animals. Playas are also highly threatened from anthropogenic land use (chiefly agriculture, which decreases hydroperiod through increased sedimentation). We examined community structure of adult odonates (dragonflies and damselflies) in playas differing in the 2 main regional forms of surrounding land use (cropland vs. grassland). Analysis of odonate diversity revealed high overlap between cropland and grassland playas. Traditional species-area theory did not fit observed patterns, as there appears to be a threshold playa size that supports maximal odonate diversity; this nonlinear response may reflect a tradeoff between hydroperiod and availability of emergent vegetation that is required for perching and oviposition. Since agriculture effectively reduces playa depth but not size of the overall playa watershed, this may mean that cropland playas serve as "ecological traps." This property has important implications for regional odonate diversity.
41717532|Following an Ips bark beetle outbreak in 2002, mortality of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Douglas ex C. Lawson) was evaluated in 2 study areas infested with southwestern dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium vaginatum [Willd.] Presi subsp. cryptopodum [Engelm.] Hawksw. & Wiens) in the Coconino and Tonto National Forests, Arizona. A pairwise comparison of dwarf mistletoe ratings for live and dead ponderosa pines was conducted to determine whether dead ponderosa pines had higher dwarf mistletoe ratings than pines that were not attacked. In both study areas, dead ponderosa pines had significantly higher dwarf mistletoe ratings, indicating an association between the severity of dwarf mistletoe infection and susceptibility to attack by Ips spp. We suggest that the probability of ponderosa pine mortality is greater in stands severely infested with southwestern dwarf mistletoe in northern Arizona.
41717533|This paper presents a new clustering program named RCLUS that was developed for species (R-mode) analysis of plant community data. RCLUS identifies clusters of co-occurring species that meet a user-specified cutoff level of positive association with each other. The "strict affinity" clustering algorithm in RCLUS builds clusters of species whose pairwise associations all exceed the cutoff level, whereas the "coalition" clustering algorithm only requires that the mean pairwise association of the cluster exceeds the cutoff level. Both algorithms allow species to belong to multiple clusters, thus accommodating both generalist and specialist species. Using a 60-plot dataset of perennial plants occurring on the Beaver Dam Slope in southwestern Utah, we carried out RCLUS analyses and compared the results with 2 widely used clustering techniques: UPGMA and PAM. We found that many of the RCLUS clusters were subsets of the UPGMA and PAM clusters, although novel species combinations were also generated by RCLUS. An advantage of RCLUS over these methods is its ability to exclude species that are poorly represented in a dataset as well as species lacking strong association patterns. The RCLUS program also includes modules that assess the affinity of a given species, plot, or environmental variable to a given cluster. We found statistically significant correlations between some of the RCLUS species clusters and certain environmental variables of the study area (elevation and topographical position). We also noted differences in clustering behavior when different association coefficients were used in RCLUS and found that those incorporating joint absences (e.g., the phi coefficient) produced more clusters and more even numbers of species per cluster than those not incorporating joint absences (e.g., the Jaccard index). In addition to the species association application described in this paper, the RCLUS algorithms could be used for preliminary data stratification in sample (Q-mode) analysis. The indirect link between sample plots and RCLUS species clusters could also be exploited to yield a form of "fuzzy" classification of plots or to characterize species pools of plots.
41717534|We studied the survival and reproduction of a newly introduced population of Eastern Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) during 1999 and 2000 to determine the adaptability of this subspecies to a minimally wooded (<10%) region located north of their recorded historic distribution in South Dakota. During 1999 and 2000, the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks (SDGFP) released 111 female and 25 male turkeys from Iowa and Kentucky onto a study area in northeastern South Dakota. We used radio telemetry to monitor survival and reproduction of the females for 2 years after their initial release. Annual survival for 71 females averaged 67%. Seasonal survival was lowest in fall and highest in winter. Mortality agents included avian and mammalian predators, haying equipment, automobiles, and unknown causes. Nesting rate for the 2 years averaged 93%, and renesting rate of turkeys with failed 1st-nest attempts averaged 45%. Nest success for all nests was 50%, and 62% of females attempting to nest each year were successful in at least 1 attempt. Prdation was the primary cause of nest failure during both years. Overall, 72% of brooding females successfully raised 1 poult to 4 weeks post-hatch while individual poult survival to 4 weeks posthatch averaged 36%. Despite <10% woodland cover, Eastern Wild Turkeys appeared to thrive in a glacial escarpment topography north of their historic range in the northern plains.
41717535|Historic botanical surveys documented that the natural distribution of the plains cottonwood (Populus deltoides subsp. monilifera) was limited to semiarid drainages east of the Rocky Mountains. Recently, a number of isolated populations of plains cottonwood have been found along the Kootenai, lower Snake, and Columbia Rivers and their tributaries. We used isozyme analysis to assess the genetic structure of these Pacific Northwest (PNW) populations in relation to native cottonwood populations east of the Rocky Mountains. These genetic data along with field surveys (dbh, age estimates) and cadastral field survey notes (mid-1800s) were used to understand the origin of these disjunct populations (i.e., relictual natives versus naturalized introductions). Genetic analyses revealed high levels of genetic diversity within and among PNW populations as well as hybridization with black cottonwood (P. trichocarpa). The observed range of genetic variation for PNW populations was similar to that of native cottonwood populations. Collectively, these data confirm that these scattered populations are plains cottonwood (Populus deltoides subsp. monilifera). Age estimates of the largest individuals found within study populations ranged from 27 to 51 years. Cadastral field surveys also noted the absence of woody vegetation along the lower Snake and Columbia Rivers. Considered together, the data suggest that these populations are of recent origin. The high levels of observed genetic variation are consistent with the reproductive biology of Populus spp. (i.e., obligate outcrossing and widespread dispersal of pollen and seed by wind and water) and a recurrent introduction of plains cottonwood throughout the study area.
41717536|From May 1978 through September 1980, baseline data for rodent populations were collected by live-trapping in the Saval Ranch area of northeastern Nevada. The objectives of this study were to determine species composition and relative abundance of rodents for the various range sites. The 3 most abundant and uniformly distributed species were deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), Great Basin pocket mice (Perognathus parvus), and least chipmunks (Neotamias minimus). Relative abundance indices and densities reported for most species were similar to those reported in other multiyear studies at similar sites. The composition and relative abundance /density of rodent species was variable among habitats and over time. Diverse rodent species within the sagebrush ecosystem have commensurately diverse habitat requirements that should be considered when vegetation management is planned. Annual population fluctuations and differences among similar habitats should be considered when researchers propose to test rodent population responses to livestock grazing or other habitat treatments.
41717537|Populations of Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) have been declining throughout their range since the 1960s. Productivity, which includes production and survival of young, is often cited as a factor in these declines. We monitored radio-equipped Greater Sage-Grouse at 3 sites in western Wyoming to assess early brood-rearing habitat use (through 14 days post-hatch) and productivity. Logistic and linear regression analyses with Akaike's Information Criterion were used to evaluate early brooding habitat use and to examine relationships between productivity and vegetation, insect size and abundance, and weather parameters. Females with broods were found in areas with greater sagebrush canopy and grass cover, and fewer invertebrates compared to random areas. The number of juveniles per female (estimated from wing barrel collections during fall harvest) was positively related to the abundance of medium-length Hymenoptera and grass cover, and the proportion of females with confirmed chicks 14 days post-hatch was positively related to abundance of medium-length Coleoptera and total herbaceous cover. Although the specific parameters varied slightly, Greater Sage-Grouse productivity in Wyoming appeared to be associated with a combination of insect and herbaceous cover elements. Managing for abundant and diverse insect communities within dense protective sagebrush stands should help ensure high-quality early brood-rearing habitat and increased Greater Sage-Grouse productivity.
41717538|We examined relationships between high-elevation sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) steppe habitats altered by prescribed fire and western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis) encroachment on breeding distributions of Brewer's Sparrows (Spizelh breweri), Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus), Green-tailed Towhees (Pipilo chlorurus), and Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) on Steens Mountain in southeastern Oregon. In 2000 we conducted fixed-radius point count surveys at 172 sites encompassing burned and unburned sagebrush habitat and a range of juniper densities. For each bird species we developed habitat models using local variables measured in the field and landscape variables derived from remotely sensed data. Akaike's Information Criterion (AICC) was used to select the best-approximating model from a suite of a priori candidate models. Brewer's Sparrows, Sage Thrashers, and Green-tailed Towhees were positively related to increasing local sagebrush cover or percent sagebrush in the landscape, whereas Vesper Sparrows were negatively associated with sagebrush cover and positively related to increases in sagebrush fragmentation at local and landscape scales. Including a measure of juniper encroachment substantially improved models for all species in the analysis. Green-tailed Towhees showed a curvilinear response to the amount of juniper in the landscape. All other species showed a strong negative relationship with juniper. Our results indicate that, although changes in sagebrush habitat associated with fire had a negative influence on sagebrush birds, juniper encroachment due to fire suppression also impacted this high-elevation sagebrush bird community.
41717539|Wetlands are dynamic habitats with many unique, important functions including filtering sediments and providing diverse habitats for fish and wildlife. Wetlands in the western United States are particularly important because they offer habitat for a number of protected runs of endangered fish species. Historically, livestock grazing has altered wetland and riparian area form and function by facilitating exotic species invasions, altering spatial heterogeneity of vegetation, and increasing erosion. In this study we examined vegetation structure and erosion potential in a wetland meadow exposed to unregulated grazing along Deer Creek in the Salmon River subbasin, Idaho. We characterized the vegetation composition and structure within die study area and attempted to assess potential erosion conditions using the Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE), an empirical approach developed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service (USDA-ARS). We found no significant spatial variability in species richness and noted a moderate number of exotic species in the total plant composition. Plant cover was higher near slightly entrenched banks, indicating that uncontrolled livestock were primarily occupying gently sloped streambanks and the interior of the meadow. Based on current vegetation composition and RUSLE results, uncontrolled grazing may be negatively impacting the study area. If uncontrolled grazing were excluded or carefully managed in the wetland meadows of the upper portion of the Deer Creek watershed, a reduction in excess sediments to Deer Creek may occur.
41717540|I quantified seed production and ovule losses for Ceanothus fendleri Gray (Fendler ceanothus) plants protected from large ungulate herbivores in a ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa [Laws]) forest of northern Arizona. I also tested seed germination responses to cold stratification and heat treatments in the laboratory. Fruit production on fecund stems ranged from 7.4 to 38.2 fruits per stem, which equated to 22.2-118.2 potential seeds based on 3 ovules per fruit. Stems that produced fruit were significantly large relative to their expected sizes. Predispersal ovule losses ranged from 70.7% to 91.4% across the 2 years studied. A chalcidoid seed parasite (Eurytoma squamosa Bugbee) consumed 11%-28% of the total number of seeds produced. Postdispersal seed predation varied from 0% to 24% and was significantly affected by forest floor substrate in 1 study year. Cumulative ovule losses were estimated to be 71%-92%. Cold stratification did not significantly affect seed germination, and exposure to 90C resulted in the highest germination percentage. Both dormant and nondormant seeds suggested a bet-hedging life history strategy. This study provides basic ecological information important for management of ponderosa pine forest and nursery production of C. fendleri.
41717541|The milliped genus Narceus Rafinesque, 1820 (Spirobolida: Spirobolidae) occupies parts or all of 2 Canadian provinces, Qubec and Ontario; every U.S. state east of the Mississippi River; and 9 states to the west including Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. Records are detailed for the "western" states and New England and include the first from Minnesota, Connecticut, Delaware, and Maine; occurrence is projected for southeastern Minnesota and the Delmarva Peninsula. The genus presently comprises 2 valid species that are endemic to FloridaN. gordanus (Chamberlin, 1943) and N. woodruffi Causey, 1959and 2 of uncertain status that occur throughout the generic range and are referenced as the "N. americanus/annularis complex"; geographic evidence suggests greater diversity, particularly in the south, and a 2nd generic revision is in order to update the existing one by Keeton (1960). Records cluster within a large, semicontinuous area whose northern, southern, and western range extremes, respectively, are Saint-Nicolas, Lvis Census Division, Qubec; Key West, Monroe County, Florida, and northeastern Duval County and Rockport, Aransas County, Texas; and Garner State Park, Uvalde County, Texas. The eastern limit is the Atlantic Ocean, and records are available from Cape Cod and Tuckernuck Island, Massachusetts; Long Island, New York; Cape Hatteras, North Carolina; and James Island, South Carolina. The projected western boundary, based on peripheral localities, angles southwestward from Omaha, Nebraska, to Uvalde County; and the northern boundary passes through central Iowa and Wisconsin (encompassing the Door Peninsula) and the southern periphery of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The lone Minnesota locality, from Lyon County in the southwest, lies substantially north of the projected border in Iowa and well west of the expected area of occurrence in southeastern Minnesota. The northernmost record west of the Mississippi River, it may represent an allopatric population that extends westward into eastern South Dakota.
41717549|We examined how plant traits related to growth and resource use have evolved during hybrid speciation and specialization into stressful habitats. Two desert sunflower species of homoploid hybrid origin are endemic to habitats with lower soil nutrient levels than those of their ancestral parent species. We hypothesized that the hybrid species would exhibit greater tolerance to low levels of soil nutrients than their parental species. The 2 hybrid species, Helianthus anomalus and H. deserticola, and their parental species, H. annuus and H. petiolaris, were compared for plant traits and growth through reproduction under 3 nutrient levels in a greenhouse study. An additional seedling study compared species for maximum seedling relative growth rate under optimum conditions. The hybrid species did have greater tolerance of nutrient limitation than the parental species, demonstrated by a resistance to change in stem height and diameter growth across treatments. A similar trend was observed in total biomass at final harvest. This ability to maintain growth may be partially explained by maintained investment in photosynthetic enzymes regardless of nutrient treatment. Though the hybrid species were more tolerant of nutrient stress, differences in the hybrid response to nutrient stress compared to the parental species' response were much smaller than expected from habitat comparisons. Helianthus anomalus has evolved a classic stress-tolerant phenotype, having long leaf lifespan, tough leaves, and slower early seedling relative growth rate. While both hybrid species have a conservative growth strategy, which confers greater stress tolerance than the parental species possess, functional trait differences among the hybrids suggest that the 2 species have experienced vastly different selective pressures.
41717550|Use of herbicides to thin dense stands of Artemisia spp. (sagebrush) can free up resources for herbaceous plants and increase forage production, but may also facilitate weed invasion. We revisited a sagebrush thinning experiment in a north central Wyoming big sagebrushgrassland 11 years after application of tebuthiuron (N-[5-(1,1 dimethylethyl)-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl]-N-N'-dimethylurea) to determine the long-term responses of shrubs, available soil resources, perennial grasses, and Bromus tectorum L. (downy brome). Tebuthiuron reduced shrub cover by more than half, from 31% in untreated plots to 15% in treated plots (P = 0.002), and increased downy brome cover approximately 4-fold, from 0.9% in untreated plots to 3.5% in treated plots (P = 0.02). Treatment with tebuthiuron also resulted in marginally significant increases in cover of perennial grasses (from 9% to 12.3%; P = 0.07) and bare ground (from 39.1% to 43.9%; P = 0.08). In comparisons of resource availability among microsites, available NON was higher under dead sagebrush than under live sagebrush (P = 0.03). No significant differences in soil water content were detected. The relatively recent expansion of downy brome populations at this site and the high NON levels observed under dead sagebrush suggest that conditions facilitating downy brome invasion may persist for many years following sagebrush thinning. We demonstrate that sagebrush thinning can cause increases in downy brome populations years after initial treatment and suggest that managers should use caution when considering thinning sagebrush if downy brome is present, even if initial populations are small.
41717551|Seed harvesting ants (Pogonomyrmex rugosus) concentrate organic matter and nutrients near their nests and create biogeochemical hotspots in desert soil. We examined factors regulating denitrification and soil respiration in a Mojave Desert ecosystem to determine the role harvester ant colonies play in nitrogen loss and carbon mineralization. Organic matter and nutrient storage were significantly greater in colonies than under the dominant vegetation (i.e., Pleuraphis rigida, a bunch grass) and in bare soil, with standing stocks of inorganic nitrogen in colonies nearly 4-fold greater than in the other microhabitats. Soil respiration, measured with laboratory incubations, was below detection limits under ambient soil conditions. Respiration rate in soil from bare patches and under grass was limited by water and labile organic carbon, with secondary nitrate limitation evident only once carbon limitation was alleviated. Soil respiration in ant nest soil was limited by water and labile organic carbon only. Denitrification, measured by the acetylene block technique, was elevated in bare soil and under grass with the addition of nitrate. Ant nest soil also responded to a nitrate addition; however, denitrification rate was greatest with addition of glucose. Ordinarily desert soil has low rates of respiration and denitrification due to dry ambient conditions. However, ant colonies likely function as important sites for nitrogen loss and carbon mineralization following rain storms, especially if storms coincide with seed set and the temporally pulsed input of organic matter into colonies.
41717552|Larval and juvenile stages of many fishes require nursery habitats that provide optimal conditions for growth. Loss or degradation of these habitats limits recruitment, causing population and species declines. Least chub (Iotichthys phlegethontis), an endemic cyprinid in the Bonneville Basin, is currently restricted to a few spring complexes in Utah. This species utilizes the warm shallow spring margins as spawning and rearing habitat throughout the summer. This study was conducted to determine effects of temperature on survival and growth of age-0 least chub to understand the importance of temperature in selection of spring margins as rearing habitat. Age-0 least chub were exposed to 5 temperatures (14C, 17C, 21C, 24C, and 27C) for 112 days. Growth rates varied significantly with temperature except at 17C and 27C, and growth rates were highest at 21C (P < 0.001). Maximum growth rate for age-0 least chub, estimated from a 2nd-order polynomial regression, would occur at 22.3C. These thermal requirements indicate the importance of warm rearing habitats in producing strong year classes and viable populations. However, warm spring margins also enable western mosquitofish, a nonnative competitor and predator of least chub, to thrive in these spring habitats. Broad thermal limits of the least chub suggest that it could persist at cooler temperatures, which would reduce the viability of western mosquitofish populations.
41717553|Interactions of Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (mountain big sagebrush) and neighboring herbs may affect community development following fire in sagebrush steppe. Dry mass, photosynthesis, and water relations were measured for seedlings of A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana occurring at different distances from neighboring herbs in the initial growing seasons following fire, when herbs dominate plant community cover. Seedling mass significantly increased as distance to neighboring herbs increased, although a low r indicated that mass was also affected by other sources of variation. Carbon assimilation (Anet) was also greater for A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana seedlings in microsites farther from herbs, except during those sampling dates when Anet and water availability were at low levels. Contrary to our expectations, water status of seedlings was not correlated with their distances to neighboring herbs, and supplemental watering did not affect the slope of the relationship between seedling mass and distance to neighboring herbs. These findings suggest that negative relationships between A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana seedlings and herbs establishing after fire are not likely due to competition over water and may instead result from interactions over factors not measured here (e.g., nutrients).
41717554|We evaluated wildlife use of witches' brooms associated with infection by Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) in 6 mixed-conifer study areas in Arizona and 2 areas in New Mexico. We climbed 153 infected Douglas-firs (Pseudotsuga menziesii) and examined 706 witches' brooms for evidence of wildlife use. Even though we observed evidence of use by birds, most wildlife use was by small mammals, particularly red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). Red squirrels used witches' brooms for nesting, foraging, caching, and as latrines. Witches' brooms classified as Type II or III brooms, located close to the main bole with large platforms, and 510 m above the ground were the most frequently used by red squirrels.
41717555|Two rare endemic carnivores occur on California's northern Channel Islands: island spotted skunks (Spilogale gracilis amphiala) and island foxes (Urocyon littoralis). As insular carnivores, both may be particularly vulnerable to novel pathogens. We tested sera from 31 island spotted skunks on Santa Cruz Island, where both skunks and foxes occur sympatrically, to establish their exposure to disease agents. One skunk (3%) tested positive for canine heartworm, and 3 skunks (10%) tested positive for canine parvovirus. None showed evidence of exposure to canine adenovirus, canine distemper virus, canine herpesvirus, Leptospira bacteria (serovars pomona, canicoh, and icterohaemorrhagiae), or pseudorabies virus. Spotted skunks on Santa Cruz Island apparently have low susceptibility or exposure to these pathogens and are unlikely to be reservoirs of these diseases for island foxes.
41717556|The dorsal skin gland appears to be a sexually dimorphic character for all species of Dipodomys; however, this feature has not been characterized for most taxa. Previous studies of several species have demonstrated the histological uniqueness of the gland in D. spectabilis. Other attempts to correlate seasonal variation in gland size with reproductive patterns have met with mixed success. An examination of the dorsal skin glands of 333 museum study skins of adult Dipodomys ehtor demonstrated a JulyAugust size decrease in both sexes, although the glands of males were larger and more variable in size than those of females. Gland size of males was positively correlated with testes measurements, and the data for females, though more limited, suggested that postpartum individuals exhibited greater gland development than pregnant animals. Histological samples demonstrated that the fully developed dorsal skin gland in D. elator consists of about 100 individual secretory units, is similar to 5 other species of kangaroo rats (D. agilis, D. deserti, D. merriami, D. ordii, D. panamintinus; Quay 1954), and is markedly different than that of D. spectabilis. We present a histological description of the dorsal gland of juveniles and the underlying panniculus dorsalis.
41717557|Herbivory is an important ecological process in forest canopies but is difficult to measure, especially for whole stands. We used the Wind River Canopy Crane in Washington State to access 101 randomly-located sample points throughout the forest canopy. This provided a relatively quick and convenient way to estimate herbivory for a whole stand. The overall level of herbivory was estimated at 1.6% of leaf area. The distribution was strongly skewed to the lower canopy where broad-leafed species experienced higher levels of herbivory. Herbivory averaged 0.3% in conifers and 13.5% in broad-leafed species. Fully half of the sample points had no detectable herbivory. Herbivory in this old-growth conifer forest is among the lowest levels published for forests around the globe and may reflect the general levels of herbivory in temperate coniferous forests during nonoutbreak conditions. Our whole-stand estimate is the first attempt at measuring herbivory for an entire forest stand in the Pacific Northwest.
41717558|Piute ground squirrels (Spermophilus mollis idahoensis) are normally above ground from late January until late June or early July in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area in southwestern Idaho. In 2002 they were rarely seen above ground after early May. Because of the ecological importance of ground squirrels for nesting raptors and other species, we sought to determine the reasons for their early disappearance. We sampled 12 sites from January 2003 through March 2003 to determine if a population crash had occurred in 2002. Tests indicated that Piute ground squirrels had not been exposed to plague within the past year. The presence of yearlings in the population indicated that squirrels reproduced in 2002 and that at least some yearlings survived the winter. Both yearling and adult squirrels appeared to be reproducing at or above normal rates in 2003. The most plausible explanation for the early disappearance of Piute ground squirrels in 2002 is that squirrels entered seasonal torpor early in response to a late spring drought. In addition, the breeding chronology of squirrels may have shifted during the past 2 decades in response to climate change and/or habitat alteration. Shrub habitats provide a more favorable and stable environment for squirrels than grass habitats. Squirrel abundance was higher on live-trapping grids with sagebrush than on grids dominated by grass, and squirrel masses were higher at sites dominated by shrubs and Sandberg bluegrass (Poa secunda). Densities in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) were within the ranges reported for earlier years, but densities in grass were lower than previously reported. Low densities at grassland sites in 2003 support other findings that drought affects squirrels in altered grass communities more than those in native shrub habitats. Long-term shifts in ground squirrel breeding chronology may have implications for raptors that depend on them for food.
41717559|We describe ontogenetic patterns in the diets of shortnose and Lost River suckers (15.892.8 mm standard length) from Upper Klamath Lake in summer 1999. Both species made a transition from surface and planktonic prey to benthic prey at about 2030 mm standard length, corresponding to the approximate size of the juvenile morphological transition. Surface prey was dominated by adult chironomids and undigestable pollen, while benthic prey was dominated by larval chironomids, chydorids, and ostracods. In the 1520-mm size class, pollen made up >75% of food particles in 68% of specimens, and only 2 specimens in this size class lacked any pollen grains. A better understanding of the prey selection process in larval suckers is needed to determine the importance of this potential source of starvation. The planktonic prey eaten during the surface-to-benthic feeding transition were widely distributed in the lake, suggesting that larvae use emergent vegetation primarily as a refuge from predators. On a numerical basis, crustaceans and larval chironomids contributed most to the diets of larger juveniles. In specimens >40 mm, shortnose suckers ate more Tanytarsini and Lost River suckers ate more chironomid pupae and chydorids. In specimens >40 mm there was a strong habitat-related difference in diet: specimens collected in offshore samples ate more chironomid larvae and pupae, harpacticoid copepods, and chydorids, whereas onshore specimens ate more cyclopoid copepods and invertebrate eggs. The transition from onshore to offshore habitat appears to occur over a broad size range of about 4090 mm.
41717560|Vegetation trends due to climatic changes are difficult to separate from disturbances caused by varying land uses. To separate climatic influences from livestock grazing and fire disturbances within sagebrush steppe, we compared vegetation structure and productivity during 2 periods (10-year sequences of data from the late 1950s to the late 1960s and 3 years in the early 1990s) at 12 stands within 3 relict areas in or near the Great Rift of southern Idaho. Yearto-year fluctuations in annual net aboveground phytomass accumulation (ANAPA) were considerable in response to varying climate during both periods. More importantly, an apparently significant increase in ANAPA was observed during the latter study period. However, this apparent increase may have been due to the unusually wet conditions of 1993. Throughout both study periods, ANAPA was even more positively correlated with species richness than with precipitation, although both influences were statistically significant. Aggregation of these data by plant growth forms showed that shrubs, particularly sagebrushes, have progressively increased their proportion relative to herbaceous understory. This directional (successional) change in the proportional contributions of growth forms to ANAPA was probably due more to long-term absence of fire at these isolated locations than to any detectable climate change or lack of grazing. This finding reduces our confidence in the use of such areas as reference sites for monitoring or as living examples for restoration efforts, but it does increase our understanding of vegetation dynamics within sagebrush steppe.
41717569|We examined the response of Lazuli Bunting (Passerina amoena) to fire in Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) woodland at Camp Williams, Utah, during 1993-1998. Overall, Lazuli Bunting abundance on the study area increased significantly during the 2 years after a stand-replacing wildfire, which covered 800 ha of Gambel oak woodland. This increase suggested that Lazuli Buntings respond positively to fire. However, a comparison of pre-and postfire abundance of Lazuli Bunting for 2 groups of monitoring plots with different fire histories showed that abundance was significantly greater during the post-fire period for both burned and unburned plots. When we examined our data at a spatial scale appropriate to Lazuli Bunting, we found that post-fire increases observed on unburned plots were limited to plots in close proximity to the burned area. A comparison of pre-and post-fire abundance of Lazuli Bunting for 3 groups of monitoring plots located at various distances from the burned area revealed that post-fire abundance was similar only for plots within the fire boundary and for those 1000 m from the fire boundary; plots located 1000 m from the fire boundary had fewer individuals per plot post-fire. However, prefire Lazuli Bunting abundance was similar among all 3 categories. This differential, spatially scaled response of Lazuli Bunting to fire at the landscape level may support a hierarchical view of habitat selection.
41717570|We collected fecal samples (scats) of sympatric bobcats (Lynx rufus) and coyotes (Cants latrans) between 2000 and 2003 in a 53,600-ha area of the Upper Sonoran Desert in central Arizona. Our objective was to investigate composition, diversity, and overlap of diets of bobcats and coyotes in relation to varying rainfall in the Sonoran Desert of central Arizona. In general, bobcats ate more rodents than did coyotes, and coyotes ate more lagomorphs, large prey, and fruit/seeds than did bobcats. Composition of bobcat diets was independent of differences among years in annual rainfall and seasonal rainfall during summer-autumn (May-October) and winter-spring (November-April). Composition of coyote diets also was independent of drought conditions among years during summer-autumn, but coyotes ate more large prey and fewer rodents during years with winter-spring drought. Seasonally, bobcats ate more rodents than did coyotes in summer-autumn and winter-spring, whereas coyotes ate more lagomorphs than did bobcats during winter-spring, and more large prey and fruit/seeds in both seasons. Coyotes ate more large prey and lagomorphs during winter-spring, when seasonal rainfall was higher, and more fruit/seeds in summer-autumn, when seasonal rainfall was lower. Diversity of diets was consistently higher for coyotes than for bobcats, and increased for bobcats but not for coyotes during winter-spring drought and during higher seasonal rainfall in winter-spring. Overlap of diets between predators was independent of rainfall levels. We suggest that bobcats in the Sonoran Desert are more selective, specialized predators and that coyotes are more generalist, opportunistic predators. We hypothesize that, although diversity of bobcat food items and composition of coyote diets differ with varying rainfall in the Sonoran Desert, patterns of feeding strategy are independent of seasonal differences in precipitation and effects of drought, and bobcats and coyotes partition food resources independently of varying rainfall.
41717571|Ungulate populations are managed in shrubsteppe ecosystems around the world, but relatively few long-term datasets are available that test the impacts of these grazers on shrubsteppe structure and function. This study evaluated 8 exclosures in 4 shrubsteppe communities to determine the effects of deer and elk over 35 or 55 years on (1) plant biomass and species composition, (2) soil nitrogen (N) mineralization and net nitrification rates, Olsen extractable phosphorus (P), and C: N ratios, and (3) arthropod diversity and abundance. The site with deer, the highest ungulate densities, and coldest climate (Sinlahekin Wildlife Area, WA) had greater vegetative biomass and cover inside the exclosures than outside. The sites with elk, moderate ungulate densities, and intermediate climatic conditions (Oak Creek and Wenas Wildlife Areas, WA) had no effects of exclosures on vegetative biomass or cover. The site with elk, the lowest ungulate densities, and driest climatic conditions (L.T. Murray Wildlife Area, WA) had greater shrub cover outside of the exclosures. Ungulates significantly increased net N mineralization and nitrification rates, providing a potential explanation for compensatory growth by grazed plants. Our data suggest that arthropod herbivory does not substitute for ungulate herbivory. To the contrary, arthropod diversity reflected ungulate-induced changes in plant biomass. In addition to effects on standing biomass, ungulates were associated with increased exotic plant species richness at all 4 sites. Our results suggest that there may be a balance between indirect positive and direct negative effects of herbivory on plants that varies with ungulate densities and site characteristics, and that arthropod herbivory does not functionally replace ungulate herbivory.
41717572|In this 2-phase study, we developed field-validated site and landscape-level predictive models for identifying potential rare and endemic plant habitat in the Great Basin of western North America. Four species were chosen to include a range of environmental variability and plant communities. Herbarium records of known occurrences were used to identify initial sample sites. The geographic coordinates, environmental attributes, and vegetation data collected at each site were used to develop 2 predictive models for each species: a field key and a probability-of-occurrence or predictor map. The field key was developed using only field data collected at the sites on environmental attributes and associated species. Predictive maps were developed with a geographic information system (GIS) containing slope, elevation, aspect, soils, and geologic data. Classification-tree (CT) software was used to generate dichotomous field keys and maps of occurrence probabilities. Predictions from both models were then field-validated during the 2nd phase of the study, and final models were developed through an iterative process, in which data collected during the field validation were incorporated into subsequent predictive models. Cross-validated models were > 96% accurate and generally predicted presence with > 60% accuracy. These models identified potential habitat by combining elevation, slope, aspect, rock type, and geologic process into habitat models for each species.
41717573|At least 5 sibling species and an additional 11 cytotypes of the Simulium arcticum complex occur in Montana. Consequently, this speciose complex might allow study of environmental correlates with genetic differentiation. We used conventional methods of collection and cytogenetic analysis to study 1128 male larvae of the Simulium arcticum complex at 15 sites within 5 drainages in western Montana to test the hypothesis that distribution of siblings is associated with elevation. We sampled at the mouth, at the headwaters, and at an intermediate site to span the range of elevations within each drainage. We restricted our analyses to the most abundant taxa of the S. arcticum complex within our study area and observed a statistically significant presence of S. apricanum at low-elevation sites. Simulium arcticum IIL-18 appeared more frequently than expected at high elevation sites. Simulium brevicercum and S. arcticum sensu strictu appeared to be distributed randomly. We suggest potential causal reasons for these distributions including differential use of habitats along these elevational gradients.
41717574|This study using a modified Robel pole was conducted in the central Black Hills, South Dakota. The objectives were to test the relationship between visual obstruction readings and standing herbage, develop guidelines for monitoring, and estimate sample size. The relationship between visual obstruction and standing herbage was linear with 2 segments in a piecewise model. Regression coefficients were highly significant (P  0.001). Standard error of the estimate for a single mean was 373 kg  ha. Herbage ranged from 89 to 3821 kg  ha with a mean of 1416 kg  ha. The average number of visually obstructed bands was 6.4 and ranged from 0.21 to 20.4. Cluster analyses grouped the visual obstruction readings into 3 management categories: short, medium, and tall. A minimum of 3 transects (20 stations per transect) is recommended for monitoring areas 259 ha (1 section) to be within 20% of the mean at 80% confidence. The protocol developed to monitor standing herbage is accurate, precise, and easy to apply. This tool provides pertinent information for managers to develop guidelines based on the bands and/or standing herbage for monitoring livestock and wildlife use.
41717575|Chihuahua pines (Pinus leiophylla Schiede and Deppe var. chihuahuana Engelmann) were surveyed on 11 study plots on the Mogollon Rim in east central Arizona to compare characteristics of trees that sprouted from the base or root collar after the Rodeo-Chediski fire with those of trees that did not sprout. The differences in trees killed and top-killed by the fire versus those that survived were also assessed. Trees that sprouted were significantly smaller in height and diameter at breast height; they also experienced lower fire intensities than trees that did not sprout. Smaller trees had higher incidences of mortality than larger trees. These results indicate that, even though Chihuahua pine has fire resiliency, sprouting rates after fire are related to size of trees, age of trees, and burn intensity. Since Chihuahua pine is a rare species in the area studied, its ability to recover from and tolerate fire could prove advantageous for sustainability.
41717576|Streambed surveys were conducted along the upper Colorado River, Colorado, to describe the distributions of Claassenia sabulosa larvae in relation to current speed and to determine their diets. We also addressed diel feeding periodicity by sampling during both day and night. Claassenia sabulosa was more abundant in riffle habitats than in runs. A positive relationship existed between C. sabulosa abundance and stream current, with larval size increasing with current speed. Chironomidae, Baetidae, and Simulidae collectively accounted for 93% of the prey found in stonefly guts; however, these categories were not consumed equally by all C. sabulosa. Smaller C. sabulosa primarily ate chironomids, and larger individuals consumed more baetids. Only a slight difference existed in the percentage of empty guts between night-and day-collected stoneflies, and ranges of prey per gut at night were higher than those in the day, suggesting that these stoneflies may forage more intensively at night.
41717577|Vegetation cover and production were evaluated after nearly 7 years of livestock grazing exclusion and shrub control in an area with a long history of heavy livestock grazing in the southern Chihuahuan Desert, Mexico. An exclosure was established to prevent livestock grazing. In half of the excluded area, the main shrub, Larrea tridentata, was mechanically controlled. Outside the exclosure, heavy livestock grazing occurred as customary and shrubs were not controlled. Absence of grazing resulted in 50% higher grass cover and 35% higher total biomass. Larrea indentata cover was twice as high on the grazed area as on the ungrazed area. Vegetation cover was dominated by grasses (42%) in the ungrazed area, whereas in the grazed area, cover was equally divided between grasses (28%) and shrubs (27%). Shrub control did not affect vegetation cover or herbage production. Multivariate analysis confirmed that inside the excluded area, shrub control had little impact on the plant community. The effect of grazing, however, clearly distinguished the community outside the exclosure from that inside the exclosure.
41717578|We compared mosquito consumption and prey selection between least chub (lotichthys phlegethontis) and western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) to determine the potential of least chub as an indigenous replacement for mosquito control in Utah. Mosquito consumption was compared between the 2 species in 2 experiments. The first tested consumption at 3 ratios of pupae and larvae (Culex sp.; 1:3, 3:4, and 1:1), and the second tested consumption at varying densities of larvae (967 larvae  m, 1354 larvae  m , and 2258 larvae  m [30, 42, and 70 larvae per 31-L tank, respectively]). Western mosquitofsh consumed more mosquitoes at lower pupae-to-larvae ratios than least chub, but least chub consumed more mosquitoes as the ratio of pupae to larvae increased. Western mosquitofsh consumed significantly more larvae than least chub at all densities. Prey selection was compared between least chub and western mosquitofsh, either individually or in intraspecific pairs, when the fish were fed equal abundances of 3 prey items: mosquito larvae, Daphnia magna, and midge larvae (Chironomia sp.). Least chub consumed significantly fewer total prey items for both the 1-and 2-fish trials; western mosquitofsh consumed significantly more individuals of each prey type except for Daphnia magna in the 1-fish trials. Least chub and western mosquitofsh demonstrated no selection for prey items, indicating that both fish would consume mosquito larvae at rates relative to abundance. Feeding habits demonstrated in this study indicated that least chub could be a potential replacement for western mosquitofsh for mosquito control; however, field studies should be conducted to assess the ability of both species to control mosquitoes in a natural setting.
41717579|In response to continued low population numbers of Northern Pintail (Anas acuta) in North America and to increase knowledge of the geographic variation in pintail survival rates, we estimated 126-day (27 October-2 March) survival for male and female pintails wintering in the Middle Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico, during 2001-2002 (SY1) and 2002-2003 (SY2). Sixty-nine adult male and female pintails were marked with radio-transmitters and tracked throughout the study period. Weekly relocation data in relation to study year, sex, time (week), body condition at capture, and hunting seasons were modeled using the known-fate procedure in Program MARK. Year, sex, time, and body condition covariates did not improve model performance in estimating survival, so we used the most parsimonious model to produce an overall winter survival estimate of 0.597  0.077 (95% C.I. = 0.442-0.735). Weekly survival estimates did not differ between hunting and nonhunting seasons. Male and female point estimates did not differ ( = 0.209, P = 0.65). Our adult female survival estimate of 0.639  0.117 (95% C.I. = 0.396-0.827) was 5.5%-28.6% lower than published estimates for adult female pintails in 5 other geographic regions. No winter survival estimates for males in other geographic regions were available for direct comparison with our study. Although relatively small sample sizes may have contributed to the lack of statistical differences in weekly survival between years, sexes, and hunting seasons, as well as to the lack of influence of body condition, relatively abundant water and food resources and absence of hunting in a refuge setting contributed to consistent survival probabilities. Because our low survival estimates, relative to other geographic regions, cannot be attributed to hunting, we postulate that natural causes of mortality play a larger role in pintail survival in our study region than in other wintering regions.
41717580|Several western ranid frogs possess a unique strategy of breeding communally over a short temporal window and reusing oviposition sites between years. However, little is published on the characteristics of oviposition sites selected by these explosive breeders. The Columbia spotted frog (Rana luteiventris) is native to northwestern North America and is of conservation concern in the southern portions of its range. As part of a study examining relationships between livestock grazing and R. luteiventris habitat, we assessed characteristics of the species' oviposition sites in 25 fshless ponds in northeastern Oregon. Oviposition sites were generally in shallow water (< 25 cm) close to shore and tended to be in the northeastern portion of ponds. Oviposition sites were found more frequently over heavily vegetated substrates and in areas of less substrate slope and shade than random points in littoral zones. We did not quantiiy temperature differences within ponds, but the patterns we documented are consistent with preferential use of warmer microhabitats for oviposition.
41717581|We addressed the following question: Do conifers within aspen stands (conifer invasion) increase bird species diversity in western landscapes? We tested the hypotheses that bird species diversity, measured as species richness or with the Shannon-Weiner diversity index, responds to aspen-conifer ratios (from 0% to 100% conifer) in a quadratic manner with a maximum occurring at an intermediate ratio of aspen and conifer. Extra sum-of-squares F tests comparing quadratic with linear models suggested that migratory bird diversity was inversely linearly related to the extent of conifer invasion. These linear responses were moderate (species richness: R  0.34, P < 0.01; Shannon-Weiner diversity index: R  0.34, P < 0.01). Resident species diversity appeared quadratically related to conifer invasion. However, variation was poorly described for species richness (R  0.13, P  0.09) and was marginal for the Shannon-Weiner diversity index (R  0.27, P  0.01). We concluded that mixed aspen-conifer stands do not have higher bird species diversity than pure aspen stands and that management activities should focus on heavily conifer-invaded stands to increase bird diversity in western landscapes and help reverse the decline of aspen habitat due to conifer invasion.
41717582|Dispersal plays an important role in the population dynamics of many carnivores, yet little information exists about the dispersal and movement patterns of swift foxes (Vulpes velox). We radio-collared and monitored 68 swift foxes for dispersal at 2 study sites in northwestern Texas from January 2002 to April 2004. Dispersal distance for juveniles (13.1  0.3 km, s), adults (10  4.7 km) and transients (25.4  9.1 km) did not differ by age class (F = 1.49, df = 2, P = 0.24) or sex (F = 0.23, df = 1, P = 0.63) but differed by study site (F = 4.72, df = 1, P = 0.04). Mean dispersal distance from private ranches (PR) was greater than from National Grasslands (NG). Peak dispersal occurred during October-November (13 individuals) and January-February (7 individuals). Dispersal direction was influenced by land-use practices (i.e., toward rangelands and away from anthropogenic features). Direction of dispersal among foxes that occupied the NG was uniform (n = 16, P = 0.08), whereas foxes from PR dispersed in a northwesterly direction (n = 18, P 0.001) away from a town and croplands. Three resident adult foxes made extraterritorial movements. Distances of these movements ranged from 0.2 km to 11.4 km. Distance of extraterritorial movements did not differ by sex (F = 0.05, P = 0.83), nor by duration of movement (F = 1.11, P = 0.32). Knowledge of movement distances and patterns is important for conservation and protection of swift foxes and their habitats.
41717583|Disturbance events can significantly influence net CO exchange (NCE) in ecosystems. High densities of Anabrus simplex (Mormon crickets) periodically afflict large areas of the western USA; their sheer numbers could make them a significant source of CO. We modeled cricket respiration at the ecosystem level using air and body temperatures and insect gas exchange measurements. Cricket CO efflux values were compared to ecosystem CO flux from eddy covariance measurements in 3 Great Basin ecosystems: a juniper woodland, a sagebrush shrubland, and a crested wheatgrass pasture. Mean respiration from Mormon crickets was 0.96 g CO md Since Mormon crickets are present when NCE is otherwise near 0, they can potentially alter NCE between 20% (juniper woodland) and 60% (crested wheatgrass pasture). Transient pests such as Mormon crickets can be an important component of NCE.
41717584|Leaf litter accumulation during fire exclusion and increases in tree density in postsettlement southwestern Firms ponderosa forests may limit the establishment of understory vegetation. We performed an experiment in P. ponderosa forests of northern Arizona to ascertain plant community responses to forest-floor scarification and Oi removal on thirty-six 100-m plots overlaid on an existing ecological restoration experiment that involved tree thinning and prescribed burning. Constrasting with findings from many other forest types, forest-floor treatments had no effect on community diversity or composition during the 2-year experiment. S0rensen similarities were as high as 97% between posttreatment years within treatments; and successional vectors also provided little indication that treatments may appreciably affect longer-term successional trajectories. Lack of response to these fairly drastic treatments is surprising given these forests' exceptionally heavy Oi horizons and large proportions of conifer litter. Apparently shading, belowground competition for water or nutrients, or other tree-associated factors more strongly limit understory communities than does leaf litter. Based on sparse A-horizon seed banks averaging < 300 seeds  m and limited aboveground vegetation, we hypothesize that seed shortages, particularly for native perennials, also partly precluded a treatment response. Because extensive unvegetated areas at these restoration sites may be colonized by exotics, conservative management strategies could include testing the seeding or outplanting of desirable native species as an option for filling unoccupied microsites. Reporting of "no treatment effect" experiments such as this one is important to avoid biasing meta-analyses, as is future research to clarify combinations of factors limiting understory communities. Increased understanding of these limiting factors may lead to identification of other treatments that promote recovery of native species during ecological restoration in this region.
41717595|We summarized historic and recent fish distributions in South Dakota and analyzed fish faunal similarity at 2 spatial scales (geomorphic province and river drainage) for both historic (native) and recent (post-1990) faunas. We quantified Zoogeographie patterns between geomorphic provinces and among neighboring river drainages for historic and recent faunas. We also quantified faunal change (species losses and additions) between provinces and among drainages. Ninety-seven fishes were native to South Dakota, but 111 fishes were present in recent collections because 8 native species were missing, and 22 nonnatives were present. There was high  diversity among historic and recent river drainage fish faunas, but there was between 22% and 56% faunal change between periods. Recent faunas were homogenized compared to historic faunas at both provincial and river drainage spatial scales. Patterns of nonnative species establishment were geographically distinct from patterns of native species loss. Most nonnative species additions were in cold-water or human-made habitats of the Great Plains. Most native species declines stemmed from warm water streams of the Central Lowlands and Missouri River valley. Conservation of rare and declining native species and containment of nonnatives are both necessary to preserve historical patterns offish biodiversity in South Dakota.
41717596|We tested the hypothesis that allochthonous carbon is important in the diet of the endemic pupfish Cyprinodon diabolis over a 3-year period in Devils Hole, Nevada. Devils Hole is a cavernous limnocrene located in the Mojave Desert approximately 15 m below the land surface and receives direct solar radiation <7% of the total time during the year. The system is dominated by filamentous cyanobacteria in the summer and supports about 15 invertebrate species and the endemic pupfish C. diabolis. We examined food web structure and measured autochthonous carbon production and entry of allochthonous carbon with funnel traps. Stable isotopes were used to compare contributions of each carbon source. Allochthonous carbon contributed 2971 kj  yr1 (60%) of the total available energy to the food web compared to only 2000 kj  yr1 autochthonous production. A major stochastic rain event delivered more terrestrial carbon to Devils Hole in 1 hour than annual allochthonous carbon, estimated from data collected with funnel traps. Mixing models with N, C, and S showed a seasonal shift in diet for C. diabolis from filamentous cyanobacteria in the summer to the collector/gathering insect Stenelmis calida in the winter. Stenelmis tissue had high proportions of allochthonous plant carbon in the winter.
41717597|We analyzed population trend data during 1991-2004 for the Bruneau hot springsnail (Pyrgulopsis bruneauensis) from rangewide hot spring surveys completed along 4 km of Bruneau River. The objectives of this study were to analyze population trends and assess other measured parameters, such as water temperature, specific conductance, and groundwater decline, for changes that may influence population trends. We used simple linear regression to determine significant relationships between measured parameters. Total numbers of hot springs surveyed in the 4-km reach are declining at a rate of ~ 5 hot springs per year, and numbers of hot springs containing P. bruneauensis in the same reach are declining at a rate of 3.75 per year. We found that the decline of hot springs with and without P. bruneauensis was significantly related to the decline of the thermal aquifer which underlies this area.
41717598|At the Appleton-Whittell Research Ranch, an ungrazed grassland preserve in southeastern Arizona, soil seed banks were sampled in June, August, and October 2002 and June 2003. Wildfire had previously burned 90% of the research ranch in May 2002. Seed density and species richness in burned native grassland (2 plots) were compared to those in burned exotic grassland (2 plots). Averaged over 4 sample dates, seed densities were as follows: burned native grassland, 591  243.1 seeds  m and 784  334.9 seeds  m; burned exotic grassland, 501  198.9 seeds  m and 196  123.8 seeds  m. Species richness in the seed bank, also averaged over 4 sample dates, was as follows: burned native grassland, 16.3  1.7 species  m and 19.5  1.0 species  m; burned exotic grassland, 12.0  3.4 species  m and 11.06  2.5 species  m. The seed bank of burned exotic grassland contained significantly fewer seeds and species than that of burned native grassland. In addition, the seed bank in burned exotic grassland comprised mainly exotic grasses, whereas annual and perennial herbs, most of them native, dominated the seed bank of burned native grassland. Of the 50 species detected in soil samples, only 20 had a persistent seed bank, and only 1 of these was a native perennial bunchgrass. The preponderance of transient species means that eradication of exotic grasses must be followed by reseeding of native grasses and herbs, perhaps repeatedly, if native grassland is to replace exotic grassland.
41717599|The 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens killed trees in a broad 600-km swath north of the crater. Over most of the blast zone, dead trees were salvage logged and Abies procera was planted, except in areas within the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument. We compared salvage-replanted sites and unsalvaged sites in 1 area of the blast zone where the sites were adjacent by using twenty-five 200-m plots for each treatment. Salvaged-replanted plots had significantly lower herb and shrub cover, richness, diversity, litter depth, downed woody debris, nitrate, and phosphate. Salvaged-replanted sites also had significantly more stumps, bare area, and moss cover than unsalvaged plots. Soil organic matter and nonnative species cover did not diifer. Nonnative species were not important components of any plots. Nitrate, total nitrogen, organic matter, and litter were correlated with the major patterns of species distribution in a canonical correspondence analysis of the salvaged-replanted plots. In the unsalvaged plots, slope, downed woody debris, and elevation were correlated with the major patterns of species distribution.
41717600|We studied the breeding system and flower visitors of White River penstemon, a rare endemic from the Uintah Basin of eastern Utah and western Colorado. Bagging treatments and hand-pollination treatments showed that Penstemon scariosus var. albifluvis has a mixed mating system: while some seeds and fruits are produced through selfpollination (both autogamy and geitonogamy), significantly more are produced when flowers are cross-pollinated. The primary flower visitors, and likely pollinators, were several species of native twig-and ground-nesting bees in the families Apidae, Halictidae, and Megachilidae. We found no differences in fruit or seed production between open-pollinated controls and hand-outcrossed flowers, suggesting that pollinator visits were sufficient to maximize female reproductive success. Management plans to conserve White River penstemon must recognize that full reproductive success of this rare plant taxon relies on a suite of pollinating bees, and that the species richness and abundances of bee visitors should be maintained.
41717601|We examined 590 specimens of Reithrodontomys from 95 localities in the state of Mxico. Four species of the subgenus Reithrodontomys and 1 of the subgenus Aporodon were identified. The former subgenus included R. chrysopsis, R. sumichrasti, R. megalotis, and R. fulvescens, which has 2 subspeciesR. f. toltecus and R. f. mustelinusin the state. The representative of the subgenus Aporodon is R. microdon wagneri, which is recorded for the first time in the state. We give information on taxonomy, morphometrics, reproduction, habitat characteristics, and related fauna. A discriminant analysis correctly classified 100% of specimens from the 6 taxa with 5 canonical variates, and accounted for 96.1% of the variance with the first 3 canonical variates. Se examinaron 590 ejemplares de las especies del gnero Reithrodontomys procedentes de 95 localidades del Estado de Mxico. Se identificaron cuatro especies del subgnero Reithrodontomys y una del Aporodon, del primero, R. chrysopsis, R. sumichrasti, R. megalotis y R. fulvescens, de sta ltima se identificaron dos subespecies R. f. toltecus y R. f mustelinus. La especie del subgnero Aporodon es R. microdon wagneri que se registra por primera vez para el Estado. De cada taxon se dan medidas, comentarios taxonmicos y de la condicin reproductora, as como las caractersticas del hbitat y de la fauna asociada. Un anlisis discriminante mostr el 100% de certeza en la identificacin de los 6 taxa y los primeros tres vectores cannicos expresaron el 96.1% de variacin total.
41717602|Predation of eggs or nestlings is generally believed to be the most influential factor limiting passerine reproductive success. Thus, there should be strong selective pressures for birds to place their nests in sites that are inaccessible to predators or that are less likely to be discovered by them. We found and monitored 231 nests of 4 species of arboreal, cup-nesting birds: Western Wood-Pewee (Contopus sordidulus), Warbling Vireo (Vireo gilvus), American Robin (Turdus migratorius), and Yellow-rumped Warbler (Dendroica coronata). We determined strength of nest tree species selection by comparing nest trees and tree species availability. Western Wood-Pewees and Warbling Vireos demonstrated strong preference for placing nests in quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides). Yellow-rumped Warblers showed a weak preference for aspen, and American Robins demonstrated no preference. We designed a series of experiments to determine whether yellow pine chipmunks (Tamias amoenus), an abundant nest predator, could climb aspen trees and, if so, what factors might prevent them from doing so. Yellow pine chipmunks were unable to climb aspen but showed no difficulty in climbing and maneuvering on lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) boles, which were identical in diameter to aspen boles. Refuge from chipmunks as potential nest predators is likely contributing to nest site selection for a few arboreal cup-nesting bird species where aspen trees are available.
41717603|The milliped genus Apheloria occupies a broad area in Qubec and Ontario, Canada, and the United States east of the Central Plains, lying generally north of the Gulf Coastal states. It is reported for the 1st time from New Jersey, District of Columbia, Illinois, and Kansas; and the 1st localities are recorded for Massachusetts, Connecticut, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Wisconsin. The projected distribution encompasses all or parts of the District of Columbia and 27 states, including Vermont and Delaware, where the genus has not been taken; New Hampshire and Mississippi lie outside the range. Chesapeake Bay and the Connecticut River form apparent eastern boundaries in Maryland-Virginia and New England, respectively; the Tennessee River does likewise on the south in northern Alabama. Aside from Arkansas, comparatively few records exist from the 6 projected states of occurrence west of the Mississippi River. Only 1 each is available from Iowa and Kansas, and there are no definite localities in Nebraska, where occurrence is postulated at Omaha, the type locality of Fontaria luminosa Kenyon, 1893. Confirmation with fresh material is necessary, but this name seems referrable to Apheloria and may be senior to either A. virginiensis iowa or A. v. redacta, both by Chamberlin, 1939, if 2 distinct races occur west of the Mississippi River.
41717604|Although the current range of the endangered San Joaqun kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica) borders large areas of farmland, the ecology of this species rarely has been studied within an agricultural setting. In central California, we examined habitat use, prey availability, and diet of radio-collared kit foxes inhabiting an aqueduct right-of-way (ROW) bordered by farmland. During both years of study (1998-1999), nocturnal locations of foxes occurred more often than expected (based on habitat availability) in the ROW and less often than expected within annual crops. Orchards were used disproportionately more than their availability during 1998 and were used in proportion to availability during 1999. Kit foxes traveled up to 1.1 km into annual crops and up to 1.5 km into orchards. Among diurnal locations (den sites) of foxes, 98% were within the ROW. Live-trapping revealed higher densities and greater diversity of rodents along the ROW than within farmland. Remains of murid rodents were found in 79% of kit fox scats. Our findings indicated that kit foxes ranged into orchards and annual croplands at night, but almost never occupied these areas during the day. The lack of den sites and low prey availability within farmland probably limited the ability of kit foxes to exploit and occupy these areas. Providing artificial den sites within croplands (especially within orchards) and along canals may increase use of farmland by kit foxes and facilitate their movement between isolated patches of natural lands.
41717605|In northern areas of their expanded range, information on Merriam's turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) is lacking, specifically pertaining to wintering behavior and factors associated with winter habitat selection. Forest managers need detailed quantification of the effects of logging and other management practices on wintering habitats needed by Wild Turkeys and other wildlife. Therefore, we examined winter habitat selection patterns within ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests and determined factors associated with use of farmsteads by Merriam's turkeys in the southern Black Hills, South Dakota. We radio-marked 86 female Merriam's turkeys (70 adults and 16 yearlings) and monitored them during winter (1 December-31 March), 2001-2004. Female Wild Turkeys used recently burned pine forest less than expected but selected farmsteads and stands of mature ponderosa pine (<70% overstory canopy cover, >22.9 cm diameter at breast height [DBH] trees) for foraging sites. Within forests, female Wild Turkeys selected foraging sites with less understory vegetation and visual obstruction, and larger-diameter ponderosa pine. Ponderosa pine seed abundance varied among years, and pine seeds were most abundant in stands of 30-35 cm DBH with basal area of 22-28 m. ha. Abundance of pine seeds may have influenced use of farmsteads by Wild Turkeys, more so than ambient temperatures or snow depth. In the southern Black Hills, management should emphasize open- to mid-canopy and mature-structural-stage pine stands, where seed production was greatest. During winters when mast from pine is unavailable, farmsteads likely provide nutritional supplementation and may be important for maintaining Merriam's turkey populations.
41717606|I measured songbird abundance and vegetation cover in and around a 420-ha prescribed burn in a mountain big sagebrush community located at 2133 m elevation. Data were collected during the 3rd growing season after the fire. Brewer's Sparrow and Sage Thrasher occurred in lower abundance on sites that were largely or completely burned relative to sites that were outside the fire perimeter or within unburned islands of shrubs. The number of Brewer's Sparrow detections was linearly related to remaining sagebrush cover. In contrast, Horned Lark occurred at higher abundances on sites where shrub cover had been removed in the prescribed burn. Cover of perennial grasses and cover of 4 of the 5 most common forbs was greater on burned sites than on unburned sites.
41717607|An important contemporary challenge for adaptive resource management is assessing both the direct and indirect effects of management activities by designing appropriate monitoring programs and sound analysis methods. Here we evaluate the effects of prescribed fall burning on a wetland plant community that is managed primarily for spring-migrating geese. During late fall in 2 consecutive years, we burned vegetation in 4 replicate blocks (2.3 ha each) that traversed a natural moisture and associated vegetation gradient. We used ordination, gradient analysis, and contingency table analysis to evaluate how annual changes in relative abundance of plants were affected by burning as well as other important ecological factors. Burning increased species diversity of plants, especially in the 2 wetter vegetation zones, but had no effect on species richness or on the proportion of native plant species. Wetland plant species responded to prescribed burning independently, and their response often differed by vegetation zone and with annual variation in flooding. Burning enhanced the abundance of native foxtail barley (Hordeum jubatum) and reduced the abundance of introduced swamp timothy (Crypsis shoenoides). Saltgrass (Distichiis spicata), a native plant species, was usually less abundant following burning, although the level of response was different for each of the 3 vegetation zones. Two other introduced plant species, quackgrass (Elytrigia repens) and reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinaceae), were less abundant after fall burning, especially when spring flooding was more extensive. Wild geese using the experimental blocks for feeding clearly preferred burned sites, suggesting that fall burning can enhance wetland use by geese during spring. Given that simple manipulations such as burning and flooding of a wetland system may often produce complex results, we suggest that on-going management schemes be regularly evaluated with field experiments such as those conducted in this study.
41717608|Corrections and additions to the original description of Chaetocnema labiosa White are given and include the report of characters associated with the loss of flight. New distributional data are provided. Possible host plants and the likelihood of parthenogenetic populations are briefly discussed.
41717612|Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) has greatly expanded its historical range in the western United States. Management plans for the species have focused on curtailing its encroachment into sagebrush and grassland communities. These plans often include burning or other methods of elimination. These methods may result in subdivision or fragmentation of existing juniper stands. We initiated a study at Dugway Proving Ground, a U.S. Army facility, to examine the effects of fragmentation on the reproductive success of Utah juniper in isolated populations. We used enzyme electrophoresis to quantify genetic variability in isolated populations. We also determined population reproductive success by examining juniper fruits for evidence of seed abortion and/or presence of insect parasites. We compared reproductive and genetic variability in isolated populations at Dugway to 2 nonisolated and encroaching Utah juniper populations. The Dugway populations exhibited reduced seed set due to high seed abortion and/or insect seed parasitism, and a loss of genetic variability in comparison to the nonisolated populations. Additionally, there was a significant correlation between reproductive success and genetic variability.
41717613|Indian ricegrass (Achnatherum hymenoides [Roem. & Schult.] Barkworth) is a rangeland species native to western North America with populations that may exhibit distinct seed-size morphs borne on separate plants. These morphs are often associated with very different levels of seed dormancy. We compared RAPD profiles of the relatively infrequent and highly dormant jumbo seed morph to its more germinable small or large (non-jumbo) companion seed morphs collected from 9 sites where they were sympatric. Jumbo seed accessions from 9 additional sites that did not exhibit seed polymorphism were included to better sample this seed morph across the species' range. Sympatric seed morphs were consistently distinguishable by their RAPD profiles, and sympatric seed morphs were no more likely to cluster together than nonsympatric seed morphs. The ability of sympatric seed morphs to maintain their genetic identity is compatible with the hypothesis of a predominately autogamous breeding system. Furthermore, these data support the hypothesis that local polymorphic populations result from overlapping waves of migration with distinct geographical origins. The jumbo seed morphs exhibited moderate correlation between genetic distance and geographic distance, but the non-jumbo seed morphs exhibited no such correlation. Jumbo seed morphs that were collected at or east of the Continental Divide in New Mexico and Colorado are more genetically homogeneous than those west of the Continental Divide, and non-jumbo seed morphs from the east are more genetically variable than jumbo seed morphs from the same locations. This suggests that gene flow eastward across the Rocky Mountains has been more frequent for the non-jumbo seed morphs than for the jumbo seed morphs.
41717614|The purposes of this study were to develop a multivariate statistical model related to plant succession, to classify by serai stage, and to monitor succession in Wyoming big sagebrush shrubsteppe habitat (Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis / Agropyron smithii-Boutelotui gracilis) in Thunder Basin National Grassland, Wyoming. This model can be used by range and wildlife managers to evaluate management alternatives by assessing changes in plant species cover and composition within and between serai stages. Four ecological serai stages that represent early to late succession were quantitatively identified with an estimated 92% accuracy. Three key plant species provided the necessary information to define serai stages and monitor trends. Percent canopy cover and percent frequency (used to calculate index values: % canopy cover  % frequency of occurrence) of Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis), western wheatgrass (Agropyron smithii), and blue grama (Boutehua gracilis) are the only field measurements required for this model.
41717615|There is a paucity of information concerning livestock and vegetation responses to rotational grazing in short-grass steppe. We compared effects between 1995 and 2003 of time-controlled, short-duration rotational grazing against season-long continuous grazing, at a moderate stocking rate (1.95 ha animal unit month), on livestock gains and on foliar and basal cover in short-grass steppe. Livestock average daily gains, grazing-season gains, and beef production did not differ between grazing systems. We observed no relationship between precipitation (annual or growing-season) and average daily gain. In contrast, both grazing-season gains and beef production exhibited a significant curvilinear response to both growing-season and annual precipitation. Basal and foliar cover of all plant functional groups (C annual grasses, C perennial grasses and grass-likes, C perennial grasses, cactus, annual forbs, perennial forbs, and shrubs/subshrubs) did not differ between grazing systems. Litter and bare ground were also unaffected by grazing system, with litter increasing and bare ground decreasing over the duration of this experiment. Land managers in shortgrass steppe who are implementing rotational grazing at moderate stocking rates should not expect increased livestock gains or changes in basal and foliar cover of the plant community. Rotational grazing may be a useful management tool for achieving conservation goals through modifications of seasonally and intensity of use in paddocks within larger management units to accommodate spatial variability in vegetation and temporal variation in precipitation.
41717616|We used live-trapping and foraging experiments to describe use of roadside vegetation by kangaroo rats (Dipodomys ordii) in short-grass prairie in Colorado, and to determine whether this species' perception of prdation risk differed between roadside habitats, where predators were expected to be most active, and locations 120 m into adjacent grazed pastures. Giving-up densities (GUDs) were measured in paired seed trays placed beneath saltbush (Atriplex canescens) shrubs and in the open, 3 m from shrubs along transects in roadside and pasture locations. Trials were conducted on nights with a partial (lst-quarter), full, and new moon to assess how intensity of risk affected microhabitat use. Kangaroo rats were much more abundant in areas with saltbush cover than in grazed prairie, and were 4-6 times more numerous along roadsides in saltbush areas than in other locations. On dark nights and in pasture locations, foraging rates of kangaroo rats were similar in shrub trays and open trays. The fewest seeds were removed (i. e., GUDs were highest), however, in open trays along roads on moonlit nights, suggesting that kangaroo rats recognized potential risks associated with roadsides on bright nights. The high numbers of kangaroo rats along roads suggest that benefits associated with these habitats (ease of digging, dust bathing, higher soil seed banks) exceed the costs associated with higher risk of mortality from predators and vehicles. Our results demonstrate how foraging decisions differ depending on the spatial and temporal contexts in which behaviors are measured, and underscore the potential value of less common habitats such as road margins for increasing landscape-scale diversity and wildlife habitat in grazed grasslands.
41717617|Heteromyid rodents in the deserts of North America have been shown to harvest large quantities of seeds of both native and introduced plants from soil seed banks, but rarely has the impact of this seed removal been demonstrated experimentally. I used a series of fenced plots (some of which excluded rodents) to demonstrate that heteromyids at a western Nevada study site can measurably reduce seed banks and subsequent seedling establishment of Salsola paulsenii, an introduced invasive weed that has become a significant problem over much of the desert Southwest. The frequency of S. paulsenii seedlings in both 2004 and 2005 was significantly greater around the interior perimeters of plots that permitted access by rodents than in plots that excluded rodents. Density of S. paulsenii seedlings was significantly greater inside than outside rodent exclusion plots, but there was no such difference in seedling density inside versus outside plots that permitted rodent access. Salsola paulsenii has such a conspicuous presence in many desert environments that the effect of rodents in reducing its abundance may not be visually apparent; however, rodents may still ameliorate competitive effects of this weed on coexisting plants. Heteromyid rodents disperse seeds through caching, and they also consume them. Caching may enhance establishment of native plant seedlings, but is unlikely to benefit exotics such as S. paulsenii.
41717618|We documented black bears (Ursus americanas) consuming the seeds of Jeffery pine (Pinus jeffreyi) in the eastern Sierra Nevada from late August through September. Shells of pine seeds were the exclusive item in 20 of 27 scat samples collected in September and October and comprised >90% of the remaining 7 samples. Bears obtain seeds of Jeffrey pines by climbing trees, removing ripe, unopened cones from branches, dismantling cones on the ground, and consuming the seeds. Cone harvesting by bears can cause substantial damage to cone-bearing trees and might result in high predispersal mortality of seeds. In other regions, the use of pine seeds by bears has been associated with whitebark pines (P. albicaulis) from which bears obtain seeds by exploiting the cone-storing activities of squirrels. Despite the lack of an apparent pine-squirrel-bear interaction, harvesting unopened cones might be a common foraging strategy used by black bears to obtain seeds of Jeffrey pines in the Sierra Nevada.
41717619|Variation in kit fox (Vulpes macrotis) population parameters can be influenced by vegetative cover and the distribution and abundance of other predator and prey species. Dramatic changes to Great Basin Desert habitats, which can potentially impact mammalian species, have occurred in some areas in Utah. We examined kit fox demographics and prey populations from 1999 to 2001 on Dugway Proving Ground (DPG), a U.S. Army facility in Utah, and compared some parameters to historical levels (1956-1958, 1966-1969). Adult survival rates were fairly consistent between 1999 and 2000 and between 1999 and 2001; however, survival was greater in 2001 than in 2000. Reproductive rates ranged from 1.0 to 3.8 pups per female in 1999-2000 and were similar to historical numbers (1.0-4.2 pups per female). We found a decrease in pre-whelping kit fox density from the 1960s (0.12 foxes  km) to 1999-2001 (0.04 foxes  km); however, densities were similar between the current study and the 1950s (0.08 foxes  km). Using 9 years of data, we found density dependence between reproductive rates of the current year and annual fox density from the previous year. Using 7 years of data, we found a slight correlation between kit fox annual density and a 1-year lag in leporid abundance, even though leporid abundance was lower during the present study than it was historically. Compared to historical levels, current small mammal abundance and species composition has changed in several habitats. Kit fox breeding density and annual density were inversely correlated with coyote (Canis htrans) density. Changes to the landscape at DPG, especially due to invasion of cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) and addition of artificial water sources, have caused a change in available kit fox habitat and prey species, and have increased the abundance of coyotes, the kit fox's major competitor.
41717620|We studied 7 urban roosts occupied by Mexican free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis) in downtown Waco, Texas, from August 2001 to September 2002. We examined frequency of roost use, colony sizes, and roost fidelity in relation to gender. Use of roosts and colony sizes were highest in the fall and lowest in the winter, but fluctuated widely during the study. These roosts were not used by maternity colonies, and patterns of occupancy suggested that they served as stopover sites during migratory seasons. Individual bats exhibited high fidelity to discrete roosts included in the study. However, the bats commonly left the study area, suggesting that populations are defined at greater spatial scales than we included in this study. Male bats were recaptured more often and spent more days in the study area than female bats, suggesting a sexual difference in roosting behavior.
41717621|We used aerial surveys to study abundance and distribution of waterfowl (ducks, geese, swans, and coots) during spring in southern Oregon and northeastern California (SONEC). Total waterfowl-use days in SONEC during the 119-day, 5 January-3 May, spring period was similar during 2002 (127,977,700) and 2003 (128,076,200) and averaged 1,075,900 birds per day (bpd); these estimates should be adjusted upward 4%-10% to account for areas not surveyed. Waterfowl abundance peaked in mid-March in both years: 2,095,700 in 2002 and 1,681,700 in 2003. Northern Pintail (Anas acuta) was the most abundant species in both years, accounting for 25.6% of the 2002 and 24.5% of the 2003 waterfowl-use days. Pintail abundance peaked during the 13 March survey at 689,300 in 2002 and 532,100 in 2003. All other dabbling ducks accounted for 27.6% and 28.6%, diving ducks for 13.5% and 9.2%, geese for 24.6% and 29.3%, swans for 2.8% and 1.9%, and coots for 5.8% and 6.4% of the spring waterfowl-use days in SONEC during 2002 and 2003, respectively. Although use days changed little for total waterfowl (+0.08%) and dabbling ducks (-0.1%), diving duck use was lower (-32%), and goose use days were greater (+19%) in 2003 than in 2002. Distribution was similar in both years, with the most waterfowl use in the Lower (66%) and Upper (14%) Klamath subregions; 2%-6% occurred in each of the other subregions. Although the Lower Klamath subregion received the greatest overall waterfowl use, distribution among subregions varied among species and surveys, and all subregions were important during some part of the spring for 1 or more species. Peak spring abundance in SONEC during 2002 and 2003 averaged 50.3% of the midwinter abundance in California (all survey regions) and southern Oregon (69-3 survey region) for all waterfowl, 46.1% for dabbling ducks, 62.4% for diving ducks, 68.8% for geese, 109.4% for swans, and 43.8% for coots. Each spring, 75% of all waterfowl use in SONEC occurred on federal, state, or Nature Conservancy lands (i.e., protected areas). On protected areas there was a higher percentage of dabbling ducks (80.5%), geese (70.5%), and coots (81.5%) than diving ducks (60.4%) and swans (49%). Waterfowl use of Klamath Basin National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) averaged 42% greater during spring 2002-2003 (568,500 bpd) than during 1998-2001 (Gilmer et al. 2004). Numerous factors likely impacted magnitude and distribution of waterfowl use of SONEC during spring, including weather, waterfowl populations, SONEC habitat, and species ecology. SONEC is a critical spring staging area for waterfowl that winter in the Central Valley of California and other Pacific Flyway regions and should be a major focus area for waterfowl-habitat conservation efforts.
41717622|We investigated present indirect effects from a decade-old burn on the diets of stream fish. Based on soil instability and burn patterns from a 12-14-year-old wildfire complex, we separated 9 streams into 3 conditions: unburned, burned, and burned/scoured (i.e., experiencing a massive scour event 1 year post-burn). In the streams, we measured light levels and water temperatures, and we estimated fish density and biomass. We removed the digestive tracts from 9-15 rainbow trout (Oncorhynckus mykiss) from each stream and used a gravimetric procedure to analyze gut contents. Canopy cover development may dictate the composition of dietary items. Greater amounts of aquatic invertebrates and inorganic material were found in trout from streams with reduced overhead canopy. Further, these streams had lower amounts of terrestrial invertebrates and organic materials in the diets of fish. Although trout abundance was not different among the stream treatments, fire-induced, indirect effects on fish diets were still evident more than a decade after the burn. This suggests that recovery rates for trout assemblages may take longer than predicted and may depend on riparian recovery.
41717623|We sampled streams in the Upper Clear Creek Watershed in northwestern California in fall 2004 and fall 2005 to document assemblages of aquatic vertebrates and to provide resource managers with information on the importance of these assemblages in terms of regional biodiversity. We used single-pass backpack electrofishing to sample 15 sites in fall 2004 and the same 15 sites plus 4 new sites in fall 2005. We captured 10 fish taxa and 2 species of larval amphibians. Seven of the fish taxa were native species. Of the exotic species, only brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) occurred at more than 1 site. Ordinations by nonmetric multidimensional scaling indicated a gradient from sites with rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), Pacific giant salamander (Dicamptodon tenebrosus), and tailed frog (Ascaphus truei) to sites dominated by riffle sculpin (Cottus gulosus), California roach (Hesperoleucas symmetricus), and Sacramento sucker (Catostomus occidentalis). The gradient in species composition was associated with changes in elevation, gradient, discharge, and substrate. The Upper Clear Creek Watershed represents a unique area of overlap between the North Coast California amphibian fauna and the Central Valley fish fauna with a notable paucity of exotic fishes and amphibians. Preservation of the integrity of native aquatic assemblages is an important goal for aquatic resource management in the region; our results provide a critcial baseline to gauge future management actions.
41717624|This study compared brood production of the spruce beede (Dendroctonus rufipennis Kirby [Coleoptera: Curculionidae, Scolytinae]) in downed host material felled during summer and spring seasons on the Wasatch Plateau in south central Utah. Thirty-three matched pairs of Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii Parry ex Engelm.) trees were selected for study in spring 1996. One tree of each pair was cut during August 1996 (summer-felled), and the other tree was cut in early April 1997 (spring-felled), so that trees would be colonized by spruce beetles of the same flight period. Brood adults were collected and counted from bark samples, which were removed from the top, bottom, and sides of all sample trees in October 1998. The number of emergent adults produced in June 1999 was determined from exit holes counted in bark samples removed from these same locations. Mixed-model procedures were used to compare differences in the mean number of adults produced in summer-felled versus spring-felled trees in each year. The results indicated that significantly fewer spruce beetles were produced in summer-felled trees than in spring-felled trees. More brood adults were also present in, or emerged from, unexposed bole aspects (bottom, north, and east) of sample trees than exposed aspects (top, south, and west). These findings suggest that disturbances providing spruce beetles with an abundance of fresh host material in the spring result in the greatest potential for spruce beetle production, particularly beneath unexposed bark aspects. Examples of such disturbances include snow avalanches, blowdown, and snow and ice damage.
41717625|We report the discovery of established populations of Cnemidophorus neomexicanus in the Salt Lake City area. These are the 1st records of this species in Utah and in the Great Basin and are far from all other known populations of the species. We conclude that C. neomexicanus was introduced in the Salt Lake City area, perhaps within the last 30 years.
41717629|Climate change and fire suppression have facilitated expansion of pinyon-juniper woodlands into sagebrush-steppe ecosystems of the Great Basin, USA, resulting in a loss of biological diversity. To assess the effects of using prescribed fire in restoration efforts, ant abundance, species richness, and composition were examined pre-and post-burn along the elevation and tree cover gradients encompassed by a pinyon-juniper woodland in a central Nevada watershed. Ants were sampled using pitfall traps in 6 sites for the elevation study and in 2 sites for the tree cover study, representing paired burn and control sites in a randomized block design. Vegetation and ground cover variables were also sampled to determine how variation in ant populations was correlated with differences in vegetation and ground cover. Ant species richness remained unchanged for all treatments. Tree cover had no significant effect on ant populations. Significantly more ants were trapped after the burn treatment on burn plots. Variation in ant populations was not directly correlated with any of the vegetation or ground cover variables. According to ANOVA and multivariate analyses, elevation had the greatest effect on changes in ant communities, likely due to increased moisture availability. Our results suggest that management for conservation of sagebrush-steppe ecosystems in this and similar watersheds should include a range of elevations to ensure maximum ant species diversity.
41717630|We report on growth and demography of Sceloporus mucronatus mucronatus, a lizard subspecies endemic to central Mexico. We characterize the life history of this subspecies, provide quantitative information relevant to conservation, and add to the growing literature on the diversity of life histories in the genus Sceloporus. We calculated body growth rates and fitted them to the Von Bertalanffy, the logistic-by-length, and the logistic-by-weight growth models. The Von Bertalanffy model provided the best fit, and we used it to analyze the growth pattern. Growth rates were similar during the 1st year of life in both sexes, but after that point males grew faster and reached maturity earlier (20 months) than females (31 months). We used a population projection matrix to model population dynamics during 2003-2004 and found a positive population growth rate ( = 1.769). However, based on the projected stable size-class vector (), this population does not appear to have reached stability, and it might be currently experiencing considerable interannual fluctuations. Elasticity values showed that the transition from the juvenile stage to the 1st adult stage was the vital rate that contributes the most to population growth rate, followed by fecundity and stasis of the 1st reproductive category. While total elasticities for demographic processes were similar, elasticities per size class showed the relatively high importance of small adults in comparison to juveniles and large adults. The restriction of this endemic subspecies to central Mexico, where human activities and consequent habitat destruction are increasing, demands further quantitative evaluation and monitoring of populations, even though our results indicate a potential for population growth.
41717631|Predictive models of aboveground biomass of nonnative Tamarix ramosissima of various sizes were developed using destructive sampling techniques on 50 individuals and four 100-m 2 plots. Each sample was measured for average height (m) of stems and canopy area (m) prior to cutting, drying, and weighing. Five competing regression models (P < 0.05) were developed to estimate aboveground biomass of T. ramosissima using average height and/or canopy area measurements and were evaluated using Akaike's Information Criterion corrected for small sample size (AICC). Our best model (AICC = -148.69, AICC = 0) successfully predicted T. ramosissima aboveground biomass (R = 0.97) and used average height and canopy area as predictors. Our 2nd-best model, using the same predictors, was also successful in predicting aboveground biomass (R = 0.97, AICC = -131.71, AICC = 16.98). A 3rd model demonstrated high correlation between only aboveground biomass and canopy area (R = 0.95), while 2 additional models found high correlations between aboveground biomass and average height measurements only (R = 0.90 and 0.70, respectively). These models illustrate how simple field measurements, such as height and canopy area, can be used in allometric relationships to accurately predict aboveground biomass of T. ramosissima. Although a correction factor may be necessary for predictions at larger scales, the models presented will prove useful for many research and management initiatives.
41717632|The diatom flora of selected sites in the Animas River Watershed, San Juan County, Colorado, was studied. Eighty diatom taxa were identified from 10 sites: 8 sites on the Animas River and 1 site each on the Cement and Cascade tributaries. The sample diatom abundance was dominated by Achnanthidium minutissimum, Encyonema silesiacum, Aulacoseira distans, Hannaea arcus, and Diatoma tnesodon. The presence of tratologie specimens of Fraguara and Achnanthidium in the samples indicated the possibility of metals contamination. Diatom diversity was low and Lange-Bertalot pollution index scores indicated little organic pollution evidenced from diatom composition. There was evidence that diatom composition at the sites was differentially affected by pH and possibly by the concentrations of Zn alone or in combination with Cd, Cu, and Fe.
41717633|Seed moisture has been shown to influence the rates of seed cache removal by rodents. Although the precise mechanism is not known, this knowledge might prove useful in field applications. We examined whether moistened bait would increase trap success in desert rodent populations. We placed traps 15 m apart in grids within a 500-ha study area and randomly baited traps with either dry or moistened seeds. We found that traps baited with moistened seeds had 34.9% higher success than traps baited with dry seeds (n = 190, X = 5.389, df = 1, P = 0.020). Our results suggest that application of water to dry seed bait can lead to increased trap success for desert rodents.
41717634|We compared the maximum scotopic visual sensitivity of 4 species of trout from twilight (mesotopic) to fully dark-adapted vision. Scotopic vision is the minimum number of photons to which a fully dark-adapted animal will show a behavioral response. A comparison of visual sensitivity under controlled laboratory conditions showed that brown trout (Salmo trutta) and brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) had maximum scotopic thresholds (1.1  10 mol . ms,~0.005 lux) 2 times lower than rainbow trout (Oncorhyncus mykiss) and Snake River cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki bouvieri), which did not differ from each other (2.1  10 mol . ms,~0.001 lux). A literature review tended to corroborate these results in that brown trout and brook trout were reported to be more active during the night and at twilight than cutthroat trout and rainbow trout. We also measured light intensity within open versus shaded reaches during the day, dusk, and night in 3 Rocky Mountain streams. The scotopic sensitivity of brown trout and brook trout was sufficient to allow foraging during all twilight periods and under average nighttime light intensities in open and shaded reaches, whereas the scotopic sensitivity of rainbow trout and cutthroat trout may restrict their foraging to relatively bright nocturnal conditions (twilight or a moonlit night). Native cutthroat trout restoration efforts may have greater success in open versus shaded stream reaches in the Rocky Mountains and elsewhere.
41717635|We estimated bobcat (Lynx rufus) density for 3 different locations in northern California using active infrared-triggered cameras. Using differences in pelage pattern as well as other physical characteristics, we identified individual bobcats from photographs, and used mark-recapture techniques to estimate population density. Camera density affected the precision of population estimates. The same population was estimated using camera densities of 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 cameras  km. Higher camera densities resulted in more captures and recaptures of bobcats and, consequently, in more precise density estimates. Similarly, the number of photo-captures and recaptures increased with increasing study duration. Increasing the area sampled resulted in the capture of more individuals but did not increase the percentage of recaptures. While some locations captured multiple bobcat photographs (e.g., 15 at 1 station), these photos tended to be recaptures of the same individual. There were no more than 2 individuals photo-captured at any 1 camera location. Bobcat density varied among habitat types as predicted. We estimated density as 0.27 bobcats  km (s = 0.16) overall in an area in the northern Sacramento River Valley and as 0.35 bobcats km (s = 0.56) in a steep and rocky canyon within the area. At a 3rd site in the Coast Range, the estimate was 0.39 bobcats  km (s = 1.44). Bobcats were more diurnal where human activity was less common. In addition, photo-capture was significantly higher along roads and trails without an attractant than it was off-trail with an attractant.
41717636|Western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis spp. occidentals Hook.) expansion in the northern Great Basin has reduced shrubsteppe productivity and diversity. Chainsaw cutting of western juniper woodlands is commonly applied to remove tree interference and restore sagebrush plant communities. Studies assessing understory response following cutting have been limited to early successional stages and have not evaluated the effects of western juniper debris on plant succession. Cutting western juniper produces a large amount of debris which is commonly left on site, occupying a significant portion of treated areas. This study evaluated successional dynamics spanning 13 years after western juniper cutting. Four 0.45-ha blocks were selected on Steens Mountain in southeastern Oregon. Western juniper cover averaged 26% and mature tree density averaged 250 trees  ha. Blocks were cut in late summer 1991. Understory standing crop, cover, and density were compared among 3 locations: old canopy litter mats (canopy), interspace, and area underneath cut western juniper (debris). In the interspace, perennial grasses increased in cover and in standing crop relative to other functional groups. In canopy and debris locations, species composition shifted in the 6th year after cutting as annual grass cover, density, and standing crop increased. However, by 2003, perennial grass biomass was 2 times greater than annual grass biomass in canopy and debris locations. Because annual grasses increased in areas of debris accumulation, managers need to be cognizant of western juniper treatments that create safe sites that are favorable to the establishment of weedy species. Retaining western juniper debris on this site did not increase establishment and growth of perennial grasses compared to the interspace. A shift in perennial grass dominance from Thurber's needlegrass (Achnatherum thurberianum [Piper] Barkworth) to bottlebrush squirreltail (Elymus hystrix [Nutt] Smith) occurred in areas of debris accumulation. Our results demonstrated that long-term vegetation evaluations are necessary to properly assess management activities and disturbance.
41717637|Interactions between forest health variables and mensurational characteristics in an uneven-aged eastern Sierra Nevada mixed conifer stand were examined. The stand was located in the Lake Tahoe Basin on a site featuring a coarsely textured granitic soil and numerous rock outcrops. Its composition was dominated by California white fir (Abies concolor van lowiana [Gord.] Lemm.), with Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi Grev. & Balf.) and sugar pine (Pinus lambertiana Dougl.) less prominent and incense-cedar (Libocedrus decurrens Torr.) and mountain alder (Alnus tenuifolia Nutt.) the most minor constituents. The majority of saplings and seedlings were white fir. The stand exhibited no evidence that its development had been influenced by fire and, overall, it consisted of numerous small trees accruing little radial growth. Nearly one-quarter of all standing stems pole size or larger were dead, with mortality concentrated in white fir. Forestfloor fuel accumulations were excessive, and coarse debris was especially prominent. A fir engraver beetle (Scolytus ventralis LeConte) epidemic in white fir contrasted against apparent endemic population levels of the Jeffrey pine (Dendroctonus jeffreyi Hopkins) and red turpentine (Dendroctonus valens LeConte) beetles in Jeffrey pine and of the mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosas Hopkins) in sugar pine. The severity of fir engraver attack on white fir was weakly related to overall tree size and to the proportion of composition consisting of this host species, while in Jeffrey pine and sugar pine, bark beetle attacks were strongly correlated with the individual proportions of these 2 hosts. Across all species, basal area explained a substantial proportion of the variation in overall attack severity. We found light infestations of true fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium abietinum Engelm. ex Munz f. sp. concoloris) in white fir and western dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium campylopodum Engelm.) in Jeffrey pine, plus an early stage of infection by the white pine blister rust (Cronartium ribicoh J.C. Fischer) in sugar pine. Collectively, this case study characterized and quantified many of the conditions, symptoms, and causative agents inherent in a decadent mixed conifer stand in the eastern Sierra Nevada.
41717638|Corbictdafluminea is well known as an invasive filter-feeding freshwater bivalve with a variety of eifects on ecosystem processes. However, C. fluminea has been relatively unstudied in the rivers of the western United States. In June 2003, we sampled C. fluminea at 16 sites in the San Joaquin River watershed of California, which was invaded by C. fluminea in the 1940s. Corbictda fluminea was common in 2 tributaries to the San Joaquin River, reaching densities of 200 clams  m, but was rare in the San Joaqun River. Biomass followed a similar pattern. Clams of the same age were shorter in the San Joaquin River than in the tributaries. Distribution of clams was different in the 2 tributaries, but the causes of the difference are unknown. The low density and biomass of clams in the San Joaqun River was likely due to stressful habitat or to water quality, because food was abundant. The success of C. fluminea invasions and subsequent effects on trophic processes likely depends on multiple factors. As C. fluminea continues to expand its range around the world, questions regarding invasion success and effects on ecosystems will become important in a wide array of environmental settings.
41717639|We report 4 incidents of large (hundreds to hundreds of thousands of individuals) mixed-species flights of predatory and scavenging aquatic Heteroptera and Coleoptera. The events occurred on normal (mostly clear, calm) autumn 2005 and spring 2006 late afternoons near Flagstaff, Arizona. Flight days were either near the full moon or in advanced waning lunar periods. At least 18 species were involved in the flights, with as many as 16 species (7 species of Heteroptera in 3 families, 9 species of Coleoptera in 2 families) in a single flight. Heteroptera (especially from the family Corixidae) were 2-4 orders of magnitude more numerous than Coleoptera. The diasporas plummeted, with much direct mortality, onto green metal roofs, and the largest event lasted more than 2 hours. Even after 2 days, uninjured individuals failed to resume their flights. The literature suggests that such flights occur for autumn movement to winter habitats or for location of springtime habitats for reproduction. The relative proportions of species in flocks were similar neither to the relative proportions in the region nor to those in nearby livestock watering tanks, indicating that the flights consisted of nonrandom assemblages of species. These events are rare or unique observations of coordinated movement of mixed predatory and scavenging invertebrate species.
41717640|We examined home range size of Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) in burned ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) / Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forests of southwestern Idaho during 2000 and 2002 (6 and 8 years following fire). Home range size for 4 adult males during the post-fledging period was 115.6-420.9 ha using the 95% fixed-kernel method, and 150.4-766.1 ha using the 100% minimum convex polygon method. Smoothed bootstrap estimates (95%) were 130.0-521.9 ha. Home range sizes were significantly smaller 6 years after fire than 8 years after fire. Each male had from 2 to 8 areas of concentrated use within his home range. We provide recommendations for estimating area requirements of Black-backed Woodpeckers in post-fire ponderosa pine / Douglas-fir forests.
41717641|We provide the 1st documented accounts of the Mexican endemic rattlesnake Crotalus aquilus from the state of Mxico. The new records extend the known distribution of the species into a region where it may be sympatric with the superficially similar C. triseriatus. Because these taxa have previously been subject to some taxonomic confusion, we performed a preliminary morphological comparison using individuals of both species obtained from proximal localities. Our analyses support the supposition that these taxa are morphologically distinct. The new localities for C. aquilus are situated in high valleys that have been extensively modified by human settlement and agriculture.
41717642|The weevil Scaphomorphus trivittatus (Say) was found in close association with Astragalus praelongus var. elliseae (Rydb.) and Astragalus asclepiadoides (Jones) in selenium-containing soils in Carbon County, Utah. The weevils fed on roots of the Astragalus species and formed soil cocoons, which were attached to the tap roots. The weevils pupated and developed into adults in these cocoons over the fall and winter and then emerged in the spring. The plants and soil cocoons contained highly elevated levels of selenium compared to the soils. The weevils, in contrast, differed little from the soils in selenium content.
41717643|Isocapnia mogila, a rare winter stonefly, is found in good numbers in Humboldt County, California. In the 50 years since this species was described, very few specimens were recorded from only 4 sites in California and Oregon. Emergence seems to be higher in the fall and early winter than in the late winter and spring.
41717644|A report of the cliff chipmunk (Tamias dorsalis) from the Sandia Mountains, New Mexico, was erroneous. The capture location of the specimen was actually the Rio Puerco drainage in Sandoval County. There are no records of the cliff chipmunk from the Sandia Mountains or elsewhere east of the Rio Grande.
41717645|Gray wolves (Canis lupus) were reintroduced into Yellowstone National Park in 1995-1996. In August 2004 we measured plant architecture of Geyer willow (Salix geyeriana) stems along three 100-m reaches of Blacktail Deer Creek in Yellowstone's northern elk (Cervus elaphus) winter range to evaluate changes in patterns of browsing and height growth following wolf reintroduction. Average browsing intensities (n = 3 stream reaches) of 100% in 1997 decreased to 0%-55% by 2003, whereas average stem heights of 25-74 cm in 1997 increased to 149-268 cm by 2003, indicating that willow height growth was inversely related to browsing intensity. In addition, average willow canopy cover over the streams increased from <5% in 1997 to 14%-73% in 2004. These findings were consistent with a hypothesis that increased willow heights following the 1995-1996 wolf reintroduction represent a trophic cascade involving wolves, elk, and deciduous woody vegetation.
41717646|Mountain beavers cache plants in neat piles above the ground near the entrances to their underground burrows, although the purpose of these hay piles remains controversial. We tested the hypothesis that drying plants in piles above ground may slow decay when the plants are stored underground. Predried plants and undried controls were placed in abandoned burrows. Plants that had been predried retained more green and decayed more slowly than undried controls. This experimental test supports the hypothesis that haying may extend the time during which plants are useful to mountain beavers.
41717650|The reliability of monitoring visual obstruction and estimating standing herbage with a modified Robel pole was examined for high-elevation meadows in sedimentary soils on the Bighorn National Forest, Wyoming. Our objectives were to (1) test a modified pole graduated with 1.27-cm (0.5-inch) bands for estimating standing herbage based on linear regression of visual obstruction readings (VORs) on standing herbage, (2) validate the derived regression, (3) provide sample size estimates, and (4) develop guidelines for monitoring mountain grasslands. Each transect had 20 visual obstruction stations spaced 10 meters apart with 4 visual obstruction readings at each station. At 4 stations, vegetation within a 0.25-m area was clipped at ground level. VORs and clipped standing herbage were averaged by transect for analysis. Visual obstruction reliably predicted average standing herbage (dry weights) for mountain meadows (r = 0.81, s${s_{\bar x}}$ = 382 kg  ha). Standing herbage ranged from 387 kg  ha to 3930 kg  ha, with a mean of 1742 kg  ha. A validation data set of 13 transects sampled across the range of variation in standing crop showed that 85% of transects fell within the 90% prediction limits. We recommend a minimum of 4 transects for monitoring key areas or small areas up to 259 ha (640 acres) when managers need to consider differences in VOR bands and address multiple objectives. Cluster analyses (ISODATA) applied to the pole readings resulted in 4 visual obstruction categories: short, short-intermediate, tall-intermediate, and tall. This tool provides a simple, reliable, and cost-effective (time-saving) alternative to clipping vegetation and obtaining dry weights for monitoring.
41717651|The central tenet of island biogeography theorythat species assemblages on islands are functions of island area, isolation from mainlands, and vicariancehas been altered by the demonstrable effects that rapid climate change is imposing on insular faunas, at least in isolated mountaintops. Although populations of American pikas (Ochotona princeps) continue to suffer extirpations, and although the lower bounds of the pikas elevational distribution are shifting upslope across the Great Basin, we report here on the new discovery of a low-elevation population of pikas in a mountain range from which they had not been reported previously. This discovery, particularly in the context of relatively rapid ecological change, highlights the importance of seeking out original sources of information and performing spatially extensive fieldwork. Results presented here further illustrate that although thermal influences appear to be the single strongest determinant of pika distribution currently, such influences interact with a number of other factors to determine persistence.
41717652|I conducted laboratory experiments and fit a response surface regression model to evaluate growth of endangered razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus) up to 37 days post-hatch. Fish growth at ad libitum ration was positively related to water temperature, and larvae reared at 25.5C grew about twice as fast in length and 4 times as fast in weight as those at 16.5C. Growth was intermediate at 19.5C and 22.5C. Time required for razorback sucker larvae to exceed 25 mm total length (TL), a potentially important threshold for reduced prdation, was 30 days (post-hatch) at 25.5C, 33 days at 22.5C, 36 days at 19.5C, and 41 days at 16.5C. Time to exceed 25 mm TL increased to 52 days under a low growth rate of 0.29 mm  d. Faster growth rates could reduce the time that razorback sucker larvae are vulnerable to predation by abundant and co-occurring small-bodied fish and invertebrate predators in nursery areas. Growth of razorback sucker larvae could be enhanced if flow re-regulation at Flaming Gorge Dam and downstream levee removal restored connections between the Green River and its floodplain and increased availability of warm and productive wetlands.
41717653|In North America, Nebraska represents part of the northwestern edge of the distribution for the evening bat (Nycticeius humeralis). To date, little information on this bat's natural history has been published from the state or from other parts of the Great Plains. Here we report on aspects of its natural history in Nebraska from 2 localities. In late summer and early autumn of 2006, we documented individuals farther west in Nebraska (Harlan County) than previously reported and determined that individuals fed mainly on Coleoptera and Hymenoptera. In 2006, evening bats appeared to migrate from Nebraska during late September-early October, and individuals were extremely fat, about 15 g, prior to migration. Evening bats likely are more widespread and common in south central Nebraska than previously documented. On 6 October 2005, we reported on an individual from eastern Nebraska (Douglas County), which represents the latest seasonal record of N. humeralis from the state.
41717654|We compared winter (December, January, and February) and early spring (March and April) bird communities among 4 successional stages that included grassland, shrubsteppe, juniper-shrubsteppe, and old-growth juniper woodland in central Oregon. Birds were surveyed monthly from December through April in 1998/1999 and 1999/2000 using the point count method to estimate relative abundance of birds (individuals  transecyear). We used distance sampling to correct for potential bias in estimating abundance and density among successional stages. A total of 4513 birds (32 species) were detected. Relative abundance of total birds (all species combined) was similar in the juniper-shrubsteppe and old-growth woodland (48.7 and 48.9 individuals  transect, respectively) but 6 times greater than in the grassland and shrubsteppe (8.0 and 7.7 individuals  transect, respectively) during the 5-month period. Total density of birds was greater in old-growth juniper woodland and juniper-shrubsteppe than in grassland or shrubsteppe. However, median bird species richness in 1998/1999 was highest in grassland and lowest both in shrubsteppe and juniper-shrubsteppe, and in 1999/2000 it was highest in shrubsteppe and lowest in juniper-shrubsteppe and oldgrowth juniper woodland. American Robins and Townsend's Solitaires were the most abundant species in junipershrubsteppe and old-growth juniper woodland during the winter months. Sage Sparrows and Horned Larks were the most abundant species in shrubsteppe during winter, and Horned Larks were most abundant in grasslands during the early spring transition period prior to nesting. Our results indicate that a different suite of species use these successional stages during the nonbreeding season. If avifauna conservation is a part of long-term management goals, a broad range of successional stages should be maintained on the landscape to provide habitat for a variety of avian species throughout the year.
41717655|Two subspecies of the big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) are reported to occur in Nebraska. The eastern race, E. f fuscus, is reportedly bigger and darker than its western counterpart E. f pallidus. Where these 2 subspecies come in contact is the subject of debate. We used external, cranial, and colorimetric data to investigate geographic variation among populations of E. fuscus in Nebraska to determine the location of the zone of contact between E. f fuscus and E. f pallidus. We discovered significant variation in external, cranial, and colorimetric data, suggesting that E. fuscus is represented by 2 subspecies in Nebraska. Our results showed that E. f pallidus is smaller, possesses lighter pelage, and is restricted to the northern and western parts of Nebraska, whereas E. f fuscus is larger, possesses darker pelage, and occurs in southern and southeastern parts of the state. Populations located between these regions represent intergrades of the 2 subspecies. We suggest that the subspecific boundary represents a broad zone of integration running in a northeast to southwest direction and may reflect the position of temperature and precipitation clines.
41717656|The demography of a population of Yarrow's spiny lizard, Sceloporus jarrovii, was examined from 2004 to 2006 in the canyon Las Piedras Encimadas, located in Gomez Palacio, Durango, Mxico. Lizards were studied using a mark-recapture technique. Reproduction in females occurred between November and May, coinciding with dry conditions. Reproductive activity was highest (percent of females with vitellogenic follicles or embryos) in the middle of the dry season (November and December). Thirteen percent of females reached sexual maturity at an average age of 8.5 months. The population structure was similar in spring and fall, but not in summer. A notable feature of summer, coinciding with the wet season, was the greater number of hatchlings and juveniles. The overall sex ratio did not differ from 1:1. The density of adults varied from 12 to 62 animals 0.5 ha. Temperate and arid-adapted populations of S. jarrovii exhibited broad similarity in timing of the reproductive season, whereas factors such as density, growth, age at sexual maturity, and survivorship differed. La demografa de una poblacin de la lagartija espinosa de Yarrow, Sceloporus jarrovii, fue examinada de 2004 a 2006 en el Can "Las Piedras Encimadas," localizado en Gmez Palacio, Durango, Mxico. Las lagartijas fueron estudiadas usando la tcnica de captura-recaptura. La reproduccin en las hembras ocurri entre Noviembre y Mayo coincidiendo con las condiciones de sequa. La actividad reproductora fue mas alta (% de hembras con folculos vitelognicos o embriones) a mediados de la estacin seca (Noviembre y Diciembre). Trece por ciento de las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual en un promedio de 8.5 meses de edad. La estructura de la poblacin fue similar en primavera y otoo pero no en verano. Una caracterstica notable de verano es el nmero mayor de cras y jvenes, coincidiendo con la estacin hmeda. El radio sexual global no difiri de 1:1. La densidad de adultos vari de 12 a 62 animales  0.5 ha. Las poblaciones adaptadas a clima templado y rido de S. jarrovii exhiben una similitud amplia en el perodo reproductor, mientras que los factores como la densidad, crecimiento, edad a la madurez sexual, y sobrevivencia difieren.
41717657|In the early years of his research on the native trouts of western North America, Behnke (1960, 1966, 1979) observed consistent differences in certain meristic characters between the cutthroat trout of the Humboldt River drainage and those from the Truckee, Carson, and Walker river drainages of the Lahontan Basin, and proposed that the Humboldt trout be recognized as a distinct subspecies. He coined the subspecies name humboldtensis, but a formal description was never published. Here we again present the early evidence for subspecific distinction of the Humboldt drainage cutthroat trout, and add more recent findings from the fields of population genetics and Pleistocene and recent zoogeography that support this interpretation. Based on this evidence, we offer a formal description of the cutthroat subspecies Oncorhynchus clarkii humboldtensis and map its likely historical distribution. Available meristic and zoogeographic evidence indicates that the native trouts of the upper Quinn River, Nevada and Oregon and the Coyote Basin of Oregon should be included with humboldtensis as well.
41717658|Maguire primrose is a locally endemic plant of northern Utah, USA, with a total known range of less than 20 km. A previous study found evidence for strong differentiation among local populations at 4 allozyme loci. Here we reexamined populations using 165 AFLP loci and found further evidence of unusually strong genetic structure. We also found an apparently fixed nucleotide difference between populations for a noncoding region of chloroplast DNA, mirroring the patterns seen for AFLP loci. Furthermore, we tested the hypothesis that the current population structure is the result of breeding barriers between plants from different populations. We made controlled hand-pollinated crosses and found that interpopulation crosses did not set significantly fewer seeds than intrapopulation crosses. Thus, we found no evidence of breeding barriers to explain these genetic patterns. However, we did note a relatively short overlap in flowering time, suggesting that phenology is a more feasible explanation for genetic differentiation than pollen-stigma incompatibility. Our study emphasizes that even locally endemic plants can house measurable genetic differences over a short geographic scale.
41717659|From 1996 to 2004, we studied population dynamics of a rodent assemblage in semiarid habitats in Lassen County, California. Abundances of rodents appeared affected by fluctuations in precipitation from a high in 1996 to average and slightly below-average levels in subsequent years; perhaps reflecting this, assemblage composition also changed dramatically during the study period. California kangaroo rats (Dipodomys californicus) declined from abundant to extremely rare, abundances of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) fluctuated greatly during the study period, and, perhaps most notably, populations of dusky-footed woodrats (Neotomafuscipes) appeared to decline to local extinction, possibly allowing for the subsequent colonization of desert woodrats (N. lepida). These changes appeared to represent natural variation in numbers and composition in an ecologically dynamic ecotonal region in response to multiyear changes in precipitation.
41717660|We examined the biogeographic patterns of ground-dwelling arthropod communities across a heterogeneous semiarid region of the Southern Rio Grande Rift Valley of New Mexico. Our 3 sites included portions of 5 ecoregions, with the middle site a transition area where all ecoregions converged. We addressed the following 3 questions: (1) Do the species assemblage patterns for ground arthropods across habitats and sites conform to recognized ecoregions? (2) Are arthropod assemblages in distinct vegetation-defined habitats within an ecoregion more similar to each other or to assemblages in similar vegetation-defined habitats in other ecoregions? (3) Is there a detectable edge effect with increased arthropod diversity in the area of converging ecoregions? We encountered 442 target arthropod species from pitfall traps operating continuously for 7 years over a series of different habitats at each of the 3 sites. We examined geographic distributions of spider and cricket/grasshopper species in detail, and they showed affinities for different ecoregions, respectively. Each habitat within a study site supported a unique overall arthropod assemblage; nevertheless, different habitats at the same site were more similar to each other than they were to similar habitats at other sites. Overall arthropod species richness was greatest in the area where all 5 ecoregions converged. Arthropod species and their geographic distributions are poorly known relative to vascular plants and vertebrate animals. Findings from this research indicate that ecoregional classification is a useful tool for understanding biogeographic patterns among arthropods.
41717661|Invasive species are of concern to natural resource managers and conservation biologists. The New Zealand mudsnail (Potamopyrgus antipodarum) has invaded many freshwaters of the western United States with unknown consequences on the native benthic invertebrate fauna. We conducted a laboratory investigation to determine if mudsnails affected the growth of the desert valvata snail (Valvata utahensis), a species native to the Snake River in southern Idaho. Results indicated that increasing densities of mudsnails limited the growth rate and absolute growth of the desert valvata. We suggest that absolute growth is a better metric than growth rate for comparing snail species and assessing interactions between them.
41717662|In the desert Southwest, migrating birds have been documented using upland habitat and xeroriparian washes as well as riparian areas. Yet aside from the river corridors, natural water sources (e.g., natural rock tanks [tinajas], springs, and ephemeral washes) in upland areas are scarce. Because of this scarcity, state and federal resource managers augmented water sources throughout the Southwest by constructing permanent wildlife water developments with the intention of enhancing game populations. However, despite these increases in free-standing water, there is a paucity of information on the use of water by birds during migration. Our objectives were to document use of these wildlife water developments by resident and migratory songbirds and assess the effectiveness of monitoring these species using remote color videography. We placed color video cameras at 2 wildlife water developments in southwestern Arizona during the spring and fall of 2004. Although we observed more use by migrants during spring than fall, overall use by migratory birds was low. However, the wildlife water developments were frequently used by resident birds. Remote videography provided continuous information on daily and seasonal patterns of bird use at wildlife water catchments with negligible disturbance by observers, yet for passerines, we felt that the benefits of remote videography did not justify the high cost of equipment purchase, installation, maintenance, and data processing.
41717663|The black-tailed prairie dog is an important component of prairie and steppe ecosystems. Currently many prairie dog colonies are fragmented by, or adjacent to, urban development, but little is known about what effects urbanization may have on these animals. I compare body weights and sex ratios of prairie dogs in isolated urban habitat in Denver, Colorado, to published data for black-tailed prairie dogs at the same time of year. Prairie dogs in this study had summer weights similar to those reported in the literature, although males apparently gained weight earlier in the year, and observed sex ratios were not significantly different from 1:1. Although prairie dogs in urban areas face numerous threats, my study provides no evidence that urban forage is limited enough to result in decreased body mass or skewed sex ratios of urban prairie dogs.
41717664|The spotted bat (Euderma maculatum) is an elusive and rarely captured species in western North America. In the United States, it is known from 12 western states. In New Mexico, few individuals have been reported in recent years, and multiple individuals are known from 9 of 12 capture sites. This study reports on additional captures of E. macuhtum from Mt. Taylor (Cibola County) for 2 consecutive summers and includes evidence of a reproducing population in the area. On 30 June/1 July 2006,1 captured 4 individuals of E. maculatum, including a lactating female, and on 5 June 2007,1 captured a nonreproductive female. The flight of this species was directional and deliberate; I captured 5 of 6 spotted bats that came low over the earthen pond. This study demonstrates how human-made sources of water in an arid region provide opportunities for many species of bats to drink.
41717665|Peromyscus nasutus has been considered to occur in Utah since it was first reported in the state in 1935. Authors since then have considered the distribution of P. nasutus to include southeastern Utah. However, the original Utah specimen was later reidentified as Peromyscus boylii. A query of museums revealed only 1 other specimen considered to be P. nasutus from Utah. This specimen was examined and found to be P. boylii. Thus, there is no evidence of the occurrence of P. nasutus in Utah, and the northwestemmost accepted records of this species are in the Chuska Mountains of northeastern Arizona.
41717668|Range- and wildlands are being invaded by nonindigenous plants, resulting in an unprecedented, rapid change in plant community composition across the United States. Successional management predicts that species performance may be modified by resource availability. The objective of this study was to determine whether species performance could be altered by modifying soil nitrate (NO-) and ammonium (NH+) concentrations within an Idaho fescue (Festuca idahoensis)/bluehunch wheatgrass (Pseudoroegnera spicata) plant association. We planted bluebunch wheatgrass and spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa) in an addition series at 2 sites in southwestern Montana. Each plot in the addition series matrix was divided into thirds, and we applied nitrogen (N) to a subplot and sucrose to a 2nd subplot. The remaining subplot was not amended and considered a control. Nitrogen amendment tended to enhance the performance of spotted knapweed, while sucrose amendment had no effect. Bluebunch wheatgrass performance was not affected by either amendment. Sucrose treatments only decreased soil NO- at the more productive site. Regression models for predicting bluebunch wheatgrass and spotted knapweed biomass accounted for only about 30% of the variation, suggesting other processes in addition to interference were responsible for explaining relative plant performance. We recommend that land managers prevent activities that increase soil N concentration while the effectiveness of carbon amendments as a means to decrease soil N concentrations and shift interference relationships is further investigated.
41717669|Shrubsteppe ecosystems in the Intermountain West have suffered extreme alteration from a variety of factors. Using a retrospective approach, I studied the effects of horse and cattle grazing at the northern edge of the range in southern British Columbia, Canada, where the shrubsteppe is not as heavily altered and ungrazed sites remain in areas dominated by antelope bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata). I measured shrub and understory cover at 10 sites that were either ungrazed, lightly grazed, or heavily grazed. Cover of antelope bitterbrush decreased with grazing, and cover of big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) increased with grazing intensity. I sampled 72 species of vascular plants in the understory. Livestock grazing resulted in more bare soil, especially at sandy rather than rocky sites, and in quadrats located in the interspaces between shrubs. More bare soil was associated with less spikemoss (Selaginella spp.) and less microbiotic crust cover. Of the 3 most common bunchgrasses, sand dropseed (Sporobolus cryptandrus) was associated with more bare soil but only at sites without spikemoss. Red three-awn (Aristida purpurea var. longiseta), which grew best without litter or microbiotic crust, was most commonly found with spikemoss. Needle-and-thread grass (Hesperostipa comata), the most palatable abundant bunchgrass, was affected by livestock grazing, with shrub canopy cover offering some protection from grazers at the most heavily grazed sites. Rangeland management prescriptions in this area should take soil differences into account, with sandy soils being more prone to overgrazing and disturbance of the microbiotic crust cover than rocky soils.
41717670|There are no published studies on the diet of MogoUon voles (Microtus mogollonensis) although this species occurs throughout the Southwest in montane forestlands. MogoUon voles are believed to be herbivorous, selecting the vegetative portion of grass as their dominant food source. Herbivores frequently select more easily digested C plants over C plants; we thus expected Mogollon voles would feed primarily on C plants. We collected hair samples from Mogollon voles captured in northern Arizona between 1967 and 2003 and plant samples from some capture sites. Then we compared stable carbon (C) and nitrogen (C) isotope ratios to investigate dietary preferences for C or C plants. Mean isotope ratios for C plants we sampled were -26.84 (s = 0.17) for C and -0.02 (s = 0.32) for N. For C plants, mean isotope ratios for C and C were -15.04 (s = 0.38) and -0.74 (s = 0.55), respectively. Mogollon voles were largely herbivorous based on N (mean and standard error: 3.77  0.17) and used C plants more than C based on C (-24.21  0.14). Activities that lead to changes in plant species composition or reduction in C plants in montane grasslands and forests (e. g., excessive ungulate grazing) may reduce habitat quality for Mogollon voles.
41717671|Interspecific hybridization has increasingly become regarded as a serious threat to the genetic integrity and persistence of rare plants. Oenothera glazioviana (Onagraceae) is a horticultural species that has escaped cultivation and now threatens the narrow Pacific coastal endemic O. wolfii with hybridization. Reports of morphologically intermediate and ecologically aggressive forms prompted this investigation into the extent of hybridization over the range of O. wolfii. In particular, this study identifies populations of pure and hybrid origins. We used multivariate methods to characterize the morphological variation of Oregon and northern California coastal Oenothera populations. Putatively pure O. wolfii and O. glazioviana individuals do not overlap in many floral characteristics. We found morphologies ranging between the 2 species in northern California populations, however, supporting the inference of hybridization. Remote O. wolfii populations in Oregon were smaller in almost all characters, and discriminant analysis was able to distinguish the rare species from both hybrids and O. glazioviana. However, 5 of 10 O. wolfii populations overlapped significantly with hybrid populations for individual traits and composite morphology, and trait values outside the range of O. wolfii were discovered in 2 populations previously considered to be pure. We also discuss the morphological evidence in light of these species' chromosomal complexes and environmental factors.
41717672|The benthic macroinvertebrate fauna of southern Saskatchewan, Canada, has received little attention relative to other regions of western North America. Therefore, little is known of the related aquatic ecosystem health and biogeography of regional aquatic insects. Here we present the results of an aquatic macroinvertebrate survey for the Pipestone Creek watershed in southeastern Saskatchewan. We qualitatively sampled aquatic macroinvertebrates in 5 sites on 4 dates through spring, summer, and fall 2006. Sampling produced 294 taxa of macroinvertebrates including 25 provincial range extensions to the southeast corner of the province. Presence/absence data of taxa grouped the sites into lentic and lotic sites. However, the relative proportions of the taxa varied greatly among sites, with no 2 sites having a community similarity greater than 50%. Functional feeding group analyses separated the sites into collector-dominated and scraper/grazer-dominated sites. However, the taxonomic make-up of the feeding groups varied among sites and also among dates. A modified Hilsenhoff Biotic Index of the site communities indicated that all were influenced by organic pollution. Results of this study suggest that although the watershed is enormously diverse, its biological communities are likely influenced by organic pollution. Further, range expansions of species found here, such as the stonefly Perlesta placida, have implications for invasion pathways and post-glaciation species islands in a prairie landscape.
41717673|Many rangelands in the southwestern United States provide quality habitat for Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus). These same habitats are frequently managed for livestock production and thus are subjected to various brush management practices that are meant to enhance forage production. Bobwhites rely on woody cover for food, thermal and loafing cover, and protection from avian predators. Implementing brush management practices that reflect bobwhite requirements is important for managing usable space and viable populations. We described the structural vegetative characteristics associated with bobwhite locations and random locations on native rangelands in the upper Rolling Plains of Texas that are dominated by honey mesquite (Prosopis glanduhsa) and managed with aerial herbicide and prescribed fire. We also used binary logistic regression to model habitat selection; the initial model was built using 67% of the data (n = 179 used-random paired points) and then validated using the remaining 33% of the data (n = 88 used-random paired points). Locations used by bobwhites had significantly larger mean values of percent brush canopy cover, visual obstruction, and angle of obstruction than did random locations; random locations had a greater mean value of percent bare ground than locations used by bobwhites. The resulting logistic regression model contained only the angle of obstruction; the model had an 80% probability of correctly classifying used and random locations based on the area under the receiver operating curve (ROC). The model maintained a high classification probability when applied to the smaller validation data set, with an area under the ROC of 0.78.
41717674|Despite their trophic importance and potential importance as bioindicators of stream condition, benthic algae have not been well studied in California. In particular there are few studies from small streams in the Sierra Nevada. The objective of this study was to determine the standing crop of chlorophyll-a and benthic algal species assemblages present in the small 1st-and 2nd-order streams of the Kings River Experimental Watersheds (KREW, watersheds of Bull, Providence, Duff, and Teakettle Creeks) and determine the associations of these measures with stream habitat. We collected samples of benthic algae from rock substrata in September 2002 (7 sites) and 2005 (the same 7 sites plus 5 additional sites). Habitat and water-quality data were collected concurrently. Chlorophyll-a values ranged from 0.2 to 3.2 mg  m. Chlorophyll-a in the Bull Creek watershed was generally lower than in the other watersheds. Benthic algal assemblages were dominated by diatoms and cyanobacteria. We collected 79 taxa of diatoms in 2002 and 126 taxa in 2005. Diatom taxa richness in individual samples ranged from 15 to 47. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis of arcsine square-root transformed proportional abundances of diatoms identified 3 groups of sites. Bull Creek sites were generally different from other sites (group 1), and the sites from Bull Creek were different in 2002 (group 2) and 2005 (group 3). Five taxa appeared to be particularly important in distinguishing groups: Achnanthidium minutissimum, Cocconeis placentula, Eunotia incisa, Eunotia pectinalis var. minor, and Planothidium lanceolatum. Elevation, water temperature, pH, specific conductance, and canopy were habitat variables correlated with the differences in diatom assemblages among sites. Our results provide a valuable baseline for future studies of benthic algae in Sierra Nevada headwater streams and will be particularly important in understanding the effects of different forest restoration management strategies being tested in the KREW project.
41717675|Leech species of the mid-Snake River of Idaho and Oregon are described, and the distribution of the extant leech Mooreobdella microstoma Moore in the Snake River paleodrainage is delineated. Samples were collected from aquatic surveys in the Snake River using suction dredging by the Idaho Power Company and U.S. Bureau of Reclamation between 1995 and 2006. Supplementing these surveys, opportunities were provided for leech identification in water-quality analyses in Arizona and Wyoming and in other surveys in California, Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Eight species of leeches were found in the Snake River surveys. Erpobdella parva Moore was the most widely distributed species, occurring both above and below Shoshone Falls. Mooreobdella microstoma was widely distributed below Shoshone Falls. Other leech species were rare, although Helobdella stagnalis Linnaeus was very common above and less common below Shoshone Falls, a natural barrier to the anadromous fish. Mooreobdella microstoma is an extant species that links the Snake River to the lower Colorado River by various paleodrainages. It probably colonized the Snake River by upstream movement, whereas Erpobdella parva likely colonized this river by downstream movement.
41717676|Although polyploidy can alter host plants in important ways (e.g., size, phenology, resource use, and ecological range), little is known about the effects of polyploidy-associated changes on plant-insect interactions. The presence of Campiglossa footeorum Novak (Diptera: Tephritidae) and its effect on its host plant Arnica cordifolia Hook. (Asteraceae) were monitored throughout Colorado, where triploids and tetraploids of the host plant occur. Campiglossa footeorum is more abundant in sites with more tetraploids and attacks tetraploids more than triploids. Polyploidy could be an important force shaping the current evolutionary trajectory of the plants and insects in this system. Campiglossa footeorum is intimately linked to A. cordifolia, and polyploidy should be included in any assessment of the insect's population dynamics.
41717677|The structure of grassland communities can vary widely in response to heterogeneous habitat variables. In this study we document plant communities, soil types, and site characteristics for 12 Palouse prairie remnants in southeastern Washington and northern Idaho. We used general linear models to test the predictive value of 6 biophysical variables (slope, aspect, distance from edge, edge type, vegetation structure, and soil type) on 3 plant community metrics: species richness, Simpson's diversity index, and the dominance of exotic species. From full models including all variables, we used Akaike's information criterion (AIC) to select the best model for each metric. Aspect and vegetation structure were significant predictors of species richness (R = 0.08) and diversity (R = 0.09), while aspect, soil type, distance from edge, and edge type (type of adjacent matrix habitat) influenced the dominance of exotic species (R = 0.28). Additional soil sampling determined that the depth to a restrictive layer also had significant impacts on the dominance of exotic species (R = 0.31). This study confirms that biophysical characteristics influence Palouse prairie plant communities and may help set research and conservation priorities for isolated and uninventoried remnants.
41717678|The present study analyzed the stomach contents of 65 Great Basin spadefoot toads, Spea intermontana (Cope), collected in an area of irrigation runoff in south central Washington State. Toads were collected by pitfall trapping. Traps were maintained for 1 year beginning in April 2002. Toads consumed at least 56 different arthropod taxa belonging to the orders Coleoptera, Diptera, Hemiptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, Neuroptera, Orthoptera, Trichoptera, Collembola, and Araneae. Ants and darkling beetles were among the most common prey. Feeding appeared to be very generalized with the toads accepting almost anything they could capture and subdue.
41717679|Prairie dog eradication negatively affects dependent wildlife. Assessing the effects of prairie dog activities on reptiles and amphibians may depend upon the efficacy of trapping designs. We compared capture rates of reptiles and amphibians on black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies and on adjacent uncolonized short-grass prairie, using funnel traps and pitfall traps with drift fences, as well as ground captures. We captured 152 reptiles and amphibians representing 10 species. We captured 51.3% of all reptiles and amphibians on colonies, compared to 48.7% from uncolonized sites. Overall, captures of reptiles and amphibians were similar on colonies and uncolonized sites for all capture methods combined. We achieved higher capture rates on uncolonized sites using funnel traps and pitfall traps but higher capture rates on colonies for ground captures. For all years on all sites combined, we captured significantly more animals in funnel traps (52.6%), surpassing pitfall trap captures (23.0%) and ground captures (24.3%). We recommend using multiple Y-shaped drift fence arrays 7.6 m in length, funnel traps with double-ended openings, and black-colored pitfall traps with opening diameters 30 cm.
41717680|The diamondback moth (Plutella xylostella [L.]), is one of the most economically important pests of cruciferous plants throughout the world, causing economically significant damage in broccoli, cabbage, canola, collards, and mustard. In Canada, P. xylostella is an important economic pest of canola (Brassica napus L. and Brassica rapa L.). In North America, the diamondback moth has been collected as far north as Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Despite its wide distribution and presence at economically damaging levels in Canada, there have been no published reports of P. xylostella. from Alaska. This note documents the 1st collection of this pest species in interior Alaska. With continued moderation of the climate due to global climate change, this species has the potential to become an increasingly important agricultural pest in the state.
41717681|Swift foxes (Vulpes velox) are shortgrass specialists and as a result are heavily dependent upon grassland disturbance regimes to maintain high-quality habitat. To better understand this relationship, we monitored the movement and spatial ecology of resident swift foxes before and after a 2005 prescribed burn in southeastern Colorado. We hypothesized that foxes would shift home ranges into and increase foraging activity within the prescribed burn area. Foxes did appear to alter their space-use patterns in response to the burn, although the response was constrained by territoriality. Foxes whose core-use areas overlapped the burn increased their use of the burn area for foraging and denning, but we did not observe shifts of individual home ranges to encompass more of the burned area. Foxes whose core-use areas did not overlap the burn did not alter their space use or change home range boundaries in response to the burn. Because we observed only positive or neutral responses to prescribed burning, we recommend this tool as an appropriate method to maintain high-quality swift fox habitat.
41717682|Many snakes employ tail movements to attract prey, but this behavior is rare in lizards. Use of caudal movements to distract prey, however, is rare in all squamates. Recently, caudal movements in a Sceloporus occidentalis individual immediately prior to attempted prey capture were documented. We supplement this sole documentation of caudal movements in S. occidentalis with additional field observations. Additionally, video footage of the behavior was recorded on 2 occasions. From these additional observations, we hypothesize that this behavior might serve to distract prey.
41717687|Pinyon-juniper (Pinus monophyllaJuniperus osteosperma) woodlands are expanding into shrubsteppe ecosystems in western portions of the Great Basin. Often, highly competitive trees displace the understory, and prescribed fire is increasingly used as a restoration tool. To inform management decisions about post-fire recovery, we examined immediate and long-term (i.e., 2 growing seasons) responses of the germinable seed bank to a spring prescribed fire. One week before and 1 week after a May 2002 prescribed burn, soil samples were taken under P. monophylla trees, under Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana shrubs, and from interspace microsites. Two growing seasons after the prescribed burn, soil samples were taken from the same microsites and from similar microsites in an adjacent unburned area. Prior to the burn, the germinable seed bank under shrubs contained the highest seed density and the highest species richness followed by interspace and tree microsites. Shrub litter was consumed by the burn, causing complete loss of the seed bank from that microsite and depleting the A. tridentata seed bank. Interestingly, the density of germinable seeds in soil under P. monophylla trees increased immediately following the burn; 70% of that increase originated from the annual forb Descurainia pinnata. Two growing seasons following the prescribed burn, no overall differences in germinable seed density between burned and unburned plots were observed, but seed bank species composition differed, with seed banks in the prescribed burn having a greater abundance of Eriogonum elatum, E. microthecum, and Gayophytum diffusum compared to unburned plots, which had a greater abundance of A. tridentata, LappuL  occidentals, and Descurainia pinnata. Our results indicate that rapid restoration to prefire vegetation cannot rely upon the soil seed bank. To ensure rapid recovery, land managers should select sites for prescribed burns that have fire-tolerant perennial vegetation.
41717688|We tested for changes in forest structural classes from 1860 to 1940 in 26 dry Finns ponderosaPseudotsuga menziesii stands of northeastern Washington. In 1860 historical fire regimes and associated forest structure remained mostly intact; aerial photos of national forest lands in eastern Washington were taken 70-80 years later and used as historic reference points in regional resource assessments. We determined changes in stand age, tree density, and number of age cohorts per stand between 1860 and 1940. Also, we evaluated whether stand age-class structure in 1860 was in agreement with fire-scar analysis estimates of the historical fire regime. We developed a forest structure classification based on age cohorts and found that forest structural classes varied significantly (P < 0.001) from 1860 to 1940. From 1860 to 1940, average stand age increased by 26% and number of age cohorts per stand increased by 18%. Stands in stand initiation structural classes declined from 27% to 4%; stands in old forest structural classes increased from 23% to 49%. We suggest the 1940 photo record, previously used to assess historical conditions, may provide a false metric of structural complexity for historical dry fir-pine forests in eastern Washington. Competing interpretations of stand age-class structure in 1860 prevented the conclusive verification of historical fire regimes.
41717689|Livestock grazing is one of the most common forms of land use in the western United States, yet scientists struggle to accurately predict grazing impacts. This study examined the initial response of desert horned lizards (Phrynosoma platyrhinos) to cattle introduction at a site in northwestern Utah. We sampled 21 grazed and 7 ungrazed study plots before grazing (2001), after grazing (2002), and 1 year after the cessation of grazing (2003). We were specifically interested in whether grazing influenced lizards through biotic or abiotic pathways. Lizard response (based on scat counts) to the initial impact of grazing (< 6 months after cattle introduction) suggests that lizards abandoned areas protected from grazing (i.e., ungrazed exclosures) presumably in favor of grazed areas. Avoidance of ungrazed plots by lizards coincided with a decline in shrub and grass cover on grazed plots and with no significant change in relative abundance or richness of prey (ants) on grazed plots. In 2003, one year after cattle had been removed from the site, prey species richness declined on ungrazed plots, and percent bare ground increased on previously grazed plots; however, we detected no response of lizards to these changes. Overall, these results add to a growing consensus that responses by small vertebrates to grazing are largely the result of changes to habitat structure (i.e., vegetation cover), rather than to changes in prey availability. Importantly, results from our relatively unique evaluation of initial grazing impacts corroborate results from more classic grazing studies conducted sometime after grazing has commenced and suggest that responses of small vertebrates to changes in habitat structure may be generalizable.
41717690|We compared pellet, burrow, visual, and camera surveys to identify a method with high efficiency for detecting current pygmy rabbit (Brachylagus idahoensis) presence at a site in summer. We used 20 known occupied sites in 4 regions of northern Nevada and eastern California for the comparison. All leporid species that occurred in the region were distinguishable in photographs, and camera surveys had a 95% detection efficiency for pygmy rabbits. Burrows were detected at 85% of total sites; however, burrows that appeared active were found at only 55% of total sites. Pygmy rabbit pellets were found at all sites, but fresh pellets were observed at only 70% of the sites. Sighting surveys detected pygmy rabbits 30% of the time. Only camera and visual surveys provided conclusive evidence of current presence. Of these methods, camera surveys were more efficient because they allowed for a longer period of detection. We also evaluated the use of road transects to detect and determine relative abundances of rabbit species in an area. Road transects detected pygmy rabbit presence in 6 of 10 transects. Relative abundance among species was biased against pygmy rabbits because of the dense vegetation they prefer to live in, their limited home ranges, and other behavioral characteristics.
41717691|We compared the life cycles of Claassenia sabulosa (Banks 1900) and Hesperoperla pacifica (Banks 1900) (Plecoptera: Perlidae) in allopatry and sympatry by studying 4 populations in 3 streams of the South Platte River Watershed, Colorado. We estimated 2-year life cycles for both C. sabulosa and H. pacifica in allopatry and sympatry. Evidence of egg diapausing and extended larval recruitment was noted for both species in allopatry and sympatry. There were no apparent differences in larval growth, larval recruitment, or adult emergence periodicity between allopatric and sympatric populations of C. sabulosa. In contrast, allopatric and sympatric H. pacifica populations exhibited differences in the timing of larval growth, larval recruitment, and adult emergence. We feel that the differences in the life cycles of these populations were likely related to water temperature because a substantial water temperature difference (degree days of 1761 and 2563) occurred between study reaches. In sympatry, H. pacifica adults began emerging 2 weeks earlier than C. sabulosa, when water temperature reached 9C. The emergence of H. pacifica was synchronous and male biased. The emergence of C. sabulosa was protandrous and male biased and began when water temperature reached 17C. Claassenia sabulosa emergence was extended and lasted for 6 weeks during July and August. The abundance of C. sabulosa adults during this period corresponded closely to fluctuations in water temperature.
41717692|Many rodent species scatter hoard seeds within a home range shared with other seed-caching animals. An animal foraging for cached food is likely to encounter the caches of other animals, as well as its own. This study asks the following question: do animals recover primarily their own caches, do they conserve their own caches and search for the caches of other animals, or do they search indiscriminately for cached seeds regardless of who buried them? We tested these ideas using 8 yellow-pine chipmunks inside rodent-proof enclosures. We allowed each subject to cache radioactive seeds, we located the seed caches, and then we paired each rodent cache with an artificial cache in a similar microsite. During search trials, 7 subjects removed mostly their own caches, and 1 subject removed similar numbers of its own caches and paired artificial caches. These results suggest that most yellow-pine chipmunks actively search for food that they have stored, apparently using spatial memory rather than relying on olfaction. However, previous studies have established that chipmunks also are very effective pilferers of caches made by other animals. This apparent discrepancy may result from a difference between enclosures and field sites in the proportion of "own" caches to total caches.
41717693|The New Zealand mud snail (NZMS), Potamopyrgus antipodarum (Gray), is an invasive species of aquatic snail that is becoming widespread in inland and coastal waters of the western United States. The New Zealand mud snail can have significant impacts on stream ecosystems, as they may consume a large fraction of available algae production and compete with and displace native invertebrates. Even though the distribution of this species is expanding, the habitat conditions conducive to invasion are incompletely understood. Surveys following the NZMS invasion in the Upper Owens River, California, indicated that the snail may be excluded from waters where dissolved solute content is low, so experimental studies were undertaken to evaluate survival and growth as a function of varied specific conductivity (SC) and calcium availability. Juvenile snails were collected from the Upper Owens River and reared in dilutions of natural river water adjusted to 10, 50, 100, 200 and 300 S  cm SC. Experiments were also conducted with newborn clones raised in river water dilutions ranging from 25 to 200 S  cm to examine mortality and growth at this sensitive stage of development. In addition, calcium-free artificial river water was prepared at 200 S  cm to test for the independent effect of limitation of this mineral ion required for shell-building. Significant reductions in survival and growth occurred among treatments diluting river water from 300 to 50 S  cm. No growth was found at or below 25 S  cm. Growth was also inhibited in calcium-free artificial water compared to natural river water with the same SC, showing that lack of this mineral impedes development. These results suggest that many streams in the range of 25-200 S  cm cannot support productive NZMS populations and that nuisance invasions may be most prevalent in waters above 200 S  cm where sufficient dissolved mineral content is present for growth.
41717694|In the southwestern United States, Brassica toumefortii (Gouan) is a highly invasive plant that threatens native annuals. We conducted 5 experiments to help define the environmental limits for B. toumefortii germination. We found that this species germinates at a wide range of temperatures (16C to 32C), under moderate salt concentrations (up to 3.20 dS  m), in 24 hours of light or darkness, and after 10 weeks of submergence in water. These germination characteristics make B. toumefortii a potentially vigorous competitor of native annuals in the Mojave Desert. The fact that B. toumefortii can take advantage of and effectively reproduce in habitat altered by Tamarix spp. adds to management concerns for controlling this species. That B. toumefortii seeds remain viable after extended submergence, combined with our observation that B. toumefortii can float across large bodies of water with seed pods intact, indicates that this species is a highly successful invader and may be a threat to natural environments, including remote shoreline habitats. We can no longer assume that shoreline habitats experiencing little to no human contact will be safe from invasions initiated by humans.
41717695|This is the 1st effort to determine the mating behavior of the Tehuantepec jackrabbit (Lepus flaviguhris), an endangered endemic species from southern Mexico whose distribution is limited to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec region. Between June 2006 and December 2007, observations of 60 adult radio-marked jackrabbits were carried out in Santa Mara del Mar, Oaxaca, Mexico. Direct observations showed that the breeding season of the Tehuantepec jackrabbit lasted an average of 200 days per year, with a high-intensity period during the rainy season (MayOctober); we also confirmed a polygamous reproductive behavior for this species. More importantly, we showed that the Tehuantepec jackrabbit has a polygynous mating behavior. In a single night, a male courted and mounted an average of 2 females; whereas during the whole reproductive season, the male courted an average of 6 females and mounted 3 of them. In a single night, a female was courted by an average of 3 males but mounted by only 1 of them. Throughout the whole reproductive season, the female was courted by 5 males but mounted only by 1 of them. This is the 1st research concerning mating behavior of the Tehuantepec jackrabbit; the resultant information will be very useful for the jackrabbits conservation, management, and reproduction in captivity. Este es el primer esfuerzo para determinar el sistema de apareamiento de la liebre de Tehuantepec (Lepus flavigularis), una especie en peligro de extincin, endmica del sur de Mxico, y cuya distribucin se limita a la regin del Istmo de Tehuantepec. Se observaron 60 liebres radio-marcadas entre junio del 2006 y diciembre del 2007 en la poblacin de Santa Mara del Mar, Oaxaca. Observaciones directas mostraron que la poca reproductiva de la liebre de Tehuantepec abarc 200 das, con un perodo de mayor actividad reproductiva durante la estacin hmeda (mayo a octubre). Confirmamos el comportamiento poligmico de la liebre, y ms importante, demostramos que la liebre de Tehuantepec posee un sistema de apareamiento de poliginia. En una sola noche, un macho corteja y monta un promedio de 2 hembras, mientras que a lo largo de una misma poca reproductiva, el macho corteja un promedio de 6 hembras y monta un promedio de 3. Mientras tanto, en una sola noche, una hembra es cortejada por un promedio de 3 machos pero solo es montada por 1; a lo largo de toda la poca reproductiva, la hembra es cortejada por un promedio de 5 machos pero solo es montada por 1. Esta es la primera investigacin referente al sistema de apareamiento de la liebre de Tehuantepec; la informacin generada ser de gran utilidad para su conservacin, manejo, y reproduccin en cautiverio.
41717696|Little is known about the disturbance history of low-elevation forest and steppe vegetation in the western United States, nor about the relative importance of climate and human activity in shaping present-day plant communities. We analyzed pollen and high-resolution macroscopic charcoal records spanning the last 2100, 1000, and 550 cal years from 3 small lakes in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, to reconstruct the vegetation and fire history along a gradient from steppe to dry forest. The pollen data suggest little change in vegetation in the last 2 millennia, aside from a long-term trend toward more forest at the expense of steppe. One site showed an expansion of mesophytic taxa in the last 350 years as a result of local changes in hydrology, and another site was dry prior to AD 1000 and showed fluctuations in steppe composition thereafter. The longest record suggests that fire frequency was higher before AD 1200 than after. Comparison of 3 charcoal records for the last 550 years indicates widespread fire episodes in AD 19802000, 17801810, ca. 1550, and 14201430. Changes in the vegetation and fire history of the last 2000 years show a response to effectively drier conditions prior to AD 1200 and wetter conditions during the Little Ice Age. Evidence of human influences was muted at best. Native Americans apparently did not alter the vegetation and fire regimes significantly during their occupation of Jackson Hole. Euro-American activities also had minor registration in the paleoecologic record: humans may have been directly responsible for fires in the mid-and late 19th century and indirectly responsible for the recent expansion of forest at the end of the 20th century.
41717697|Through dam-building activity, beavers (Castor canadensis) play an important role in creating pond and wetland habitat for bird communities. Their impact may be intensified in semiarid landscapes and may increase with increasing dam density on a stream. Our objective was to examine relationships between dam density, riparian area characteristics, and the riparian bird community in a semiarid landscape. In 2002 and 2003 we surveyed riparian birds, riparian area characteristics, and the number of dams along 1.2-km sections of 11 streams in sagebrush steppe regions of Wyoming. We categorized the riparian bird community into 2 assemblages based on their affiliation with terrestrial or aquatic riparian habitats. Average width of the woody riparian zone, average riparian shrub height, and percent cover of emergent vegetation all had significant positive relationships with dam density, but percent cover of ponded water did not. Species richness and abundance of all riparian birds, and of the terrestrial assemblage, increased significantly with increasing woody riparian zone width. In contrast, richness and abundance of the aquatic assemblage were significantly positively influenced by cover of emergent vegetation and ponded water. When we accounted for riparian area characteristics, we found that total species richness, total abundance, and aquatic assemblage abundance were each positively correlated with dam density, suggesting that dam density is related to other riparian characteristics selected by birds. Our results suggest increasing dam-building activity may be important in creating favorable riparian conditions for a rich and abundant bird community in semiarid regions.
41717698|Soil disturbances across a wide range of spatial scales have been found to promote the establishment of invasive plant species. This study addresses whether mounds built by northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides) in the shrubsteppe environment of north central Washington are facilitating plant invasions into native-dominated fields. Research was conducted in native-dominated plant communities adjacent to ex-arable, nonnative-dominated fields. To determine the effect of mounds on plant growth, we recorded new establishment and persistence of all plant species over 2 growing seasons on 1019 mound and intermound areas in 10 fields. Nonnative plant establishment was not affected by mounds, but native plant establishment, particularly of the dominant native Pseudoroegneria spicata was lower on mounds than on intermounds. Early in the growing season, mounds had reduced soil moisture, bulk density, soil strength, N mineralization rates, and total N and concentrations, and similar extractable NO- concentrations relative to intermound soils. Our results did not suggest that soil disturbance improved nonnative growth resulting in competitive suppression of natives; rather, our results suggested that low soil moisture and slow N mineralization rates on mounds in this ecosystem present relatively stressful conditions for native plant growth.
41717699|The eastern pipistrelle (Perimyotis subflavus) is relatively common and widespread throughout the eastern United States. In recent decades, the distribution of P. subflavus has expanded westward across the Great Plains, and little information exists on its natural history in this region. In east central Nebraska, we monitored the use of a mine by eastern pipistrelles for > 1 year. A few males occupied the roost in summer, but during the period of hibernation (late Septemberearly May), the mine was used by at least 30 individuals composed of both sexes. Most individuals first entered the mine during late September through mid-October and exited by mid-May, with numbers of individuals fluctuating throughout winter. In winter, most individuals roosted along outer passageways of the mine, but in other seasons individuals were scattered throughout the mine. Females had significantly greater body masses than males upon entering the mine in autumn and before exiting the mine in spring. Both sexes had significantly heavier body masses in autumn than in spring. Overall, 55% of individuals marked in spring returned in autumn. Males had a higher return rate (69%) than females (46%) over a single summer. Many aspects of the natural history of P. subflavus in Nebraska are similar to those reported from eastern but not from southern parts of its distribution.
41717700|Observations of shoaling and feeding behavior of the zooplanktivorous June sucker, Chasmistes liorus, were made during summer 2003 in Red Butte Reservoir, Utah. Water clarity limited observations to 0.5-1.5 m below the water surface. Schools of adult suckers, ranging from a few to >200 fish, were observed on 20 days from May to September. I classified them as schools rather than shoals because the groups moved synchronously rather than appearing simply as an aggregation of fish. These schools were near the water surface, generally in areas of the reservoir with a water depth of >3 m, and presumably fed on the Zooplankton in the epilimnion. Juvenile suckers (age-1 and age-2) were observed only on a few occasions, near inundated vegetation. Age-0 suckers were observed in large shoals (aggregations of hundreds offish) near the surface in the shadows of inundated vegetation in July and August. Juvenile suckers (age-0, age-1, and age-2) were always observed in age-specific shoals, while suckers in adult schools had a wider range of sizes.
41717701|During research on black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), we repeatedly observed a female American badger (Taxidea taxus) hunting prairie dogs on a colony in southern Phillips County, Montana. During 1-14 June 2006, we observed 7 aboveground attacks (2 successful) and 3 successful excavations of prairie dogs. The locations and circumstances of aboveground attacks suggested that the badger improved her probability of capturing prairie dogs by planning the aboveground attacks based on perceptions of speeds, angles, distances, and predicted escape responses of prey. Our observations add to previous reports on the complex and varied predatory methods and cognitive capacities of badgers. These observations also underscore the individuality of predators and support the concept that predators are active participants in predator-prey interactions.
41717705|Composite soil samples from 7 sites on San Nicolas Island were evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively for the presence of cyanobacteria and eukaryotic microalgae. Combined data demonstrated a rich algal flora with 19 cyanobacterial and 19 eukaryotic microalgal genera being identified, for a total of 56 species. Nine new species were identified and described among the cyanobacteria and the eukaryotic microalgae that were isolated: Leibleinia edaphica, Aphanothece maritima, Chroococcidiopsis edaphica, Cyanosarcina atroveneta, Hassallia californica, Hassallia pseudoramosissima, Microchaete terrestre, Palmellopsis californicus, and Pseudotetracystis compactis. Distinct distributional patterns of algal taxa existed among sites on the island and among soil algal floras of western North America. Some algal taxa appeared to be widely distributed across many desert regions, including Microcoleus vaginatus, Nostoc punctiforme, Nostoc paludosum, and Tolypothrix distorta, Chlorella vulgaris, Diplosphaera cf. chodatii, Myrmecia astigmatica, Myrmecia biatorellae, Hantzschia amphioxys, and Luticola mutica. Some taxa share a distinctly southern distribution with soil algae from southern Arizona, southern California, and Baja California (e.g., Scenedesmus deserticola and Eustigmatos magnus). The data presented herein support the view that the cyanobacterial and microalgal floras of soil crusts possess significant biodiversity, much of it previously undescribed.
41717706|Myotis lucifigus and Myotis yumanensis are 2 species of bats subject to potentially high rates of misidentification because they are often difficult to differentiate in the hand under field conditions. We tested the utility of a suite of external morphological characteristics frequently cited in regional keys to differentiate the 2 species in the field. Forearm length, dorsal pelage sheen, ear color, and forehead slope were examined from 101 bats captured in central Oregon during 20022003. Post hoc genetic analysis was performed on tissue samples collected from the 101 bats to confirm identification. Forearm lengths overlapped considerably between species. Only 18% of M. yumanensis and 17% of M. lucifugus were correctly identified with probability 95% using forearm length alone. Pelage sheen, ear color, and forehead slope successfully identified 96%, 82%, and 77% of individual bats, respectively. When forearm length was considered together with other traits, identification rates ranged from 92% to 20%. Ability to correctly identify M. yumanensis was 26 times greater than for M. lucifugus. Pelage sheen was useful in our study; however, using this character required a subjective decision from the observer, and the result often contradicted other characters for species identification stated in regional keys. For these reasons, we recommend that morphological features be used judiciously and only as supportive criteria for field identification in combination with voucher echolocation calls and genetic confirmation.
41717707|We conducted a 4-year experiment to assess the impacts of rotational cattle grazing on rodents and raptors in a mesic coastal grassland in northwestern California. Live-trapping indicated that rodent abundance declined by 69% on the grazed area and increased by 14% on the ungrazed area. Raptor use of the grazed area declined by 15% and increased on the ungrazed area by 63%. Measures of giving-up density indicated that rodents perceived a 25% higher predation risk on grazed area than on ungrazed area, but raptor hunting surveys indicated that risk of depredation from raptors was 2.5 times lower in the grazed habitat, suggesting that rodents use indirect vegetative cues to assess risk.
41717708|The frequency and intensity of wildfire in the western United States has increased over the last century, creating a heterogeneous mosaic of landscapes in various stages of recovery. The 2002 Hayman Fire was one of the largest wildfires in Colorado history and was unprecedented for its speed and intensity, with over 50%-70% of the burn area classified as moderate to high severity where much of the canopy crown was consumed. We evaluated the shortterm impact of the Hayman Fire on ecological properties in montane stream ecosystems in the summers of 2003 and 2004, one and two years post-fire. Fire significantly altered surface temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, and the chemical composition of stream water, including concentrations of nitrate, phosphate, and mineral salts. However, fire did not have significant impacts on stream conductivity, pH, or total concentrations of cations or anions during our study period. Streams in the burn area contained fewer benthic macroinvertebrate taxa compared to unburned streams during the year after fire and contained lower invertebrate densities and biomass compared to reference streams 2 years post-fire. Average C:N ratio of the benthic macroinvertebrate community was significantly and negatively related to stream nitrate concentration, possibly due to a shift in community composition or invertebrate nitrogen acquisition in fire-affected streams.
41717709|We examined optimal temperatures for growth and the upper thermal tolerance of juvenile northern leatherside chub (Lepidomeda copei). We conducted 2 experiments using the acclimated chronic-exposure method to estimate optimal temperature for growth of age-0 northern leatherside chub (range 12.8-28.3 C). Upper thermal tolerance was estimated using the critical thermal maximum (CTM) and upper incipient lethal temperature (UILT) methods for fish acclimated at 15, 18, 23, and 28 C. We also measured stream temperatures in Yellow Creek, Summit County, Utah, during July-August 2006 to compare our results to actual summer stream temperatures. Survival in growth tests was not significantly different between treatment temperatures in either experiment (P > 0.098). The optimal temperature for growth in the 1st trial estimated from the 2nd-order polynomial regression was 23.0 C, falling outside the range of experimental temperatures (12.8-22.2 C). The estimated optimal temperature for growth in the 2nd trial was 23.2 C. In the upper thermal tolerance tests, juvenile northern leatherside chub had CTM values between 29.6 and 35.0 C; CTM values increased as acclimation temperature increased. Upper incipient lethal temperatures (LT) ranged from 26.5 to 30.2 C, increasing with acclimation temperature. Summer stream temperatures in Yellow Creek had a lower mean (14.0-18.1 C) than did the optimal temperature for growth determined in these studies, but these temperatures exhibited diel fluctuations as large as 15.7 C.
41717710|The June sucker (Chasmistes liorus) is an endangered lake sucker endemic to Utah Lake, Utah. As part of recovery actions, June suckers were introduced into Red Butte Reservoir, Utah, as a wild grow-out site. Since their introduction, June suckers have successfully reproduced in Red Butte Reservoir, producing a large population in this refuge. I used passive egg collectors (egg traps and nets) and observational surveys to determine the location of spawning sites within the reservoir, and larval light trapping to determine successful recruitment (i.e., egg survival through larval swim-up) at these sites. Eggs were collected between 18 June and 15 July at 2 general sites along or near the reservoir's dam, although spawning was only observed at 1 of these sites. Suckers were not observed at, and eggs were not collected in or around, the mouth of Red Butte Creek as expected. At the site where spawning was observed, suckers were spawning over gravel substrates (mean diameter = 32 mm) at depths of 0.5-1.75 m. At the other site, suckers were spawning over silt/clay substrates (mean diameter < 1 mm) at depths of 1.1-4.75 m. Larval suckers were first captured along the dam where spawning was observed and eggs were captured, demonstrating that successful recruitment occurred at this spawning site. Larval suckers were never captured at the mouth of Red Butte Creek, confirming egg collecting data and observations that suckers did not utilize the stream for spawning. This June sucker refuge population is supported by lacustrine spawning, an important finding for management and recovery of this species.
41717711|Previous research suggests that the yellow-faced pocket gopher (Cratogeomys castanops) occupies a restricted range in western Kansas that is surrounded by the range of the plains pocket gopher (Geomys bursarius), which is regarded as a superior competitor. To determine whether the plains pocket gopher has encroached on the range of the yellow-faced pocket gopher in the past 35 years and to better understand the geographic relationships of these species, we trapped pocket gophers in western Kansas and collected soil texture and land cover data. We used ArcView 3.2 to map the distributions of these species in the study area, as well as the kinds of soil and land cover found in their potential home ranges. Although the distributions of the 2 species overlap, they are strictly parapatric. The apparent cause of this parapatric relationship is differential tolerance of soil textures. The distribution of the yellow-faced pocket gopher in Kansas is limited to just 7 counties divided into 2 populations, both surrounded by the distribution of the plains pocket gopher. We found no evidence that the range of the plains pocket gopher has expanded at the expense of the yellow-faced pocket gopher in the past 35 years. Thus, although the yellow-faced pocket gopher remains a "species of greatest conservation need" in Kansas because of agricultural threats, it evidently is not imperiled at this time.
41717712|While clones of trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides, Michx.) in the Intermountain West of North America are expected to be large, one putative genet in central Utah, identified from morphological evidence, has garnered particular attention for its size, even gaining the nickname "Pando" (Latin for "I spread"). In order to determine if a single genetic individual coincides with the morphological boundary of "Pando," we sampled 209 stems on a 50-m grid throughout the putative clone for analysis at 7 microsatellite loci. We have identified a single genetic entity concurrent with that described from morphological characteristics. Spatial analyses indicate that the clone covers approximately 43.6 ha. Surprisingly, an additional 40 genotypes were identified adjacent to the putative clone, indicating that genet diversity may be high in the stand as a whole. In confirming the existence of the "Pando" clone, we suggest that this organism will provide valuable opportunities to study important biological processes such as clonal growth, somatic mutation, and senescence.
41717713|The historical and environmental forces involved in determining the geographic location of plant hybrid zones have long been of interest. Often hybrid zones appear to be intimately tied to the environment, yet because many abiotic factors covary it is often difficult to understand which are truly the most important in maintaining the position and structure of a hybrid zone. This study uses empirical data and modeling analyses to examine whether abiotic factors are responsible for the location and structure of an oak (Quercus) hybrid zone and, if so, which factors are the most important. Specifically, leaf trait measurements and ecological niche models were used to test the hypothesis that water availability plays a primary role in promoting and maintaining the location of hybridization between 2 species. Leaf trait analyses and ecological niche models both supported the hypothesis that water availability determines the location and structure of the hybrid zone. These findings lend support for the general importance of environmental factors in determining hybrid zone location and structure. Furthermore, they demonstrate how functional trait analyses and predictive ecological niche models can be used in future hybrid zone research.
41717714|The Wood River sculpin Cottus leiopomus is endemic to the Wood River Basin in central Idaho and is a nongame species of concern because of its limited distribution. However, status and genetic population structure, 2 factors often central to the conservation and management of species of concern, have not been assessed for this species. We used backpack electrofishers to survey streams that were small enough (i.e., <10 m wide) to collect quantitative distribution and abundance data for Wood River sculpin, and we used mitochondrial DNA control region sequencing to investigate the distribution of genetic variation across the species' range. Of the 102 study sites surveyed, 20 sites (20%) had Wood River sculpin present, including 50%, 15%, and 0% of the sites predicted a priori to contain, possibly contain, or not contain the sculpin, respectively. Native redband trout Oncorhynchus mykiss gairdneri were present at 21 study sites, including 18 of the 20 sites that contained Wood River sculpin. Sixty-one study sites (60%) were dry or had too little water to contain any fish. We estimated that a minimum of 1.36 million Wood River sculpin (20 mm total length) currently reside in the basin. The presence of Wood River sculpin was positively associated with stream width: depth ratio and percent cobble/boulder substrate and negatively associated with stream gradient. Mitochondrial DNA haplotype differences were observed between and within the 3 major river subbasins supporting sculpin, with the most striking differences observed between populations in the Camas Creek subbasin and the other 2 subbasins, among which no haplotypes were shared, suggesting relatively long-term isolation. Our results suggest that the Wood River sculpin remains relatively widespread and abundant within its endemic range, despite obvious changes in historical stream connectivity caused by irrigation diversions and other chronic habitat alterations.
41717715|We examined the diet and sexual dimorphism of the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, from Sonora, Mexico. The diet consisted primarily of vegetation, with insect material contributing little to the overall volume of the diet. Plant matter was restricted to leaves and seeds. Animal prey consisted mostly of ants, termites, and beetles. Males and females did not differ significantly in snout-vent length, head length, or head width. These results confirm that in general D. dorsalis is herbivorous and not sexually dimorphic through much of its range. Examinamos la dieta y dimorfismo sexual de la Iguana del Desierto, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, en Sonora, Mxico. La dieta consisti principalmente de vegetales, con insectos contribuyendo poco al volumen total de sta. La materia vegetal estuvo restringida a hojas y semillas. Las presas animales consistieron principalmente de hormigas, termitas, y escarabajos. Machos y hembras no difirieron significativamente en longitud hocico cloaca, longitud de la cabeza, o ancho de la cabeza. Estos resultados confirman que en general D. dorsalis es una especie herbvora que no presenta dimorfismo sexual en la mayor parte de su intervalo de distribucin.
41717716|Gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) were introduced into the Colorado River Basin circa 1996 via an unintentional contaminated stocking. Gizzard shad were collected throughout much of the Upper Colorado River Basin in 2005, 2006, and 2007. These collections document a rapid range expansion of this introduced species and a threat to intact fisheries.
41717717|We studied the white-tailed antelope ground squirrel during spring and summer 2006 to determine young-of-the-year and adult sex ratios in the Indian Wells Valley, San Bernardino County, California. We calculated a young-of-the-year sex ratio of 1.45:1 (female to male), whereas the adult sex ratio was approximately 1:1. Our young-ofthe-year sex ratio was greater than the 1.1:1 (female to male) natal sex ratio previously reported. Differences between young-of-the-year and adult sex ratios may represent low female young-of-the-year survivorship in the Indian Wells Valley.
41717718|In the American Southwest, the red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) occurs as disjunct populations in coniferous forests on mountaintops. There is a paucity of information concerning the species' distribution and habitat in western New Mexico. I report new records that document and verify the occurrence of red squirrels in additional montane areas in west central New Mexico, including the Mangas Mountains, Canovas Rim, Turner Mountain, Tularosa Mountains, Elk Mountains, Bearwallow Mountain, and Pinos Altos Mountains. I also report observations of red squirrels from an atypical habitatlow-elevation riparian forests. These new records suggest that the geographic distribution of the species in west central New Mexico is broader than indicated by existing records. However, I also document the apparent extirpation of red squirrels from the Zuni Mountains in northwestern New Mexico. The red squirrel is one of several avian and mammalian species associated with mixed coniferous forests that have become extirpated in this mountain range.
41717724|We examined diets of Western Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) based on contents of pellets and large prey remains collected year-round at burrows in each of the 3 regions in south central Nevada (Mojave Desert, Great Basin Desert, and Transition region). The most common prey items, based on percent frequency of occurrence, were crickets and grasshoppers, beetles, rodents, sun spiders, and scorpions. The most common vertebrate prey was kangaroo rats (Dipodomys spp.). True bugs (Hemiptera), scorpions, and western harvest mice (Reithrodontomys megalotis) occurred most frequently in pellets from the Great Basin Desert region. Kangaroo rats (Dipodomys spp.) and pocket mice (Perognathinae) were the most important vertebrate prey items in the Transition and Mojave Desert regions, respectively. Frequency of occurrence of any invertebrate prey was high (>,80%) in samples year-round but dropped in winter samples, with scorpions and sun spiders exhibiting the steepest declines. Frequency of occurrence of any vertebrate prey peaked in spring samples, was intermediate for winter and summer samples, and was lowest in fall samples. With the possible exception of selecting for western harvest mice in the Great Basin Desert region, Western Burrowing Owls in our study appeared to be opportunistic foragers with a generalist feeding strategy.
41717725|The expansion of western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis spp. occidentalis Hook.) in the northern Great Basin has resulted in the wide-scale conversion of sagebrush-steppe communities to juniper woodlands. Prescribed fire and mechanical cutting are the 2 main methods used to remove juniper and restore sagebrush steppe. Mechanical treatments commonly leave cut juniper on site. Disadvantages of leaving cut juniper are the increased fuel hazard and the potential for increased establishment and growth of invasive species. This study evaluated the response of herbaceous plants to winter burning of cut western juniper. Vegetation response was compared among 2 burning treatments (burning trees the first winter after cutting and burning the second winter after cutting), a control (cut-unburned juniper), and the interspace between cut trees. To minimize fire impacts to herbaceous perennials, cut trees were burned in the winter when soils and ground litter were frozen and/or soils were at field capacity. Only felled trees were burned, as fire did not carry into interspaces or litter mats around western juniper stumps. We hypothesized that winter season burning would increase herbaceous perennials and would reduce cheatgrass establishment when compared to the cut-unburned control. After 10 years, total herbaceous and perennial grass cover was 1.5-to 2-fold greater, respectively, in burned treatments compared to cut-unburned controls. Perennial grass density was 60% greater in the burned treatments than in the cut-unburned treatment and the interspace. Cheatgrass cover was twice as great in the control than in the 2 burn treatments and the interspace. We concluded that burning cut western juniper when soils were wet and frozen in winter enhanced community recovery of native perennials compared to leaving cut juniper unburned.
41717726|Because quantity and quality of roosting habitat can affect Merriam's Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) distribution, we described habitat characteristics of Merriam's turkey roost sites in the southern Black Hills of South Dakota. Varying proportions of Merriam's turkeys in the southern Black Hills depended on supplemental feed from livestock operations during the 2 winters of our study, whereas the remainder wintered in forested habitat away from supplemental feed. We compared characteristics of roost habitat occupied by female turkeys from both groups. We located turkeys with radio-transmitters in the early morning and late evening to find roost sites. Female Merriam's turkeys in the southern Black Hills roosted exclusively in ponderosa pine trees, primarily on the upper portions of ridges on easterly aspects. Generally, trees >30 cm diameter at breast height (dbh) were chosen for roosting, but turkeys also roosted in trees with smaller dbh. During winter months, turkeys that relied on supplemental feeding roosted adjacent to the ranch-farmstead where the supplemental food was located. Generally, these turkeys used the same roost site(s) throughout the winter, whereas turkeys that remained in the forest during winter used multiple roost sites. We suggest maintaining stands of trees >30 cm dbh on the upper portions of easterly aspects to provide suitable roosting habitat for female Merriam's Wild Turkeys in the southern Black Hills.
41717727|Bluehead sucker (Catostomus discobolus) and flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus faipinnis) populations are declining throughout these species' native ranges in the Upper Colorado River Basin. In order to conserve these populations, an understanding of population dynamics is needed. Using age estimates from pectoral fin rays, we describe age and growth of these 2 species in 3 Wyoming stream systems: Muddy Creek, the Little Sandy River, and the Big Sandy River. Within all 3 stream systems, flannelmouth suckers were longer-lived than bluehead suckers, with maximum estimated ages of 16 years in Muddy Creek, 18 years in Little Sandy Creek, and 26 years in the Big Sandy River. Bluehead suckers had maximum estimated ages of 8 years in Muddy Creek, 10 years in Little Sandy Creek, and 18 years in the Big Sandy River. These maximum estimated ages were substantially greater than in other systems where scales have been used to estimate ages. Mean lengths at estimated ages were greater for flannelmouth suckers than for bluehead suckers in all 3 streams and generally less than values published from other systems where scales were used to estimate ages. Our observations of long life spans and slow growth rates among bluehead suckers and flannelmouth suckers were probably associated with our use of fin rays to estimate ages as well as the populations being in headwater tributaries near the northern edges of these species' ranges.
41717728|Seventeen mixed conifer stands infested with knobcone pine dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium siskiyouense) were sampled to evaluate host susceptibility to this parasitic plant. Temporary circular plots (radius 6 m) were established around dominant, severely infected knobcone pines (Pinus attenuata). Within plots, species, diameter at breast height, and dwarf mistletoe rating (6-class system) were determined for each live tree taller than 1.4 m. More than 2000 trees were sampled in 140 plots. Based on the incidence of infection, tree species were assigned to host-susceptibility classes. Although Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi) and shore pine (Pinus contorta var. contorta) have been classified as rare hosts of knobcone pine dwarf mistletoe, my results suggest that Jeffrey pine should be classified as a principal host and shore pine should be classified as an occasional host. No infection was observed on western white pine (Pinus monticoh), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), or incense-cedar (Calocedrus decurrens), indicating that these species should be classified as immune.
41717729|Multiple surveys carried out by herpetologists in Mxico, D.F., during the 1980s failed to find specimens of Aspidoscelis septemvitatta (Squamata: Teiidae). However, 10 specimens were recently collected to the east of Mxico, D.F., inside a protected area, Sierra de Santa Catarina. The Sierra de Santa Catarina has been heavily modified by human activity and habitation. Morphological and natural history information about the specimens are presented, as well as notes on locality.
41717730|Inland populations of cutthroat trout have suffered dramatic declines and some subspecies are considered threatened or endangered. Understanding patterns of variation and factors that influence life history in populations is important for conservation and management. We determined effects of elevation, sex, and genetic introgression (with Yellowstone cutthroat trout, Oncorhynchus clarkii lewisi, and rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss) on growth rates of Colorado River cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarkii pleuriticus) in the Sheep Creek drainage in the Uinta Mountains of Utah. In this high-elevation system, native trout grew slowly and matured relatively late. Elevation, sex, and genetic introgression all had significant effects on growth rates. Growth rates were lower at higher elevations. Males were slightly larger than females, and cutthroat trout in locations that were more introgressed grew faster than those at nonintrogressed locations. Both abiotic effects and effects of introduced salmonids must be addressed in long-term management programs to ensure the sustainability of native trout populations.
41717731|Two molecular marker systems, random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and microsatellites, were used to evaluate population diversity and differentiation in 4 northern Nevada Bromus tectorum populations. From 80 RAPD primers, we found 16 (20%) that yielded 165 strong repeatable bands. Of those bands, 60 (35.8%) were polymorphic. Of those, 21 met data-pruning guidelines for final analysis. RAPD variation was moderate ($\bar x$ = 0.363, ${s_{\bar x}}$ = 0.022), ranging from 0.312 to 0.404. Microsatellite variation was similar ($\bar x$ = 0.234, ${s_{\bar x}}$ = 0.051) but varied more widely, ranging from 0.009 to 0.551. All populations were out of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, as expected in a predominantly selfing species. RAPDs revealed significant differentiation (P < 0.0001) across populations, whereas microsatellites only resolved 2 of the 4 populations. RAPDs revealed a considerable amount of variation in the 2 populations, Hot Springs and Truckee, which had nearly identical microsatellite profiles. Of 184 individuals, we found 182 unique RAPD phenotypes. We found 51 microsatellite genotypes across individuals, one of which was present in 95.3% of the individuals in the Hot Springs-Truckee group and 29% of the Stillwater individuals. The UPGMA phenograms were similar in grouping Hot Springs with Truckee, and Stillwater with Peavine, and were highly correlated but not significantly. Roth marker systems proved useful in assessing population genetic variation. One population-specific RAPD marker and 6 new microsatellite-length polymorphisms were identified. Roth marker systems may also prove useful in studying other closely related species such as red brome (Bromus rubens).
41717732|Ponderosa pine Pinus ponderosa and Douglas-fir Pseudotsuga menziesii forests in the Interior of British Columbia, Canada, are adjacent to grasslands. Forest ingrowth and tree encroachment, mainly due to fire suppression, represent threats to both forest and ranching industries in the region. The use of prescribed burning for ecological restoration is being practiced, but the associated ecosystem effects of restoration treatments have been little studied in the region. We used a randomized complete block design in a prescribed burning experiment. Tree survival and the responses of understory vegetation to burning were monitored for 3 years. The transect method along with crown projection areas (onto the ground) were used in comparisons between areas inside and outside of the burned area. Fire was effective in eliminating small ponderosa pine (dbh < 10 cm) and Douglas-fir (dbh < 20 cm) trees. Therefore, the objective of controlling the encroachment of trees was met by the prescribed burn. Species composition at both sites was modified by prescribed burning, but spatial variability was overridden by treatment and temporal effects. Immediate, short-term reduction of big sagebrush Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis was observed in grassland sites, while reduction in rabbitbrush Chrysothamnus nauseosus in the forest was observed. Data trends indicate that 3 years after burning, total biomass and forb biomass increased in grasslands, but graminoid biomass in forests was reduced and total understory biomass was not affected by burning. Burning also reduced the shrub component in these ecosystems. While aboveground biomass production may be enhanced by burning in grasslands, the impact of burning on forest understory was minimal and burning may result in reduction of graminoids. Therefore, burning can be used to control tree encroachment and forest ingrowth in this region. Management plans must incorporate topography, species diversity, and tree survival to target areas that are most susceptible to tree encroachment and to achieve desired results. Extended monitoring is necessary to determine the long-term effects of burning on species diversity in and productivity of these ecosystems.
41717733|Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) is an invasive annual known to negatively impact many shrub-dependent organisms; however, relatively little research has examined how it affects snake communities. Bromus tectorum is abundant at Antelope Island State Park, Davis County, Utah, and could be a possible threat to snake populations. Study sites representing different B. tectorum coverage percentages were established to measure relative abundance of snakes. Snakes were captured from June to September 2005 primarily by using funnel traps attached to drift-fence arrays. Linear regression revealed a negative relationship between B. tectorum coverage (%) and the relative abundance of the Great Basin gopher snake (Pituophis catenifer deserticola) and the western racer (Coluber mormon). These results (1) suggest that B. tectorum invasions result in reduced snake abundance in shrubsteppe habitat on Antelope Island and (2) add to our understanding of the relationships between B. tectorum and native fauna.
41717734|Asynchronous reproduction is a common phenomenon in high-elevation populations of lizards from Central Mxico. Sperm storage in the reproductive tract of females is the mechanism for making oocyte fertilization possible. Our study addresses questions related to functional oviductal sperm storage of females mating on different dates throughout the reproductive season. A population of Sceloporus mucronatus with copulation in the summer and ovulation in the fall was chosen for this experiment. Eleven females that copulated in the field during June and 13 females that copulated in captivity during August were maintained in the laboratory until parturition. The number of pregnant females and the litter sizes produced in each experimental group were indicative of the viability of the stored sperm. Sperm stored in the reproductive tract of females were able to fertilize eggs after 4 months. No significant differences were found in the number of pregnant females between the 2 experimental groups nor in the litter sizes that they produced. We found that the amount of time sperm were held in the female reproductive tract (ca. 3 months) had no effect on the capacity of sperm to fertilize eggs. Histological examination of 8 oviducts collected before the mating season eliminated the possibility of sperm storage from one year to the next. In this system, sperm retention could have evolved as a response mechanism to deal with the asynchrony between sexes in the reproductive cycles. However, we cannot rule out alternative hypotheses.
41717735|Rhizosheaths are structures composed of mucilage secreted from plants and adherent soil particles that form a cylinder around the root. Using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), we observed bacteria associated with rhizosheaths of the grasses Achnatherum hymenoides, Calamovilfa longifolia, Hesperostipa comata, and Pascopyrum smithii from a sand dune area in Harding County in northwestern South Dakota. The greatest numbers of bacteria, observed with SEM (529 mm), and the greatest number of culturable bacteria (9.9  10 CFU  g or 5178 CFU  mm) were on rhizosheaths of C. longifolia. Rhizosheaths of all the grasses examined contained a higher density of bacteria than the surrounding soil. Nitrogen fixation, as assayed by reduction of acetylene to ethylene, was present in some rhizosheaths. Bacterial nifH gene sequences amplified from bacteria associated with rhizosheaths were most similar to those from Ahaligenes latus and Mesorhizobium loti.
41717736|Maternal defensive behavior against predators may appear risky but is common in many species. Herein we describe maternal defensive behavior of mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) against Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) predatory attempts. We found that Golden Eagles attacked goats in 1.9% of sightings (n = 311 sightings of active Golden Eagles over 12 years) but were never successful. Mothers always defended their young against Golden Eagle attacks. Predation by Golden Eagles on young-of-the-year appears low for most ungulate species, including mountain goats. The benefits of defending offspring against eagles are likely high in ungulates, and we would therefore expect selection to favor maternal defensive behavior.
41717737|Orconectes virilis (northern crayfish) were collected from 67 sites in Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and far-western Ontario, Canada, and yielded 2 species of branchiobdellidans, Camharincoh vitreus and Cambarincola chirocephalus. This is the first report of branchiobdellidans in the Prairie Provinces. Cambarincoh vitreus was distributed across the study area, but C. chirocephalus appeared to be restricted to southeastern Saskatchewan, southern Manitoba, and the site in western Ontario. Neither branchiobdellidan species was observed on crayfish in the Beaver River or the South Saskatchewan River and associated tributaries upstream (west) of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, despite multiple sampling at these locations.
41717738|Information about the ecology of sympatric male deer is limited, which may influence management strategies for these species. We estimated home-range and core-area sizes and overlap, and survival of sympatric male desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in west central Texas. We captured 18 males of each species, fitted them with radio-collars, and monitored them for mortality from 2000 through 2003. We calculated home ranges for 7 males of each species in 2001 and 2002. Home-range sizes of mule deer (8.8 km) and white-tailed deer (7.4 km) were similar. Interspecific home-range overlap was less common than intraspecific overlap. Mean annual survival was 0.76 $\left( {{s_{\bar x}} = 0.04} \right)$ for mule deer and 0.80 $\left( {{s_{\bar x}} = 0.06} \right)$ for white-tailed deer. The high degree of home-range overlap and similar survival between the 2 deer species suggest that management targeting only 1 species may be unfeasible.
41717739|The remains of the scorpion Diplocentrus peloncillensis Francke were found in 7 scats of black bears (Ursus americanus) collected in the Sierra de San Luis, Sonora, Mexico. The collection data and previously reported black bear population estimates for the study area suggested that, although scorpions are not a large part of black bear diets in Sonora, feeding on scorpions is not restricted to a single individual or family unit and is apparently a relatively common behavior in the population. Also, the discovery of D. peloncillensis in Sonora represents a new country record. Se encontraron restos del escorpin, Diplocentrus peloncillensis Francke, en siete heces de oso negro (Ursus americanus) colectados en la Sierra de San Luis, Sonora, Mexico. Los datos de coleccin y estimaciones poblaciones previas de osos negros para el rea de estudio sugieren que, aunque los escorpiones no son una parte importante en la dieta del oso negro en Sonora, la alimentacin de escorpiones no estuvo restringida a un solo individuo ni a una familia y es un comportamiento relativamente comn dentro de la poblacin. Aparte, el descubrimiento de la especie D. peloncillensis en Sonora representa un nuevo registro para Mxico.
41717740|We surveyed bats using echolocation calls near inactive mines in the western Great Basin from 2003 to 2007. We identified 14 species of bats during our surveys, with Myotis lucifugus and Lasionycteris noctivagans found at 9 sites and Myotis evotis and Tadarida brasiliensis at 7 sites; all other species were found at less than one-half of the sites. Euderma maculatum, a state-protected species in Nevada, was recorded at 2 sites. Our work provides information that will be useful in managing bat habitat, especially with regard to mining activities.
41717741|An individual of the centipede Ectonocryptoides quadrimeropus Shelley and Mercurio, 2005, is reported from Puebla State, Mexico. It constitutes the third sample and fourth individual of the Ectonocryptopinae, and the first that is geographically removed from the Pacific Coast.
41717742|The International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources red-lists a number of ant species. One species is Anergates atratulus (Schenck, 1852), a rarely collected social parasite introduced from Europe. The known distribution in North America is along the Atlantic seaboard. This note reports a huge range expansion in North America, to include Colorado. This finding is important because it provides useful information about the conservation and dispersal patterns of a rare, introduced, socially parasitic ant species.
41717747|The conversion of coastal prairie to farmland in southern Texas has drastically reduced the number of available animal burrows, thereby forcing western Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicuhria hypugaea) wintering in southern Texas to use nontraditional roost sites such as roadside culverts. We studied factors influencing the selection of road culverts as roost sites by Burrowing Owls by comparing characteristics of 34 occupied and 100 unoccupied culverts. All occupied culverts were in agricultural habitat. Culverts with small diameters (16 cm) and those with an east-west orientation were occupied by Burrowing Owls in greater proportions than were culverts with larger diameters or different orientations. Occupied culverts were also associated with absence of grass, absence of woody vegetation, and presence of crop stubble. Our results provide guidelines for making drainage culverts more attractive to Burrowing Owls, but use of roadside culverts by Burrowing Owls may expose the owls to an increased risk of mortality from vehicle collisions. To avoid this dilemma, our guidelines for culverts could also be adapted as criteria for installation of artificial burrows in habitats suitable for wintering Burrowing Owls.
41717748|This study assesses the floristic diversity and affinities of pinyon-juniper (PJ) woodlands in northern Arizona at 2 different scales: regionally within the context of North American floristic patterns and locally within the 2500-m elevation gradient of the San Francisco Volcanic Field (SFVF). An analysis based upon 245 North American floras indicates that the PJ woodlands of the SFVF share strong affinities with the adjacent Colorado Plateau and Apachian floristic elements but also show high floristic similarity to the Great Plains. Data suggest that mid-elevation woodlands of the Colorado Plateau share floristic affinities with the Great Plains that are as strong as or stronger than those shared with the Great Basin. A geostatisical analysis provides a spatially explicit depiction of these findings. A comparison of species occurrences between 6 adjacent biotic communities in northern Arizona reveals that the PJ woodlands host the most distinctive flora among local life zones. Despite what their simple woodland structure may suggest, PJ woodlands of the SFVF host a moderately species-rich flora. This study suggests that the floras of PJ woodlands vary in significant and important ways across the range of PJ woodlands in western North America.
41717749|We studied herbivory by the desert woodrat (Neotoma lepida) on Joshua trees (Yucca brevifolia) in the Mojave Desert to determine whether N. lepida fed selectively based on leaf nitrogen content. We measured leaf nitrogen content and the location and amount of herbivory by woodrats on Y. brevifolia trees in southwestern Utah, USA. Neotoma lepida removed the outer tips of leaves (1/3 to 2/3 of total leaf length) but left leaf bases, which had lower nitrogen content, uneaten. Herbivory by N. lepida also was concentrated on rosettes that were oriented south, and these had significantly higher nitrogen content than rosettes that were oriented north. Finally, N. lepida fed more on trees that had higher mean leaf nitrogen contents. Thus, N. lepida selectively foraged among leaf parts, among rosettes of leaves, and among trees of Y. brevifolia, and disproportionate foraging was correlated with nitrogen content of leaves.
41717750|Because of their high dispersal abilities, birds are expected to manifest marked genetic structuring only at relatively large geographic scales. However, it is not well known how factors like nest site fidelity in a largely resident species could limit gene flow and increase genetic structuring in birds. In this study we use RAPD markers to estimate genetic structuring in a strongly sedentary species of the American tropics, the Russet crowned Motmot (Momotus mexicanus), within a tropical dry forest in central Mexico. Genetic structuring was assessed among 3 populations separated by a mean distance of only 25 km. We report that 12.9% of the total genetic variation is explained by differences among sites, which is quite high for a bird at this geographic scale. We propose that high nest site fidelity, brought on by a scarcity of suitable nest substrates, may be responsible for high genetic structuring in this species.
41717751|The eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana) occurs throughout eastern and central parts of the United States. In Nebraska, 3 of 9 subspecies inhabit the state, including N. f. campestris, N. f. attwateri, and N. f. baileyi. We determined distributional limits of N. f. campestris along 2 river systems in southern Nebraska. As observed with other mammalian species in the Great Plains, we suspected that the distribution of woodrats likely had expanded, reflecting continued regulation of rivers and the concomitant increase in forests along them. We documented N. f. campestris at 7 sites in 5 counties, including a recent (since the 1960s) eastward expansion along the Republican River. We observed little movement along the Platte River. The greatest concentration of houses constructed by woodrats occurred in a shelterbelt near the Republican River; otherwise, abundances of houses tended to be greater along the Platte River. We suspect that the distribution of woodrats will continue to change in Nebraska unless breaks exist or are established in riparian forests along the Platte and Republican rivers.
41717752|Thirteen species of bats occur in Nebraska, but limited information is available on those inhabiting southwestern parts of the state. We investigated the distribution, abundance, and reproductive activity of bats in 5 counties in extreme southwestern Nebraska (Chase, Hays, Dundy, Hitchcock, and Red Willow). From April 2007 to April 2008, we deployed mist nets on 15 occasions at 8 localities over the Republican River and its tributaries. We captured 100 individuals representing 5 species, including the evening bat (Nycticeius humeralis), eastern red bat (Lasiurus borealis) y hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus), big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), and silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans). All species raised young in this region of Nebraska, except L. noctivagans, which was documented only during migration. Lactating females of N. humeralis captured on 15 June and volant young captured on 23 June extend known dates of reproductive activity for this species in the state, and an adult female captured on 30 April represents the earliest seasonal record of this species from Nebraska. Our records of evening bats also extend the known distribution of this species farther west in Nebraska than previously reported. Changes in land use throughout the Great Plains during the last century have altered many habitats, such as gallery forests associated with rivers, and distributions of mammals, including bats, have shifted to reflect those ecological changes.
41717753|Yellowstone National Park supports a small population (< 300) of pronghorn (Antihcapra americana). Some individuals migrate during summer to areas characterized by reduced visibility, mixed habitat types, and a diverse predator community. Across areas selected by migratory and nonmigratory pronghorn, we documented cause-specific mortality of adults and fawns and assessed relative risk of predation by various predators. Coyotes (Cants htrans) accounted for 56% of adult predation and up to 79% of fawn predation. Cougars (Puma concohr) and wolves (Cants lupus) accounted for additional predation of adults, while cougars, black bears (Ursus americanus), and Golden Eagles (Aquih chrysaetos) were documented killing fawns on rare occasions. Our results suggest that even when pronghorn are in the presence of multiple predator species, coyote predation on adults and fawns may predominate for populations inhabiting shrubsteppe habitat. However, the risk of predation by sympatric predators, particularly cougars, may be high for female pronghorn selecting mixed cover types during migration or for birthing purposes. While the direct eifect of wolves on overall mortality was low, wolves may indirectly influence survival rates of adult females and fawns by altering the behavior and space use of sympatric predators, particularly coyotes.
41717754|Shrub canopy cover can take between 10 and >50 years to recover to predisturbance levels following fire in sagebrush communities. The high degree of unpredictability of shrub recovery following prescribed fires and wildfires makes it difficult to prioritize restoration efforts and develop long-term plans for restoring or maintaining the integrity of sagebrush communities. Our overall goal was to develop a hypothesis based on descriptive data that describes the temporal pattern of recruitment for 2 important shrubs, Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. vaseyana (Rydb.) Beetle and Purshia tridentata (Pursh) DC, in the interiors of large burns where little seed input from surviving shrubs occurs. We had 2 primary questions: (1) are there distinct temporal patterns of recruitment in the interiors of large burns that determine the recovery rate of the shrub canopy layer for species largely dependent on seedlings for reestablishment and (2) can we generate hypotheses that explain this variation in shrub recovery rates? To address the question of recruitment, we measured shrub density and age for A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana and P. tridentata in the interiors of 4 large (>400-ha) burns. Time since fire varied from 6 to 41 years. All 4 fires burned in August and were relatively complete with few to no unburned patches. Our data indicate that (1) A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana and P. tridentata seed remained viable up to 4 years postfire and that (2) the rate of shrub recovery is largely determined by the success or failure of seedling establishment in the first 2-3 years following disturbance. From these data we generated a hypothesis describing 2 scenarios of postfire shrub recovery.
41717755|Fire has been a critical influence on forest dynamics over much of western North America, and knowledge of historical fire regimes provides a valuable reference point for guiding ecosystem management. Spatial and temporal variations in historical (1550-1997) fire frequency were quantified for a 145-km area straddling the McKenzie River in the central western Cascades of Oregon. Fire-scar and tree-origin years estimated from cut stumps in 63 clearcut sites were used to approximately date fires. The estimated natural fire rotation was 162 years for the presettlement period (1550-1849). Natural fire rotation varied considerably over the period of record, ranging from 40 years for the Euro-American settlement period (1850-1924) to 504 years for the recent (1925-1997) fire-suppression period. Such temporal variation in fire regime may be attributed to a combination of climatic and anthropogenic influences. The study area also experienced 2 periods of widespread fire recorded at a majority of sample sites: one in the mid-1500s and the other from 1850 to 1925. Historical fire frequency has also varied spatially over at least 2 distinct scales. At the slope-facet scale, fire frequency was greatest on the generally south-facing slope to the north of the McKenzie River. At the finer scale of individual 4-ha sites, local topographic influences varied according to a site's broad geographical context north or south of the river. Results suggest that meaningful fire-regime characterization may require information derived from multiple spatial scales.
41717756|Variation at 21 allozyme loci and 10 restriction enzymes within the mitochondrial DNA control region was assessed among 3 allopatric populations of montane vole (Microtus montanus) in the American Southwest. Among populations of M. montanus, the population from the White Mountains, Arizona, was most genetically divergent. Genetic and biogeographic evidence supported recognition of the White Mountains population as a distinct subspecies, M. m. arizonensis. Results also supported recognition of the Mogollon vole (Microtus mogollonensis) as distinct from the Mexican vole (Microtus mexicanus).
41717757|Biological invasions are one of the greatest threats to native species in natural ecological systems. One of the most successful invasive species is Bromus tectorum L. (cheatgrass), which is having marked impacts on native plant communities and ecosystem processes. However, we know little about the effects of this invasion on native animal species in the Intermountain West. Because ants have been used to detect ecological change associated with anthropogenic land use, they seem well suited for a preliminary evaluation of the consequences of cheatgrass-driven habitat conversion. In our study, we used pitfall traps to assess ant community assemblages in intact sagebrush and nearby cheatgrass-dominated vegetation. Ant abundance was about 10-fold greater in cheatgrass-dominated plots than in sagebrush plots. We also noted differences in diversity and evenness between habitat types at both the species and the functional-group levels of organization. At the species level, Shannon's diversity index was greater in sagebrush plots than in cheatgrass-dominated plots. However, at the functional-group level, Simpson's and Shannon's diversity indices and the Brillouin evenness index were greater in cheatgrass-dominated plots than in sagebrush plots. Further, common species / functional groups tended to be more abundant while less common species / functional groups tended to be less abundant in cheatgrass-dominated plots compared to intact sagebrush plots. Patterns appear to be at least partially related to resource availabilities. This initial survey of ant communities from intact-native and altered vegetation types may be indicative of similar trends of biodiversity shifts throughout the Intermountain West where cheatgrass has successfully replaced native species. We also discuss the implications of ant communities on land management activities, specifically in the context of aridland restoration.
41717758|Little is known about how avian relationships to tracts of native sod prairie compare with avian relationships to single and multiple species of cool-and warm-season grassland plantings. We compared grassland bird species richness and density in 5 grassland cover types (n = 97) in the tallgrass prairie region of eastern South Dakota and western Minnesota, 2001-2004. Grassland bird species richness was significantly higher in native sod prairies than it was in all planted cover types except warm-season mixes. Grasslands dominated by exotic species did not support as many grassland bird species or have species densities as high as grasslands containing native species. Intermediate wheatgrass monotypes and cool-season mixes comprised of exotic species contained 40%-60% fewer grassland bird species than native sod prairie. Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) density was 68% and 51% lower in intermediate wheatgrass monotypes and cool-season mixes, respectively, than it was in switchgrass monotypes. Clay-colored Sparrow (Spizella pallida) density was 75%-91% higher in native sod prairies than it was in any other cover type. Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) density was 72% higher in native prairie than it was in grasslands dominated by exotic species. We recommend incorporating a diversity of native plant species into grassland plantings for biomass fuels or wildlife, rather than using monotypes or exotic species, to provide habitat for grassland birds. Although replacing croplands with planted grasslands would benefit grassland bird populations, we caution that replacing existing native sod tracts with planted grasslands would be detrimental to populations of several grassland bird species.
41717759|It has been suggested that Nearctic pikas (Ochotona spp.) are good biogeographic indicators of regions containing rocky, mesic, and cool habitat characterized by long winters and short summers. I examined whether populations of pikas inhabiting distinct low-elevation locales (121-255 m) are faithfully restricted to long-winter and shortsummer conditions by monitoring the climate associated with American pikas (Ochotona princeps) in the southern part of the Columbia River Gorge, Oregon. Ambient air temperatures and weather conditions in the vicinity of 4 pika-occupied rockslides were monitored with remote temperature loggers and weather stations from June 2000 to June 2001. Temperatures were compared to long-term averages recorded within the area. I detected pikas inhabiting locales where some temperatures lie outside of the limiting climatic values previously calculated for regions containing pikas. Mild winter temperatures at these pika locations show that long-winter temperatures and snow accumulation associated with typical habitat may not be requirements for pikas in some low-elevation habitat. When using climatic conditions experienced by extant pikas to estimate local paleoenvironments surrounding fossil sites and to anticipate effects of climate change on future pika distributions, I determined that pika sites in the Columbia River Gorge indicate that the association of pikas with long-winter habitat should be considered uncertain. These results highlight the need for further investigation into how local temperatures affect the distribution, behavior, and persistence of low-elevation pikas.
41717760|We report a population of the mussel the black sandshell (Ligumia recta [Lamarck, 1819]) from the Carrot River in Saskatchewan, far north of the species' known range in southern Manitoba and northwestern Ontario. Ligumia recta is reported to be declining substantially in its abundance and range, and this occurrence provides valuable information for the construction of a species status report in Canada.
41717761|The collared peccary (Tayassu tajacu) is undergoing range expansion in the southwestern United States. Here we report sightings of the collared peccary from locations outside the known ranges of either of the subspecies, T. t. sonoriensis and T. t. angulatus, in south central New Mexico. Sightings include multiple individuals of different ages. This indicates that the collared peccary is expanding into previously unoccupied areas between the documented ranges of the 2 subspecies. We suggest that the possibility of gene flow between the 2 historically separate subspecies may have important evolutionary consequences.
41717762|Salmincola californiensis is a parasitic copepod in the Lernaeopodidae family that commonly parasitizes salmonid fishes (Oncorhynchus spp.) by attaching near the fins and on gill filaments. Historically their distribution was limited to streams that emptied into the Pacific Ocean. During the summer of 2006, several rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) captured in Lake Tahoe were infested with S. californiensis. This is the first known record of S. californiensis in Lake Tahoe.
41717763|We captured >2000 Crawford's gray shrews (Notiosorex crawfordi) in a riparian forest mainly consisting of cottonwoods (Poptdus deltoides) along the Rio Grande in central New Mexico. Little has been published about abundance and habitat of Crawford's gray shrew throughout its distributional range. During 7 summers, we captured shrews in pitfall traps at 13 study sites in Bernalillo, Valencia, and Socorro counties. Capture rates of shrews were greatest in August and September, and we did not detect a response of shrews to restoration treatments that removed nonnative plants from riparian forests. Results from our study indicate that (1) Crawford's gray shrews are more abundant in riparian habitats than historically presumed and (2) pitfall traps with drift fences are an effective means to capture shrews.
41717764|Cold air temperatures may have killed several emerging nymphs and adult Pteronarcys californica on the Jocko River, Montana. Some aquatic insect taxa emerge early on the Jocko River, likely due to warm water temperatures in winter and spring. At this location, P. californica emerges approximately 5-7 weeks earlier than it does on many other streams or rivers across the United States. We hypothesize that this earlier emergence may be a mortality factor when cold fronts cause air temperatures to drop below freezing. Other mortality factors are also discussed.
41717765|We investigated localities from which Eutamias atristriatus Bailey, 1913 (= Tamias minimus atristriatus) and Zapus luteus Miller, 1911 (= Zapus hudsonius luteus) were collected during a 1902 survey in the Sacramento Mountains, New Mexico, by the United States Biological Survey. The locality from which the holotype of Eutamias atristriatus was collected is restricted to James Canyon rather than the Rio Peasco. Locality records indicate that the historical distribution of Zapus hudsonius luteus and its obligate wetland habitat were broader than currently realized.
41717766|Solifugids (camel spiders) are widespread throughout arid regions of western North America and are thought to be important in structuring desert arthropod communities. Despite the ubiquity of camel spiders, little is known about their ecology. Black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) are also widespread in western North America and are important ecosystem engineers, but they have been reduced in extent because of human activity. Here we report significantly greater numbers of camel spiders on black-tailed prairie dog colonies in southern New Mexico. The difference in vegetation structure created by prairie dog activity is likely the reason for the increased prevalence of camel spiders on colonies. Because camel spiders are important predators and prey, the observation that colonies support higher numbers of these animals provides a mechanism explaining differences in arthropod communities on and off colonies and explaining the preferential foraging behavior of vertebrates associated with prairie dog colonies.
41717773|Understanding long-term patterns of burrow occupancy for the Western Burrowing Owl (Athene cunictdaria hypugaea) is necessary for the conservation of this species, especially in arid, desert ecosystems where burrow occupancy data are lacking. Monthly burrow monitoring was conducted over a 4-year period (1997-2001) in southern Nevada to determine burrow occupancy patterns of Burrowing Owls and to evaluate the effects of burrow type and desert region on burrow occupancy. Burrow occupancy occurred year-round and was most consistent in the Transition region and tended to be lowest in the Mojave Desert region. Peak burrow occupancy occurred during March through May, followed by a gradual decline in occupancy through the summer and fall until January and February, when occupancy was lowest. Occupancy was significantly higher at sites with both culvert and pipe burrows than at sites with earthen burrows in disturbed habitat or earthen burrows in natural habitat. Breeding-season occupancy was not significantly higher in wetter, cooler portions (e. g., Great Basin desert region) of the study area. Results suggest that occupancy is influenced by habitat featuressuch as suitable burrows in open areas with low vegetationand climatic regime.
41717774|Hydropsyche quitchupaha, n. sp., is described and illustrated based on 3 males collected in Sevier, Emery, and Kane counties, Utah. The upturned posteromesal lobes of tergum X, subapically swollen phallobase, and dorsally depressed phallus apex separate this species from all other members of the Hydropsyche Scolaris Group.
41717775|Seventy-two caddisfly species in 36 genera and 15 families were collected along the Little Colorado, Verde, Gila, and Colorado rivers in Arizona. Brachycentrids, hydropsychids, limnephilids, and uenoids made up nearly 50% of the assemblage in forested sites above 2200 m. Hydropsychids, hydroptilids, and leptocerids made up 75% of the assemblage in grassland watersheds between 2200 and 1000 m, and 80% at sites below 1000 m in desert watersheds. Species richness averaged 16 at sites above 2200 m elevation, 7 between 2200 and 1000 m, and 3 below 1000 m. H' diversity was typically >3 at sites above 2200 m and <2.5 below 2200 m. Each river had distinct faunas likely due to isolation of drainages across semiarid landscapes. Low Srensen similarity values were measured for caddisfly assemblages in the highly regulated Colorado River and the other 3 rivers. Only 17 species were collected at 14 sites along 700 km of the Colorado River. Indicator caddisfly species are provided for altered and less disturbed drainages. We added 7 species not previously reported in Arizona for a total of 154 caddisfly species in the state. We provide a baseline of caddisfly indicators for monitoring changes in ecosystem health during the predicted long-term drought and population expansion in southwestern USA.
41717776|Despite much attention to the foraging habits and hibernation patterns of food-storing mammals, little is known about the contents of winter larders under natural conditions or how animals prepare a winter larder. Here we describe the contents of 15 yellow-pine chipmunk (Tamias amoenus) winter larders from 3 different years and describe the movement of scatter-hoarded seeds into larders. We found larders by locating 14 radio-collared chipmunks in their winter dens. One additional larder was found by tracking the movement of seeds labeled with radioactive scandium-46 from scattered caches into the larder. Chipmunks formed winter dens and rapidly provisioned winter larders in the fall, just before the onset of winter. Surface caches were dynamic, with seeds residing in 1-6 cache sites (x = 2.6, s = 1.1) before being found in the larder. Distances from scattered caches to the winter larder were 34.5 m (s = 17.1). Contents of winter larders consisted of pine and shrub seeds. In 14 of the 15 larders, pine seeds contributed most to the size and caloric content of larders. Pine seeds and other seeds found in winter larders were produced by plants 2-4 months before the onset of winter. We conclude that if yellow-pine chipmunks did not scatter-hoard seeds during summer and autumn, seeds would not have been available for use in winter larders.
41717777|We examined the relationship between insolation, climate, and hibernacula of black-tailed (Crotalus molossus), Great Basin (Crotalus lutosus), and western diamondback (Crotalus atrox) rattlesnakes at 4 sites in Arizona, Nevada, and Utah. Hibernacula were located through a combination of visual searches and radio telemetry from 1995 to 2003. We used global information systems to calculate insolation and compared hibernaculum insolation values with random points representing available insolation of the surrounding habitat. Insolation reflects soil temperatures, and we predicted that hibernacula in cool climates, at high elevations, and at high latitudes would have higher insolation relative to their surroundings, while hibernacula in warmer climates would not differ from their surroundings in insolation. Coolest temperatures, highest elevations, and highest latitudes occurred on the C. lutosus and C. molossus sites, where hibernaculum insolation was higher than surrounding insolation. Temperatures were intermediate on the high-elevation C. atrox site, where hibernaculum insolation did not differ from random-point insolation. Temperatures were highest on the low-elevation C. atrox site, where hibernaculum insolation was unexpectedly lower than random-point insolation. Our observations suggest that rattlesnakes in cool climates utilize hibernacula with insolation values higher than those of their surroundings. Rattlesnakes in warm climates utilize hibernacula with insolation values lower than or similar to those of their surroundings.
41717778|The mammal fauna of western South Dakota is imperfectly known; in particular there is a notable paucity of data from Indian reservations in the region. We collected mammals from January 2003 through May 2006 using a variety of standard methodologies, including trapping with snap-traps and Macabee traps, shooting, and salvaging road-and hunter-killed animals. Herein we provide 23 specimen-based county records representing 17 species of mammals. In addition, a photo record constitutes the first report of Dasypus novemcinctus from South Dakota and the northernmost record in the United States. The possible local extirpation of Marmota flaviventris in the southern Black Hills is discussed.
41717779|We describe species richness and habitat associations of mayflies (Ephemeroptera) collected during amphibian surveys of 355 water bodies in Glacier National Park (NP), Montana, in 2006-2008. We collected 9 taxa (in 7 genera) of mayflies that were identifiable to species. Callibaetis ferruginens hageni was collected most frequently, followed by Siphlonurus occidentalis, S. phyllis, Ameletus celer, A. similior, Faramehtus columhiae, Ephemerella dorothea infrequens, Baetis bicaudatus, and Leptophlebia cupida. Siphlonurus phyllis had not been reported in the western United States prior to our surveys, and P. columbiae is a species of concern in the region. The identifications of 4 additional taxa were uncertain due to the poor condition of specimens found at only one site (Centroptilum sp. and Paraleptophlebia sp.) or because nymphal specimens could not be confidently identified (Cinygma sp. and Cinygmula sp.). Species richness of mayflies in wetlands seems low compared to that in streams and lakes in Glacier National Park. We found the most species of mayflies in beaver ponds, where we detected some species not commonly associated with lentic water bodies. Our survey was the first extensive survey of wetland invertebrates in Glacier NP and only the second that we are aware of in western Montana.
41717780|Caching of animal remains is common among carnivorous species of all sizes, yet the effects of caching on larger prey are unstudied. We conducted a summer field experiment designed to test the effects of simulated mountain lion (Puma concolor) caching on mass loss, relative temperature, and odor dissemination of 9 prey-like carcasses. We deployed all but one of the carcasses in pairs, with one of each pair exposed and the other shaded and shallowly buried (cached). Caching substantially reduced wastage during dry and hot (drought) but not wet and cool (monsoon) periods, and it also reduced temperature and discernable odor to some degree during both seasons. These results are consistent with the hypotheses that caching serves to both reduce competition from arthropods and microbes and reduce odds of detection by larger vertebrates such as bears (Ursus spp.), wolves (Canis lupus), or other lions.
41717781|We examined abundance and flight periodicity of 3 predators of bark beetles (Coleoptera: Curculionidae, Scolytinae), Temnochila chlorodia (Mannerheim) (Coleoptera: Trogositidae), Enoclerus sphegeus (Fabricius) (Coleoptera: Cleridae), and E. lecontei (Wolcott) (Coleoptera: Cleridae), across an elevational gradient of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Lawson) forests in north central Arizona. Predator populations were estimated at 10 sites in each of 3 elevation bands (low: 1600-1736 m; mid: 2058-2230 m; high: 2505-2651 m) for 3 years (2004-2006) using pheromone-baited funnel traps targeting 3 primary bark beetle species. We also investigated how predator abundance and flight seasonally related to those of 5 bark beetle species: Ips pini (Say), I. lecontei Swaine, Dendroctonus frontalis Zimmermann, D. brevicomis LeConte, and D. adjunctus Blandford. Temnochila chlorodia was most abundant in the low-and mid-elevation bands, whereas E. sphegeus was most abundant in the high-elevation band. Enoclerus lecontei showed no consistent elevational trend in abundance. Within each elevation band, changes in annual abundance of pooled predator species tracked shifts in abundance of pooled bark beetle species. In general, predator flight initiation coincided with or closely followed bark beetle flight initiation in the spring, but predator flight terminated before flight activity ended for most bark beetle species in the fall. In addition, the ratio of prey to predators was lowest in the summer and highest in the fall. This suggests that all bark beetle species examined may be provided temporal escape from their predators in the fall. For all 3 predator species, the pheromone-baited trap targeting D. brevicomis was less attractive than the pheromone-baited traps targeting I. pini and I. lecontei.
41717782|Only a single previous study has examined ectoparasites of the occult bat (Myotis occultus), from which only 2 species of fleas were identified. For our study, we examined 202 individuals, 52 fresh hosts and 150 museum specimens, from New Mexico and southern Colorado for ectoparasites. We recorded 2158 ectoparasites, 634 from fresh hosts and 1524 from museum specimens. Ectoparasites belonged to 10 families and 13 genera of insect or acari and represent new host and locality records. In general, ectoparasites collected from fresh hosts and museum specimens were represented by 4 major species of mite: Macronyssus crosbyi, Ahbidocarpus caharatus, Acanthophthirius lucifugus, and Alabidocarpus nr. eptesicus. From our study, we found fresh hosts to have significantly greater prevalence values for MyodopsyUa gentilis (flea), Chiroptonyssus robustipes (mite), and Leptotrombidium myotis (chigger), whereas museum specimens had significantly greater prevalence values for A. calcar atus (mite) and A. nr. eptesicus (mite). There were no significant differences between prevalence values for 4 mites including M. crosbyi, A. lucifugus, Pteracarus nr. minutus, and Cryptonyssus sp. Our study represents the only extensive study of ectoparasites on M. occultus and provides evidence for the importance of examining fresh hosts and museum specimens in future ectoparasite studies.
41717783|We evaluated the effects of various density treatments on adult fish growth and emigration rates between Bonneville cutthroat trout Oncorhynchus clarki Utah and brook trout Salvelinus fontinalis in stream enclosures in Beaver Creek, Idaho. We used 3 density treatments (low, ambient, and high fish densities) to evaluate density-related effects and to ensure a response. Intraspecific ambient-density tests using cutthroat trout only were also performed. Results indicated an absence of cage effects in the stream enclosures and no differences in fish growth between ambient-density stream-enclosure fish and free-range fish. Brook trout outgrew and moved less than cutthroat trout in the stream enclosures, especially as density increased. In all 3 density treatments, brook trout gained more weight than cutthroat trout, with brook trout gaining weight in each density treatment and cutthroat trout losing weight at the highest density. At high densities, cutthroat trout attempted to emigrate more frequently than brook trout in sympatry and allopatry. We observed a negative correlation between growth and emigration for interspecific cutthroat trout, indicating a possible competitive response due to the presence of brook trout. We observed similar responses for weight and emigration in trials of allopatric cutthroat trout, indicating strong intraspecific effects as density increased. While cutthroat trout showed a response to experimental manipulation with brook trout at different densities, there has been long-term coexistence between these species in Beaver Creek. This system presents a unique opportunity to study the mechanisms that lead cutthroat trout to coexist with rather than be replaced by nonnative brook trout.
41717784|We report observations on reproductive phenology, fecundity, and sporocarp morphology for a population of the semiaquatic fern Marsilea mollis B.L. Rob. & Fernald in southern Arizona and document the parasitic relationships of 2 insects collected with the plants. The recently described weevil Notiodes sporocarpicus O'Brien (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) utilizes the fern's sporocarp as a brood chamber, only the second documented instance of this form of parasitism in the United States. The wasp Lyrcus maculatus (Gahan) (Hymenoptera: Pteromalidae) is a parasitoid of the weevil in this system.
41717785|The long-tailed vole (Microtus longicaudus) exhibits karyotypic variation in western North America. In the American Southwest, the species has a disjunct, relict distribution. However, karyotypes obtained from 20 specimens in 5 isolated mountain ranges (White Mountains, Arizona; Mount Taylor and the Sangre de Cristo, Jemez, and Mogolln mountains, New Mexico) exhibited no variation. These and previously reported karyotypes from the region had a diploid number (2n) of 56 and fundamental number (FN) of 84, which is the most commonly reported karyotype for the species.
41717786|Mearn's grasshopper mouse (Onychomys arenicola) in Mexico is found primarily in the central and northern states. This is the first report of the genus Onychomys in the state of Veracruz, based on 7 captured specimens (3 collected). This finding extends the species' known distribution by approximately 470 km east-southeast. In addition, this record increases the alpha diversity of terrestrial mammals for the state of Veracruz to 192 species.
41717787|Eastern pipistrelles (Perimyotis subflavus) were first documented from South Dakota, western Texas, and New Mexico during recent years, suggesting that the distribution of this species is expanding westward across central parts of North America. In New Mexico, only 2 records of P. subflavus previously were knownone from summer and one from autumn. Here we report on 3 new records of P. subflavus from southeastern New Mexico, including the first 2 records from winter and the first record from spring. One individual in winter was observed hibernating in a cave in Chaves County. Our records and previous ones from autumn and summer suggest that this species is resident throughout the year in New Mexico.
41717788|Despite its large geographic range, little is known about reproductive traits in the northern scorpion (Faruroctonus horeus). We analyzed reproductive traits for 36 females from a population near Billings, Montana. All data were collected within a single year. Litter size, offspring mass, total litter mass (TLM), and relative litter mass (RLM) were within the ranges of values reported for other species in the Vaejovidae. Female size (length or mass) was not correlated with any reproductive trait. Litter size and offspring mass were each positively correlated with RLM, suggesting that females investing relatively larger amounts of energy in reproduction increase both size and number of offspring. Finally, the within-litter coefficient of variation in offspring mass was negatively correlated with RLM, TLM, and mean offspring mass, suggesting that females investing more energy in reproduction produce more-uniformly sized offspring, an observation that appears common in scorpions.
41717789|An antlerless mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) was collected on 2 December 1992 from an established Oak Creek mule deer herd 2 miles north of Oak City, Utah (Utah Wildlife Receipt #027604). Upon examination, the animal had prominent male genitalia with hair rubbed off from the pedicle part of the skull. Tissue examination revealed active spermatogenesis and viable sperm in the lumen of the epididymis and testis. Antlerless male deer have been reported previously in this area, but this is the first histological study of the abnormal deer. Lack of antlers would be advantageous for male deer during the hunting season because most western states limit deer harvest to antlered bucks.
41717790|Water sources are an important habitat component for populations of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), and the technique of sampling at water sources has been used extensively to study behaviors and estimate parameters of bighorn populations. Little is known, however, concerning the time of day at which groups of bighorns visit water. Understanding when bighorns visit water sources will allow wildlife investigators to conduct sampling when bighorns are most likely to be present at this resource. We quantified use of 7 water sources by reintroduced bighorn sheep during summer 2005 and 2006 on Antelope Island State Park, Utah. Our purpose was to determine if female, male, or mixed-sex groups visited water at a particular time and if visits to this resource by all bighorns differed in time during drought conditions compared with nondrought conditions. The mean time that all bighorns visited water was 14:22 (s = 3:08 hours). No time differences existed among female, male, or mixed-sex groups or between drought and nondrought conditions. Our results provide wildlife investigators with a time frame for activating motion-sensor cameras or sampling at water sources, which will increase the likelihood of photographing or observing reintroduced Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep at water sources in portions of the Great Basin Desert.
41717791|Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) is a species of concern, and accurate population data are needed to monitor conservation management efforts. Conventional, ground-based lek counts are labor-intensive, expensive, and have several sources of potential error and bias, including the practical limits on number and distribution of leks counted. We tested aerial methods for photographing multiple leks during a single morning. We completed 14 aerial approaches to 6 leks in 2 different years using 2 different airplanes and altitudes. Grouse flushed from leks on 12 approaches when the airplane was within 200-300 m of the lek. In 2 instances, strutting grouse crouched and stayed on the lek. Our highest-resolution images increased our confidence in grouse identification but also decreased field-of-view coverage to the detriment of count accuracy. The methods we tested do not allow sage-grouse to be accurately counted, but the results provide information about sage-grouse responses to low-altitude airplane approaches and about useful image resolutions and fields of view.
41717796|A new species from the semiaquatic weevil genus, Notiodes sporocarpicus, which develops and pupates in the sporocarps of the water fern Marsilea mollis B.L. Rob. & Fernald, is described from cattle tanks in southeastern Arizona. This new species can be separated readily from the majority of the known species by its nearly straight rostrum, with its distinctive dorsally swollen base and attenuated apex. Its elongate and slender body will separate N. sporocarpicus from most species in the genus except N. aeratus, which lacks the characters above. The Texas species N. celatus resembles the new species but has strongly developed suberect curved setae that are not present in N. sporocarpicus. Included are habitus photos and line drawings of the male and female genitalia of the new species.
41717797|Obtaining estimates of absolute abundance for rare or cryptic species can be challenging. In these cases, methods using indirect indicators such as sign might offer useful indices of population size. Pygmy rabbits (Brachylagus idahoensis) are small, burrowing lagomorphs for which methods for population assessment and monitoring are needed. Current tools for estimating relative abundance rely on detecting and assessing fecal pellets and burrow systems. We evaluated temporal changes in each of these indicators to gauge their potential usefulness as indicators of relative and absolute abundance of pygmy rabbits. Pellet persistence was strongly influenced by environmental exposure, and based on our data, we estimated that maximum persistence of fecal pellets would be 2434 months. Pellet appearance (color) was affected by both time and exposure. Burrow systems were remarkably resilient over the course of the study. Probability of burrow systems transitioning between activity classes (active, recent, and old) did not vary detectably by study site, season, or year. We suggest that 2 protocols currently used for classification of pygmy rabbit burrow systems are most useful for different applications. Further work is needed, however, to link such assessments to quantitative estimates of population size.
41717798|Sceloporus mucronatus is a viviparous lizard that inhabits high altitudes in central Mxico. Lizards from Tecocomulco, Hidalgo, Mxico, were collected monthly at 2500 m throughout one year. Macro- and microscopic evidence of gonads showed that both sexes reproduce synchronously during the fall. In males, after a short testicular quiescence in December, the recrudescence begins in winter (January) and continues through spring and summer (July), with maximum activity occurring from late summer to early fall (AugustSeptember). Regression takes place simultaneously with copulation during the fall (OctoberNovember). In females, vitellogenesis occurs during summer and fall (AugustNovember), with ovulation in the fall (NovemberDecember). Gravid females were found throughout the winter, and parturition occurs during spring (May). Litter size was correlated with female snoutvent length. Female reproductive phenology of viviparous Sceloporus species seems to be highly conservative at different altitudes, but male reproductive phenology shifts between springsummer (in populations higher than 2500 m) and summerfall (in populations 2500 m or lower), as in the present study. The longer period of testicular recrudescence (JanuaryJuly) in the studied population from Tecocomulco suggests plasticity in testicular activity. Sceloporus mucronatus es una lagartija vivpara que ocurre en altas elevaciones en el Centro de Mxico. Mensualmente fueron colectados ejemplares de Tecocomulco, Hidalgo, Mxico a 2500 m durante un ao. La evidencia macro y microscpica de las gnadas mostr que se ambos sexos reproducen sincrnicamente durante el otoo. En los machos, despus de un corto periodo de quiescencia testicular en diciembre, inicia la recrudescencia en invierno (enero) y contina durante la primavera y verano (julio) con mxima actividad durante fines de verano y principios de otoo (agostoseptiembre). Finalmente, la regresin ocurre simultneamente con las cpulas durante el otoo (octubrenoviembre). En las hembras la vitelognesis ocurre durante el verano y otoo (agosto a noviembre) con ovulacin en el otoo (noviembrediciembre). Las hembras se encuentran grvidas durante el invierno y el parto ocurre en la primavera (mayo). El tamao de la camada fue correlacionado con la longitud hocico-cloaca. La fenologa reproductora de las hembras de los Sceloporus vivparos parece ser altamente conservativa en diferentes altitudes, pero en los machos puede cambiar de primavera-verano (en poblaciones habitantes de altitudes mayores de 2500 m) a verano  otoo (en poblaciones de altitudes de 2500 m o menores), como en la poblacin del presente estudio. El largo periodo de recrudescencia testicular (enerojulio) de la poblacin estudiada de Tecocomulco sugiere plasticidad en la actividad testicular.
41717799|Dryocoetes confusus Swaine, the western balsam bark beetle, is an important bark beetle associated with Abies lasiocarpa (Hook.) Nutt. (subalpine fir) in western North America. Little information is available on the life cycle and ecology of this insect in Colorado. In this study in north central Colorado, we examined its flight periodicity, attack patterns, and life cycle in downed trees. Flight season, as indicated by pheromone-trap catches, began in early June. Peak flight was observed during early to mid-July. A second peak in flight was observed in some years, but its occurrence was not consistent. Preferred attack sites on downed trees were the underside or side of the log and through branch stubs. The life cycle for this beetle was completed in 2 years, consistent with earlier observations from British Columbia. Sex ratio was 1:1, but a higher percentage of males fly earlier in the season.
41717800|Quantifying root biomass is critical to an estimation and understanding of ecosystem net primary production, biomass partitioning, and belowground competition. We compared 2 methods for determining root biomass: a new soil-coring technique and traditional excavation of quantitative pits. We conducted the study in an existing Joint Fire Sciences demonstration area in the central Great Basin. This area is representative of a shrub (sagebrush) ecosystem exhibiting tree (pinyon and juniper) encroachment. The demonstration area had a prescribed burn implemented 4 years prior to our study, and we sampled both control and burned plots. The samples were stratified across 3 microsites (interspace, under shrub, and under tree) and 4 soil depths (08, 823, 2338, and 3852 cm) to determine the effects of plant life form and burning on root biomass. We found that estimates of total root biomass were similar between quantitative pits and our soil cores. However, cores tended to show a more even distribution of root biomass across all microsites and depths than did pits. Overall, results indicated that root biomass differs significantly among microsites and soil depths and that the amount of root biomass at a given depth differs among microsites. Burning reduced root biomass in our study by 23% and altered the spatial distribution of root mass.
41717801|Extent of larder hoarding differs among species of kangaroo rats, and limited information is available for food stored in burrows by Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii)the most widespread species of Dipodomys. I excavated 9 burrows recently used by adult D. ordii during summer in the Sandhill Region of Nebraska. I observed only small quantities of food stored in burrows. Eight of 9 burrows contained segments of sand dropseed (Sporobolus cryptandrus) in limited quantities. These segments consisted of upper leaves with fruits (containing seeds) housed in sheaths. My observations represent the first documentation of D. ordii storing food in burrows under natural conditions. Compared to the burrows of other species of kangaroo rat, burrows of D. ordii were simple in structure with 1 main tunnel and 13 entrances. In summer, Ord's kangaroo rats commonly harvest seeds from plants in the Sandhill Region of Nebraska, but individuals apparently do not store large quantities of food in burrows, which suggests they store food in scatter hoards during this season.
41717802|Wind-pollinated dioecious plants often exhibit spatial segregation of the sexes. This partial niche separation has most often been explored using abiotic niche axes. However, if the sexes are truly separated in space, then they are apt to encounter different plant species that may heavily affect growth and reproduction. Also, to the extent that their niches differ, the sexes may respond differently to the same co-occurring species. Here we examine interspecific interactions that influence male and female reproductive potential in Atriplex bonnevillensis. Using Emlen's interaction assessment, a technique which assesses species interactions based on cover classes, we show that Salsola species compete significantly with females but not males, while Halogeton glomeratus competes with males but not females. The effect of competition only became apparent when we corrected for site-specific fertility. These results imply that differential competition must be considered when studying dioecious plants that display spatial segregation of the sexes.
41717803|We examined relative abundances of grassland birds among Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) fields seeded with 2 monocultures of introduced grass species and 2 mixes of native grasses in the Southern High Plains of Texas. We assessed bird compositions among these 4 cover types and between the cover types pooled into categories of introduced and native fields. Breeding season bird diversity and total abundance did not differ among cover types or between introduced and native fields. Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), Cassin's Sparrows (Aimophila cassinii), and Western Meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta) accounted for more than 90% of breeding season detections. Grasshopper Sparrows were the most abundant and found in all cover types. Cassin's Sparrows were 38% to 170% more abundant among the native seed mix without buffalograss (Buchlo dactyloides) compared to 3 other cover types. Although this association was statistically lost when cover types were pooled into introduced or native fields (U = 93.5, P = 0.91), the species was still 50% more abundant among native CRP than introduced CRP fields. Meadowlarks occurred ubiquitously but at very low numbers during the breeding season. During winter, avian abundance was 44% greater among native CRP than introduced CRP fields. Meadowlarks, Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris), and Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) accounted for 94% of all winter detections. Meadowlarks occurred ubiquitously, but Horned Larks and Savannah Sparrows were 157% and 96% more abundant, respectively, among native CRP than introduced CRP fields. Our data suggest that monocultures of introduced grasses may benefit some bird species but also that native seed mixes may have a more positive influence through increased diversity and abundance of grassland birds. However, pooling cover types into the broader categories of introduced or native grasses may dampen or occlude biologically meaningful results. It may be prudent to avoid broad categorization of CRP fields based solely on native or introduced grass cover when assessing habitat associations of grassland birds.
41717804|Broad-spectrum herbicide applications and improved harvesting efficiency of crops have reduced the availability of weed seeds and waste grains for game and nongame wildlife. Over the last decade, corn and soybean plantings have steadily increased in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) of North Dakota, while sunflower plantings have declined. The PPR is an important corridor for migratory birds, and changes in food availabilities at stopover habitats may affect how food resources are used. In early spring 2003 and 2004, we compared bird use of harvested fields of sunflower, soybeans, small grains, and corn in the PPR of North Dakota. Across both years and all crop types, we observed 20,400 birds comprising 29 species. Flocks of Lapland Longspurs (Calcarius lapponicus) and Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) and flocks of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) made up 60% and 15%, respectively, of the bird counts. We found that species richness and bird densities were higher in harvested sunflower fields and cornfields than in harvested small-grain and soybean fields, with soybean fields harboring the fewest species and lowest bird density. Blackbird densities tended to be lower in fields tilled after fall harvest than in fields not tilled. These results suggest that some granivorous bird populations in the Northern Great Plains could be positively affected by planting of row crops with postharvest vertical structure (e.g., sunflower, corn) and use of no-till land management practices.
41717805|Ecological data directly from the field are important in understanding the life history strategies of kinosternid species in the tropics. Herein we summarize the basic population ecology and life history of Kinosternon integrum in the municipality of Tonatico (southeastern Estado de Mxico, Mxico). From October 2003 to November 2004, we marked a total of 204 turtles and recaptured 118 of them. Mean population size using the Jolly-Seber model was 197 (95% CI 128-416) individuals, with a sex ratio of 1:1.7, biased to females. Males were larger than females in carapace length and plastron length. The reproductive season starts in late June and finishes in late October. The smallest female with oviductal eggs was 122 mm in carapace length. Mean clutch size was 4 eggs (s = 1.77, range 1-8) and was significantly and positively related to body size. Mean egg length was 30.43 mm (s = 2.24, range 23.92-35.96), mean width was 16.35 mm (s = 1.01, range 12.99-18.30), and mean weight was 5.14 g (s = 0.60, range 3.41-6.57). Mean egg length was significantly and inversely related to clutch size. Relative clutch mass (reproductive effort) was 0.043 (s = 0.017, range 0.017-0.071), which is the smallest value reported for the genus Kinosternon. Additionally, there was no evidence of a pelvic restriction on egg size in this population. This is the first study that documents basic population ecology and reproductive characteristics for a single population of the most widespread freshwater turtle in Mexico.
41717806|We made 27 collections over nine years at the Clearwater River and conducted preliminary cytogenetic analysis on 232 individuals of the Simulium arcticum complex there. Based on these preliminary findings, we analyzed an additional 1825 larvae from Clearwater collections in 2007, 2008, and 2009 to investigate the reproductive statuses of the two prevalent taxa of the complex there and to determine whether cytogenetic diversity and frequency of types were similar from year to year. We describe a cytotype new to science and a potentially derivative cytotype of S. arcticum sensu stricto. We also determine that these two taxa are present in similar frequencies from year to year and are in genetic equilibrium, suggesting that they are not reproductively isolated. This study constitutes the fourth positive test of our Geographic Distribution/Taxon Age hypothesis.
41717807|We describe a case study evaluating the ecological impact of Bromus tectorum L. (cheatgrass) invasion following fire disturbance and the effectiveness of revegetation as a means of rehabilitation in a degraded semiarid shrubsteppe system. The effectiveness of rehabilitation efforts was assessed relative to arthropod richness, vegetation and arthropod community composition, and ground-cover characteristics in 3 habitats: undisturbed, burned and weed infested (B. tectorum), and burned then rehabilitated with native and nonnative vegetation. Arthropods were collected in each habitat using pitfall traps. Differences in arthropod richness were compared using rarefaction curves. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling and nonparametric multivariate statistical procedures, including analysis of similarity and similarity percentage routines, were used to compare arthropod and vegetation community composition and ground-cover characteristics between habitats. Arthropod communities in the rehabilitated habitat were distinct from those observed in the undisturbed and weed-infested habitats. Rehabilitation in this study resulted in a shift toward conditions observed in an undisturbed habitat and perhaps is an intermediate step to complete restoration. Arthropod richness, arthropod and vegetation community composition, and ground-cover characteristics were all useful indicators but returned slightly different results. Assessing multiple variables yielded the most complete understanding of the habitats studied.
41717808|Northern leopard frogs (Rana [Lithobates] pipiens) are considered sensitive, threatened, or endangered in all western states and western Canadian provinces. Historically present in eastern Washington in 6 major river drainages, leopard frogs are now only known to occur at 2 localized areas in the Crab Creek drainage in Grant County. During the summers of 2002-2005, we surveyed both areas to document extent of leopard frog distributions and to describe habitat and vertebrate community characteristics associated with leopard frog site occupancy. At Gloyd Seeps, 2 juvenile leopard frogs were observed in a total of 8.2 person-days of searching along a 5-km stream reach. At Potholes Reservoir, we surveyed 243 wetland sites in 7 management units known to have been occupied by leopard frogs during the 1980s. We confirmed leopard frog presence at only 87 sites (36%) in 4 management units. Site occupancy models for individual ponds indicated that, compared to unoccupied sites, occupied sites had slightly greater pond depths, less tall emergent vegetation, more herbaceous vegetative cover, and fewer neighboring ponds containing nonnative predatory fish. Models developed at the 1-km scale indicated that occupied areas had greater average midsummer pond depths, fewer ponds occupied by bullfrogs (Rana [Lithobates] catesbeiana) and carp (CyprInus carpio), and more herbaceous vegetation surrounding ponds. The Gloyd Seeps population now appears defunct, and the Potholes Reservoir population is in sharp decline. Unless management actions are taken to reduce nonnative fish and bullfrogs and to enhance wetland vegetation, leopard frogs may soon be extirpated from both sites and possibly, therefore, from Washington.
41717809|The yellow-nosed cotton rat (Sigmodon ochrognathus) previously was known only from extreme southwestern New Mexico in the Peloncillo and Animas mountains. Here I document S. ochrognathus at 3 localities from the Big Burro and Mogollon mountains in southwestern New Mexico. My northernmost capture represents an extra-limital record of 160 km north of prior records in southern New Mexico and represents the northernmost occurrence in North America. Lack of intensive mammalian surveys in the region render it difficult to interpret my recent captures, but the most parsimonious explanation is that captures likely represent overlooked populations. I captured S. ochrognathus in grassy areas ungrazed by domestic livestock along the Gila River. Understanding the use of limited grassland habitats along arid rivers by terrestrial vertebrates in the region is important because many of these grasslands have been converted to agricultural lands or are grazed by livestock.
41717810|The little-known mayfly Siphlonurus autumnalis McDunnough (Ephemeroptera: Siphlonuridae) was collected from several locations in its floodplain habitats along the Middle Fork of the Flathead River in western Montana. To confirm identification, nymphs were reared along with an associated species, S. occidentalis Eaton (Ephemeroptera: Siphlonuridae). Adults emerged from 6 September until 16 October. Habitats are described and the first photos of the 2 sexes are provided.
41717811|Mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. vaseyana) covers large areas in arid regions of western North America. Climate-change models predict a decrease in the range of sagebrush, but few studies have examined details of predicted changes on sagebrush growth and the potential impacts of these changes on the community. We analyzed effects of temperature, precipitation, and snow depth on sagebrush annual ring width for 1969 to 2007 in the Gunnison Basin of Colorado. Temperature at all times of year except winter had negative correlations with ring widths; summer temperature had the strongest negative relationship. Ring widths correlated positively with precipitation in various seasons except summer; winter precipitation had the strongest relationship with growth. Maximum snow depth also correlated positively and strongly with ring width. Multiple regressions showed that summer temperature and either winter precipitation or maximum snow depth, which recharges deeper soil horizons, are both important in controlling growth. Overall, water stress and perhaps especially maximum snow depth appear to limit growth of this species. With predicted increases in temperature and probable reduced snow depth, sagebrush growth rates are likely to decrease. If so, sagebrush populations and cover may decline, which may have substantial effects on community composition and carbon balance.
41717815|Ectomycorrhizal colonization and rooting characteristics were quantified in a mature ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Dougl. ex Laws.) stand in the western Sierra Nevada. Root length totaled 3835.9 m.m of forest floor surface area, with 96% consisting of the fine-root fraction. Total root dry weight and volume were 2230.4 g.m and 5807.4 cmm of forest floor area, respectively, with 69% of the former and 75% of the latter accounted for by the coarse fraction. Fine roots were most prevalent in the upper 15 cm of the mineral soil profile, and their abundance declined with increasing depth. Coarse roots were most abundant at a depth of 15-30 cm. Ectomycorrhizal counts totaled 26,814m of forest floor area, and an overwhelming preponderance was associated with the fine-root fraction. More than three-quarters of mychorrhizae resided in the upper 15 cm of mineral soil, with an overall trend of declining numbers with increasing depth. Roots and mycorrhizae were exceedingly scarce at a depth of 45-60 cm, and neither was found in the organic soil layer above the mineral profile. A necessary step in understanding the ecophysiological role of mycorrhizae in mature forests is to quantify their abundance in such settings, and the results of this study contribute such information for ponderosa pine.
41717816|Examination of specimens of Pediomelum in the Brigham Young University Stanley L. Welsh Herbarium (BRY), and others obtained on loan from the Northern Arizona University Deaver Herbarium (ASC), the Arizona State University Herbarium (ASU), and the University of Arizona Herbarium (ARIZ), allows for substantial reevaluations of the species in Arizona and for description of 2 previously undescribed species. Pediomelum Verdiensis S. L. Welsh and M. Licher is described as a new species from substrate derived from the Tertiary Verde Formation, Verde Valley, north central Arizona. Pediomelum pauperitense S. L. Welsh, M. Licher, and N. D. Atwood is described as a new species from outcrops of Paleozoic limestone near Poverty Mountain, Coconino County, Arizona, north of the Grand Canyon. For the species of Pediomelum in Arizona, we include a summary revision, a key to the taxa, and a list of specimens examined for study.
41717817|During winter 1996-1997 and summer 1997, we surveyed birds at 26 study sites in desert grasslands of Arizona and New Mexico to determine tolerance of birds to variability in plant composition and structure. The relationship between bird abundance and vegetative characteristics might be an important consideration in the development of management and restoration plans. Of the 49 bird species we observed, we examined 13 and 16 species in detail for winter and summer seasons, respectively. A noticeable shift in species composition occurred between 3% and 10% woody plant cover. During winter, Chestnut-collared Longspurs (Calcarius ornatus) and Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) showed significant positive relationships with grass cover and negative relationships with woody plant cover, occurring in greatest numbers where woody cover was <1%. The richness of sparrow species during winter was highest among sites with 6% to 15% woody plant cover. In addition to showing significant positive relationships with woody cover, Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus), Black-throated Sparrows (Amphispiza bilineata), Brewer's Sparrows (Spizella breweri), and Chipping Sparrows (S. passerina) showed significant positive relationships with shrub species richness. Our results showed that reductions of woody plant cover below 3% in combination with the presence of native grasses could substantially enhance the presence of several bird species. Maintenance of woody cover between 6% and 15% could increase use by a suite of other species, especially wintering sparrows.
41717818|The southern Oregon-northeastern California and extreme northwestern Nevada (hereafter "SONEC") region provides critical spring migration habitat for waterfowl and other waterbirds in the Pacific Flyway. Information on the dynamics and distribution of waterbird habitats in SONEC during spring is needed to guide conservation efforts in the region. We grouped 1992 National Land Cover Data classes into 5 potential waterbird habitat types and used Landsat 5 Thematic Mapper and Landsat 7 Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus satellite imagery to map flooding of these habitat types in SONEC during February-May, 2002 and 2003. SONEC included 13,727 km of potential waterbird habitat comprised of grasslands (37.1%), pasture/hay (24.6%), marsh (15.9%), open wetland (11.8%), and croplands (10.6%). On average, 11.9% of this potential habitat was flooded during spring; but the percentage, area, and composition varied within and among years and subregions. Total flooding increased from 693 km in February to 2099 km in April during 2002 and from 1630 km in February to 2125 km in May during 2003. Open wetland comprised 58%-74%, marsh 8%-18%, pasture/hay 4%-11%, grassland 4%-17%, and cropland 3%-8% of the flooded habitat in SONEC. Satellite imagery and land-use data provided useful estimates of waterbird habitat availability in SONEC during spring, but other methods should be tested to more accurately measure flooding of densely vegetated habitats such as marsh. With <12% of the potential habitat flooded on average during spring, conservation programs have ample opportunity to improve the SONEC landscape for migrating waterbirds.
41717819|Historical events have had a great impact on the biogeography of fishes of western North America. We examined the genetic variation of the speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus) to determine the effects on this species of extensive hydrological changes during the last 10 million years in the Bonneville and Lahontan basins of the Great Basin and the upper Snake River Basin. Eight hundred sixty-nine base pairs of the mitochondrial gene cytochrome b were sequenced from 97 individuals representing 22 populations within these 3 basins, as well as from 2 individuals of longnose dace (Rhinichthys cataractae) that served as outgroups. Additionally, 13 speckled dace sequences representing 3 Bonneville populations were used from GenBank. Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood criteria. Analysis of molecular variance was used to determine population structure and to estimate the amount of gene flow across the community boundaries. Three distinct clades were reconstructed representing the Lahontan Basin, the northern Bonneville and upper Snake River basins, and the southern Bonneville Basin. Additionally, most of the population structuring was explained by variation among basins (65.33%). Speckled dace demonstrated high genetic variation. As hypothesized, the northern and southern Bonneville specimens formed separate clades; however, the southern Bonneville clade was basal to a sister clade formed by the northern Bonneville/upper Snake River and Lahontan clades. These relationships indicate that Pliocene connections between the Snake, Lahontan, and Bonneville drainages, rather than more recent Pleistocene connections, best explain population structuring in speckled dace.
41717820|Understanding factors influencing the timing of den entrance and emergence of black bears (Ursus americanus) provides insight for bear management. We determined den entrance and emergence dates for bears in Rocky Mountain National Park (RMNP) and related these dates to vegetative productivity, weather, habitat, and demographic factors to assess the influence of these factors on denning chronology. Date of den entrance was most strongly influenced by age class, precipitation, and proportion of human-use areas in annual home ranges. Den entrance was typically later for adult bears during wetter years and when annual home ranges contained a greater proportion of humanuse areas. Sex and presence of human-use areas were most strongly related to den emergence. Male bears typically emerged from dens before females, and bears emerged from dens earlier when human-use areas composed a greater proportion of annual home ranges. Collectively, our results suggest that denning behavior of black bears in RMNP was strongly influenced by presence of human-use areas, likely because of foods associated with such areas. Managers of black bears in RMNP can use precipitation to predict relative dates of den entrance, thereby allowing for more efficient strategies to combat potentially negative human-black bear encounters.
41717821|Natural establishment of seedlings in desert playas with temporally variable precipitation hinges on many factors, including seed production, seed dispersal, seed entrapment, seed germination, and seedling survival. We investigated natural seed dispersal patterns and the effects of surface texture, wind barriers, resource availability (water and nutrients), and protection from herbivory on seedling establishment in a desert playa. We hypothesized that the seed rain would be consistent throughout the year and that seedling establishment would improve in resource-amended plots with barriers to wind dispersal. Contrary to our hypotheses, seed flux peaked seasonally during the winter, and fertilization had no consistent effect on seedling establishment. Seed availability for dispersal correlated with precipitation in the previous water year, whereas seedling recruitment was greatest when current-year precipitation during the spring germination and summer seedling growth periods was high. Gravel and barrier surface treatments contained more surviving seedlings than other surface treatments. Comparison with plots located outside of herbivore exclosures, however, showed that greater seedling presence in gravel plots may be due somewhat to protection from herbivory provided by the gravel, rather than simply to the greater seed-trapping quality of the gravel. With abundant seed availability, application of surface treatments, like coarse gravel, combined with increased seasonal water availability could lead to improved shrub establishment from seed in desert playas.
41717822|The sagebrush biotype is the largest in the western United States. This vast sagebrush community is thought to harbor equally vast and diverse arthropod communities, but these remain little explored. Our objective was to examine the diversity, abundance, and seasonal phenology of arthropod taxa found on the dominant shrub of the sagebrush ecosystem, big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata). We wanted to improve understanding of this little-studied arthropod assemblage that may play significant roles in the dynamics of sagebrush populations and the sagebrush ecosystem. We sampled free-living and gall-forming arthropods from a stratified random sample of sagebrush plants at the Barton Road Ecological Research Area, Idaho, resulting in a sample of over 8000 individuals and 232 morphospecies. Species richness and abundance declined from May to August, and abundance of most taxa similarly declined over the summer. A few taxa, including Acari (mites), were notably more abundant in August. Fluid feeders were the most diverse and abundant free-living feeding guild during all months and comprised up to 79% of morphospecies. The gall formers included 4713 individuals of 12 species of gall flies (Rhopalomyia spp.), primarily (97%) R. ampullaria. Abundance of galls increased from small to large (presumably young to old) plants. Overall, A. tridentata was host to a high diversity of arthropods, some of which have potential to cause or mitigate significant damage to their host plant. Arthropods seem likely to have the greatest impact on sagebrush early in the growing season, when they are most diverse and abundant. Documentation of the full diversity of arthropods associated with sagebrush required samples taken throughout the growing season, but a single sample early in the growing season captured a high proportion of taxa.
41717823|Redband trout Oncorhynchus mykiss gairdneri in the Columbia River Basin of western North America occupy desert and montane streams with variable habitat conditions. In general, desert streams are lower in gradient and elevation, contain less large substrate and more silt substrate, are less shaded by overhead vegetation, and have higher summer water temperature than montane streams. Consequently, we assessed whether the relationships between biotic and abiotic factors and the occurrence and abundance of redband trout in southwestern Idaho differed between desert and montane streams (<25 m mean width). Increased occurrence of redband trout in desert streams was most strongly related to increased stream shading and decreased amounts of silt substrate, followed by increased amounts of cobble/boulder substrate and absence of piscivorous fish (i.e., smallmouth bass Micropterus dolomieui and northern pikeminnow Ptychocheilus oregonensis). In montane streams, increased occurrence of redband trout was most strongly related to decreased site elevation and increases in cobble/boulder substrate, followed by decreases in stream gradient and width. Furthermore, occurrence of redband trout decreased in desert streams at mean summer (June-August) water temperature (Temp smr ) > 16C, whereas for montane streams, occurrence increased at Temp smr > 9C. Redband trout density in desert streams was most strongly related to higher stream order (i.e., headwater streams), increased stream shading, and increased amounts of cobble/boulder substrate. In montane streams, redband trout density was not well explained by any stream conditions, but stream shading had the strongest positive relationship with density. Redband trout density was negatively related to Temp smr in desert streams, but the relationship was weak for montane streams. That environmental conditions related to the occurrence and abundance of redband trout differ between desert and montane streams is important for fisheries managers who manage these disparate populations occurring in such close proximity to each other.
41717824|During the summers of 2005 and 2006, northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys Sabrinus Shaw) were livecaptured in the northern Black Hills of South Dakota from mixed deciduous/coniferous and coniferous habitats. Squirrel captures were significantly correlated with volume of downed wood and number of snags. Diets were examined from scat collections (n = 40, deciduous/coniferous; n = 10, coniferous). Number of fungal spores in the scat was significantly correlated with number of snags. From each scat collection, the frequencies of plant, animal, fungal, and unidentified components were determined. Hypogeous fungi were a frequent component of the diet, being found in 98.3% and 78.8% of the scat observed in 2005 and 2006. In 2006, as the frequency of dietary fungi decreased, the frequency of plant material increased from <1.0% to 8.0% and frequency of unidentified material increased from 2.0% to 74.0%. Animal content in the scat was negligible (<1.0% to 1.0%). Rhizopogon was the most frequently occurring hypogeous fungus observed. Rhizopogon spores made up 97.9% of the spores counted in 2005 and 96.4% in 2006. Elaphomyces, Gautieria, Geopora, Hymenogaster, and Hysterangium were observed at much lower frequencies. Sporocarps were collected throughout the trapping periods. Fourteen were collected in 2005 and 12 in 2006. Of the 26 sporocarps collected, 11 were Rhizopogon, 4 Elaphomyces, 2 Gautieria, 1 Hymenogaster, 7 Hysterangium, and 1 Tuber. This study is the first to examine flying squirrel diets in the Black Hills and the first to report Elaphomyces, Gautieria, Hymenogaster, Hysterangium, Rhizopogon, and Tuber sporocarps from the South Dakota Black Hills.
41717825|The Least Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii pusillus) was listed as state endangered in 1980 and federally endangered in 1986 in response to a sharp population decline and range reduction. This vireo commonly bred in riparian forests throughout the Central Valley of California, but prior to 2005, no nesting pairs had been confirmed in the region in over 50 years. On 29 June 2005, a Least Bell's Vireo nest was located in a 3-year-old riparian restoration site at the San Joaquin River National Wildlife Refuge in Stanislaus County, California. In 2006, a Least Bell's Vireo pair returned to the refuge to successfully breed, followed by an unsuccessful attempt in 2007 by an unpaired female. These records are approximately 350 km from the nearest known breeding population and appear to be part of a growing number of sightings outside of the species' current southern California breeding range. These nesting attempts lend credence to the idea that extirpated species can recolonize restored habitat by long-distance dispersal.
41717826|A wide variety of blood-feeding Diptera feed on extrafloral sugar sources such as homopteran honeydew. The significance of these sugar sources to insect survival and disease transmission is poorly known. Culicoides sonorensis, a biting midge, can survive on plant sugars but might also feed on homopteran honeydew. The survival of C. sonorensis fed 10% melezitose or 10% stachyose was compared to that of C. sonorensis fed 10% sucrose. A significantly greater number of C. sonorensis survived longer when fed melezitose than when fed either stachyose or sucrose. The effect of sugar meals on vector competence was measured using bluetongue and epizootic hemorrhagic disease viruses. There was no significant difference in viral persistence. However, if C. sonorensis feeds on homopteran honeydew in the wild, a larger number of midges could survive to transmit orbiviruses.
41717827|We report 2 separate records from sport-fish anglers in Lake Mohave, ArizonaNevada, that document the presence of endangered razorback sucker Xyrauchen texanus and bonytail Gila elegans in stomach contents of large (13+ kg) nonnative striped bass Morone saxatilis. These records suggest that striped bass, since their first appearance in Lake Mohave nearly 3 decades ago, may have played a role in population declines of the other 2 species. Current native-fish stocking programs at Lake Mohave continue to face significant obstacles to achieving population recoveries because all life stages of repatriated individuals, including mature adults, are vulnerable to predation.
41717828|From April to July 2008, we surveyed for breeding plovers at 32 sites in the semiarid highlands of Jalisco, Aguascalientes, Zacatecas, and San Luis Potos, in the Central Mexican High Plateau. We documented evidence or presumption of breeding Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) at 3 sites, Killdeer (C. vociferus) at 15 sites, and Mountain Plovers (C. montanus) at 1 site. Our surveys showed that the region is important breeding ground for only the Killdeer. We documented an apparent breeding range extension of the Mountain Plover to slightly more than 200 km south of its previously known breeding range.
41717829|The hispid pocket mouse (Chaetodipus hispidus) occurs throughout the Great Plains, mainly west of the Missouri River. In Nebraska, this species likely occurs throughout the state, but records of occurrence were lacking for east-central and northeastern counties. During a survey in 2008 for the plains pocket mouse (Perognathus flavescens) in eastern Nebraska, we documented C. hispidus in 10 new counties, including a modest range expansion into northeastern Nebraska. Many individuals were captured on moderately compact soils consisting of silt, but some also were captured on sandy and other friable soils. Most individuals were captured in areas containing some exposed ground, but this may reflect our trap placement for P. flavescens. Individuals from northeastern and east-central Nebraska best resembled C. h. spilotus from southeastern Nebraska, with black coloration suffused on the dorsum, head, and dorsal side of the tail; however, our individuals generally lacked the characteristic bright ochraceous coloration along lateral lines and on the dorsum. Limited evidence supports a recent expansion in distribution within the region.
41717889|Nest parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) can negatively affect host populations. Landscape-scale factors, such as proximity to residential areas, equestrian riding stables, and grazing allotments, can affect the risk of nest parasitism as well as the abundance of Brown-headed Cowbirds. Recent increases in residential and recreational development along with a reduction in grazing allotments in the northern Sierra Nevada provide an opportunity to reevaluate factors that influence frequency of nest parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds. Frequency of nest parasitism increased as the distance to the nearest residential center and distance to the nearest equestrian riding stable decreased. Similarly, Brown-headed Cowbird abundance was negatively correlated with distance to the nearest residential center and distance to the nearest equestrian stable. To reduce the risk of nest parasitism, efforts should be devoted to (1) reducing further residential development at the wildland-urban interface and (2) educating landowners about bird feeders, which frequently attract Brown-headed Cowbirds.
41717890|Notiosorex shrews (Soricomorpha: Soricidae) have a fossil history that extends to the Miocene (i.e., mid-Hemphillian). In the intervening 6.69 million years, N. repenningi, N. jacksoni, and what heretofore was considered N. crawfordi existed with varying degrees of overlap in occurrence timewise and in geographic distribution in areas of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Examination of unusually small fossil specimens of Notiosorex indicated the presence of another species referable to this genus present in late Pleistocene-(i.e., early Wisconsinan) to Holocene-aged deposits. Based on statistical analyses, these specimens were as distinct from any of the other fossil or extant species of Notiosorex as any other pair of species within the genus. I referred these specimens to the new species N. harrisi. Analyses also indicted fossils heretofore considered N. crawfordi were equally distinct from other forms of Notiosorex. I referred them to the new species N. dalquesti. Individuals referred to the fossil species of Notiosorex range in size from the smaller N. harrisi, to N. dalquesti, to N. jacksoni, to the larger N. repenningi. This size differential could be related to changing climatic conditions with the concomitant ecological succession that occurred, which provided a driving force for speciation within the genus. The changing climate and unique morphological and physiological adaptations allowed fossil taxa of Notiosorex to expand their distributions into areas subsequently less suitable for other forms of shrews. Present-day notiosoricini shrews occur throughout much of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico in a variety of habitats in association with rough, rocky terrain. Thus, if climate, even indirectly, was the driving force for speciation among fossil taxa of Notiosorex, other forces must have acted on the extant species N. cockrumi, N. crawfordi, N. evotis, and N. villai.
41717891|We investigated the present effects from a 10-year-old wildfire on leaf litter breakdown rates in 3 headwater streams in central Idaho. These systems experienced a massive debris flow one year after the fire. Based on soil instability and burn patterns, we identified 3 stream conditions: unburned, burned only, and burned/scoured. We placed leaf bags containing willow leaves (Salix sp.) in each stream type and removed bags at various time intervals until all bags were collected 100 days after their introduction. Leaf material was dried and weighed, and decay rate coefficients were calculated. Macroinvertebrates colonizing the bags were enumerated and identified, and selected taxa were placed into trophic groups. We found that the unburned stream had the fastest leaf litter breakdown rate, the lowest level of incident light reaching the stream, and the largest amount of benthic organic matter. The burned/scoured stream was nearly opposite in all respects. Numbers of 2 detritivore invertebrate taxa, Serratella tibialis and Zapada oregonensis, were highest in the unburned stream but lowest in the burned/scoured stream. A third taxon, Baetis sp., showed the opposite relationship. Presence of predatory invertebrates did not affect detritivore abundance or leaf decay rate in the bags. Our research suggests that recovery response variables of some stream systems may not have returned to prefire levels even a decade after the initial wildfire. In this study, the recovery of our streams appears to be connected to the return of the riparian zone, though fire-induced debris flows may slow or alter final recovery of the stream system.
41717892|Environmental indicators from lake sediments provide excellent opportunities to improve understanding of forest disturbance processes and corresponding changes in forest composition. Our research provides a methodology for assessing recent, historic, and prehistoric disturbances using lacustrine sediment records. We collected sediment cores from Blue Lake, a small subalpine lake on the Wasatch Plateau in central Utah. These cores record environmental changes caused by both spruce beetle (Dendroctonus rufipennis Kirby) and human (logging and livestock grazing) modification. We observed deteriorated insect remains in the lake sediments. These remains correspond temporally with a historic spruce beetle outbreak, though alkaline conditions in the lake water may have inhibited preservation of bark beetle remains. Pollen data reveal that despite the unprecedented level of mortality among Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii Parry ex Engelm.) resulting from the spruce beetle epidemic, logging activities subsequent to Euro-American settlement appear to be the most severe disturbance to the Blue Lake watershed over the last 750 years.
41717893|The pygmy rabbit (Brachylagus idahoensis) is a secretive, obligate sagebrush-steppe resident of the Intermountain West and is one of two rabbits in North America that digs its own burrows. Although the pygmy rabbit has a recorded home range of 0.21-67.9 ha in relatively high sagebrush cover (21%-36%), they spend much of their time within 30-100 m of a burrow system. Due to big sagebrush cover in preferred habitat and the secretive behavior of pygmy rabbits, it is often difficult to study this leporid through direct observation. We used remote cameras to document pygmy rabbit activity at burrow systems in south central Utah from 2006 to 2008. We analyzed photographs from remote cameras for daily and seasonal patterns of activity. Our results suggested that time of day and season were important influences on activity level, while year and site were less so. Pygmy rabbits were active during all time periods of the day, but the greatest activity occurred in the morning, except during winter. Numerous other species were recorded by remote cameras, including other leporids, birds, rodents, reptiles, and terrestrial predators. Remote cameras are a valuable tool in understanding pygmy rabbit behavior, in addition to confirming rabbit presence in areas of interest.
41717894|The mountains of north central Washington contain a variety of habitat types, from shrubsteppe to high alpine meadows. While native bee surveys of some surrounding areas like the Columbia Basin are fairly complete, little work has been done in the mountains of north central Washington to document the diversity of bees found therein. We conducted a survey of native bees in the Tonasket Ranger District of the Okanogan-Wenatchee National Forest during summer 2004. Collections yielded a diverse bee fauna (140 species in 24 genera) visiting diverse floral elements (57 plant species in 18 families). These preliminary data suggest that a rich bee fauna exists in the Okanogan Basin and surrounding mountains.
41717895|In most populations of mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus), mineral lick use is an essential part of the ecology of the species. In many areas, the distribution and use of licks in the landscape is poorly known, rendering planning for resource development difficult. We examined lick use by 28 GPS radio-collared mountain goats in 2 study areas in southeastern British Columbia during 2004-2005. Viewing collar-location movements on digital orthophotos, we assumed goat use of 6 previously known and 10 suspected mineral licks. Field visits verified that 9 of the 10 suspected sites were mineral licks. Thirteen of the 15 licks used by collared goats were within forests with commercial harvesting potential. All but 3 of the licks were 600 m from the closest logging block, and 5 licks were < 100 m away. Number of annual visits to licks by individual goats ranged from 0 to 9. Goats often moved considerable distances (up to 17.3 km) to visit licks. Most visits by males occurred between early May and late June (median 9 June), and most visits by females occurred between early June and mid-July (median 21 June). Mean time spent at licks on each visit was 1.5 days for females and 1.6 days for males. Most of the licks were characterized by numerous cavities dug under trees (which we term "lick trees"). Using GPS collars, we were able to collect data on lower-elevation mineral licks not previously known to researchers.
41717896|We evaluated the feasibility of using passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags to mark and track individual shorthead sculpins (Cottus confusus). We implanted PIT tags in 80 shorthead sculpins in 2 size categories (60-80 mm and 81-106 mm total length) and in 1 of 2 locations (subcutaneous along the spinous dorsal fin or in the body cavity). We evaluated tag retention, sculpin survival, and net-avoidance behavior for 29 days. We observed no mortality directly attributable to PIT-tag injection at either tagging location. We observed a 38.8% loss rate of dorsal tags and a 2.5% loss rate of body-cavity tags. No change in net-avoidance behavior was observed. We released 97 PIT-tagged sculpins into an artificial stream and monitored them with 3 stationary and 1 portable antenna. Sixty sculpins were detected at least once, and 18 sculpins were detected multiple times with the portable antenna. These results indicate that PIT-tagging within the body cavity is a feasible method for marking and tracking individual shorthead sculpins.
41717897|The deserts of southern California house a diverse and unique insect fauna. Velvet ants (Hymenoptera: Mutillidae) are common in these deserts. Velvet ants are important to ecosystem health, particularly in desert environments, because they are parasitic on the bees and wasps that help maintain overall ecosystem function. The goal of this study was to measure velvet ant diversity across the deserts of southern California. We made preliminary collections from 10 sites in a variety of areas in the western Sonoran Desert (Colorado Desert), the Mojave Desert, and the Great Basin Desert. We measured -diversity using Srensen's similarity index to compare velvet ant richness and relative abundance between different sites. To determine how accurate our similarity estimates were, and to gain an understanding of actual velvet ant diversity, we also compared velvet ant richness of 2 sites (Algodones Sand Dunes and Deep Canyon) using data obtained from the examination of museum specimens borrowed from over 12 museums across the West. Comparisons of velvet ant faunas between sites revealed low similarities (0.167-0.75 species richness only; 0.022-0.67 both abundance and richness). Low similarity values indicate that a rich velvet ant fauna exists in the deserts of southern California.
41717898|Obtaining timely and accurate assessment of sage-grouse (Centrocercus spp.) chick survival and recruitment is an important component of species management and conservation. We compared the effectiveness of walking, spotlight, and pointing-dog surveys to detect radio-marked and unmarked chicks within broods of radio-marked hens in Utah. Walking surveys detected 72% of marked chicks, while spotlight and pointing-dog surveys detected 100% and 96%, respectively. We found no difference between spotlight and pointing-dog counts in number of marked and unmarked chicks detected (P = 0.57). Spotlight counts were slightly more time efficient than pointing-dog surveys. However, spotlight surveys were nocturnal searches and perceived to be more technically arduous than diurnal pointing-dog surveys. Pointing-dog surveys may offer greater utility in terms of area searched per unit effort and an increased ability to detect unmarked hens and broods.
41717899|Occurrences of mountain lions (Puma concolor) in Nebraska have been steadily increasing; however, reproductive activity in mountain lions has not been documented in the state. We present the first evidence of mountain lion reproduction in Nebraska since mountain lions recolonized the state in the early 1990s. On 28 February 2007, a spotted kitten was hit by a vehicle in northwestern Nebraska; and based on body length and weight, we estimate its age at 3.9 months. On 20 December 2008, a female mountain lion and spotted kitten were photographed in the northwestern part of the state. On 9 May 2009, a female mountain lion with a juvenile was also photographed. All records were from the Pine Ridge region of Dawes County, Nebraska. Our records suggest that mountain lions are establishing a permanent population in at least one region of Nebraska.
41717900|Lesser Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) populations have experienced dramatic rangewide declines (up to 92%) since settlement of the Great Plains. This decline has been attributed to changes in land-use practices, such as conversion of native rangelands to intensive agriculture and increased grazing pressure. These changes may increase the impact of interspecific competition on populations. We documented disturbance of lekking Lesser Prairie-Chickens by Ring-necked Pheasants (Phasianus colchicus). Future management and research should take into account possible impacts to Lesser Prairie-Chickens during the breeding season.
41717901|The mayfly Rhithrogena virilis was first described in 1934 by McDunnough in western Canada. Since its description, it has been recorded only once. We reared nymphs and provide descriptions and digital photos that may make identification of this species easier.
41717902|We report the first observations of the black-tailed jackrabbit (Lepus californiens) on Cerralvo Island, Baja California Sur, Mexico. Evidence suggests a self-sustaining population. Analysis of available records indicates no previous record of Lepus on the island. Introduction of the jackrabbit to the island appears to have occurred between 1960 and 1991.
41717903|In Iowa, the northern grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leucogaster) previously was known only from the northwestern part of the state. Herein, we report records of O. leucogaster from the 1970s and 1980s that extend its distribution into west-central and southwestern Iowa. These records may represent dispersal movements into these parts of Iowa by southward movements from populations in northwestern Iowa or they may represent eastward movements of individuals from Nebraska prior to channelization of the Missouri River.
41717904|The discovery of Draba pennellii Rollins and D. pedicellata (Rollins & R.A. Price) Windham var. pedicellata, both previously known only from Nevada, is reported here from the Deep Creek Mountains of western Utah. The documentation of significant populations of D. pennellii and D. pedicellata var. pedicellata in Utah is important for accurate botanical inventories and floristic studies in both Utah and Nevada. New distribution records for D. kassii S.L. Welsh, D. novolympica Payson & St. John, and Hackelia ibapensis L.M. Shultz & J.S. Shultz are described, and the significance of these range extensions and new populations is discussed.
41717905|Climbing behavior is poorly documented in skunk species, with the exception of the genus Spihgale. Herein we describe 2 cases of climbing behavior in the American hog-nosed skunk (Conepatus leuconotus): one in Colima, Mexico, and another in west central Texas, USA. In both cases, a male climbed over 5 m into oak trees when pursued by humans. Climbing as an escape behavior in hog-nosed skunks has not previously been reported.
41717906|We describe observations of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) emerging aboveground at night, apparently in response to wild-bom and captive-bom black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) in South Dakota and New Mexico, respectively. We also discuss other similar observations accumulated on black-tailed prairie dog colonies as well as observations of white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus) making nighttime movements, apparently in response to pre-reintroduction ferrets in Wyoming. Our observations suggest that, in addition to documented daytime defenses against ferrets, prairie dogs reduce vulnerability to prdation by ferrets by using evasive movements at night.
41717907|We report the first records of the western gray squirrel (Sciurus griseus) from Modoc County and eastern Lassen County in northeastern California. Specimens from Modoc County represent the first records of the species from the Great Basin geographic province. We conclude that these records represent a range expansion based upon previous fieldwork that did not report the species in the region.
41718065|We resurrect Catostomus tsiltcoosensis, the Tyee sucker of Oregon coastal rivers, from the synonymy of Catostomus macrocheilus and compare it with its congeners. Catostomus tsiltcoosensis is superficially similar to disjunctly distributed Catostomus occidentalis of the Sacramento drainage and Catostomus ardens of the Upper Snake River and Bonneville Basin. However, the gill raker structure, wide frontoparietal fontanelle, location of the ninth cranial foramen, scale radii patterns, and cytochrome b sequences clearly align C. tsiltcoosensis with C. macrocheilus rather than C. occidentalis. Differences in counts of infraorbital pores and dorsal fin rays, in body depth proportions, and in cytochrome b sequences distinguish C. tsiltcoosensis and C. macrocheilus. Within C. tsiltcoosensis, specimens from each of the 4 main drainages (north to southSiuslaw, Umpqua, Coos, and Coquille) were reciprocally monophyletic based on cytochrome b data but showed no differences in the morphological features examined. Both C. tsiltcoosensis and another Oregon coastal taxon Catostomus rimiculus were paraphyletic based on cytochrome b. Although such discordant mitochondria results can be due to introgression, incomplete lineage sorting, and paralogy, other evidence suggests that introgression and lateral transfer of mitochondria explains the cytochrome b pattern in C. rimiculus. We speculate that lateral transfer might also be responsible for the pattern in C. tsiltcoosensis, except that the Coquille River population appears not to have been included in recent transfers.
41718066|Nonnative plant species are considered one of the greatest threats to biodiversity, yet we still are unable to predict how production and diversity of a community will change once a species has invaded. Ponderosa pine woodlands in the Front Range of Colorado are ideal for studying the impacts of nonnative plants on production and species richness. We selected 5 sites along the northern Front Range with varying proportions of nonnative and native species and compared understory production and species richness along the gradient of nonnative species dominance. Total species production was positively and significantly related to total species richness, and total species production increased significantly with increasing nonnative species richness. There was a negative relationship between native and nonnative species production, and there was no relationship between nonnative species richness and native species richness. This study demonstrates the complex nature of species richness and productivity relationships and should serve as a starting point for future research in which a variety of other variables are considered.
41718067|Gene flow links the genetic and demographic structures of species. Despite the fact that similar genetic and demographic patterns shape both local population structure and regional phylogeography, the 2 levels of population connectivity are rarely studied simultaneously. Here, we studied gene flow in the California vole (Microtus californicus), a small-bodied rodent with limited vagility but high local abundance. Within a 4.86-km preserve in central California, genetic diversity in 6 microsatellites was high, and Bayesian methods indicated a single genetic cluster. However, individual-based genetic analysis detected a clear signal for isolation-by-distance (IBD) and fine-scale population structure. Mitochondrial cytochrome b sequencing revealed 11 unique haplotypes from the one local area where we sequenced 62 individuals. Phylogeographic analysis of these individuals combined with those sampled from the northern geographic range of the species (the range of the species spans western North America from southern Oregon to northern Mexico and is centered geographically within the state of California) again indicated a lack of structure but a signal for IBD. Patterns of gene flow thus are consistent across spatial scales: while dispersal of the California vole is limited across geographic distance, there is nonetheless considerable movement across the landscape. We conclude that in this species, high local population abundances overcome the potential genetic and demographic effects of limited dispersal.
41718068|Regression equations were developed to predict biomass for 9 shrubs, 9 grasses, and 10 forbs that generally dominate sagebrush ecosystems in central Nevada. Independent variables included percent cover, average height, and plant volume. We explored 2 ellipsoid volumes: one with maximum plant height and 2 crown diameters and another with live crown height and 2 crown diameters. Dependent variables were total, live, leaf, and dead biomass. Simple, multiple, linear, and power equations were investigated. Models were chosen based on scatter plots, residual plots, and R and SEE values. In general, simple power equations provided the best-fit regressions. For shrubs, the ellipsoid volume computed with maximum plant height best predicted total plant weight, and the ellipsoid volume computed with the live crown height best predicted shrub foliage weight. In addition to regression equations for biomass, ratios for division of that biomass into 1-, 10-, 100-, and 1000-hour fuels were derived for common large shrubs. Regression equations were also derived to relate litter mat sizes of major shrub species to litter weights. The equations in this paper could be used to predict biomass in other areas of the Great Basin if training data were taken to validate or adjust these models.
41718069|Peromyscus eva and Peromyscus fraterculus are 2 morphologically similar species of the Peromyscus eremicus group occurring on the Baja California Peninsula. Due to the similarity between these 2 species, their ranges have been greatly confused; consequently, the specific habitat characteristics for each group are not well known. The goal of this study was to assess distribution ranges and characteristics of preferred habitats for P. eva and P. fraterculus in more detail. We identified taxonomy of individuals by evaluating genetic patterns produced by restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs). We evaluated the banding pattern generated by Alu I and Bam HI restriction enzymes in an 850-bp cytochrome b fragment. Consistent differences in number and size of fragments allowed for discrimination of individuals to species. The heterogeneity and evenness indexes showed that the microhabitat of P. fraterculus contained less-diverse soil types and is more homogeneous than the microhabitat of P. eva. In the state of Baja California Sur, P. eva occurs exclusively in the flat areas along the Pacific coast from the Vizcaino Desert to the south, including Margarita Island, with one small population in the Loreto area adjacent to Carmen Island. The habitats occupied by P. eva were heterogeneous (areas with friable, soft sandy soil and a low percentage of small stones). Peromyscus fraterculus occurs mostly in Baja California Norte, with some populations distributed in Baja California Sur, particularly in the western areas of the Vizcaino Desert along the mountain range, in the gulf side of the peninsula south of the city of La Paz, and in a small area on the eastern side of Sierra de Las Cruces. This species was mostly found on hard soil with high medium-size stone content.
41718070|The herbaceous understory stratum contains most of the plant diversity in ponderosa pine (Pinas ponderosa P. & C. Lawson var. scopulorum Engelm.) forests of the American Southwest and provides critical food and habitat for many wildlife species. During the last century, this stratum has been affected by livestock grazing and by increased dominance of overstory trees. We sampled a unique grazing exclosure to examine the relative importance of long-term livestock grazing (grazed or ungrazed) and habitat (park or tree) on the understory community. We sampled 3 plots of 192 contiguous quadrats (each quadrat 0.5 m) in each of the 4 treatment combinations, for a total of 2304 quadrats. Species-area curves were generated by aggregating quadrats into nonoverlapping areas at grain sizes of 0.5 to 576 m. The effects of habitat and grazing on species density were evident at very different scales. Species density was higher in park than tree plots at scales 32 m but did not differ between habitats at larger scales. Species density differed minimally between grazed and ungrazed treatments at small grains, but grazed plots contained more species than ungrazed plots at larger grains. Grazing treatments differed at smaller grains (to 4-8 m) than did habitats (to 32 m), with respect to density of native species and graminoids. Grazed plots had more exotic species than ungrazed plots at all grain sizes, though few exotics were present. Twenty-two species were identified as indicator species associated with habitats and/or grazing treatments. Evaluations of plant community response to treatments would be improved by accounting for the grain at which data have been collected and analyzed and by identifying indicator species associated with various treatments. These data would enable more-informed conservation and management decisions.
41718071|Within a species, home-range size can vary due to factors such as sex, mass, age, and breeding condition of individuals as well as habitat type, food availability, population density, and season. The objectives of this study were to estimate home ranges of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) in sage-steppe habitat and to test the hypothesis that several factors (sex, mass, reproductive status, and seasonality) affect home-range size. We also tested the hypothesis that deer mice exhibit home-range fidelity over time. Passive integrated transponder (PIT) technology was used to estimate home ranges in June and September 2006. Home-range estimates varied from 360 m to 5868 m (65 individuals, 753 observations). Home-range size increased by approximately 60% from June to September. Besides seasonality, none of the other predictors of home range were informative in explaining the variation in home range. Deer mice recaptured in September (3 months after initial capture) had high fidelity in home-range use (42.1% [SE = 8.4%] overlap with 74.1% [SE = 8.7%] area conserved; n = 9). All animals for which home range was estimated in both seasons retained some fraction of their June home range in September. Results support the use of combined location data collected over long periods, such as weeks or months, to estimate home range for deer mice. The results have implications for deer mouse-pathogen ecology, particularly with respect to modeling transmission of Sin Nombre virusa pathogen that is directly transmitted by deer mice.
41718072|The Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) is considered a riparian specialist in much of western North America, but in California it also breeds in a second habitat type: montane chaparral of the Sierra Nevada and southern Cascades. We monitored Yellow Warbler nests in montane chaparral and assessed their poorly known nesting ecology in this habitat. We also conducted point counts in upland habitat throughout the region. We determined habitat associations for Yellow Warblers based on nest site and point-count vegetation data; nests were predominantly in bush chinquapin (Chrysolepis sempervirens) and greenleaf manzanita (Arctostaphylos patula), and point-count abundance was most strongly associated with high overall shrub cover. The importance of montane chaparral for a number of shrubdependent Sierran birds is well documented, yet the chaparral is threatened by various practices including fire suppression, closed-canopy-focused forest management, and understory fuels-reduction treatments. Although Yellow Warblers are far more abundant in wet mountain meadow riparian habitat in the region, we recommend that management of montane chaparral habitat consider this species and the requirements of other shrub-nesting birds.
41718073|Deciduous riparian ecosystems in the western United States provide habitat for a higher density of breeding birds than reported for any other avian habitat type and provide habitat for more breeding bird species than adjacent uplands. On the east slope of the Sierra Nevada, riparian ecosystems make up < 1% of United States Forest Service lands yet experience a disproportionate amount of recreational use and development. Two of these developments, pack-station corrals and campgrounds, provide foraging opportunities for the Brown-headed Cowbird (Mohthrus ater)an obligate brood parasite that forages on bare ground and feedlots but typically commutes to distinct shrubland or woodland habitats for breeding. We examined nest survival, brood parasitism, breeding phenology, and causes of nest failure for birds at North Lake and Rock Creek: 2 high-elevation (> 2500 m) riparian breeding habitats adjacent to recreational development and within cowbird commuting distance to additional potential foraging sites. Nest survival tended to be higher for host species at Rock Creek than for those at North Lake, but parasitism rates were not significantly different between plots. Of 21 open-cup nesting species, 12 were parasitized. We found the highest rate of parasitism (92%) for Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus) at North Lake, and parasitism contributed to lower total nest survival there (14%). For nearly all species, parasitized nests were less successful and produced fewer young than nonparasitized nests. However, predation was the leading cause of complete nest failure across all species and contributed to the lowest total nest survival estimates for Western Wood-Pewees (Contopus sordidulus, 11%) and Dusky Flycatchers (Empidonax oberhoheri, 15%) at North Lake and for Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemails, 15%) at Rock Creek. Nest survival was relatively high for Western Wood-Pewees (41%) at Rock Creek and for Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia, 47%) at North Lake. We noted whether the arrival of pack animals at pack-station corrals contributed to variation in cowbird numbers at corrals or in parasitism rates at the 2 sites. Cowbirds occupied corrals before and after pack-stock arrival, and most host clutches were completed prior to pack-stock arrival at nearby corrals, suggesting that the presence of pack animals did not directly affect cowbird host species.
41718074|We studied the mating system and flower visitors of 2 threatened species of Sclerocactus (Cactaceae) in the Uintah Basin of eastern Utahan area undergoing rapid energy development. We found that both S. weilandicus and S. brevispinus are predominantly outcrossed and are essentially self-incompatible. A third presumptive taxon (undescribed; here called S. wetlandicus -varl) is fully self-compatible but cannot produce seeds unless the flowers are visited by pollinators. We found tentative evidence for pollinator limitation of fruit set in S. brevispinus but not in the other taxa. Pollinators are largely species of native ground-nesting bees in the subfamily Halictinae. These bees are indiscriminate collectors of pollen and nectar from Sclerocactus flowers and other plant species. The well-being of Sclerocactus populations requires that land managers ensure the preservation of halictid bee habitat, which includes both nesting sites and a diversity of floral resources. These bees are also undoubtedly the pollen vectors responsible for the production of hybrids in areas where S. wetlandicus and S. brevispinus meet. We experimentally confirmed that reciprocal crosses between S. wetlandicus and S. brevispinus are indistinguishable from each other or from pure crosses in fruits/flower, seeds/fruit and seed weights. We suggest that hybridization preceded energy development, that it attests to the ongoing process of evolution in the Sclerocactus group, and that it should not be suppressed by anthropogenic activity.
41718075|After the elimination of wolves (Cants lupis L.) in the 1920s, woody riparian plant communities on the northern range of Yellowstone National Park (YNP) declined an estimated 50%. After the reintroduction of wolves in 1995-1996, riparian willows (Salix spp.) on YNP's northern range showed significant growth for the first time since the 1920s. However, the pace of willow recovery has not been uniform. Some communities have exceeded 400 cm, while others are still at pre-1995 levels of <80 cm mean height. We took intensive, repeated measurements of abiotic factors, including soil and water-table characteristics, to determine whether these factors might be contributing to the varying pace of willow recovery. Willows at all of our study sites were "short" (<250 cm max. height) prior to 1995 and have recovered to varying degrees since. We contrasted "tall" (> 250 cm max. height) willow sites where willows had escaped elk (Cervus elaphus L.) browsing with "short" willow sites that could still be browsed. Unlike studies that manipulated willow height with fences and artificial dams, we examined sites that had natural growth differences in height since the reintroduction of wolves. Tall willow sites had greater water availability, more-rapid net soil nitrogen mineralization, greater snow depth, lower soil respiration rates, and cooler summer soil temperatures than nearby short willow sites. Most of these differences were measured both in herbaceous areas adjacent to the willow patches and in the willow patches themselves, suggesting that they were not effects of varying willow height recovery but were instead preexisting site differences that may have contributed to increased plant productivity. Our results agree with earlier studies in experimental plots which suggest that the varying pace of willow recovery has been influenced by abiotic limiting factors that interact with top-down reductions in willow browsing by elk.
41718076|The hispid cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus) has occurred in Nebraska for about 50 years and entered the state from the south via northward movements through Kansas. However, little is known about its status or distribution in the state in recent decades. We conducted surveys for S. hispidus in southern Nebraska at historical sites and sites without previous records to determine its current status. From 2004 to 2008, we documented cotton rats at 9 of 12 historical sites in south-central and extreme southeastern parts of the state, and we captured this species at 13 new sites in southwestern and south-central Nebraska. In the past 3 decades, the distribution of S. hispidus has expanded westward but not northward in the state. An explanation for such a shift is unclear. At this northern edge of its geographical range, pregnant females were captured from early April to early October, and nonreproductive females were captured from November to January. Males with enlarged testes occurred from late March to September. Aspects of its natural history in Nebraska are similar to those reported in Kansas.
41718077|Skeletal remains of the extinct mountain goat Oreamnos harringtoni and Marmota (marmot), an extralimital species, were recovered from Marmot End Alcove along with remains of montane plants that included Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas-fir), Picea (spruce), Pinus flexilis (limber pine), and Juniperus communis (common juniper). The alcove is located in Harris Wash, a semiarid tributary in an unstudied portion of the Escalante River Basin on the Colorado Plateau in southern Utah. A Marmota incisor tooth and montane plant needles returned late Pleistocene AMS dates ranging from 12,300 yr BP to 15,600 yr BP.
41718078|This is the first report of Clark's Nutcrackers (Nucifraga columbiana) harvesting seeds from the cones of sugar pine (Pinus lambertiana), based on observations over several years in Crater Lake National Park, Oregon. The harvesting period in late September corresponded to peak cone-opening dates. Nutcrackers placed harvested seeds in their throat pouches, a behavior associated with seed caching.
41718079|Frasera ackermanae, sp. nov. is described based on specimens collected from the Brush Creek drainage, Uinta Basin in Uintah County, Utah. The short stem, compact inflorescence, and longer calyx lobes separate this species from the similar Frasera pahutensis Reveal.
41718080|Chipmunks are widely distributed throughout the mountain ranges of Arizona. However, no living chipmunks are known from the Huachuca Mountains despite the availability of favorable habitat. Based upon pelage characteristics of captured individuals, we provide the first report of a breeding population of cliff chipmunks (Tamias dorsalis) in the Huachuca Mountains and discuss possible mechanisms of their arrival.
41718085|Life history data for Pahrump poolfish (Empetrichthys latos latos) collected from 1937 to 1975 were organized and analyzed to improve our understanding of changes caused by human habitat disruption and introduced goldfish (Carassius auratus) at Manse Spring, Nevada. Pahrump poolfish twice demonstrated their ability to recover numerically from a population crash. The first crash followed a November 1961 introduction of a few goldfish and subsequent removal of vegetation by local ranch children intent on turning Manse Spring into a swimming hole. The second crash followed another major habitat disturbance resulting from an unsuccessful attempt to eradicate goldfish in July 1967. Each crash (1962-1963 and 1967-1968) reduced the poolfish population to fewer than 50 adults and was followed by a population recovery to more than 1000. Following the first habitat disruption, changes in poolfish population structure and poolfish diet were observed. These changes caused an increased mortality rate, resulting in disappearance or decline in relative abundance of larger poolfish size classes with a commensurate reduction in production of mature eggs by the population. We detected no additional changes in life history characteristics that could be associated with the second population crash and recovery. We concluded that removal of vegetation in the summer of 1962 and the more extreme habitat disruption and fish handling in June-July 1967 were human-induced pulse disturbances resulting in poolfish population crashes. We also concluded that the changes in poolfish life history characteristics resulted principally from press disturbances attributable to goldfish. Los datos sobre la historia de vida del pez de poza Pahrump (Empetrichthys latos fotos), recopilados entre 1937 y 1975, fueron organizados y analizados para ayudar a entender los cambios cusados por la perturbacin antropognica del habitat y por la introduccin del carpn dorado (Carassius auratus) a Manse Spring, Nevada. En dos ocasiones, los peces de poza Pahrump demostraron Ia habilidad de reponerse numericamente despus de descensos abruptos de Ia poblacin. El primero fue en noviembre de 1961, despus de Ia introduccin de algunos carpines dorados y subsecuente remocin de vegetacin por nifios de ranchos locales con la intencin de convertir Manse Spring en una poza para nadar. El segundo descenso ocurri luego de otra perturbacin de habitat resultado de un intento fallido por erradicar el carpn dorado en julio de 1967. Cada descenso (1962-1963 y 1967-1968) redujo Ia poblacin de peces de poza a menos de 50 adultos; y fue seguido por una recuperacin de Ia poblacin a ms de 1000. Despus de la primera perturbacin dei habitat y descenso en la poblacin de peces de poza, se observaron cambios en la dieta y la estructura de la poblacin. Aparentemente, estos cmbios ocasionaron un ascenso en la tasa de mortalidad, causando la desaparicin o disminucin de Ia abundancia relativa de peces de poza de clases de mayor tamano, con una reduccin proporcional en la produccin de huevos maduros. No detectamos cambios adicionales en las caractersticas de historia de vida que pudieran estar asociados con el segundo descenso y recuperacin de Ia poblacin. Conclumos que Ia remocin de vegetacin en el verano de 1962, y la an mayor perturbacin del habitat y manejo de peces en junio/julio de 1967, fueron perturbaciones inducidas por el humano a modo de "pulso" que provocaron descensos de la poblacin de peces de poza, y que los cambios en las caractersticas de historia de vida de los peces de poza resultaron principalmente de la presin por la alteracin atribuda a los carpines dorados.
41718086|On Datil [Turner] Island in the Gulf of California, we rediscovered a population of Neotoma varia, previously thought to be extinct. We captured 5 specimens: 1 was kept as a voucher, and 4 were examined and released. Analysis of previous surveys indicates that N. varia is not common on the island and occupies a very restricted range. Recolectamos especmenes de Neotoma varia de la Isla Dtil en el Golfo de California, una poblacin anteriormente considerada ya extinta. De los cinco especimenes que recolectamos, cuatro se pusieron en libertad. El anlisis de muestreos prvios indica que N. varia no es comn en la isla y que tiene una distribucin muy limitada.
41718087|The European earwig, Forficula auricularia L., was surveyed using pitfall traps at 3 sites at the Hanford Reach National Monument in south central Washington State. Pitfall traps were collected weekly from April 2002 through April 2003. The earwig was consistently taken during all months of the year at a disturbed, weedy site along the Columbia River (White Bluffs Ferry site) but was rare or not collected in 2 less-disturbed shrubsteppe habitats. Highest numbers occurred during April-May, when immatures accounted for the majority of the catch; immatures reached the adult stage during mid-July, and the species is univoltine at the site. Possible reasons why earwigs have not colonized the monument's shrubsteppe habitat include the arid climate with lack of available moisture, especially for breeding purposes, and a lack of burrow sites. La tijereta Europea, Forficula auricularia L., fue estudiada usando trampas de cada en trs sitios del Hanford Reach National Monument en el sur del estado de Washington. Se colectaron los contenidos de las trampas de cada semanalmente desde abril de 2002 hasta abril de 2003. La tijereta apareci constantemente durante todos los meses dei ao en un sitio perturbado de vegetacin herbcea en la orilla del Rio Columbia (el lugar del antiguo transbordador White Bluffs) pero su colecta fue escasa o nula en dos habitats de estepa arbustiva menos perturbados. Los mayores nmeros ocurrieron durante abril y mayo cuando los organismos inmaduros representaron la mayora de los especmenes capturados; estos alcanzaron Ia etapa adulta a mediados de julio y la espcie es univoltina en este sitio. Posibles causas de que Ias tijeretas no hayan colonizado el habitat de estepa arbustiva dei Monumento podran incluir su clima rido carente de agua disponible, especialmente para Ia reproduccin, y una falta de sitios para madrigueras.
41718088|Records of Wood River sculpin (Cottus leiopomus) from 1893 to 2003 were examined and new data were gathered in 2004 and 2006 to estimate the species' historical range and to search for evidence of changes in its occurrence. Detections of Wood River sculpin were reported in 49 sub watersheds, primarily in the Idaho Batholith ecoregion. The remainder of the Wood River basin was classified as either potential historic range or unknown. Mark-recapture sampling was conducted to estimate the efficiency of electrofishing as a method to detect this sculpin. Sampling efficiency was calculated for 1 upstream pass and 1, 2, and 3 bidirectional passes. A mean sampling efficiency of 45.9% (range 15.4%-63.0%) was achieved using 3 bidirectional passes, block nets, and 0.942 minutes of electrofishing per m 2 of stream surface. Efficiency declined an average of 38% between electrofishing passes. The rates and reduced efficiencies observed between passes suggest that multiple passes and visits are needed to reliably estimate sculpin presence or absence. Se examinaros registros observacionales de los charrascos espinosos Wood River (Cottus leiopomus) de 1893 a 2003 y nuevos datos fueron reunidos en 2004 y 2006 para estimar su extension histrica y buscar evidencia de cambios en su presencia. Se ha reportado la deteccin de charrascos espinosos Wood River en 49 subcuencas, principalmente en la ecorregin del Batolito de Idaho. El resto de la cuenca del Wood River fue clasificado, ya sea como posible distribucin histrica o como desconocida. Se llev a cabo un muestreo de marcaje y recaptura para estimar la eficiencia de la electropesca como mtodo para detectar el charrasco espinoso. Se calculo la eficiencia del muestreo para un pase rio arriba y 1, 2 y 3 pases bidireccionales. Se alcanz una eficiencia promedio del muestreo de 45.9% (del 15.4 al 63.0%) usando 3 pases bidireccionales, redes de bloqueo y la aplicacin de corriente elctrica por 0.942 minutos por metro cuadrado de superficie del arroyo. La eficiencia disminuy 38% en promedio entre pases de electropesca. Las tasas y la reduccin de eficiencia observadas entre pases sugieren que multiples pases y visitas son requeridos para estimar con precision la presencia o ausencia del charrasco espinoso.
41718089|Carnivore consumption of fruit is a principle means by which many fleshy-fruited plant species achieve long-distance seed dispersal. We examined carnivore dispersal of hollyleaf cherry (Prunus ilicifolia) seeds, specifically assessing the survival, desiccation sensitivity, and germination of seeds found in bear scats. Studies were conducted both in the laboratory and in 2 burn areas in Los Padres National Forest, California. Bear scats containing P. ilicifolia seeds were collected in burned and unburned chaparral. We counted seeds in each scat and noted whether endocarps had tooth punctures or rattled audibly when shaken. For comparative germination trials, we also collected fruits and seeds directly from mature shrubs. In the laboratory, following a cold-moist stratification period, seeds were assessed for germinability. In the field, we compared desiccation rates and germinability of seeds from bear scats and freshly collected seeds. We compared rates of moisture loss and germination for seeds subjected to several different conditions, including 25C (room temperature), 30C and 65C(in the lab), and placement on exposed soil in a burn area (in the field), where midday temperatures were approximately 45C but likely much higher by late afternoon. Prunus ilicifolia seeds collected from bear scats were largely undamaged; the vast majority of these seeds germinated. In some cases, germination rate was higher for seeds from scats than for seeds from intact fruits. Several results indicate that desiccation is an important cause of reduced germinability. First, seeds that rattled audibly germinated poorly; and the louder the rattle, the lower the germination percentage. Second, seeds (both fresh and those from bear scats) placed in the field under protective screens had greatly reduced levels of germination (an 84% decline) after only 7 days. Third, seeds dried in the lab, even at relatively moderate temperatures, showed a decline in germination with seed moisture loss. The addition of high temperatures accelerated this decline in germination. We discuss the relevance of heat and desiccation sensitivity of seeds dispersed by bears to successful seed germination in burned and late-seral mesic and xeric chaparral. El consumo de fruta por carnvoros es uno de los principales mdios por los que muchas espcies de plantas de frutos carnosos logran dispersar sus semillas a travs largas distancias. Examinamos la dispersion por carnvoros de Ias semillas dei islay (Prunus ilicifolia), un arbusto del chaparral, evaluando concretamente Ia supervivencia, la sensibilidad a Ia desecacin y la germinacin de semillas encontradas en las heces de oso. Estos estdios se llevaron a cabo tanto en el laboratrio como en dos reas quemadas en Los Padres National Forest, California. Se colectaron heces de oso que contenan semillas de P. ilicifolia en el chaparral quemado y en el no quemado. Contamos las semillas en cada bola fecal y notamos si los endocarpios tenan marcas de dientes y si vibraban audiblemente ai agitarse. Para llevar a cabo pruebas comparativas de germinacin, tambin colectamos frutos y semillas directamente de los arbustos maduros. En el laboratrio, despus de un perodo de estratificacin fra-hmeda, evaluamos la capacidad de germinacin de Ias semillas. En el campo, comparamos Ias tasas de desecacin y de germinacin de semillas de Ias heces de oso con aquellas de semillas colectadas directamente de los arbustos. Se compararon Ias tasas de perdida de humedad y germinacin de Ias semillas sujetas a diversas condiciones, entre ellas 25C (temperatura ambiente), 30C y 65C en el laboratrio, y en el campo sobre suelo expuesto en un rea quemada, donde la temperatura ai medioda era ~45C pero probablemente mucho ms alta por Ia tarde. En general, las semillas de P ilicifolia colectadas en las heces de oso no estaban danadas; la gran mayora de estas semillas germinaron; en algunos casos la tasa de germinacin fue ms alta que la de frutos intactos. Varios resultados indicaron que la desecacin es una causa importante de Ia reduccin en la capacidad de germinacin. Primero, las semillas que vibraban audiblemente germinaron poo, y cuanto ms fuerte el sonido, menor la germinacin. Segundo, las semillas (tanto las frescas como las colectadas de heces de oso) colocadas en el campo bajo una malla protectora exhibieron niveles de germinacin muy reducidos (una disminucin dei 84%) despus de solo siete dias. Tercero, la germinacin de las semillas desecadas en el laboratrio, incluso a temperaturas relativamente moderadas, disminuy con la perdida de humedad de Ias semillas. Temperaturas ms altas aceleraron esta disminucin en la germinacin. Discutimos la importncia de la sensibilidad ai calor y a la desecacin en las semillas dispersadas por los osos para la germinacin exitosa en el chaparral msico y rido, tanto en el chaparral recin quemado como en el que est en las etapas finales de sucesin.
41718090|Disinfecting traps that have captured small mammals is one recommendation for preventing occurrence of hantavirus infection; however, the potential effects of disinfection on small mammal trappability have not been investigated thoroughly. We conducted an experiment to compare the effects of 2 disinfectants (Lysol  and household bleach) on the trappability of 4 small mammal species (Peromyscus maniculatus, Neotamias spp., and Spermophilus lateralis). We established triplicate trap grids in 2 forest types (red fir and mixed conifer), each consisting of a 6  6 array of Sherman live-traps placed at 10-m intervals. Traps were given 1 of 3 treatments: control (water), Lysol, or bleach; the treated traps were placed in an alternating pattern. Traps were open for 4 consecutive nights with daily treatment application. We found a difference in the trappability of Peromyscus between years; however, we did not detect a statistically significant difference in trappability resulting from disinfection for any of the 3 study species. Disinfectant effects on capture probability within Peromyscus were not supported by model selection in Program MARK. Collectively, these results indicate that although populations may fluctuate temporally and spatially, trap disinfection does not have a significant effect on small mammal trappability. Una de las recomendaciones para prevenir el hantavirus es la de desinfectar las trampas en las que se ha atrapado a pequenos mamferos. Sin embargo, no se han investigado extensamente los posibles efectos de la desinfeccin en la facilidad de captura de los pequenos mamferos. Llevamos a cabo un experimento para comparar los efectos de dos desinfectantes (Lysol  y cloro) en la facilidad de captura de cuatro espcies de pequenos mamferos (Peromyscus maniculatus, Neotamlas spp. y Spermophilus lateralis). Hicimos una cuadrcula triplicada de trampas en dos tipos de bosque (abeto rojo y conferas mixtas); cada cual constaba de una distribucin 6  6 de trampas Sherman de captura viva separadas por 10 m. Se lavaron las trampas con uno de tres lquidos: agua (el control), Lysol o cloro. Se colocaron de tal manera que alternaba de forma regular el uso de los tres lquidos. Operamos las trampas durante cuatro noches consecutivas, lavndolas a dirio. Detectamos una diferencla en la facilidad de captura de Peromyscus de un ano a otro; sin embargo, no detectamos ninguna diferencla estadsticamente significativa en la facilidad de captura que se pueda atribuir a la desinfeccin para ninguna de las tres espcies estudladas. Para Peromyscus, la seleccin de modelos en Program MARK no respalda la hiptesis de que la desinfeccin afecta la probabilidad de captura. Estos resultados indican que mientras que las poblaciones pueden fluctuar temporal y espaclalmente, la desinfeccin de trampas no tiene ningn efecto significativo en la facilidad de captura de pequenos mamferos.
41718091|Loss of reproductive productivity in hosts of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), a nest parasite, may limit the success of conservation and recovery efforts that focus on restoring avian habitat. We investigated the relationships between parasitism frequency of 2 vireosthe endangered Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atrcapillus) and the White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus)and characteristics of the neighboring avian assemblage. Our objective was to identify assemblage characteristics that are useful for predicting parasitism frequency. We hypothesized that parasitism frequency of the vireos would decrease with increasing alternate host abundance and increase with increasing abundance of cowbirds. All Black-capped Vireo nests (n = 20) and 81% of White-eyed Vireo nests (n = 27) were parasitized. Parasitism frequency of White-eyed Vireos was positively correlated with the number of cowbirds detected (r = 0.84, df = 4, P = 0.018). Parasitism frequency of White-eyed Vireos was negatively correlated with abundance of the Black-andwhite Warbler (Mniotilta varia; r = 0.891, df = 4, P = 0.009) but was not correlated with abundance of other cowbird hosts. The relationship between Black-and-white Warbler abundance and parasitism frequency may be due to chance, given the small sample size and narrow range of parasitism frequencies, but the relationship may also reflect an interaction (requiring further investigation) between parasitism and the vegetation characteristics associated with Black-andwhite Warblers. Our results imply that reducing cowbird abundance will reduce parasitism frequency of Black-capped Vireos. When the number of cowbirds in an area predicts parasitism, land managers would benefit from identifying a target cowbird abundance based on the levels of parasitism the host population can tolerate while still meeting productivity and population objectives for the species. La disminucin de productividad debido ai parasitismo por el tordo negro (Molothrus ater) podra limitar el exito de los esfuerzos de conservacin y recuperacin de las aves que se centran en la restauracin del habitat. Investigamos la relacin entre la frecuencia de parasitismo en el vireo gorrinegro (Vireo atricapilla), que est en peligro de extincin, y en otra espcie de vireo, el vireo ojiblanco (Vireo griseus), as como su relacin con las caractersticas de la poblacin circunvecina de aves para identificar las caractersticas que sirven para predecir la frecuencia del parasitismo. Planteamos la hiptesis de que la frecuencia de parasitismo en los vireos disminuiria con el aumento de la abundancia de huspedes alternativos y aumentaria al incrementarse la abundancia de tordos. Todos los nidos del vireo gorrinegro (n = 20) y el 81% de los nidos del vireo ojiblanco (n = 27) fueron parasitados. La frecuencia de parasitismo en los vireos ojiblancos estaba correlacionada positivamente con el nmero de tordos detectados (r = 0.84, gdl = 4, P = 0.018). Estaba correlacionada negativamente con la abundancia (r = 0.891, gdl = 4, P = 0.009) del chipe trepador (Mniotilta vara), pero no estaba correlacionada con la abundancia de otros huspedes de los tordos. La relacin entre Ia abundancia de chipe trepador y la frecuencia da parasitismo podra ser aleatria, dado lo pequeno de la muestra y la variacin en las frecuencias de parasitismo, pero tambin podra reflejar una interaccin entre el parasitismo y las caractersticas de la vegetacin asociada con el chipe trepador que require ms investigacin. Nuestros resultados indican que Ia disminucin de la abundancia de tordos reduce la frecuencia de parasitismo en el vireo gorrinegro. Cuando el nmero de tordos en una rea predice el parasitismo, los administradores de recursos naturales podran beneficiarse de la identificacin de una abundancia meta dei tordo, basada en los niveles de parasitismo que Ia poblacin husped pueda sostener y todavia alcanzar los objetivos de productividad y poblacin de la espcie.
41718092|Much research has been conducted on the mating systems of poeciliid fish in aquaria; however, there are fewer studies that examine mate sampling of these fish in the wild. In general, male poeciliids are characterized as being unselective in their mate choices and will attempt to copulate with seemingly all available females. Females are selective, copulate infrequently, and are often pursued by "ardent" males who may force copulations. To avoid male harassment, females in aquaria will often shelter from males among other females in shoals. Here, we examined the mate-sampling behaviors of male and female Pecos gambusia Gambusia nobilis by following individuals swimming in an outflow pool of Diamond Y Spring in southwestern Texas. In most cases, a male approached a solitary female, followed her briefly, and then left for no apparent reason. Approaching a number of females increased the likelihood that the male would follow one, and the longer a male followed a female, the more likely he was to copulate with her. As females were larger and faster than males, they could avoid males by swimming away from them. We found no evidence of the persistent males that harass seemingly unreceptive females as seen under aquarium conditions, nor did we see females join a shoal to stop pursuit by males. However, the activity of one male following a female did appear to attract other males who would compete to follow and attempt copulation. This competition might ensure that only superior males gain reproductive opportunities. Se han investigado extensamente los sistemas de apareamiento de peclidos en acuario; no obstante, hay relativamente poos estdios que examinan la eleccin de pareja de estos peces en su habitat natural. Los peclidos machos no suelen ser selectivos en su eleccin de pareja y parecen intentar copular con todas las hembras que estn a su alcance. Las hembras son selectivas, no copulan frecuentemente y a menudo las persiguen machos excitados que pueden copular con ellas forzadamente. Para evitar el acosamiento de los machos, en acuario las hembras a menudo se refugian de los machos entre otras hembras en bancos. Para este estdio, examinamos el comportamiento de eleccin de pareja de gambusias de pecos (Gambusia nobilis) machos y hembras ai observar algunos indivduos en un remanso del Diamond Y Spring en el suroeste de Texas. En la mayoria de los casos, el macho se acercaba a una hembra solitria, la seguia brevemente y luego se alejaba sin motivo aparente. El acercarse a varias hembras aumentaba la probabilidad de que persiguiera a una de ellas, y cuanto ms la seguia, ms probable era que copulara con ella. Dado que las hembras son ms grandes y ms rpidas que los machos, podan eludirlos si no correspondan. No observamos machos persistentes que acosaran hembras aparentemente poo receptivas como se ha documentado en acuario, ni tampoco vimos hembras que se unieran a bancos para evitar la persecucin de machos. Pero cuando un macho perseguia una hembra, parecia atraer otros, los cuales competan entre si para seguiria e intentar copular con ella. Esta competencia podra garantizar que solo los machos superiores tengan oportunidades reproductivas.
41718093|Rabbit abundance patterns in the North American Southwest are poorly known, particularly relative to the potentially important influences of rainfall and plant production. We conducted a 10-year study on the comparative densities of black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californiens) and desert cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus audubonii) in relation to annual rainfall and plant production in both black grama (Bouteloua eriopoda) grassland and creosotebush (Larrea tridentata) shrubland habitats in the northern Chihuahuan Desert. We found that both species of rabbits were more abundant in black grama grassland than in creosotebush shrubland and that plant production was positively correlated with rainfall at both habitats. However, rabbit densities were not positively correlated with rainfall or plant production in either habitat. In fact, both species of rabbits exhibited gradual, multiyear changes in abundance rather than the patterns of high annual variation observed in desert rodent communities. Our findings of no significant relationship between plant production and rabbit densities indicate that rabbit abundance in the northern Chihuahuan Desert may not be strongly regulated by short-term, bottom-up effects of annual variation in plant production. Long-term trends indicate that other factors such as disease or prdation may be equally or more important. We suggest that future research evaluate both top-down and bottom-up influences to elucidate the temporal dynamics of Chihuahuan Desert rabbit abundance. Se conoce poco sobre los patrones de abundancia de conejos desrticos en el suroeste de Norte America, particularmente en relacin con las influencias potencialmente importantes de la precipitacin y la produccin de plantas. Llevamos a cabo una investigacin de diez anos sobre la densidad relativa de la liebre de California (Lepus californiens) y el conejo cola de algodn (Sylvilagus audubonii) en los habitats tanto de pradera de grama negra (Bouteloua eriopoda) como de matorral de gobernadora (Larrea trdentata) en el norte del Desierto Chihuahuense, en relacin con la precipitacin y la produccin anuales. Encontramos que ambas espcies de conejo fueron ms abundantes en la pradera de grama negra que en el matorral de gobernadora, y que la produccin de plantas estuvo correlacionada positivamente con la precipitacin en ambos habitats. Sin embargo, las densidades de conejos no estuvieron correlacionadas positivamente con la precipitacin o con la produccin de plantas en ninguno de los dos habitats. De hecho, en cuanto a la fluetuacin de su abundancia, las dos espcies de conejo exhibieron tendencias graduales a Io largo de vrios anos, en comparacin con los patrones de gran variacin anual que se han observado en comunidades de roedores desrticos. La falta de una relacin significativa entre la produccin de plantas y la abundancia de conejos, indica que la abundancia de conejos en el norte del Desierto Chihuahuense no est fuertemente regulada por los efectos ascendentes a corto plazo de la variacin anual en la produccin de plantas. Los cambios reflejados en las tendencias a largo plazo indican que otros factores como las enfermedades o la depredacin pueden ser de igual o mayor importancia, y sugerimos que investigaciones futuras debern evaluar tanto las influencias ascendentes como las descendentes para entender las dinamicas temporales en la abundancia de conejos del Desierto Chihuahuense.
41718094|American pikas (Ochotona princeps) seem to be especially vulnerable to climate change, with recent extinctions of pika populations being attributed to global warming. Incomplete historical location records are currently used to examine changes in pika distributions. A method of determining recent pika distributions in the absence of historical records is needed. Here I report on changes over time of known-age pika fecal pellets up to 36 years old. Predictable changes in diameter, internal consistency, and color of pellets provide a method to approximate the dates of last occupation in patches where pikas have been extirpated. La pika Americana (Ochotona princeps) parece ser especialmente vulnerable al cambio climtico, al que se atribuyen extinciones recientes de sus poblaciones. Actualmente, se estn utilizando los registros histricos incompletos de ubicacin para examinar cambios en las distribuciones de pikas. Es necesario un mtodo para determinar distribuciones recientes de pikas a falta de registros histricos. Reporto aqui los cambios que se han observado con el transcurso del tiempo en bolitas fecales de hasta 36 aos de antigedad. Cambios predecibles en diametro, consistencia interna y color de las bolitas proporcionan un mtodo para datar aproximadamente cunto hace que vivan pikas en stios de los que han sido extirpadas.
41718095|I determined the distribution of limpets (Gastropoda: Ancylidae: Ferrissia) in the Colorado River and Rio Grande basins by handpicking specimens from the undersides of rocks and vegetation at 16 sites from a total of 495 surveyed sites in Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, and Arizona. Shell morphology, including morphometrics, was compared to species holotype descriptions and museum lots. Ferrissia rivularis occurred in the upper Colorado, Gunnison, and San Juan rivers, and in the upper Rio Grande basin. Ferrissia walkeri, hereafter called the Walker morph, occurred only in the Gila River basin of Arizona and New Mexico. I reviewed the problems of classification of the Walker morph as being either F walkeri, described from Arkansas and noted in Michigan and Baja California Sur, or Ferrissia fragilis, described from California and noted from the eastern United States. The Walker morph is identified by its vertical trending protoconch, which lies well within the right posterior quadrant, with the apex of the shell within the posterior third, and the anterior edge of the protoconch lying posterior to and below the apex. The importance of the Gila River Ferrissia population is discussed in reference to the often-proposed paleoaquatic fauna route between the eastern United States and California. Determine la distribucin de lapas (Ancylidae: Ferrissia) en las cuencas del Rio Colorado y del Rio Grande, recogiendo especmenes a mano de la superfcie inferior de piedras y vegetacin en 16 sitios entre un total de 495 sitios examinados en Colorado, Utah, Nuevo Mxico y Arizona. Compar la morfologia de la concha, incluyendo la morfometra, con descripciones de holotipos de esta espcie as como especmenes de museo. Identifique Ferrissia alto Rio Colorado, Gunnison y Rio San Juan, y en la cuenca del alto Rio Grande. Ferrissia walkeri (de aqui en adelante llamada la forma morfolgica Walker) solo aparecia en la cuenca del Rio Gila de Arizona y Nuevo Mexico. Se resumen los problemas de clasificacin del Walker morph como F. walkeri, descrito en Arkansas y observado en Michigan y Baja California del Sur, y como Ferrissia fragilis, descrito en California y observado en el oriente de los EE. UU. Se identifica la forma morfolgica Walker por su protoconcha, doblada hacia el vertical, que se encuentra dentro del cuadrante derecho posterior, con el pice de la concha dentro del tercio posterior, y el borde anterior de Ia protoconcha detrs y debajo dei pice. Hablamos sobre Ia importncia de las poblaciones de Ferrissia en el Rio Gila en referencia a Ia ruta de fauna paleo-acutica entre el este de Estados Unidos y California.
41718096|Type-conversion of coastal scrub to exotic annual grassland has been extensive in certain parts of southern California, especially in drier inland locales. Field observations suggest that rock outcrops harbor native perennials associated with coastal scrub vegetation after conversion to exotic annual grassland has occurred. Surveys were conducted to test this observation. In addition, measures of fossorial mammal disturbance, soil depth, exotic annual plant abundance, and soil moisture were collected and used to infer potential mechanisms that may influence patterns of native and exotic vegetation. Results showed that larger outcrops are associated with more native perennial species than smaller outcrops, consistent with predictions based on species-area relationships. In addition, the edges of rock outcrops were shown to have greater native perennial species richness than the surrounding exotic annual grassland matrix. Higher soil moisture, lower soil depth, and less disturbance by Botta s pocket gopher (Thomomys bottae) were also found at the edge of rock outcrops compared to the surrounding grassland matrix. Furthermore, soil depth was positively correlated with pocket gopher disturbance and with exotic annual grass cover. Rock outcrops serve as refuge habitat for native coastal scrub perennials in areas where exotic annual grasses have become dominant. Rock outcrops may become increasingly important for conservation efforts if remaining coastal scrub vegetation continues to deteriorate. Ha sido extensa la conversion de matorral costero a pradera anual extica en ciertas partes del sur de California, especialmente en localidades ridas del interior. Observaciones de campo indican que los afloramientos rocosos albergan plantas perennes nativas asociadas con vegetacin de matorral costero despus de la conversion a pradera anual extica. Llevamos a cabo estdios para comprobar esta observacin. Tambin medimos la perturbacin por mamferos fosoriales, la profundidad dei suelo, la abundncia de plantas anuales exticas y la humedad del suelo para inferir los posibles mecanismos que pudieran influenciar la distribucin de vegetacin nativa y fornea. Los resultados mostraron que los afloramientos rocosos grandes se asocian con ms espcies de plantas perennes nativas que los afloramientos pequenos; esto concuerda con predicciones basadas en relaciones espcies-rea. Adernas, los bordes de los afloramientos rocosos demostraron tener mayor riqueza de espcies de plantas perennes nativas que Ia pradera extica circundante. Tambin encontramos mayor humedad dei suelo, menor profundidad dei suelo y menos perturbacin ocasionada por la tuza de Botta (Thomomys bottae) en el borde de los afloramientos rocosos en comparacin con la pradera circundante. Adernas, Ia profundidad dei suelo estuvo correlacionada positivamente con la perturbacin por tuzas y con la cubierta de pastos anuales exticos. En resumen, los afloramientos rocosos probaron servir de habitat de refugio para plantas perennes nativas dei matorral costero donde han llegado a dominar los pastos anuales exticos. Los afloramientos rocosos podran volverse cada vez ms importantes para los esfuerzos de conservacin si la vegetacin restante dei matorral costero sigue deteriorndose.
41718097|Although the aquatic insect fauna of Utah and their associated adult forms are well documented taxonomically and biogeographically, little is known about seasonal and elevational patterns of aquatic insect diversity in individual Wasatch streams. We selected the American Fork River, a relatively pristine stream with little anthropogenic disturbance, as our target stream to investigate elevational distribution and seasonal phenology of adult forms of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT). From April to October in 2003 through 2005, a total of 71 adult forms of EPT species were documented along the American Fork River. No single sampling period captured more than 30 species, and richness per sampling period averaged 8 species for all sites combined. The mid-elevational site (1862 msl) was the most species rich, with 54 species of transitional fauna captured along the elevational gradient. As such, this site is an important reference for maximum potential richness. Plecoptera emerged earlier in the year than Trichoptera, with the Plecoptera-dominated community being most rich in June, and the Trichoptera-dominated community being most rich in August. We observed 3 distinct seasonal species suites and 3 elevationally zoned community assemblages that were recurrent in their timing and location from year to year. The compiled species lists, life histories, and preliminary investigation of ecological trends provide a firm basis for further systematic studies on the ecology, water quality, and conservation of the aquatic insects of the American Fork River and similar mountain streams, particularly in the Wasatch region. Aunque la fauna de insectos acuticos de Utah y sus formas adultas asociadas estn bien documentadas taxonmica y biogeogrficamente, se conoce poco sobre los patrones de distribucin estacionales y altitudinales de la diversidad de insectos acuticos en arroyos individuales de Ia cordillera Wasatch. Seleccionamos el Rio American Fork, un arroyo relativamente prstino con perturbacin antropognica, como nuestro objetivo para investigar Ia distribucin altitudinal de las formas adultas de Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera Trichoptera (EPT), as como su fenologa estacionai. De abril a octubre dei ano 2003 ai 2005, se documento un total de 71 formas adultas de espcies de EPT a lo largo dei Rio American Fork. No se encontraron ms de 30 espcies en ninguno de los perodos de muestreo, y combinando los datos de todos los stios, el promedio de espcies por perodo fue ocho. El sitio de elevacin media (1862 msnm) fue el ms rico con 54 espcies constitudas por una fauna transicional entre los sitios a lo largo dei gradiente de elevacin, y como tal este es un importante punto de referencia para determinar el mximo potencial de riqueza de espcies. Los plecpteros aparecieron ms temprano en el afio que los tricpterosla comunidad predominada por Plecoptera fue ms rica en espcies en juniomientras que Ia comunidad predominantemente Trichoptera alcanz su mayor riqueza en agosto. Observamos tres distintos conjuntos estacionales de espcies y tres comunidades distribudas por elevacin, las cuales fueron rcurrentes en su temporalidad y localizacin ano tras ano. La lista recopilada de espcies, las historias de vida y la investigacin preliminar de tendencias ecolgicas aportan una firme base para ms estdios sistemticos y ecolgicos, as como de calidad de agua y conservacin de los insectos acuticos dei Rio American Fork y otros arroyos semejantes a este, particularmente en la region de la cordillera Wasatch.
41718098|Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. (common reed), already one of the world's most widespread plant species, has realized rapid range expansion in coastal wetlands of North America in the past century, but little is known about P. australis range expansion in inland wetland systems. We used genetic analyses, aerial photographs, field surveys, and a greenhouse experiment to study the extent and mechanism of nonnative P. australis invasion of Utah wetlands. We collected and genetically analyzed 39 herbarium samples across the state and 225 present-day samples from northern Utah's major wetland complexes. All samples collected before 1993 and all samples collected outside the major wetlands of northern Utah, including some as recent as 2001, were identified as native (haplotypes A, B, D, and H). Only 10 (4%) of the present-day samples were native, each from small, discrete, low-density stands; the remaining samples were nonnative (haplotype M). Our earliest nonnative sample was collected near the Great Salt Lake in 1993. Around the Great Salt Lake, which contains 40% of Utah's wetlands, P. australis cover has increased from 20% to 56% over the past 27 yearsan increase that appears attributable to the nonnative strain. In a 3-month-long greenhouse experiment, the nonnative haplotype grew taller, had more aboveground biomass, and had a greater above-to belowground biomass ratio than the native haplotypes regardless of nitrogen, phosphorus, or water availability. Nonnative P. australis is rapidly invading the wetlands of northern Utah. Areas in Utah where the native P. australis remains should be identified and protected. Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin ex Steud (carrizo), una de las espcies de plantas ms ampliamente distribuda en el mundo, se ha extendido rapidamente en los humedales costeros de Norteamrica en el ltimo siglo, pero se conoce poco sobre la expansion de P. australis en sistemas de humedales dei interior. Utilizamos anlisis genticos, fotografias areas, estdios de campo y un experimento en invernadero para examinar el alcance y el mecanismo de la invasion de la variedad no nativa de P. australis en los humedales de Utah. Recolectamos 39 muestras de herbario a lo largo dei estado y 225 muestras actuales de los mayores complejos de humedales en el norte de Utah, y las sometimos a un anlisis gentico. Todas las muestras recolectadas antes de 1993 y las que se recolectaron fuera de los mayores humedales dei norte de Utah, siendo las ms recientes del 2001, fueron identificadas como nativas (haplotipos A, D y H). Solo 10 (4%) de las muestras actuales fueron nativas, todas de pequenos carrizales separados con baja densidad; las restantes fueron nonativas (haplotipo M). Nuestra muestra no nativa ms antigua se recolect cerca del Gran Lago Salado en 1993. Alrededor del Gran Lago Salado, el cual contiene el 40% de los humedales del estado de Utah, la cubierta de P. australis incremento del 20% al 56% durante los ltimos 27 anos, un aumento que parece atribuirse a Ia variedad no nativa. En un experimento de invernadero de tres meses, el haplotipo no naivo creci ms alto, tena ms biomasa sobre el nvel de la tierra y una mayor proporcin de biomasa sobre el nvel de Ia tierra por biomasa subterrnea que los haplotipos nativos sin importar Ia disponibilidad de nitrgeno, fsforo o agua. El haplotipo no nativo de P australis est invadiendo rapidamente los humedales dei norte de Utah. Las reas en Utah en donde las variedades nativas permanecen deben ser identificadas y protegidas durante el manejo de carrizos.
41718099|Potamodromous fish are poorly studied even though they are threatened often by human activities. The June sucker (Chasmistes liorus) is an endangered potamodromous species endemic to Utah Lake. Larval June suckers have not been collected from Utah Lake for at least 3 decades. Recruitment appears to be limited by low temperatures and scarce food, resulting in mass starvation of larval June suckers in the stream environment. We compared water temperature, Zooplankton food availability, and small fish abundance in the stream and in 3 habitats along the stream-lake ecotone (dense emergent vegetation, sparse emergent vegetation, and open lake) to test the hypothesis that all 3 factors would reach a maximum in the dense emergent vegetation of the stream-lake ecotone. We used the abundance of fathead minnows in each habitat type as a surrogate for small fish like juvenile June suckers. We found that temperature, food, and fathead minnows reached their maximums in the open lake rather than in vegetated habitats of the streamlake ecotone. The stream had the lowest average temperatures (15.1C) and the lowest Zooplankton concentrations (61  L) over the growing season. Contrary to expectations, low temperatures (16.9C) and low food abundance (505  L) also characterized the densely vegetated habitat, whereas the open lake had the highest temperatures (20.4C) and highest concentrations of Zooplankton (2353  L). Restoration should include a mechanism to transport larval fish through the densely vegetated portion of the stream-lake ecotone, which can be hundreds of meters wide, to the warm productive waters of the open lake. The braided planform of the terminal reaches of Hobble Creek should be replaced with shallow riffles to increase mean stream velocity and decrease the transport time of larval June suckers. Los peces potamodromos se han estudiado poco a pesar de que a menudo los amenazan las actividades humanas. El matalote junio (Chasmistes liorus) es una espcie potamodroma en peligro de extincin que es endmica del Lago Utah. Hace al menos trs dcadas que no se colectan matalotes larvales dei Lago Utah. El reclutamiento parece estar limitado tanto por las temperaturas bajas como por la escasez de alimento, la cual causa una inanicin masiva de matalotes junio larvales en el habitat fluvial. Comparamos la temperatura del agua, disponibilidad de zooplancton y abundncia de peces pequenos en el arroyo y en trs habitats a lo largo dei ecotono arroyo-lago (vegetacin semisumergida tupida, vegetacin semisumergida escasa y el lago abierto) para comprobar la hiptesis de que los trs factores alcanzaran su mximo en la vegetacin semisumergida tupida del ecotono arroyo-lago. Utilizamos la abundncia de la carpita cabezona en cada clase de habitat como indicador indirecto de peces pequenos como los matalotes junio juveniles. Descubrimos que la temperatura, el alimento y las carpitas cabezonas alcanzaron sus niveles mximos en el lago abierto y no en los habitats con vegetacin del ecotono arroyo-lago. El arroyo tuvo las temperaturas promedio ms bajas durante la temporada de crecimiento (15.1 C) y concentraciones bajas de zooplancton (61  L). Al contrario de lo esperado, el habitat de vegetacin tupida tuvo temperaturas bajas (16.9 C) y concentraciones bajas de alimento (505 L), mientras que el lago abierto tuvo la temperatura ms alta (20.4  C) y la mayor concentracin de zooplancton (2353  ). La restauracin de esta espcie debe incluir algn mecanismo para transportar los peces larvales a travs de la parte de vegetacin tupida del ecotono arroyo-lago, la cual puede tener cientos de metros de ancho, a las aguas clidas y ms productivas del lago abierto. Se debe reemplazar Ia forma trenzada de los tramos terminales de Hobble Creek con encalladeros para aumentar la velocidad promedio del arroyo y agilizar la travesa de los matalotes junio larvales.
41718100|We report the discovery in Utah of Dipodomys spectabilis, a species previously unknown to occur in the state. We searched for D. spectabilis in extreme southeastern Utah, south of the San Juan River, and were successful in finding mounds and burrows characteristic of the species and in capturing one individual. This is the northernmost record for D. spectabilis and extends its known range ~ 84 km northwest of the nearest previously reported locality (Fruitland, San Juan County, New Mexico). A flea, Merngis rectus, collected from D. spectabilis, is also the first record of its species in Utah. Reportamos el descubrimiento en Utah de Dipodomys spectabilis, una espcie cuya presencia en el estado no haba sido observada previamente. Buscamos D. spectabilis en el extremo sureste de Utah, al sur del Rio San Juan, y logramos encontrar montculos y tneles tpicos de esta espcie y capturar un espcimen. Este es el registro ms ai norte para D. spectabilis y se extiende su rango de distribucin conocida a ~ 84 km ai noroeste de Ia localidad ms cercana previamente reportada (Fruitland, condado de San Juan, Nuevo Mexico). Es tambin el primer registro en Utah para Merngis rectus, una pulga recolectada en D. spectabilis.
41718101|The parasitic wasp Mymaromella pala Huber and Gibson (Hymenoptera: Mymarommatidae) was collected at 4 sites within a canyon reach of the Kootenai River in Lincoln County, Montana. This minute species has only recently been described, but it appears to have a large distribution throughout the United States and to be associated with upland and riparian forests. La avispa parasitaria Mymaromella pala Huber y Gibson (Hymenoptera: Mymarommatidae) se recolect en cuatro stios a Io largo de un can del Ro Kootenai en Lincoln Co., MT. Hace poco que se describi esta espcie diminuta, pero parece tener una distribucin extensa en los EE.UU. y estar asociada con bosques altos y ribereos.
41718102|Antipredatory defense of pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) neonates ( 1 month old) by adult females (> 18 months old) is well documented throughout the geographic range of this species. However, reports of male pronghorn defending neonates against predators are limited to a single study in northwestern Wyoming where occurrences were documented of adult males assisting female pronghorn in defending neonates against coyotes (Canis htrans). To our knowledge, defense of neonatal pronghorn by yearling males (1218 months old) has not been reported previously for this species. We report occurrences of antipredatory defense of neonatal pronghorn by yearling males in southwestern South Dakota. La defensa antidepredadora de los neonatos ( 30 dias de edad) del berrendo (Antilocapra americana) por hembras adultas (> 18 meses de edad) est bien documentada en toda la distribucin geogrfica de esta espcie. Sin embargo, no se haba reportado la defensa de neonatos contra depredadores por parte de berrendos machos con exception de un solo estdio en el noroeste de Wyoming, donde documentaron algunos casos en los que machos adultos ayudaron a los berrendos hembras a defender los neonatos contra coyotes (Canis latrans). Hasta donde sabemos, Ia defensa de berrendos neonatales por machos de alrededor de un ano de edad (de 12-18 meses de edad) no se haba reportado previamente. Reportamos casos de defensa antidepredadora de berrendos neonatales por parte de machos de un ano de edad en el suroeste de Dakota del Sur.
41718103|The skeleton of a young American black bear (Ursus americanas) possessing asymmetrical distortions of the 5 caudalmost lumbar neural spines was recovered from west Texas. We attribute this abnormality, presumed to be congenital, to the absence or atrophy of the right multifidus muscle straddling L3 and to the series of compensatory muscle adjustments required to maintain spinal alignment. This finding may have important management implications for black bears in Texas, given the possibility that our specimen originates from a partially isolated population. El esqueleto de un oso negro juvenil (Ursus americanus) con distorsiones asimtricas de las cinco espinas neurales lumbares inferiores fue descubierto en el oeste de Texas. Atribuimos esta anormalidad, suponiendo que es de origen congnito, a la ausencia o atrofia dei msculo multifidus derecho que se extiende a ambos lados de la vrtebra L3 y la serie de ajustes musculares compensatorios necesarios para conservar el alineamiento espinal. Este hallazgo podra tener implicaciones importantes para esta espcie en Texas, dada la posibilidad de que nuestro espcimen provenga de una poblacin parcialmente aislada.
41718107|In this study, I examined the composition of managed ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests used by nesting White-headed Woodpeckers (Picoides albolarvatus) along the eastern slope of the Cascade Range in Washington. I sampled trees and snags using the point-centered quarter method to assess species composition, tree and snag density, and stand basal area in 16 forest stands containing White-headed Woodpecker nests. All stands had a history of timber management and 2 had been burned and salvage-logged. Mean live-tree density (10.16 cm dbh) was 182.3 trees  ha (SE = 13.52), mean snag density (>10.16 cm dbh) was 11.5 snags  ha  (SE = 1.92), and mean stand basal area was 17.2 m  ha (SE = 1.58). Ponderosa pine had the highest importance value ( $\bar x$ = 220.9, SE = 17.25) of any tree species in all but 2 stands. Mean dbh of ponderosa pines was 33.0 cm (SE = 0.26) and ranged from 26.1 to 50.2 cm within stands. Mean density of ponderosa pine was greatest in the 20.3-30.5 cm dbh size class and lowest in the 50.8-61.0 cm and >61.0 cm dbh size classes. Tree density was up to 5.3 times greater than densities believed to be typical of ponderosa pine forests prior to fire suppression. Snag densities were within the range estimated for historical dry forests of the eastern Cascades, yet only 50% of all snags sampled had a dbh >25.4 cm. Although White-headed Woodpeckers are considered strongly associated with old-growth ponderosa pine, my results suggest that they may be more adaptable to using forests dominated by smaller diameter trees. En este estudio, examin la composicin de los bosques manejados de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa), utilizados para anidamiento por el pjaro carpintero cabeciblanco (Picoides albohrvatus), a lo largo de la vertiente oriental de la cordillera Cascade del Estado de Washington. Muestre rboles vivos y muertos usando el mtodo de cuadrantes al punto central en 16 rodales con nidos del pjaro carpintero cabeciblanco para evaluar la composicin de especies, la densidad de rboles vivos y muertos y el rea basal del rodal. Todas las reas tenan una historia de manejo maderable y 2 haban sido quemadas y taladas para recuperar madera. La densidad promedio de rboles vivos (10.16 cm DAP) fue 182.3 rboles  ha (DE = 13.52), la densidad promedio de rboles muertos (10.16 cm DAP) fue 11.5 rboles muertos  ha (DE = 1.92) y el rea basal promedio de los rodales fue 17.2 m  ha (DE = 1.58). El pino ponderosa tuvo el valor de importancia ms alto ( $\bar x$ = 220.9, DE = 17.25) de las especies de rboles en todos, menos 2 rodales. El DAP promedio de los pinos ponderosa fue 33.0 cm (DE = 0.26) y variaba de 26.1 a 50.2 cm dentro de rodales. La densidad promedio del pino ponderosa fue la mayor en la clase de 20.3-30.5 cm DAP y menor de las clases de 50.8-61.0 cm y >61.0 cm DAP. La densidad de rboles fue hasta 5.3 veces mayor que las consideradas tpicas para bosques de pino ponderosa antes de la intervencin para prevenir incendios. Las densidades de rboles muertos estuvo dentro del rango estimado para los bosques secos histricos del oriente de la cordillera Cascade, no obstante slo 50% de los rboles muertos muestreados tuvieron un DAP >25.4 cm. Aunque se considera que los pjaros carpinteros cabeciblancos estn estrechamente asociados con bosques primarios de pino ponderosa, mis resultados sugieren que podran ser ms adaptados a usar bosques donde predominan rboles de dimetro menor.
41718108|The conservation status and distribution of the insular endemic San Jose brush rabbit (Sylvilagus mansuetus), as well as threats to its population viability, were determined through surveys undertaken since 1995 on San Jos Island in the Gulf of California, Mexico. Sylvilagus mansuetus is restricted to a specific desert habitat found in the southwestern coastal plains of the island. Vegetation in this habitat is composed primarily of 7 plant species. The extent of rabbit occurrence is only 20 km, and the population density estimate in the most optimal habitat is 25-35 individuals  km. To our knowledge, the San Jose brush rabbit possesses the smallest distribution among all lagomorph species. Sylvilagus mansuetus is threatened by a population of feral cats and by human activities, including illegal hunting, development of a tourist area, and a salt mine. Human activities, even over a short time frame, could severely impact this restricted area and endanger the survival of this species. Recommended management includes removing cats and conducting additional research on the rabbit's life history and ecology. Se determin el estado de conservacin y la distribucin del conejo de San Jos (Sylvilagus mansuetus), una especie insular endmica, mediante mustreos que se han llevado a cabo desde 1995 en la isla de San Jos en el Mar de Corts, Mxico. Sylvihgus mansuetus qued restringido a un tipo especfico de habitat desrtico en la llanura costera suroccidental de la isla, donde predominan 7 especies de plantas. La extensin de la especie es de slo 20 km, y la densidad de la poblacin en el habitat ptimo se estim entre 25 y 35 individuos  km. Hasta donde conocemos, el conejo de San Jos tiene el rea de distribucin ms pequea de todas las especies de lagomorfos. Sylvilagus mansuetus se ve amenazado por una poblacin de gatos ferales y por actividades humanas tales como la caza ilegal, el turismo y la operacin de una mina de sal. Las actividades humanas podran tener un impacto severo en esta rea restringida y podran poner en peligro la supervivencia de esta especie dentro de poco tiempo. Algunas acciones recomendables para el manejo de la especie incluyen el eliminar los gatos y llevar a cabo estudios adicionales para obtener ms detalles sobre la biologa y ecologa del conejo a fin de mejorar su conservacin.
41718109|Survival, reproductive output, and transplant success were studied for an Iowa population of Penstemon tubiflorus (tube penstemon), a species that is rare to uncommon through much of its range. The population was discovered in 2003 and is one of only 6 populations that have been documented in Iowa. I began monitoring the new population when 2 cohorts were permanently marked, the first in 2005 and the second in 2007. I estimated survival, flowering, and reproductive output. Then, I introduced greenhouse-grown transplants to 2 new sites and the original site. Survival data showed that P. tubiflorus is a short-lived perennial (approximately 50% survival after 3 years) with substantial variation in the percentage of individuals that flower in a given year. Recruitment over the 5 years of monitoring varied from zero to 26 individuals per year. Transplant survival was site-specific. However, high survival and robust reproduction output of transplants at one site indicated that there are additional suitable sites near the parent population and suggested that these sites remain unoccupied due to limited seed dispersal. While it is unlikely that pollinator limitation is the cause of low reproduction, further study is needed on the pollination syndrome of the Iowa populations of this and other Penstemon species. Future studies should investigate the possibility that the species is limited by site-specific factors that inhibit germination and the survival of small seedlings. Estudiamos la supervivencia, el rendimiento reproductor y el xito de transplante en una poblacin de Penstemon tubiflorus (tube penstemon) en Iowa, una especie rara o poco comn en gran parte de su rango. Esta poblacin fue descubierta en 2003 y es una de slo seis poblaciones documentadas en el estado. El monitoreo de la nueva poblacin comenz cuando se marcaron permanentemente dos cohortes, una en 2005 y la segunda en 2007. Se estim la supervivencia en la floracin y el rendimiento reproductor. Transplantes crecidos en invernadero se introdujeron en dos nuevos sitios y en el sitio original. Los datos de supervivencia indicaron que esta especie es una planta perenne efmera (con una supervivencia de aproximadamente 50% despus de tres aos), con variacin considerable en el porcentaje de individuos que florecen en un ao determinado. El reclutamiento de la poblacin nativa durante los cinco aos fue monitoreado y vari de cero a 26 individuos entre aos. La supervivencia de los transplantes fue especfica de cada sitio. No obstante, una alta supervivencia y vigorosa rendimiento reproductor de los transplantes en un sitio indicaron que existen sitios adecuados adicionales cerca de la poblacin parental, y sugiere que estos sitios permanecen desocupados debido a la limitada dispersin de semillas. Aunque es improbable que la causa de la baja reproduccin se deba a una escasez de polinizadores, se requiere ms investigacin sobre el sndrome de polinizacin de las poblaciones de Iowa de esta y otras especies de Penstemon. Se debe investigar la posibilidad de que la especie se vea limitada por factores especficos al sitio que inhiben la germinacin y la supervivencia de las plntulas.
41718110|Genetic variation in ecophysiological and survival responses to drought was studied in 2 northern Arizona native grass species, Koeleria macrantha (Ledeb.) Schult, (prairie Junegrass) and Elymus elymoides (Raf.) Swezey. ssp. elymoides (squirreltail). Low-and high-elevation populations of each species were compared in a greenhouse common garden experiment that included simulated drought. Leaf gas-exchange characteristics were significantly affected by simulated drought and often by population elevation, but gas-exchange responses to drought were similar for high-and low-elevation populations. Compared to high-elevation populations, low-elevation populations of both species had higher net photosynthetic rate and predawn water potential, and for E. elymoides had higher stomatal conductance. Leaf-level water-use efficiency did not differ between populations for either species. Populations also differed significantly in leaf morphological characteristics related to water use. Compared to high-elevation populations, low-elevation populations of both species had smaller leaves. Low-elevation populations of both species survived aboveground longer than high-elevation populations during drought, with a larger difference in K. macrantha than in E. elymoides. These results suggest strong selection for drought adaptation and water use along an elevational and water-availability gradient in native grasses. Se estudi la variacin gentica en respuestas ecofisiolgica y de sobrevivencia a la sequa en dos especies de pasto nativo del norte de Arizona, Koeleria macrantha (Ledeb.) Schult, ("prairie Junegrass") y Elymus elymoides (Raf.) Swezey. spp. elymoides ("squirreltail"). Se compararon poblaciones de cada especie a elevaciones altas y bajas durante un experimento de jardn comn en un invernadero que simulaba condiciones de sequa. Las caractersticas relacionadas con el intercambio de gases a nivel de hoja se vieron afectadas significativamente por la sequa simulada y con frecuencia por la elevacin de la poblacin, pero la respuesta del intercambio de gases a la sequa fue similar en las poblaciones de alta y baja elevacin. En comparacin con las poblaciones altas, las poblaciones bajas, en ambas especies, tuvieron una elevada tasa neta de fotosntesis y un mayor potencial hdrico previo al amanecer; E. elymoides tuvo mayor conductancia estomtica. La eficiencia en el uso del agua (EUA) a nivel de hoja no difiri entre poblaciones en ninguna especie. Las poblaciones s difirieron significativamente en las caractersticas de la morfologa de la hoja relacionadas con el uso del agua. Comparadas con las poblaciones altas, las poblaciones bajas de ambas especies tuvieron hojas ms pequeas. Durante la sequa, la parte de la planta que estaba encima de la tierra sobrevivi por ms tiempo en las poblaciones bajas de ambas especies que en las poblaciones altas, con una mayor diferencia en K. macrantha que en E. elymoides. Estos resultados indican que hay una fuerte seleccin para la adaptacin a la sequa y el uso del agua a lo largo de una gradiente de elevacin y de disponibilidad de agua en pastos nativos.
41718111|Feeding behavior of aspen leaf miner (Phyllocnistis populiella) larvae on quaking aspen (Populus tremuhides) leaves was examined, by using image-analysis software, to determine the pattern and distance of the larvae's mining trails and measure the surface area of infested leaves and consumed leaf tissue. Mining pathways between hatching and pupation sites were serpentine and generally followed predictable, sequential changes in orientation. This pattern was most obvious in smaller leaves, those with a surface area of about 700 mm or less. In leaves larger than 700 mm, plasticity in mining behavior increased. The serpentine pattern was initiated but became truncated when larvae reached full growth without having to consume all available leaf material. The final phase of the behavioral program was still executed, however, and larvae entered pupation at the usual leaf-edge location. We hypothesize that the serpentine pattern is genetically controlled and that it has been selected for because it promotes efficient consumption of a fixed food supply and ensures a favorable location for pupation, especially when reproductive females oviposit on small leaves. Se examin el comportamiento alimenticio de la larva del minero de hoja de lamo (Phyllocnistis populiella) en las hojas del lamo temblante (Populus tremuloides) utilizando software de anlisis de imgenes para determinar el patrn y la longitud del rastro de las larvas y medir la superficie de las hojas infestadas y del tejido de hoja consumido. Los rastros del minero entre los sitios de eclosin y los de pupacin fueron serpentinos, y en general sus cambios de orientacin fueron predecibles y secuenciales. Esto fue ms obvio en las hojas pequeas, aquellas con una superficie de menos de 700 mm. En las hojas con una superficie mayor de 700 mm aument la plasticidad en el comportamiento minero. El patrn serpentino apareci al inicio pero se trunc cuando las larvas alcanzaron su pleno desarrollo sin tener que consumir todo el material herbceo disponible. Sin embargo, la ltima fase del patrn conductual an se llev a cabo, y comenzaron la pupacin en el borde de la hoja como de costumbre. Planteamos la hiptesis de que el patrn serpentino tiene origen gentico y que ha sido seleccionado a favor porque facilita el consumo eficiente de un suministro fijo de alimento y garantiza un lugar favorable para la pupacin, especialmente cuando las hembras reproductoras ovipositan en hojas pequeas.
41718112|Over 200 species of freshwater and terrestrial water bears (phylum Tardigrada) are known to occur in North America. Of these, 16 species have been collected in Louisiana. Foliose and fruticose lichens collected on 18 April 2010 in Acadia Parish, Louisiana, were stored in paper envelopes and later soaked in tap water overnight. Tardigrade specimens and eggs were extracted and mounted in polyvinyl lactophenol. The samples contained a new species of tardigrade. Minibiotus acadianus sp. n. has a buccal tube with single anterior curvature, 2 macroplacoids and 1 microplacoid. Small gibbosities are present on the fourth pair of legs, in 3 caudal rows, and in a single row at the level of the third pair of legs. Minibiotus acadianus sp. n. differs from the most similar tardigrade species, Minibiotus faUax (found in Australia and Florida), in having a shorter and wider buccal tube, a different pattern of gibbosities, and short, peg-shaped processes in addition to long, filamentous processes on the eggs. Reexamination of specimens identified as M. faUax in an earlier paper on the Tardigrada of Louisiana indicates that they are, in fact, M. acadianus sp. suggesting that the new species is widely distributed in Louisiana. Se conocen ms de 200 especies de osos de agua (phylum Tardigrada) terrestres y de agua dulce que ocurren en Norteamrica. De stas, 16 se han colectado en Louisiana. Se colectaron liqenes foliosos y fruticosos en la parroquia de Acadia, Louisiana, el 18 de abril de 2010, los cuales fueron guardados en sobres de papel y despus remojados en agua de la llave durante toda la noche. Se extrajeron especmenes y huevos de tardgrados y se fijaron en polivinilo lactofenol. Las muestras contenan una nueva especie de tardgrado. Minibiotus acadianus sp. n. tiene un tubo bucal con una nica curvatura anterior, dos macroplacoides y un microplacoide. Pequeas gibosidades estn presentes en el cuarto par de patas, en tres hileras caudales y en una sola hilera al nivel del tercer par de patas. Minibiotus acadianus sp. n. difiere de la especie ms prxima, Minibiotus fallax, una especie que se encontr en Australia y Florida, porque tiene un tubo bucal ms corto y ancho, un patrn distinto de gibosidades y apfisis cortas en forma de estaquilla en los huevos, adems de apfisis largas y filamentosas. Una reexaminacin de los especmenes identificados como M. fallax en una publicacin previa sobre los tardgrados de Louisiana indica que son ms bien M. acadianus sp. lo cual sugiere que esta nueva especie tiene una distribucin extensa en Louisiana.
41718113|We determined home-range overlap among northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) to assess their spatial organization. We found extensive home-range overlap among females, and though this overlap could reflect social behavior, we found no evidence of attraction among females, with only one instance of den sharing. Instead, our results suggest that females share foraging areas but may be territorial in portions of the home range, especially around den trees and during young-rearing. Home-range overlap could also result from the extrinsic effect of forest fragmentation due to timber harvest, which might impede dispersal and force squirrels to cluster on remaining fragments of suitable habitat. Determinamos el sobrelapamiento del rango hogareo entre las ardillas voladoras del norte (Glaucomys sabrinus) para evaluar su organizacin espacial. Encontramos un extenso sobrelapamientos en los rangos hogareos entre las hembras; aunque esto podra reflejar su comportamiento social, no encontramos evidencia de atraccin entre hembras, y en slo un caso compartieron su guarida. Vienen su lugar, nuestros resultados sugieren que las hembras comparten reas de forrajeo pero pueden ser territoriales en ciertas partes de su rango hogareo, particularmente cerca de los rboles donde tienen guaridas y cuando tienen cra. El sobrelapamiento del rango hogareo tambin podra ser el resultado del efecto extrnseco de la fragmentacin forestal debido a la tala de madera, el cual podra impedir la dispersin y forzar a las ardillas a agruparse en fragmentos de habitat adecuado que queden.
41718114|Black-tailed prairie dogs, Cynomys ludovicianus, now inhabit a small fraction of their original range in the Great Plains. We monitored a population of black-tailed prairie dogs at Scotts Bluff National Monument, Nebraska, from colonization in 1981 until 2009 (28 years). Colony boundaries were mapped by delineating clip lines and active burrows; population densities were estimated via visual counts. Estimates of total population size revealed 4 distinct periods of changing dynamics: (1) a linear increase, (2) a decline and prolonged depression, (3) an exponential increase, and (4) a period of high variability. Area occupied revealed similar, although less-defined trends, whereas densities fluctuated greatly (8-80 individuals  ha). Even after almost 30 years, this population remains relatively small. Decreases in the population may have been due, in part, to prdation by badgers, although sylvatic plague cannot be ruled out. Black-tailed prairie dogs are recognized as keystone grassland species, and attempts are underway to reintroduce them to parts of their historic range. Our data suggest that black-tailed prairie dogs possess high potential for rapid population growth and decline, regardless of colony size. Therefore, either human-assisted or natural dispersal events may be important in establishing colonies in suitable habitat. El perrito de pradera de cola negra, Cynomys ludovicianus, habita en una pequea fraccin de su distribucin original en las Grandes Llanuras. Monitoreamos una poblacin de perritos de pradera de cola negra en Scotts Bluff National Monument, Nebraska, por 28 aos, desde la colonizacin en 1981 hasta 2009. Trazamos los lmites de las colonias usando de referencia las lneas de ramoneo y las madrigueras activas, y estimamos la densidad de las poblaciones mediante un recuento visual. Los estimados de poblacin total revelaron cuatro perodos distintos de dinmicas cambiantes: (1) un aumento lineal, (2) una disminucin y depresin prolongada, (3) un aumento exponencial y (4) un perodo de alta variabilidad. El rea ocupada revel tendencias similares, aunque menos definidas, mientras que las densidades fluctuaron mucho (8-80 individuos  ha). An despus de casi 30 aos, esta poblacin permanece relativamente pequea. Los decrementos en la poblacin pueden haber sido provocadas en parte por la depredacin por tejones, aunque no se puede descartar como causa la plaga silvtica. El perrito de pradera de cola negra se considera una especie clave de la pradera, y estn en proceso esfuerzos por reintroducirlos en partes de su distribucin histrica. Nuestros datos indican que los perritos de pradera de cola negra tienen alto potencial de crecimiento y disminucin de su poblacin, sin importar el tamao de la colonia. Por lo tanto, los eventos de dispersin, ya sean naturales o con asistencia humana, podran ser importantes para establecer colonias en habitats adecuados.
41718115|We documented date and duration of each breeding phase, breeding rate, nursing behavior, parental care, and leveret survival of the Tehuantepec jackrabbit (Lepus flavigularis), a critically endangered lagomorph. Between June 2006 and May 2008, we observed 60 adult radio-collared jackrabbits in Oaxaca, Mxico. Tehuantepec jackrabbits exhibit breeding behaviors 250 days out of the year, with a high-intensity period during the rainy season (May-October). Females give birth to 2 leverets 32 days after copulation. Directly after birth, leverets are put into "beds" or "nests," which are depressions in the ground covered by prairie grass (Jouvea pihsa). Females return to nurse and groom the leverets once per day until the leverets are weaned (12 days after birth). The breeding season and parental care behaviors of Tehuantepec jackrabbits are similar to those of other jackrabbits. Females produced an average of 2 litters per breeding season. The breeding rate for the Tehuantepec jackrabbit (4 leverets per breeding female per breeding season) is lower than the average of other species in the genus Lepus. The survival rate of Tehuantepec jackrabbit leverets (50% at day 19) is higher than that of other leporids. Prdation by domestic dogs (Cants familiaris) is the main cause of mortality. Understanding reproductive behavior is critical for captive breeding, reintroduction, and conservation efforts for endangered leporids such as the Tehuantepec jackrabbit. Documentamos la fecha y la duracin de cada fase de la reproduccin, la tasa reproductiva, el amamantamiento, el cuidado parental y los instintos de supervivencia de los lebratos de la liebre de Tehuantepec (Lepus flavigularis), un lagomorfo en peligro crtico de extincin. Entre junio de 2006 y mayo de 2008 observamos 60 liebres adultas con collares radiotransmisores en Oaxaca, Mexico. Las liebres de Tehuantepec se reproducen 250 das del ao, con un perodo de alta intensidad durante la estacin lluviosa (de mayo a octubre). Las hembras paren 2 lebratos 32 das despus de la cpula; colocan a los lebratos en "camas", o huecos en el suelo cubiertos del pasto Jouvea pilosa, justo despus de nacer. Las hembras regresan para amamantar y limpiar a los lebratos una vez cada tarde hasta destetarlos 12 das despus de nacer. La temporada de reproduccin y el cuidado parental de la liebre de Tehuantepec son parecidos a los de otras liebres. En promedio, las hembras producen 2 cras cada temporada de reproduccin. La tasa de reproduccin de la liebre de Tehuantepec (4 lebratos por hembra reproductora por temporada de reproduccin) est por debajo del promedio de otras especies del gnero Lepus. La tasa de supervivencia de los lebratos de la liebre de Tehuantepec (50% al da 19) es superior a la que se ha documentado para otros lepridos, siendo la principal causa de mortalidad la depredacin por los perros domsticos (Canis familiaris). Es crucial entender el comportamiento reproductor para la crianza en cautiverio, la reintroduccin y para los esfuerzos de conservacin de lepridos que estn en peligro de extincin tal como occure con la liebre de Tehuantepec.
41718116|Previous accounts of polyploidy in the North American salt desert shrub Atriplex confertifolia (shadscale) have dealt with the distribution of polyploidy and the morphological and secondary chemical differences between races. The present study amplifies these studies and reveals additional ploidy-flavonoid races, with ploidy levels known to extend from 2x to 12x, and all except 2x and 12x represented by races with and without 6-methoxylation of flavonol compounds. Results of this study show that diploids across their range have about 113% as much DNA per genome as do polyploids and that parallel variation in monoploid genome size between diploids and accompanying polyploids can be shown in different parts of the species' range. Polyploidy, therefore, appears to have developed independently in several areas of the western United States. Hexaploids are generally not as common as octoploids in shadscale, which could be an indication of diploidization of older tetraploid races. Informes anteriores sobre la poliploida en el arbusto Atriplex confertifolia ("shadscale") del desierto de sal norteamericano, han tratado la distribucin de la poliploida, las diferencias qumicas secundarias y las diferencias morfolgicas entre razas. El presente estudio ampla los estudios previos y revela razas ploida-flavonoides adicionales, con niveles de ploida que se sabe que van de 2x a 12x, y todos, con excepcin de 2x y 12x, estn representados en razas con y sin 6-metoxilacin de compuestos de flavonoles. Durante el estudio descubr que los diploides a lo largo de su rango de distribucin tienen alrededor del 113% ms ADN por genoma que los polploides. Tambin descubr que la variacin paralela en el tamao del genoma monoploide entre los diploides y sus poliploides correspondientes, se puede manifestar en diversas partes del rango de distribucin de la especie. La poliploida, por lo tanto, parece haberse desarrollado de forma independiente en varias regiones del occidente de los EE.UU. Los hexaploides son generalmente menos comunes que lo octoploides en el shadscale, lo cual podra ser indicio de diploidizacin de razas tetraploides ms antiguas.
41718117|Despite augmentation stocking efforts, wild populations of razorback suckers (Xyrauchen texanus) continue to decline. Endangered razorback suckers are commonly raised in off-channel ponds until maturity (approximately 300 mm TL) and then stocked into the Colorado River or its tributaries. After fish are stocked, they commonly move large distances downstream. We conducted an experiment to determine if downstream dispersal could be reduced through exercise conditioning. Two groups of razorback suckers, exercised and nonexercised, were released into Fossil Creek, Arizona. Prior to release, a subsample from each treatment group was tested in a laboratory flow chamber. Razorback suckers that had been exercise conditioned were able to maintain a position in the flow chamber 2 times longer and at velocities 25 cm  s higher than nonexercised fish. Although the intended method of field data collection via passive-integrated-transponder (PIT) antennas and a remote communication station failed because river otters (Lontra canadensis) preyed upon the released razorback suckers, implanted PIT tags were retained in otter scat. Recovered PIT tags enabled distributional analysis, which indicated that exercised razorback suckers did not move as far downstream from the point of release as nonexercised razorbacks. Exercise conditioning may increase overall fitness of pond-reared razorback suckers, and, consequently, increase the effectiveness of augmentation stocking. A pesar de los esfuerzos de repoblacin, las poblaciones silvestres del matalote jorobado (Xyrauchen texanus) siguen en declive. Los matalotes jorobados, que estn en peligro de extincin, se cran en estanques fuera del cauce hasta la etapa adulta (~300 mm) y despus son liberados en el Ro Colorado o uno de sus afluentes. Los peces suelen desplazarse largas distancias ro abajo despus de su introduccin al ro. Llevamos a cabo un experimento para determinar si la dispersin ro abajo se poda reducir mediante el acondicionamiento por ejercicio. Dos grupos de matalotes fueron liberados en Fossil Creek, Arizona, uno que haba sido acondicionado y otro que no. Antes de liberarlos, examinamos una submuestra de cada grupo en una cmara de flujo en el laboratorio. Los matalotes que haban sido acondicionados por ejercicio pudieron mantener sus posicin en la cmara de flujo dos veces ms tiempo y a velocidades de 25 cm  s ms altas que los peces no acondicionados. Aunque fall el mtodo de colecta de datos mediante antenas de sistema PIT (passive integrated transponder) y una estacin remota de comunicacin, los matalotes liberados fueron depredados por nutrias de ro (Lontra canadensis) y las marcas PIT implantadas se quedaron en las heces de las nutrias. La recuperacin de estas etiquetas PIT permiti un anlisis de distribucin que indic que los matalotes acondicionados no se desplazaron ro abajo tan lejos del punto de liberacin como los matalotes no acondicionados. El acondicionamiento por ejercicio podra mejorar la condicin fsica de los matalotes jorobados criados en cautiverio y as aumentar la eficacia de la reintroduccin.
41718118|In many areas of the Rocky Mountains, elk (Cervus elaphus) migrate from low-elevation mountain valleys during spring to high-elevation subalpine and alpine areas for the summer. Research has focused on the impacts of elk herbivory on winter-range plant communities, particularly on woody species such as willow and aspen; however, little information is available on the effects of elk herbivory on alpine willows. In the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of south central Colorado, select alpine areas appear to receive high levels of summer elk herbivory, while other areas are nearly unbrowsed. In 2005 and 2008, we measured willow height, cover, and utilization on sites that appeared to be used heavily by elk, as well as on sites that appeared to be used lightly, to determine differences between these communities over time. We found less willow cover and shorter willows at sites that received higher levels of browsing compared to those that had lower levels of browsing. Human recreational use was greater at lightly browsed sites than at highly browsed sites. From 2005 to 2008, willow utilization declined, and willow cover and height increased at sites with heavy browsing, likely owing to ownership change of adjacent valley land which led to (1) removal of grazing competition from cattle at valley locations and (2) increased human use in alpine areas, which displaced elk. We discuss the implications of increased human use and climate change on elk use of these alpine habitats. En muchas reas de las Montaas Rocosas, el ciervo rojo (Cervus ehphus) migra durante la primavera de valles montaosos de baja elevacin a reas altas subalpinas y alpinas para el verano. Hasta ahora la investigacin se ha enfocado en el impacto de la herbivora del ciervo rojo sobre las comunidades de plantas en el invierno, particularmente en las especies leosas como el sauce y el lamo; sin embargo, existe poca informacin disponible sobre el efecto de la herbivora del ciervo rojo en los sauces alpinos. En la cordillera Sangre de Cristo al centro-sur de Colorado, ciertas reas alpinas parecen tener altos niveles de herbivora de verano por el ciervo rojo, en tanto que otras reas quedan casi sin ramoneo. En 2005 y 2008 medimos la altura, cobertura y uso de los sauces en sitios en los que pareca haber sido abundante el ramoneo y los comparamos con sitios donde pareca haber sido ms ligero, a fin de determinar las diferencias entre estas comunidades en el tiempo. Encontramos menos cobertura y altura de sauces en los sitios que reciban niveles ms altos de ramoneo en comparacin a los que tenan menos evidencia de ello. El uso humano recreativo era mayor en los sitios de ramoneo ligero que en donde era abundante. De 2005 a 2008, disminuy el uso y aument la cobertura y la altura en sitios de ramoneo abundante, probablemente debido a que un valle adyacente cambi de propietario, lo cual provoc (1) la eliminacin de la competencia por el pastoreo en ganado en el valle; y (2) un aumento del uso humano en reas alpinas, desplazando al ciervo rojo. Discutimos las implicaciones del aumento del uso humano y el cambio climtico en el uso por el ciervo rojo de estos habitats alpinos.
41718119|Native and nonnative vegetation mosaics are common in western rangelands. If land managers could better predict changes in the abundance of native and nonnative species following disturbances, maintenance of native plant cover and diversity may be improved. In August 2000, during suppression of a wildfire near Lewiston, Idaho, a backing fire burned canyon grassland plots. A previous study had recorded species composition and cover prior to the fire, so we were able to evaluate changes in species composition and abundance on established plots before and after the fire. Overall, summer burning had little effect on the grassland communities. Pseudoroegneria spicata recovered to prefire coverage by the third postfire year. In the third postfire year, cover of native and nonnative annual species was significantly greater on burned than unburned sites (P < 0.03). Bromus tectorum cover increased, as expected, on burned plots. Prefire and postfire cover values for Centaurea sobtitialis were nearly equal, and there were no significant cover differences between burned and unburned plots in any year. As part of this study, we also evaluated changes in the cover of dominant native and nonnative species with respect to their prefire serai stage on burned and unburned plots. Because our sample sizes were small, we only report community-level trends but suggest that this type of community analysis could make for an interesting future study. Los mosaicos de vegetacin nativa y no nativa son comunes en los pastizales del occidente de Norteamrica. Si los administradores de tierras pudieran predecir mejor los cambios en la abundancia de especies nativas y no nativas despus de las perturbaciones, se podra mejorar el mantenimiento de la cobertura y diversidad de las plantas nativas. En agosto de 2000, los remanentes de un incendio quemaron terrenos de pradera de can durante la supresin de un incendio cerca de Lewiston, Idaho. Un estudio previo registr la composicin y cobertura de especies antes del incendio, por lo que pudimos evaluar los cambios en la composicin y abundancia de especies en determinados terrenos antes y despus del incendio. En general, las quemas de verano no afectaron mucho a las comunidades de pradera. Para el tercer ao despus del incendio, Pseudoroegneria spicata se haba repuesto al nivel de cobertura que tuvo antes del incendio y la cobertura de especies anuales nativas y no nativas fue significativamente mayor (P < 0.03) en los sitios quemados que en los no quemados. Tal como se esperaba, la cobertura de Bromus tectorum aument en los terrenos quemados. Los niveles de cobertura de Centaurea solstitialis antes y despus del incendio fueron casi iguales, y no hubo ninguna diferencia significativa en la cobertura de los terrenos quemados y la de los no quemados en ninguno de estos aos. Como parte de este estudio, tambin evaluamos los cambios en la cobertura de especies dominantes nativas y no nativas con respecto a su estado sucesional previo al incendio en terrenos quemados y no quemados. Debido a que tuvimos un reducido tamao de muestra, slo reportamos tendencias a nivel de comunidad, pero sugerimos que esta clase de anlisis de comunidades podran servir como modelo para estudios interesantes en el futuro.
41718120|The American pika (Ochotona princeps Richardson) has long been characterized in field guides and popular literature as an obligate inhabitant of alpine talus and as having relatively low dispersal capability. However, recent work reveals pikas to have broader habitat associations than previously reported. Over a large portion of the western slope of the Cascade Range in Oregon, pikas inhabit relatively low-elevation sites far from alpine areas and frequently occur in rocky man-made habitats such as roadcuts or rock quarries. We present observations of pikas in these previously overlooked habitats and discuss implications for (1) the proposed listing of the American pika as an endangered or threatened species; (2) furthering our understanding of pika population dynamics, habitat associations, and dispersal capabilites; and (3) management of federal, state, and private forest lands. Por mucho tiempo la pika americana (Ochotona princeps Richardson) ha sido caracterizada en guas de campo y literatura popular como un habitante obligado de taludes alpinos y por tener una capacidad de dispersin relativamente baja. Sin embargo, trabajo reciente ha revelado que las pikas tienen asociaciones de habitat ms amplias de lo que hasta ahora se crea. En una gran parte de la vertiente occidental de la cordillera Cascade en Oregon, las pikas habitan sitios de elevacin relativamente baja, lejos de las reas alpinas y frecuentemente aparecen en habitats rocosos artificiales tales como canteras y cortes de carretera. Presentamos observaciones de pikas en estos habitats pasados por alto anteriormente y discutimos las implicaciones para (1) la propuesta de agregar la pika americana a la lista de especies amenazadas o en peligro; (2) ampliar nuestro conocimiento sobre la dinmica poblacional, las asociaciones de habitat y la capacidad de dispersin; y (3) la gestin de tierras forestales federales, estatales y privadas.
41718121|The Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) is the only marsupial native to the United States. In recent times, D. virginiana has expanded its range through natural movements and anthropogenic introductions. Didelphis virginiana has been present in southern Arizona owing to range expansion by the Mexican subspecies (D. v. californica) and anthropogenic introductions of the eastern subspecies (D. v. virginiana). Here, we document the recent collection of an opossum in central Arizona. We also discuss how it possibly moved there and report on its stomach contents at the time of collection. El tlacuache norteo (Didelphis virginiana) es el nico marsupial nativo de Estados Unidos. En tiempos recientes, D. virginiana ha expandido su rea de distribucin tanto por movimientos naturales como por introducciones antropognicas. Didelphis virginiana se ha encontrado en el sur de Arizona debido a la expansin de la subespecie mexicana (D. v. californica) y a introducciones antropognicas de la subespecie oriental (D. v. virginiana). Aqu documentamos la colecta reciente de un tlacuache en el centro de Arizona. Tambin discutimos cmo podra haber llegado hasta all e informamos sobre los contenidos de su estmago al tiempo de la colecta.
41718122|Changes in land use continue to alter habitats throughout Nebraska, and few studies have examined how such changes affect distributional limits of mammals. The distribution of Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii) was last examined in eastern Nebraska about 4 decades ago. We examined the current eastern distributional limits of D. ordii to see whether its range had expanded, contracted, or remained constant in the state since the 1960s. Based on our study, kangaroo rats have experienced little change in distribution during recent decades. Herein, we report on data for 8 counties without prior records and a marginal range extension, as well as comment on habitat, reproduction, and taxonomic status of kangaroo rats in eastern Nebraska. Los cambios en el uso del suelo siguen modificando los habitats a lo largo del estado de Nebraska, y pocos estudios han examinado cmo estos cambios afectan los lmites de distribucin de los mamferos. La ltima evaluacin de la distribucin de la rata canguro de Ord (Dipodomys ordii) en el este de Nebraska se llev a cabo hace 4 dcadas. Examinamos los lmites orientales actuales de la distribucin de D. ordii para ver si su rea de distribucin se ha expandido, contrado o permanecido igual en el estado desde los aos 1960. Con base en nuestra investigacin, es posible decir que la distribucin de las ratas canguro ha cambiado poco en dcadas recientes. Aqu reportamos datos para 8 condados para los cuales no existan registros anteriores e informamos sobre una pequea expansin de su rea de distribucin. Tambin comentamos sobre el habitat, la reproduccin y la situacin taxonmica de las ratas canguro en el este de Nebraska.
41718123|We documented a southern range extension and new specimens of western gray squirrel (Sciurus griseus anthonyi) for the state of Baja California, Mxico. The most recent specimen was collected in the town Catavia and represents the southernmost record for the species and subspecies. Repeated observations of individuals in this new location suggest the presence of a marginal population in Mediterranean chaparral-desert scrub transition vegetation. Documentamos la extension de mbito ms sureo y nuevos especmenes de a ardilla gris occidental (Sciurus grseus anthonyi) para el Estado de Baja California, Mxico. El espcimen ms reciente fue recolectado en el poblado de Catavia y representa el registro ms sureo para la especie y subespecie. Observaciones repetidas de individuos en esta ltima localidad surea sugiere la presencia de una poblacin marginal en vegetacin de transicin de chaparral mediterrneo-matorral desrtico.
41718124|Two mature female longnose gar (Lepisosteus osseus) exhibiting severe hyperkyphotic spinal deformities were captured during the 2010 spring spawn at Lake Arrowhead, Clay County, Texas. Yet, despite their deformities and impaired motility, both longnose gar were in overall good condition. Hyperkyphosis in both longnose gar resulted from fused trunk vertebrae in the affected areas. Results of morphological examinations and computerized tomography (CT) scans showed no evidence of injury-induced responses and suggested a congenital or possibly environmentally induced aetiology for disruption of the normal vertebral segmentation process. Dos hembras adultas del pejelagarto narigudo (Lepisosteus osseus) con severas deformidades espinales hipercifticas fueron capturadas durante la desovacin primaveral del 2010 en Lake Arrowhead, condado de Clay, Texas. No obstante, a pesar de sus deformidades y limitada motilidad, ambos pejelagrtos estaban en buenas condiciones generales. La hipercifosis en ambos pejelagrtos narigudos result de la fusin de vrtebras del tronco en las reas afectadas. Las evaluaciones morfolgicas y de tomografa computarizada (TC) no mostraron evidencia de respuestas inducidas por lesiones, y sugirieron una etiologa congnita o posiblemente inducida por el ambiente para la interferencia del proceso normal de segmentacin vertebral.
41718125|Although melanism has been reported in a wide variety of taxa, the presence of melanic individuals is relatively rare in fishes. Melanism in Mohave tui chub (Siphatebs bicolor mohavensis), an endangered endemic of the Mojave Desert in California, is reported from 2 of 4 surveyed populations. The typical body color varies from dark brown to olive brown dorsally and is whitish ventrally; sides are silvery or golden, and fins are pale yellow to dusky red. While conducting population censuses in 2007-2008, we found 4 melanic Mohave tui chubs from 2 of 4 surveyed habitats. Two of 1049 fish (0.19%) handled from Lake Tuendae (Mojave National Preserve) and 2 of 1516 fish (0.13%) handled from Bud's Pond (Camp Cady Wildlife Area) were melanic. Melanic individuals were dorsally black, gradually fading into blackish brown on the sides; the sides had a golden or silvery sheen, and fins were blackish brown. Though the occurrence of melanism is very rare, it may reflect underlying genetic variation, which is of particular interest to the conservation of rare and endangered species. Aunque se han reportado casos de melanismo en varios taxa, son relativamente poco frecuentes los individuos melnicos entre los peces. Se reporta la presencia de melanismo en 2 de las 4 poblaciones estudiadas de la carpa tui del Mohave (Siphateles bicolor mohavensis), una especie endmica en peligro de extincin del Desierto de Mojave en California. El color tpico de su cuerpo vara entre caf oscuro y caf olivo en el dorso, con el abdomen blancuzco, los costados dorados o plateados y las aletas entre amarillo claro y rojo violceo. Encontramos 4 carpas tui del Mohave melnicas en 2 de los 4 habitats estudiados al hacer censos poblacionales entre 2007 y 2008. Fueron melnicos 2 de los 1049 peces (0.19%) y 2 de los 1516 peces (0.13%) examinados en el lago Tuendae (Mojave National Preserve) y en el estanque de Bud (Camp Cady Wildlife Area), respectivamente. Los individuos melnicos tenan el dorso de color negro que gradualmente se converta en caf negruzco hacia los costados, los cuales tenan un brillo dorado o plateado. Las aletas eran color caf negruzco. Aunque el melanismo es relativamente poco comn, podra reflejar la variacin gentica subyacente, la cual es de especial inters para la conservacin de especies raras y en peligro de extincin.
41718126|The invasive species Bromus tectorum L. is recognized as one of the most ecologically and economically devastating weeds in the western United States. Although B. tectorum has been studied extensively, few studies have examined its dispersal and spread. We collected data from sites with B. tectorum in and around Rocky Mountain National Park to quantify the relationships between plant cover/density and seed rain and dispersal distance. Results suggest that there is a positive relationship between density within a patch and local seed rain and that B. tectorum exhibits relatively limited short-distance dispersal (where seeds fell in close proximity to plants and no seeds were found to have dispersed more than 0.1 m from the edge of a patch). These data can inform modelers and managers who are attempting to better understand population dynamics and options for controlling this species. La especie invasora Bromus tectorum L. se considera una de las hierbas ms devastadoras ecolgica y econmicamente del oeste de Estados Unidos. Aunque se ha estudiado extensamente, se han hecho pocos estudios sobre su dispersin y distribucin. Colectamos datos de sitios donde creca B. tectorum en Rocky Mountain National Park y sus alrededores para cuantificar la relacin entre la cobertura y la densidad de plantas, la lluvia de semillas y la distancia de dispersion. Los resultados sugieren que hay una relacin positiva entre la densidad dentro de una parcela y la lluvia local de semillas, y que B. tectorum exhibe una distancia de dispersin relativamente corta (las semillas caen cerca de las plantas y no encontramos ninguna semilla que se hubiera dispersado a ms de 0.1 m del borde de la parcela). Estos datos pueden informar a los modeladores y administradores en su esfuerzo por comprender la dinmica poblacional y las opciones de control para esta especie.
41718132|Shadscale (Atriplex confertifolia) is a wind-pollinated dioecious shrub of western North America with an unusual development of apparently autoploid races, showing all even ploidy levels from 2x to 12x (base x = 9). Of these, tetraploid races are the most frequently encountered, with octoploids die next most common, and hexaploids being much less common. In this study, the occurrence of neopolyploid individuals within tetraploid and hexaploid populations of shadscale was examined at natural sites in order to investigate the pathways by which octoploids may be formed and to find a possible explanation for the predominance of octoploids over hexaploids. The frequencies of apparent neopolyploid individuals among adults and the frequencies of their backcrosses were tabulated, as was the occurrence of neopolyploidy among seeds of female plants from some of the same populations. The neopolyploids encountered in these surveys were almost exclusively those expected from unions involving single unreduced gametes. 6x presumed neopolyploid plants were observed in tetraploid populations at a frequency of 0.20%, and 6x seeds were observed at a frequency of 1.91%. Within examined hexaploid populations, 9x adults were not encountered, but 9x seeds were observed at a rate of 0.52%. Evidence was obtained for the operation of some postulated autoploid pathways for generation of octoploids, but these routes did not operate at rates comparable to those for the production of hexaploids. Although the question needs to be studied by genetic methods, the most probable reason for scarcity of hexaploids in nature appears to be that some tetraploid races are diploidized, which would result in irregularities of meiosis in their neohexaploids and a failure to form new races due to infertility and inviability. El "shadscale" (Atriplex cmfertifolia) es un arbusto dioico del oeste de Norteamrica polinizado por el viento que exhibe el desarrollo inusual de razas aparentemente poliploides, con todos los niveles pares de ploida desde 2x hasta 12x (x base = 9). De stos, los ms comunes son los tetraploides y luego los octoploides. Los hexaploides son mucho menos comunes. En este estudio, examinamos la presencia de individuos neopoliploides entre poblaciones tetraploides y hexaploides del shadscale en sitios naturales para investigar los medios por los cuales se pueden formar los octoploides y para encontrar una posible explicacin para el predominio de los octoploides sobre los hexaploides. Tabulamos la frecuencia de individuos aparentemente neopoliploides entre adultos y su descendencia retrocruzada, as como la presencia de neopoliploides entre semillas de las plantas femeninas de algunas de las mismas poblaciones. Los neopoliploides encontrados en estos mustreos fueron casi exclusivamente los que se esperaran de la unin de un gameto no reducido y un gameto reducido. Observamos plantas 6x presuntamente neopoliploides en poblaciones tetraploides con una frecuencia del 0.20%, o del 1.91% en las semillas. Entre las poblaciones examinadas de hexaploides, no encontramos adultos 9x, aunque los observamos con una frecuencia del 0.52% en las semillas. Obtuvimos evidencia de la operacin de algunos procesos autoploides postulados para explicar la generacin de octoploides, pero estos procesos no operan a frecuencias comparables a aquellas para la produccin de hexaploides. Aunque es preciso investigar el tema mediante mtodos genticos, la causa ms probable para la escasez de los hexaploides en entornos naturales parece ser que algunas razas tetraploides son diploidizadas, produciendo irregularidades meiticas en sus neohexaploides, los cuales no logran formar razas nuevas debido a su infertilidad o inviabilidad.
41718133|Small mammals play key ecological roles in grassland ecosystems, yet little is known regarding small mammal communities in large (> 50 km), high-elevation prairies embedded in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests in north central Arizona. To provide information on community composition and habitat relationships, we live-trapped small mammals on 6 transects in 2 prairies in 2008. We captured 78 individuals in 5501 trap occasions. Capture rates were low and varied widely among transects. Community composition was simple, with only 3 species of small mammals captured. In order of relative abundance, these species were deer mouse (Peromyscus manicuhtus, n = 44 individuals), Mogolln vole (Microtus mogollonensis, n = 22), and spotted ground squirrel (Spermophlius spilosoma, n = 12). Deer mice were captured on all transects and voles on all but one transect. In contrast, spotted ground squirrels were captured on only 2 transects and were relatively common on only one transect. There were no previous records of spotted ground squirrels in these prairies. Deer mice were positively associated with rock cover and vegetation height. Voles were positively associated with shrub cover and combined cover of live and dead vegetation and were negatively associated with bare ground. Spotted ground squirrels were positively associated with forb cover. This study provides baseline data on small mammal communities in these prairies and documents the presence of a previously unknown species. Further studies would be desirable to better understand spatial and temporal variation in these communities, habitat relationships, and effects of land-use practices on small mammals and their habitats. Los mamferos pequeos desempean papeles clave en los ecosistemas de pradera; sin embargo, se conoce poco con respecto a las comunidades de pequeos mamferos en las grandes (> 50 km) praderas altas, rodeadas por bosques de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) en la parte norte central de Arizona. Para proporcionar informacin sobre la composicin de las comunidades y sus relaciones con el habitat, colocamos trampas para pequeos mamferos vivos en 2008 en 6 transectos en 2 praderas. Capturamos 78 individuos en 5501 ocasiones de trampeo. Las tasas de captura fueron generalmente bajas y variaron ampliamente entre transectos. La composicin de las comunidades fue simple, con tan solo 3 especies de mamferos pequeos capturados. stas fueron, en orden de abundancia relativa, el ratn ciervo (Peromyscus maniadatus, n = 44), el metorito Mogolln (Microtus mogollonensis, n = 22) y la ardilla moteada de tierra (Spermophlius spilosoma, n = 12). Los ratones ciervo fueron capturados en todos los transectos y los metoritos en todos, menos uno. En contraste, las ardillas moteadas de tierra fueron capturadas slo en 2 transectos y fueron relativamente comunes en slo uno. No haba registros anteriores de ardillas moteadas de tierra en estas praderas. Los ratones ciervo estuvieron asociados positivamente con la rocosidad y la altura de vegetacin. Los metoritos estuvieron asociados positivamente con la cobertura de arbustos y la cobertura combinada de vegetacin viva y muerta, y asociados negativamente con el suelo desnudo. Las ardillas moteadas de tierra estuvieron asociadas positivamente con la cobertura de maleza. Este estudio proporciona datos de referencia sobre las comunidades de pequeos mamferos en estas praderas, y documenta la presencia de una especie previamente desconocida. Sera conveniente llevar a cabo estudios adicionales para entender mejor la variacin espacial y temporal en estas comunidades, sus relaciones con el habitat y los efectos de prcticas del uso del suelo en equeos mamferos y sus hbitats.
41718134|A recent molecular phylogenetic study of all members of Artemisia subgenus Tridentatae, as well as most of the other New World endemic Artemisia and the allied genera Sphaeromeria and Picrothamnus, raised the necessity of revising the taxonomic framework of the North American endemic Artemisia. Composition of the subgenus Tridentatae is enlarged to accommodate other North American endemics and is organized into 3 sections: Tridentatae, Nebtdosae, and Filifoliae. This paper deals with the combination of one section, the amendment of 2 more sections, and the combination in or the reversion to Artemisia of some Sphaeromeria and Picrothamnus species. The new names given for previous Sphaeromeria species are Artemisia macarthurii (for S. argntea), A. albicans (for S. cana), A. constricta (for S. compacta), and A. inaequifolia (for S. diversifolia). The other Sphaeromeria we studied (S. capitata, S. potentilloides, S. ruthiae, and S. simplex) had been formerly considered Artemisia (respectively, A. capitata, A. potentilloides, A. ruihiae, and A. simplex), and their previous nomenclature is therefore recommended. Un estudio reciente sobre la filogenia molecular de todos los miembros del subgnero Tridentatae de Artemisia, as como de la mayora de las otras especies de Artemisia endmicas del Nuevo Mundo y los gneros afines Sphaeromeria y Picrothamnus, hizo ver la necesidad de revisar el marco taxonmico de las especies de Artemisia endmicas a Norteamrica. La composicin del subgnero Tridentatae se ha ampliado para dar cabida a las otras especies endmicas de Norteamrica, y est organizado en 3 secciones: Tridentatae, Nebtdosae y Fifoliae. El presente artculo trata sobre la combinacin de una seccin y la enmienda de 2 ms, y propone la incorporacin o reversin a Artemisia de algunas especies de Sphaeromeria y Picrothamnus. Los nuevos nombres de las especies previamente asignadas a Sphaeromeria son Artemisia macarthurii (para S. argntea), A. albicans (para S. cana), A. constricta (para S. compacta) y A. inaequifolia (para S. diver sifolia). Las otras especies de Sphaeromeria estudiadas (S. capitata, S. potentilloides, S. ruthiae y S. simplex) haban sido previamente consideradas como miembros de Artemisia (A. capitata, A. potentilloides, A. ruthiae y A. simplex, respectivamente), por lo quese recomienda utilizar su nomenclatura anterior.
41718135|New invasions, better field data, and novel spatial-modeling techniques often drive the need to revisit previous maps and models of invasive species. Such is the case with the at least 10 species of Tamarix, which are invading riparian systems in the western United States and expanding their range throughout North America. In 2006, we developed a National Tamarisk Map by using a compilation of presence and absence locations with remotely sensed data and statistical modeling techniques. Since the publication of that work, our database of Tamarix distributions has grown significantly. Using the updated database of species occurrence, new predictor variables, and the maximum entropy (Maxent) model, we have revised our potential Tamarix distribution map for the western United States. Distance-to-water was the strongest predictor in the model (58.1%), while mean temperature of the warmest quarter was the second best predictor (18.4%). Model validation, averaged from 25 model iterations, indicated that our analysis had strong predictive performance (AUC = 0.93) and that the extent of Tamarix distributions is much greater than previously thought. The southwestern United States had the greatest suitable habitat, and this result differed from the 2006 model. Our work highlights the utility of iterative modeling for invasive species habitat modeling as new information becomes available. A menudo las nuevas invasiones, mejores datos de campo y tcnicas novedosas de modelado espacial impulsan la actualizacin de los mapas y de los modelos existentes de especies invasoras. Este es el caso de al menos 10 especies de Tamarix, las cuales estn invadiendo los sistemas ribereos en el oeste de los EE. UU. y extendiendo su distribucin por toda Norteamrica. En 2006, desarrollamos un mapa nacional del tamarisco (National Tamarisk Map) utilizando una compilacin de sitios de presencia y ausencia con datos de sensores remotos y tcnicas de modelacin estadstica. Desde la publicacin de este trabajo, nuestra base de datos sobre la distribucin de Tamarix ha crecido considerablemente. Utilizando la base de datos actualizada de presencia de especies, nuevas variables predictoras y el modelo de mxima entropa (Maxent), hemos modificado nuestro mapa de la distribucin potencial de Tamarix para el oeste de los EE. UU. El predictor ms fuerte en el modelo fue la distancia al agua (58.1%), y la temperatura promedio del trimestre ms clido fue el segundo (18.4%). La validacin de modelo, calculada como el promedio de 25 iteraciones del modelo, indic que nuestro anlisis tuvo una alta capacidad predictiva (ABC = 0.93), y que la distribucin de Tamarix es mucho ms extensa de lo que se pensaba. El suroeste de los EE. UU. tuvo la mayor cantidad de habitat adecuado para la especie, y este resultado difiri del modelo de 2006. Nuestro trabajo enfatiza la utilidad del modelado iterativo para modelar el habitat de las especies invasoras a medida que se disponga de nueva informacin.
41718136|To examine the partitioning of genetic variation within the Mexican vole (Microtus mexicanus), we analyzed variation within the cytochrome b (cyth, ca. 953 bp) from 44 samples of the Mexican vole from the mountains of the southwestern United States and Mexico. Phylogeographic analyses demonstrated strong support for a western clade and an eastern clade, corresponding to the Sierra Madre Occidental and mountains of the southwestern United States (western clade) and the Sierra Madre Oriental and the Sierra Madre del Sur (eastern clade). Levels of genetic distinctiveness among vole populations in Mexico and the southwestern United States support recognition of the Mogollon vole (Microtus mogolhnensis). Estimates of lineage divergence suggested an older divergence for populations in Mexico and a more recent divergence for the presumptive M. mogolfonensis. Ecological analyses demonstrated a distinct climate niche between vole lineages in the Southwest and Mexico, which indicated the possible role of environmental variation in diversification of the Mexican vole. A similar pattern of climatic separation was also demonstrated between clades of the codistributed taxa Sigmodon hispidus, Neotoma mexicana, and Peromyscus truei, suggesting a broader role for climatic variation in the origin and maintenance of the region's biodiversity. Para examinar la distribucin de la variacin gentica en el metorito mexicano, analizamos la variacin en el citocromo b (cytb, c. 953 pb) en 44 muestras del metorito mexicano de las montaas de Mxico y del suroeste de Estados Unidos. Los anlisis filogeogrficos demostraron fuerte apoyo para un ciado occidental y un ciado oriental, correspondientes a la Sierra Madre Occidental y las montaas del suroeste de Estados Unidos (oeste) y la Sierra Madre Oriental y la Sierra Madre del Sur (este). Los niveles de diferencia gentica entre las poblaciones de metoritos en Mxico y las del sur de Estados Unidos apoyan el reconocimiento del metorito Mogolln (Microtus mogollonensis) como especie. Las estimaciones de divergencia entre linajes indican una divergencia ms remota para las poblaciones en Mxico y una ms reciente para el presunto M. mogollonensis. Los anlisis ecolgicos demuestran nichos climticos distintos entre los linajes de metorito en el suroeste de Estados Unidos y en Mxico, lo cual indica el posible papel de la variacin ambiental en la diversificacin del metorito mexicano. Un patrn similar de separacin climtica fue tambin demostrado entre ciados de los taxones codistribuidos: Sigmodon hispidus, Neotoma mexicana y Peromysus truei, sugiriendo que la variacin climtica tiene un mayor papel en el origen y el mantenimiento de la biodiversidad de la regin.
41718137|Protection of endangered desert plant species is frequently complicated by a lack of information about seeds, the most stress-resistant and populous life stage. We studied the relative locations of seeds and plants of a rare endangered herbaceous perennial, the Las Vegas bearpoppy (Arctomecon califomica) in seven 1-ha sites randomly located within a 100-ha study area that was slated for development in Las Vegas, Nevada. We also measured the physical and biological attributes of the environment supporting the seeds and plants, including soil hardness, rock cover, cryptogamic crust cover, and associated vegetation. Arctomecon califomica seed density was 0.651 seeds m2, and seeds were found throughout the top 4 cm of soil. Seed viability among sites ranged from 26% to 79%; however, no significant changes between depths were detected. The spatial distribution of the seed bank coincided with the current A. califomica adult distribution only in sites with both a high plant density and high numbers of seeds. Arctomecon califomica adults occupied open areas within the gypsum environment that supported significantly less vegetative cover than the surrounding area. We observed a positive association between A. califomica adults and shadscale (Atriplex confertifolia) and a negative association with 7 other plant species among sites. Sites with an indurated abiotic crust hosted higher numbers of A. califomica adults than sites with softer soils. However, rock cover, cryptogamic crust cover, and soil hardness were poor explanatory factors for characterizing A. califomica presence. We suggest that land managers should incorporate seed bank census into monitoring programs due to the extreme year-to-year fluctuations in A. califomica plant population densities. A menudo la proteccin de especies de plantas desrticas en peligro de extincin se ve complicada por la falta de informacin sobre las semillas, la etapa de vida ms abundante y resistente al estrs. Estudiamos la ubicacin relativa de semillas y plantas de "Las Vegas bearpoppy" (Arctomecon califomica), una planta perenne en peligro de extincin, en 7 sitios de 1 ha. localizados al azar dentro de un rea de estudio de 100 ha que estaba destinada a la urbanizacin en Las Vegas, Nevada (E.U.A.). Tambin medimos los atributos fsicos y biolgicos del ambiente que sostiene las semillas y plantas, tales como dureza del suelo, rocosidad, cobertura de costra cryptgama y vegetacin asociada. La densidad de semillas de A. califomica fue 0.651 semillas. my se observ en los 4 cm superiores del suelo. La viabilidad de las semillas vari del 26% al 79% entre los sitios; sin embargo, no detectamos cambios significativos entre profundidades. La distribucin espacial del banco de semillas coincidi con la distribucin actual de adultos de A. californica, slo en sitios que tuvieron una alta densidad de plantas y altos nmeros de semillas. Los adultos de A. alifomica ocuparon reas abiertas dentro del ambiente de yeso que sostena significativamente menos cobertura vegetal que las reas circunvecinas. Observamos una asociacin positiva entre los adultos de A. califomica y el chamizo (Atriplex confertifolia) y una asociacin negativa con siete otras especies de plantas entre sitios. Los sitios con una costra abitica endurecida albergaron ms adultos de A. califomica que los sitios con suelos ms blandos. No obstante, la cubierta rocosa, la costra cryptgama y la dureza del suelo fueron inadecuadas como factores para caracterizar la presencia de A. califomica. Sugerimos que los manejadores de tierras deben incorporar censos de bancos de semillas en los programas de monitoreo, debido a las fluctuaciones extremas de un ao a otro en la densidad poblacional de A. califomica.
41718138|Dense ponderosa pine forests in the southwestern United States inhibit understory production and diversity and are susceptible to high-severity wildfire. Restoration treatments involving overstory thinning and prescribed burning are being implemented to increase understory productivity and diversity and to reduce the risk of severe wildfire. However, disturbances associated with treatments may favor invasion of nonnative species, and the severity of the disturbance may be related to the level of nonnative species establishment. We examined understory community composition, species richness, and plant cover responses to 3 stand-scale replicates of 4 different tree-thinning intensities. Restoration treatments altered the composition of the understory community regardless of thinning intensity. Understory richness and cover were highly variable among experimental blocks, but we observed strong trends of increasing richness and cover in the treated stands. Immediately following restoration treatments, nonnative species cover comprised 6% of the total cover where treatment-induced disturbances were the greatest. However, the initial increase in nonnative species did not persist and was reduced by half 6 years after treatment. Plant community composition was still in flux by the sixth year after treatment, indicating that continued monitoring is necessary for evaluating whether restoration targets are maintained over time. Los densos bosques de pino ponderosa en el suroeste de los E.U.A. inhiben la produccin y diversidad del sotobosque y son propensos a incendios severos. El raleo del dosel y la quema controlada se estn implementando como tratamientos de restauracin para incrementar la productividad y diversidad del sotobosque y para reducir el peligro de incendios severos. Sin embargo, las perturbaciones asociadas con estos tratamientos podran favorecer la invasin por especies no nativas, y la severidad de la perturbacin puede estar relacionada con el nivel de establecimiento de estas especies. Examinamos la reaccin del sotobosque con respecto a la composicin de sus comunidades, a la riqueza de especies y a la cobertura de la vegetacin, a tres rplicas a nivel de rodal de cuatro distintas intensidades de raleo. Los tratamientos de restauracin cambiaron la composicin de la comunidad del sotobosque independientemente de la intensidad del raleo. La riqueza y la cobertura del sotobosque variaron mucho entre las reas estudiadas, pero observamos marcadas tendencias de mayor riqueza y cobertura en los rodales que recibieron el tratamiento. Inmediatamente despus de los tratamientos de restauracin, la cobertura de especies invasoras constitua el 6% de la cobertura total donde las perturbaciones producidas por los tratamientos fueron ms grandes. No obstante, el aumento inicial en la cobertura de especies invasoras no persisti, y se redujo a la mitad en un lapso de seis aos despus del tratamiento. La composicin de las comunidades de plantas aun segua cambiando en el sexto ao despus del tratamiento, lo cual indica que ser preciso el monitoreo continuo para determinar si se lograron las metas de restauracin.
41718139|We examined the effect of elevation on litter-size variation in viviparous lizards of the Sceloporus grammicus complex in 10 states of Mexico. Female snout-vent length (SVL) decreased with increasing elevation, and absolute litter size based on embryos also tended to decrease with increasing elevation. However, after controlling for variation in female body size, we found that litter sizes tended to be relatively larger at higher elevation. Elevation therefore appears to influence litter size in these lizards; however, relatively little of the variation is explained by elevation; thus, other factors are likely making substantial contributions to the observed litter-size variation. The S. grammicus complex appears to be a good model system for examining the underlying causes of geographic and elevational variation in lizard life histories. Examinamos el efecto del altitud en la variacin del tamao de camada de las lagartijas vivparas del complejo Sceloporus grammicus en 10 estados de Mxico. La LHC de las hembras disminuy con la altitud, y el tamao absoluto de camada, calculado con base en el nmero de embriones, tambin tendi a disminuir. No obstante, despus de controlar la variacin en el tamao corporal de las hembras, encontramos que los tamaos de camada tendieron a ser relativamente ms grandes en altitudes mayores. La altitud, por tanto, parece influir en el tamao de camada de estas lagartijas; sin embargo, la altitud explica relativamente poco de la variacin, por lo que, es probable que otros factores contribuyan substancialmente a la variacin observada en el tamao de camada. El complejo S. grammicus parece ser un buen sistema para estudiar las causas fundamentales de la variacin geogrfica y altitudinal en la historia de vida de las lagartijas.
41718140|Spring and summer-autumn nutrition are the prime determinants of reproductive investment in most largeherbivore populations, though winter severity is known to affect reproductive rates in some situations. To evaluate the effects of a long-term decline in winter habitat quality, a diet shift away from sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) during winter, and differential habitat selection during spring-autumn on pronghorn (Antliocapra americana) reproduction, we assessed female and fawn condition, maternal investment, and early fawn survival in migrant and nonmigrant portions of the Yellowstone pronghorn population in Montana and Wyoming during 19992001. Mean female mass at capture in late winter (46.81 kg, SE = 0.66), pregnancy rate (0.94, SE = 0.03), date of birthing (median = 1 June), litter size (1.90, SE = 0.07), ratio of litter mass to maternal mass (0.134, SE = 0.005), fawn mass at birth (3.08 kg, SE = 0.07), and fawn survival to August (0.15, SE = 0.04) were within the ranges reported for populations elsewhere, and birth dates were uncorrelated with female mass and indexed condition the preceding winter. However, fawn age at death (median = 7 days) was correlated with indexed fawn condition at birth, and indexed fawn condition and age at death were significantly greater for migrants occupying higher-elevation interior areas during the summer than for nonmigrants occupying the winter range year-round. Winter habitat conditions did not appear to substantially limit reproductive rates in this population during the study period. Our data suggest that spring and possibly summer nutrition may be higher for migrants than for nonmigrants, resulting in higher perinatal mass in migrant fawns and reduced neonatal mortality. La nutricin durante la primavera y durante el verano-otoo primaveral y veraniega-otoal son losconstituye el principales determinante principals de la inversin reproductiva en la mayora de poblaciones de herbvoros grandes, aunque la severidad del invierno afecta las tasas reproductivas en algunas situaciones. Para evaluar los efectos de un descenso de largo plazo en la calidad del habitat invernal, de una dieta con menos artemisa (Artemisia spp.) durante el invierno, y de diferencias en la seleccin del habitat durante primavera-otoo sobreen la reproduccin del berrendo (Antliocapra americana), nosotros examinamos la condicin de las hembras y cervatos, la inversin maternal y la supervivencia temprana de cervatos en grupos migratorios y no migratorios de la poblacin de berrendos Yellowstone en Montana y Wyoming, EE. U. AU. durante 19992001. El peso promedio de las hembras al tiempo de captura a finales del invierno (46.81 kg, DE = 0.66), la tasa de embarazo (0.94, DE = 0.03), la fecha de parto (mediana = 1 de junio), el tamao de camadara (1.90, DE = 0.07), la proporcin del peso de cra con respecto al peso maternal (0.134, DE = 0.005), el peso del cervato al nacer (3.08 kg, DE = 0.07) y la supervivencia de los cervatos hasta agosto (0.15, DE = 0.04) estuvieron entre dentro de los rangos intervalos reportados para poblaciones en otros lugares, y las fechas de parto no estuvieron correlacionadas con el peso de las hembras o con el ndice de condicin del invierno anterior. Sin embargo, la edad de los cervatos al morir (mediana = 7 das) estuvo correlacionada con el ndice de condicin de los cervatos al nacer, y el ndice de condicin de los cervatos y la edad al morir fueron considerablemente ms altos para los individuos migratorios en reas altas del interior durante el verano que para individuos no migratorios que se quedan en el rango invernal todo el ao. Las condiciones del habitat en invierno no parecieron limitar las tasas reproductivas de forma sustancial en esta poblacin durante el periodoperodo del estudio. Nuestros datos sugieren que la nutricin durante la primavera y posiblemente el verano puede ser mejor para los individuos migratorios que para los no migratorios, dando como resultados el elevadomayor peso perinatal y la reducidamenor mortalidad neonatal entre los cervatos migratorios.
41718141|Greasewood (Sarcobatus) is a succulent-leaved, halophytic shrub of North American origin. The genus comprises 2 species: Sarcobatus baileyi and Sarcobatus vermiculatus. Sarcobatus vermiculatus is common throughout much of western North America, but S. baileyi is much more limited in distribution and was previously thought to be endemic to Nevada. Here we document and describe a S. baileyi population in eastern California, comparing its morphology and ecology to an adjacent S. vermiculatus population. Morphologically, S. baileyi is smaller in stature but produces larger seeds; however, fewer S. baeyi seeds germinated and survived a 20-day laboratory incubation compared to seeds of S. vermiculatus. Sarcobatus baileyi has higher leaf Na concentrations and operates at much lower plant water potentials than S. Oermiculatus under field conditions; however, no significant differences were observed between the 2 species in long-term water-use efficiency as measured by leaf C. Leaf Na concentrations were very low in both species. Overall, these species differ greatly in a number of traits that are consistent with the upland, nonphreatophytic character of S. baileyi, which is in stark contrast to the phreatophytic character of S. Vermiculatus. Both species, however, are very salt tolerant and have low leaf N concentrations, indicating the low nutrient availability and the potentially high salinity of their extreme habitats. Further investigation of comparable desert ridge environments should be conducted to determine the extent of S. baileyi in eastern California, and common garden comparisons of the 2 species should be conducted to compare their ecophysiological traits. El "greasewood" (Sarcobatus) es un arbusto haloftico de origen norteamericano con hojas suculentas. El gnero consta de dos especies: Sarcobatus baileyi y Sarcobatus vermiculatus. Aunque S. vermiculatus es comn en gran parte del oeste de Norteamrica, S. baileyi tiene una distribucin mucho ms limitada. Se pensaba anteriormente que S. baileyi era endmico a Nevada, pero aqu documentamos y describimos una poblacin en el este de California, comparando su morfologa y ecologa con las de una poblacin adyacente de S. vermiculatus. Morfolgicamente, S. baileyi es ms pequea de altura, pero produce semillas ms grandes. Sin embargo, menos semillas de S. baileyi germinaron y sobrevivieron a una incubacin en laboratorio de 20 das, comparado con S. vermiculatus. Sarcobatus baileyi opera con potenciales de agua mucho ms bajos que los de S. vermiculatus en condiciones de campo y tiene mayores concentraciones de Na en sus hojas. No obstante, no se observaron diferencias significativas en la eficiencia del uso de agua a largo plazo, medida en trminos de C entre las 2 especies. Las concentraciones de N en las hojas fueron muy bajas en ambas especies. En general, estas especies difieren mucho en varios rasgos que son consistentes con el carcter no freatoftico de S. baileyi de tierras altas, el cual contrasta claramente con el carcter freatoftico de S. vermiculatus. Ambas especies, sin embargo, son bastante tolerantes a la sal y tienen concentraciones bajas de N en hojas, lo cual indica la baja disponibilidad de nutrientes y la potencial alta salinidad en sus habitats extremos. Investigaciones adicionales en ambientes comparables de bordes desrticos debern llevarse a cabo para determinar la extensin S. baileyi en el este de California, adems de comparaciones de las dos especies en jardn para comparar sus rasgos ecofisiolgicos.
41718142|From October 2003 through April 2006, we collected 565 fleas incidental to a distribution survey of mammals in southwestern South Dakota. Sixty-one specimens, representing 18 species of mammals, possessed 20 species of fleas. The geographic distributions of these flea species revealed 8 new records for the Black Hills and its adjacent grasslands. Four speciesMegarthroghssus divisus, Stenoponia americana, Odontopsyllus dentatus, and Amaradix euphorbiconstitute new records for South Dakota, thus increasing the state's known flea fauna to 42 species. Hunters, trappers, and field biologists should be aware that serosurveillance during the 1990s revealed the presence of sylvatic plague and tularemia in the Black Hills area. Desde octubre de 2003 hasta abril de 2006, colectamos 565 pulgas de manera incidental durante un estudio de la distribucin de mamferos en el suroeste del estado de Dakota del Sur. Los 61 especmenes, que representaban 18 especies de mamferos, albergaban 20 especies de pulgas. Sus distribuciones geogrficas revelaron 8 nuevos registros para las Colinas Negras (Black Hills) y las praderas adyacentes. Cuatro de estas especies (Megarthroglossus divisus, Stenoponia americana, Odontopsyllus dentatus y Amaradix euphorbi) constituyen nuevos registros para Dakota del Sur. Esto aumenta el nmero de especies de pulgas conocidas del estado a 42 especies. Los cazadores, tramperos y bilogos de campo deben estar conscientes de que la vigilancia serolgica durante la dcada de los 1990 revel la presencia de la plaga silvtica y la tularemia en el rea de las Colinas Negras.
41718143|Clutch size is an important determinant of female reproductive success in reptiles. Although female body size explains much variation in clutch size, other important factors include differences in food availability, prdation risk, morphology, and demography. Ornate tree lizards, Urosaurus ornatus, display extensive variation in life history traits, including clutch size. Tree lizards primarily use 2 distinct habitat typestrees and rock surfaceswhich influence both the performance and morphology of this species and may affect life history traits such as clutch size. As food availability, microclimate, and, potentially, predator escape probabilities differ between these 2 habitats, I predicted that tree-and rockdwelling lizards would allocate resources toward clutch size differently. Clutch size variation was compared among 15 populations of U. ornatus sampled from the different habitat types.Urosaurus ornatus individuals living on trees had significantly larger clutches than those living on rocks, even after including the effects of body size and environment. Two potential mechanisms leading to larger clutches in tree-dwelling lizards are (1) differences in food availability and (2) differences in performance (sprint vs. endurance) requirements for predator escape in the 2 habitats. Inconsistent distribution of habitat type across the phylogenetic tree indicates either many cases of independent evolution in the allocation strategies of these lizards or a consistent phenotypically plastic response to similar environmental challenges in different populations. El tamao de puesta es un determinante importante del xito reproductivo de las hembras. Aunque el tamao corporal de la hembra explica gran parte de la variacin en el tamao de puesta de los reptiles, otros factores importantes incluyen las diferencias en la disponibilidad de alimento, el riesgo de depredacin, la morfologa y la demografa. La lagartija arbolera Urosaurus ornatus exhibe gran variacin en caractersticas de historia de vida, incluyendo el tamao de puesta. Esta lagartija usa principalmente dos habitats distintos, rboles y superficies de rocas, los cuales influyen tanto en el desempeo como en la morfologa de esta especie y pueden afectar las caractersticas de historia de vida como el tamao de puesta. En vista de que la disponibilidad de alimento, el microclima y posiblemente el escape de los depredadores difieren entre estos dos habitats, fue posible predecir que las lagartijas que viven en rboles distribuiran sus recursos de una manera diferente a la de las lagartijas que viven en las rocas con respecto al tamao de puesta. Comparamos la variacin en el tamao de puesta entre 15 poblaciones de U. ornatus provenientes de los dos tipos de habitat. Las Urosaurus ornatus que viven en los rboles tuvieron puestas considerablemente ms grandes que las que viven en las rocas, aun despus de incluir los efectos del tamao corporal y del ambiente. Dos mecanismos que podran llevar a puestas ms grandes en lagartijas que viven en rboles son (1) diferencias en la disponibilidad de alimento, y (2) diferencias en las capacidades necesarias (velocidad/resistencia) para eludir depredadores en los dos habitats. La distribucin del tipo de habitat en el rbol filogentico indica, o muchos casos de evolucin independiente en las estrategias de asignacin de recursos de estas lagartijas, o una reaccin sistemtica y fenotpicamente plstica a presiones ambientales similares en distintas poblaciones.
41718144|Wildfires alter the quantity and quality of allochthonous detritus in streams by burning riparian vegetation and through flushing during postfire floods. As such, fire disturbance may negatively affect detritivorous insects that consume coarse organic matter. We assessed how 2 crown fires impacted stonefly detritivores in streams of the Pajarito Plateau, New Mexico. We documented stonefly populations before and after the fires and postfire floods, and compared recovery trajectories among unburned, lightly burned, and severely burned reaches. We also conducted experiments to assess burned detritus as a food resource for PteronarceUa badia Hagen. Specifically, we characterized microbial conditioning, nutrient content, and breakdown rates of burned and unburned deciduous leaves and pine needles. We compared colonization of  badia in field-placed leaf packs and growth of P. badia in a microcosm experiment on burned and unburned treatments. Detritivorous stoneflies in Plateau streams survived wildfire, but were extirpated from burned reaches after severe postfire floods in both Capuln and Guaje canyon. In Guaje Canyon, Amphinemura banksi Baumann and Gaufin was more resilient to flood disturbance than P. badia and recolonized soon after floods abated, whereas recolonization of A. banksi was delayed in Capuln Canyon. Experiments revealed that detritus quality did not explain slow recovery; despite reduced microbial conditioning and decomposition rates, P. badia colonized and grew well on burned detritus. Instead, postfire floods removed shredder stoneflies and their detrital resources; and traits such as body size, voltinism, and dispersal likely interacted with the postfire landscape to shape recovery trajectories in burned streams. Los incendios cambian la cantidad y calidad de la materia orgnica alctona en los ros mediante la quema de la vegetacin riberea; adems, las inundaciones despus de los incendios se llevan materia orgnica ro abajo. Como tal, la perturbacin por incendio puede afectar negativamente a los insectos detritvoros que consumen la materia orgnica gruesa. Evaluamos cmo 2 fuegos de copas afectaron a los plecpteros detritvoros en arroyos del Altiplano Pajarito, NM. Documentamos las poblaciones de plecpteros antes y despus de los incendios e inundaciones y comparamos las trayectorias de recuperacin entre reas no quemadas, levemente quemadas y gravemente quemadas. Tambin llevamos a cabo experimentos para evaluar los detritos quemado como fuente alimenticia para PteronarceUa badia Hagen. Especficamente, caracterizamos el acondicionamiento microbiano, el contenido de nutrientes y las tasas de descomposicin de hojas caducifolias y hojas de pino quemadas y no quemadas. Comparamos la colonizacin de P. badia en paquetes de hojas colocadas en el campo, y su crecimiento en un experimento de microcosmos, en detrito quemado y no quemado. Los plecpteros detritvoros en los arroyos del Altiplano sobrevivieron a los incendios pero fueron extirpados de las reas quemadas despus de inundaciones severas que siguieron a incendios en los caones Capuln y Guaje. En Guaje, Amphinemura banksi Baumann y Gaufin fue ms resistente a la perturbacin por inundacin que P. badia y recoloniz poco despus de que la inundacin cedi, mientras que la recolonizacin de A. banksi tard ms en Capuln. Los experimentos revelaron que la calidad de los detritos no explican esta lenta recuperacin; a pesar del menor acondicionamiento microbiano y las tasas de descomposicin ms bajas, P badia coloniz y creci bien en detritos quemados. Es probable que las inundaciones despus de los incendios se hayan llevado a los plecpteros y a los detritos que consumen, y que los rasgos tales como el tamao del cuerpo, el voltinismo, y la dispersin hayan interactuado con el paisaje despus del incendio para determinar las trayectorias de recuperacin en arroyos quemados.
41718145|Although promiscuity is believed to be common among leporids, little is known about the mating system of free-ranging pygmy rabbits (BrachyL  gs idahoensis). We used 16 polymorphic microsatellite markers and DNA extracted from tissue samples of 10 rabbits from 2 litters collected in east central Idaho to evaluate paternity. We incorporated maternal genotypes for better resolution and employed an exclusion approach to detect multiple paternity. Our results demonstrated multiple paternity at 6 of the 16 loci tested for each litter. These findings support the expectation that pygmy rabbits have a promiscuous mating system. It has been proposed that multiple paternity could lead to higher effective population sizes and help small populations maintain diversity. Given that pygmy rabbits persist in small and fragmented populations, a promiscuous mating system might be important for maintaining genetic diversity in free-ranging populations and could be advantageous for the captive breeding program. Aunque se cree que la promiscuidad es comn entre los lepridos, se conoce poco sobre el sistema de apareamiento del conejo pigmeo (Brachylagus idahoensis) en condiciones silvestres. Utilizamos 16 marcadores de microsatlites polimrficos y ADN extrado de muestras de tejido de 10 conejos de 2 carnadas colectadas en la parte este central de Idaho para evaluar su paternidad. Los genotipos maternos fueron incorporados para lograr una mayor resolucin y empleamos un mtodo de exclusin para detectar la paternidad mltiple. Nuestros resultados demuestran paternidad mltiple en 6 de los 16 loci examinados en cada carnada. Estos resultados apoyan la suposicin de que los conejos pigmeos tienen un sistema de apareamiento promiscuo. Se ha propuesto que la paternidad mltiple podra conducir a tamaos efectivos de la poblacin ms grandes y ayudar a que las poblaciones pequeas mantengan la diversidad. En vista de que el conejo pigmeo persiste en poblaciones pequeas y fragmentadas, un sistema de apareamiento promiscuo podra ser importante para mantener la diversidad gentica en poblaciones silvestres y podra resultar provechoso para el programa de cra en cautiverio.
41718146|Northern crayfish, Orconectes virlis (Hagen, 1870), were collected from 89 sites across Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Montana, North Dakota, and Minnesota. The entocytherid ostracod Thermastrocythere riojai (HofF, 1943) was found on O. virilis at 45 of the 89 sites, distributed primarily in the eastern and southern portion of the study area. These observations of T. riojai greatly extend the known range of the species. The widespread distribution of T. riojai suggests that the dearth of entocytherid records from other parts of Canada is a result of nontargeted sampling rather than true absence. In addition, we report on observations of 3 noteworthy associations of oligochaetes with their crayfish hosts. Se colectaron especmenes del acocil Orconectes virilis (Hagen, 1870) en 89 sitios a lo largo de Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Montana, North Dakota y Minnesota. Encontramos el ostracdo entocitrido Thermastrocythere riojai (Hoff, 1943) en O. virilis en 45 de los 89 sitios, distribuidos principalmente en la parte sur y la parte este del rea de estudio. Estas observaciones de T. riojai amplan considerablemente el rea de distribucin conocida de esta especie. La distribucin extensa de T. riojai sugiere que la escasez de registros de entocitridos en otras partes de Canad es el resultado del muestreo inespecfico y no de una ausencia verdadera. Adems, reportamos observaciones de 3 asociaciones sobresalientes entre los oligoquetos y los acociles huspedes.
41718273|The drumming signals of 9 California stonefly species from 8 families are reported. Signal interval patterns of the individual interbeat, intragroup, and intergroup intervals are graphed and used to determine signal type (monophasic, varied beat-interval, diphasic, and grouped). Signals of Kathroperh takhoma Stark & Surdick are described for the first time. New signal characters and signals from additional locations are described for 8 species: Bolshecapnia maculata (Jewett), Calineuria californica (Banks), Doroneuria baumanni Stark & Gaufn, Megaleuctra complicata Claassen, Nemoura spiniloba Jewett, Oemopteryx vanduzeea (Claassen), Pteronarcys princeps Banks, and Sierraperla cora Needham & Smith. Se reportan las seales de tamborileo de 9 especies pertenecientes a 8 familias de plecpteros de California. Los patrones de los intervalos entre pulsaciones individuales, intragrupos e intergrpos son graficados y utilizados para determinar la clase de seal (monofsica, de intervalos variados de pulsacin, difsica y agrupadas). Se describen por primera vez las seales de Kathroperla takhoma Stark y Surdick. Presento la descripcin de nuevos caracteres de seales, as como nuevas seales, de poblaciones en nuevos sitios para 8 especies: Bolshecapnia maculata (Jewett), Calineuria californica (Banks), Doroneuria baumanni Stark y Gaufin, Megaleuctra complicata Claassen, Nemoura spiniloba Jewett, Oemopteryx vanduzeea (Claassen), Pteronarcys princeps Banks y Sierraperla cora Needham y Smith.
41718274|Lack of knowledge about the distributions of plant and animal species can severely hamper management efforts. For invasive plants, distribution and abundance data can inform early detection and rapid response (EDRR) programs aimed at treating initial infestations. These data can be used to create invasion risk models at landscape and regional scales. Further, regional maps of invasive plant abundance are useful for communicating the scope of the invasive species problem to the public and policymakers. Here, we present a set of regional distribution maps for 10 problematic invasive plants in the western United States, created from the expert knowledge of weed managers in over 300 counties. Invasive plant experts identified infestations on paper, and the results were digitized into a regional GIS. Over 40% of requests were returned, resulting in maps with good spatial coverage and distribution data suitable for assessing invasive plant abundance across the western United States. Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) and Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense) were the most abundant and widespread of the surveyed species; however, the high concentrations and broad spatial extents of other invasive plants, such as hounds tongue (Cynogbssum officinale), white top (Lepidium draba), and Dalmatian toadflax (Linaria dalmatica), highlight the ongoing problems invasive species pose for western ecosystems, rangelands, and croplands. These results reinforce the critical role that regional mapping efforts can play in assessing and communicating invasion risk. This study suggests that knowledge about plant invasions exists locally and that experts are willing to participate in regional efforts to compile that information. La falta de informacin sobre las distribuciones de especies de plantas y animales puede ser un serio impedimento para el manejo de dichas especies. En el caso de las plantas invasoras, la informacin sobre su distribucin y abundancia puede guiar los programas de deteccin temprana y respuesta rpida (EDRR, por sus siglas en ingls) tendientes a combatir la infestacin en sus etapas iniciales, y se puede emplear para crear modelos de riesgo de invasin a nivel regional o de paisaje. Adems, los mapas regionales de la abundancia de plantas invasoras son tiles para comunicar la magnitud del problema de especies invasoras al pblico y a los legisladores. Aqu presentamos un conjunto de mapas de distribucin regional para 10 plantas invasoras problemticas del oeste de Estados Unidos, basados en el conocimiento experto de coordinadores del manejo de maleza en ms de 300 condados. Los expertos en plantas invasoras identificaron las infestaciones por escrito, y los resultados se digitalizaron en un SIG (Sistema de Informacin Geogrfica) regional. Se devolvieron ms del 40% de las encuestas, posibilitando la creacin de mapas con buena cobertura espacial y datos de distribucin adecuados para la evaluacin de la abundancia de plantas invasoras a lo largo del oeste de Estados Unidos. De las especies estudiadas, el bromo (Bromus tectorum) y el cardo cundidor (Cirsium arvense) fueron las ms abundantes y tenan la distribucin ms extensa; no obstante, la alta concentracin y amplia extensin espacial de otras plantas invasoras como la lengua de perro (Cynoglossum officinale), la draba (Lepidium draba) y la palomita dalmata (Linaria dalmatica) ponen de relieve lo persistente del problema que representan las especies invasoras para los ecosistemas, terrenos de pastoreo y tierras agrcolas del oeste de pas. Estos resultados reafirman el papel crucial que pueden desempear los esfuerzos de cartografa regional al evaluar y dar a conocer el riesgo de invasin. Este estudio indica que la informacin sobre invasiones de plantas se encuentra a nivel local, y que los expertos estn dispuestos a participar en los esfuerzos regionales para recopilar dicha informacin.
41718275|Where introduced, largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) are known to have negative effects on aquatic ecosystems. In this study, we used historical museum collection records (19422006) and contemporary (2009) collections to assess changes in the distribution of largemouth bass in the lower Boise River (southwestern Idaho). We also examined the stomach contents of largemouth bass collected during the contemporary survey to determine diet. Seventy-four largemouth bass (45-137 mm TL) were represented in 13 historical collections from 5 lower Boise River locations. During autumn 2009, we sampled 8 sites in the lower Boise River for largemouth bass. Sixty-one largemouth bass (range 55-156 mm TL; $\bar x = 84$ mm) were captured from 5 sites downstream of a 4-m-high diversion dam. Largemouth bass were absent from all sites upstream of the dam. Our contemporary collection data extends the known distribution of largemouth bass 7.2 river km upstream. The long-term persistence (without recent stocking) of largemouth bass in the lower Boise River indicates that the fish may be spawning in the river and/or entering the system from external sources. Eighty percent of the largemouth bass collected in 2009 were < 100 mm TL. Analysis of largemouth bass stomach contents revealed that aquatic insects (40%), crayfish (37%), and small-bodied fishes (11%) comprised much of the diet. Our study confirms that the largemouth bass has successfully established in the lower Boise River and that the species is piscivorous at small sizes (<100 mm TL). These findings suggest that largemouth bass could have a negative impact on native fishes in the lower Boise River. Se sabe que la lobina negra (Micropterus salmoides) tiene efectos negativos en los ecosistemas acuticos en los que se introduce. En este estudio, usamos registros histricos de colecciones de museo (1942-2006) y colecciones contemporneas (2009) para evaluar los cambios en la distribucin de lobina negra en la regin baja del Ro Boise (al suroeste de Idaho). Tambin examinamos el contenido estomacal de las lobinas negras colectadas recientemente para determinar su dieta. Se encontraron setenta y cuatro lobinas negras (45-137 mm LT) en 13 colecciones histricas de 5 reas de la regin baja del Ro Boise. Durante el otoo de 2009, buscamos muestras de lobina negra en ocho sitios en la regin baja del Ro Boise. Se logr capturar a sesenta y una lobinas negras (de entre 55 y 156 mm LT; promedio = 84 mm) en cinco sitios localizados ro abajo de una presa de derivacin de 4 metros de altura. No se encontraron lobinas negras en ninguno de los sitios localizados ro arriba de la presa. La informacin de nuestra coleccin contempornea extiende la distribucin conocida de lobinas negras hasta 7.2 km ro arriba. La persistencia a largo plazo (sin una introduccin reciente) de la lobina negra en la regin baja del Ro Boise indica que este pez podra estar desovando en el ro o entrando al sistema desde fuentes externas. El ochenta por ciento de las lobinas negras colectadas en 2009 midieron menos de 100 mm LT. El anlisis del contenido estomacal de la lobina negra revel que la mayor parte de la dieta consisti de insectos acuticos (40%), cangrejos de ro (37%) y peces pequeos (11%). Nuestro estudio confirma que la lobina negra se ha establecido exitosamente en la regin baja del Ro Boise y que la especie es piscvora cuando tiene un tamao pequeo (<100 mm LT). Estos hallazgos sugieren que la lobina negra puede impactar de forma negativa a los peces nativos de la regin baja del Ro Boise.
41718276|Natural history information for rare plants can help land managers better understand the threats to extinction that a taxon may face. Our focus is on the natural history of Maguire primrose (Primula cusickiana var. maguirei, Primulaceae), an endemic, threatened plant found along a narrow corridor within a single canyon in northern Utah. We examined floral morphology, air temperature, relative humidity during flowering, dichogamy, blooming period, and visits from flying insects. As with most Primula, Maguire primrose displays distinct floral distyly. Within the distylous flowers, 17% of our samples had a timing difference in the maturation of anthers and stigmas, a trait not previously recorded in any other Primula species. Temperatures during the early-spring blooming period fluctuated widely between recorded minima below 0 C and maxima above 33 C. We captured 8 different species of flying insects visiting Maguire primrose flowers in air temperatures ranging from 6 to 15 C. Bloom timing was not well synchronized between different canyon locations. Between different canyon locations, we observed only a small number of plants that overlapped in their flowering phenology. This threatened primrose variety has a cool, early-season blooming period, a dependence on visiting insects for outcrossing, and disjunct populations throughout the canyon, resulting in the potential for serious challenges to reproduction. La informacin sobre la historia natural de plantas raras puede ayudar a los coordinadores del manejo de tierras a comprender mejor los peligros de extincin que pueden amenazar un taxn. Nos enfocamos en la historia natural de la prmula Maguire (Primula cusickiana var. maguirei, Primulaceae), una planta endmica amenazada que slo se encuentra a lo largo de un corredor angosto dentro de un solo can en el norte de Utah, EUA. Examinamos su morfologa floral, la temperatura del aire y la humedad relativa durante la floracin, la dicogamia, el perodo de floracin y los insectos voladores que visitan esta variedad. Tal como sucede con la mayora de especies del gnero Primula, la prmula Maguire exhibe distilia floral marcada. De la flores distilas, en el 17% de nuestros mustreos las anteras y estigmas maduraron en distintos momentos, un rasgo que no se haba observado en ninguna otra especie de Primula. La temperatura registrada durante el perodo de floracin a principios de la primavera fluctu ampliamente entre mnimas de bajo 0 C y mximas de ms de 33 C. Capturamos 8 especies distintas de insectos voladores que visitaban las flores de la prmula Maguire a temperaturas ambientales entre 6 C y 15 C. La floracin no estuvo bien sincronizada entre las plantas de distintas partes del can. Observamos slo un reducido nmero de plantas en distintas partes del can cuyos perodos de floracin coincidan. Esta variedad amenazada resiste las temperaturas bajas de un temprano perodo de floracin, una dependencia de las visitas de insectos para el cruzamiento y las poblaciones fragmentadas a lo largo del can, todo lo cual puede presentar desafos graves para su reproduccin.
41718277|Climate change is predicted to increase the frequency of severe drought, yet little information exists on the impacts of drought on dominant trees of Mexican pine forests, which are among the most biologically diverse forests in the world. We conducted the first comparison of growth sensitivity to drought of two co-occurring Pinus species in Mexico to understand whether growth of dominant pines of the Sierra Madre Occidental in northern Mexico is sensitive to drought and temperature variation and to understand how sensitivity differs between tree species and elevations. We sampled and analyzed tree-ring data across a 400-m elevation gradient for the years 1945-2004 for co-occurring Pinus engelmannii and Pinus lumholtzii at Basaseachi National Park, Chihuahua, Mexico. We hypothesized that growth sensitivity to drought would be highest at low elevations, annual basal area increment (BAI) would be lowest at low elevations, and winter precipitation would covary positively with BAI at all elevations. Growth sensitivity to drought, as measured by a wet-dry ring-width index ratio (W:D), was significantly higher for both species at low elevations (W:D range 2.2-2.8) than at intermediate and high elevations (W:D range 1.5-1.9). Pinus engelmannii had significantly higher W:D (2.2) than P. lumholtzii (1.8). Annual BAI did not differ between elevations or species. Annual ring-width index was positively and significantly associated with winter (December-April) precipitation. This association was stronger at low elevations than at high elevations. Other seasons of precipitation and other climatic variables were not significantly associated with annual growth. Our results suggest that the increasing frequency and severity of drought predicted for this region in the coming decades will reduce growth of P. engelmannii and P. lumholtzii, with greater impacts on low-elevation populations and on P. engelmannii. Se ha predicho que el cambio climtico aumentar la frecuencia de las sequas severas, pero existe poca informacin sobre el impacto de la sequa en los rboles dominantes de los bosques de pino mexicanos, que son de los bosques con ms diversidad biolgica en todo el mundo. Llevamos a cabo la primera comparacin de la sensibilidad a la sequa de dos especies simptricas de Pinus en Mxico para saber si el crecimiento de los pinos dominantes de la Sierra Madre Occidental en el norte de Mxico es sensible a la sequa y a la variacin en la temperatura y cmo la sensibilidad difiere entre especies y a diversas altitudes. Muestreamos y analizamos datos de anillos de Pinus engelmannii y Pinus lumholtzii simptricos en el Parque Nacional Basaseachi, en Chihuahua, Mxico, a lo largo de un gradiente altitudinal de 400 m y para los aos 1945-2004. Planteamos las hiptesis de que la sensibilidad a la sequa sera mayor a baja altitud, que el incremento del rea basal (IAB) anual sera menor a baja altitud y que la precipitacin invernal tendra una correlacin positiva con el IAB a cualquier altitud. La sensibilidad a la sequa, medida por el ndice de la proporcin del grosor de los anillos entre temporadas hmedas y secas (H:S), fue significantemente mayor para ambas especies en altitudes bajas (H:S entre 2.2 y 2.8) en comparacin con altitudes elevadas o intermedias (H:S entre 1.5 y 1.9). Pinus engelmannii tuvo una proporcin H:S significantemente ms alta (2.2) que P. lumholtzii (1.8). El LAB anual no difiri entre altitudes o especies. El ndice del grosor anual de los anillos tuvo una asociacin positiva y significantiva con la precipitacin invernal (de diciembre a abril). Esta asociacin fue ms fuerte en las altitudes bajas que en las elevadas. El crecimiento anual no tuvo una asociacin significativa con otras temporadas de precipitacin ni con otras variables climticas. Nuestros resultados indican que el aumento en la frecuencia y severidad de sequas que se predice para esta regin en dcadas venideras disminuir el crecimiento de P. engelmannii y P. lumholtzii, surtiendo mayores efectos sobre P. engelmannii y sobre las poblaciones de baja altitud.
41718278|Anthropogenic flooding to create wetlands is a management option intended to compensate for historical loss of natural wetlands in the Dry Mixedgrass Prairie of western Canada. It may help moderate or reverse declines in density of breeding Northern Pintails (Anas acuta L.) and other waterfowl. Little information exists, however, on breeding waterfowl use of created wetlands flooded at different seasons and frequencies. This study assessed the effects of 2 flooding seasons (fall and spring) on abundance of breeding Northern Pintails and other ducks within newly created wetlands. Additionally, we compared breeding waterfowl use of sites with spring and fall flooding by using 2 treatments (1 year vs. 2 years of flood cessation) intended to alter vegetation composition and density (measured as visual obstruction) on older wetlands currently dominated by cattail (Typha htifolia L.). Vegetation density was assessed across the landscape in all treatments. While recently initiated fall and spring flooding each increased breeding duck densities compared to naturally flooded wetlands, spring flooding led to a greater density of Northern Pintails and other ducks in 1 of 3 years. Within established wetlands, 2 years of flood cessation led to a marked decline in duck abundance, while removal of flooding for one year led to the greatest duck abundance, even compared to wetlands with sustained fell flooding. Finally, vegetation density (i.e., visual obstruction) varied by flooding treatment and year of sampling, and was an important predictor of use of created wetlands by both Northern Pintails and other duck species. Collectively, these results indicate that duck use of managed wetlands in the Dry Mixedgrass Prairie of western Canada can be maximized with carefully planned flooding treatments that include spring flooding in newly created wetlands and intermittent flooding in established wetlands. Una de las opciones en la gestin para compensar la prdida histrica de humedales naturales en la pradera seca de pastos mixtos del oeste de Canad es la inundacin antropognica para crear humedales; esto podra contribuir a la moderacin o reversin de los descensos en la densidad del nade rabudo (Anas acuta L.) y otras aves acuticas en su tiempo de reproduccin. Existe poca informacin, sin embargo, sobre el uso por aves acuticas de humedales artificiales inundados en distintas temporadas y con distintas frecuencias. Este estudio evalu los efectos de 2 temporadas de inundacin (otoo vs. primavera) en la abundancia del nade rabudo y otros patos durante el mes de mayo en humedales recin creados. Adems, comparamos el uso por aves acuticas de sitios con inundaciones en la primavera y el otoo con 2 tratamientos (1 vs. 2 aos de cese de inundacin) con la intencin de cambiar la composicin y densidad de la vegetacin (medida por la obstruccin visual) en humedales ms antiguos donde actualmente prevalece la enea (latifolia L.). Se evalu la densidad de vegetacin en todo el paisaje con todos los tratamientos. Aunque las recin iniciadas inundaciones de otoo y primavera incrementaron las densidades de patos en reproduccin, comparado con humedales inundados naturalmente, la inundacin primaveral ocasion una densidad mayor de nades rabudos y otros patos en 1 de los 3 aos. En humedales establecidos, el cese de inundacin por 2 aos caus una marcada disminucin en la abundancia de patos, mientras que el cese de inundacin por un ao ocasion una abundancia mayor de patos, incluso con relacin a los humedales con inundacin otoal constante. Por ltimo, la densidad de vegetacin (i.e. la obstruccin visual) vari de acuerdo con el tratamiento de inundacin y al ao de muestreo, y fue un importante predictor del uso de humedales artificiales tanto por el nade rabudo como por otras especies de patos. Colectivamente, estos resultados indican que se puede maximizar el uso por patos de humedales controlados en la pradera seca de pastos mixtos del oeste de Canad mediante tratamientos de inundacin cuidadosamente planeados, que incluyan inundacin primaveral en humedales recin creados e inundacin intermitente de humedales establecidos.
41718279|In summer, bands of sheep are grazed in western North American mountains. At night the sheep are concentrated into bedding areas. In the study area, each bedding area is only utilized by sheep for one night a year for 2 out of 3 years. Vegetation in the bedding areas was compared to vegetation outside these areas. Both perennial forb cover and total perennial cover were greater outside (48% and 61%, respectively) than inside (29% and 36%, respectively) the bedding areas. Annual forb cover one year after sheep grazing was greater inside (17%) bedding areas than outside (5%). Immediately after sheep bedding, total forb cover was greater outside the bedding areas. Forb and grass biomass were greater outside the bedding areas compared to inside. Total vegetation biomass outside (240  m) the bedding areas was more than double the amount inside (86 g  m) immediately after bedding. In the year after bedding, vegetation biomass inside the bedding areas increased, but was still less than outside. Sheep bedding areas were not invaded by nonnative plants. Sheep bedding reduced vegetation quantity and changed relative abundance of annual forbs. Vegetation in the bedding areas was resilient to grazing impacts, and long-term use of sites in this ecosystem does not significantly degrade vegetation. En el verano, se pastorean manadas de ovejas en las montaas de Norteamrica. De noche se concentran en ciertas reas de reposo. En el rea de estudio, las ovejas slo utilizan estos lugares 1 da al ao en 2 de cada 3 aos. Comparamos la vegetacin en estas reas de reposo con la vegetacin fuera de ellas. La cobertura de plantas herbceas perennes y la cobertura total de plantas perennes fueron mayores afuera (48% y 61%, respectivamente) que adentro (29% y 36%, respectivamente) de las reas de reposo. La cobertura de plantas herbceas anuales un ao despus del pastoreo de ovejas fue mayor adentro (17%) de estas reas de reposo que afuera (5%). Inmediatamente despus de que las ovejas haban dormido en determinados lugares, la cobertura total de plantas herbceas fue mayor fuera de estas reas. La biomasa de plantas herbceas y gramneas fue mayor fuera de estas reas que dentro de ellas. La biomasa total de vegetacin fuera de las reas donde duermen (240 g  m) fue ms del doble de la biomasa total dentro de ellas (86 g  m), inmediatamente despus de que durmieron all. El ao despus que durmieron en estas reas, aument la biomasa de vegetacin dentro de ellas, pero an as fue menor que afuera. Las reas de reposo de las ovejas no se vieron invadidas por plantas exticas, pero en ellas se vio reducida la cantidad de vegetacin y se cambi la abundancia relativa de plantas herbceas anuales. La vegetacin en estas reas se mostr resistente al impacto del pastoreo, y el uso a largo plazo de sitios en este ecosistema no est degradando la vegetacin de forma apreciable.
41718280|Lake Mohave, on the lower Colorado River in Nevada and Arizona, was created by the construction of Davis Dam for power generation, flood control, and water supply. Management has led to the periodic lowering of the water level of the reservoir (drawdown), such that it reveals a gradient of zones around the margins of the reservoir that range from frequently inundated to frequently dry. The initial filling of Lake Mohave flooded the preexisting native riparian woodlands of Populus-Salix (cottonwood-willow), creating a new shoreline and plant community. We analyzed the spatial distribution of the plant species that dominate the plant community (i.e., native Salix gooddingii C.R. Ball [Goodding's willow] and nonindigenous Tamarix ramosissima Ledeb. [saltcedar]) and the soil components to discern patterns. Data analyses and modeling indicate that there are 3 emergent patterns in the distribution and composition of vegetation and soils. First, even though both S. gooddingii and T. ramosissima were present in the inundated zones, there were more mature S. gooddingii individuals in the frequently inundated reaches, while T. ramosissima presence and cover increased with distance from the water's edge. Salix gooddingii seedlings were not observed, but T. ramosissima seedlings were present in all zones. The only regeneration of S. gooddingii was vegetative. Naturally occurring Populus fremontii S. Watson (Fremont cottonwood) was completely absent in the drawdown and upland plant communities. Second, soil salinity and pH values range from 49.4 to 0 dS  m and 6.4 to 9.4, respectively, and varied significantly with landform type and geographic location along the reservoir. Patterns in soil chemistry may be related to shore geomorphology that either shelters or exposes soils to wave action, which mechanically agitates, aerates, and flushes soils. Presence of Salix gooddingii in the frequently inundated zones and the co-occurrence of T. ramosissima and relatively high soil salinity concentration reflect patterns among plant flood tolerance and soil responses to periodic inundation. While reasons for the absence of P. fremontii are unknown, the absence of S. gooddingii seedlings may be related to the fact that seed release coincides with the period when the reservoir is at its highest, thereby limiting recruitment. Third, the only regeneration of S. gooddingii appeared to have occurred following herbivory (Castor canadensis Kuhl [North American beaver]) and wind damage. We conclude with suggestions for the conservation of novel riparian ecosystems as surrogates for lost native ecosystems. These suggestions include manipulating reservoir water levels to simulate natural fluvial processes so that nonnative plant establishment is inhibited, excessive soil salts are flushed from the system, and native transplants can be established. El Lago Mohave, en la parte baja del Ro Colorado en Nevada y Arizona, E.U.A., fue creado por la construccin de la presa Davis para la generacin de electricidad, control de inundaciones y abastecimiento de agua. Su manejo ha causado el descenso peridico del nivel del agua del embalse (reduccin) de modo que revela un gradiente de zonas alrededor de la orilla del embalse que varan desde las frecuentemente inundadas hasta las frecuentemente secas. Al llenar por primera vez el Lago Mohave, se inund el bosque preexistente nativo y ribereo de Populus-Salix (lamos y sauces), creando nuevas riberas y nuevas comunidades de plantas en sus orillas. Analizamos la distribucin espacial de las especies que dominan la comunidad de plantas (i.e., la especie nativa Salix gooddingii C.R. Ball [el sauce de Goodding] y la invasora Tamarix ramosissima Ledeb. [tamarisco]) as como los componentes del suelo para discernir patrones entre la vegetacin y los suelos. El anlisis de datos y la modelacin indican que hay tres patrones emergentes en la distribucin y composicin de la vegetacin y los suelos. Primero, a pesar de que tanto S. gooddingii como T. ramossisima estuvieron presentes en las zonas inundadas, hubo ms individuos maduros de S. gooddingii en las zonas frecuentemente inundadas; en cambio, la presencia y cobertura de T. ramosissima aument a medida que aumentaba la distancia de la orilla. No se observaron plntulas de S. gooddingii, mientras que plntulas de T. ramosissima estuvieron presentes en todas las zonas. La nica regeneracin de S. gooddingii fue vegetativa. Populus fremontii S. Watson [lamo], que ocurre de manera natural, estuvo totalmente ausente en las comunidades de plantas que habitan las zonas donde se ha reducido el nivel del agua y en tierras altas. Segundo, la salinidad y los valores de pH del suelo variaron de 49.4 a 0 dS  m y de 6.4 a 9.4, respectivamente, y variaron substancialmente en distintos tipos de formacin geolgica y en distintas ubicaciones geogrficas alrededor del embalse. Los patrones en la composicin qumica del suelo podran estar relacionados con la geomorfologia de la ribera, la cual puede proteger los suelos o exponerlos a la accin de las olas que mecnicamente agitan, airean y humedecen los suelos. La presencia de Salix gooddingii en las zonas frecuentemente inundadas y la coincidencia de T. ramosissima y una concentracin de sales en el suelo relativamente alta reflejan patrones de la resistencia a inundaciones por parte de las plantas y los efectos en los suelos de las inundaciones peridicas. Aunque se desconocen las causas de la ausencia de P. fremontii, la ausencia de plntulas de S. gooddingii podra estar relacionada con el hecho de que la dispersin de semillas coincide con el periodo en que el embalse alcanza su nivel mximo, limitando de esta manera el reclutamiento. Tercero, la nica regeneracin de S. gooddingii parece haber ocurrido despus de la herbivora (Castor canadensis Kuhl [castor americano]) y de los daos ocasionados por el viento. Concluimos con sugerencias para la conservacin de los ecosistemas ribereos nuevos como reemplazos de los ecosistemas originales perdidos. stas incluyen el manipular el nivel del agua en los embalses para similar procesos fluviales naturales y as impedir que se establezcan las plantas invasoras, limpiar del sistema las sales excesivas en el suelo y permitir que se establezcan plantas nativas que hayan sido transplantadas.
41718281|Activity patterns of animals can vary depending on both endogenous and environmental factors. Although black bears exhibit substantial variation in activity across the year, relatively little is known about how daily activity patterns and associated movement rates diifer among sex and age classes across seasons. We used fine-scale movement data from black bears fitted with GPS collars to evaluate movement and activity patterns across sex and age classes for daily and seasonal time periods in relation to mating and foraging behavior. Black bears were most active during crepuscular time periods, moderately active during the day, and least active at night, which is consistent with previous research on black bear activity patterns in areas where bears were not greatly influenced by human activities. However, during spring and early summer, adult males moved significantly more during the crepuscular time period than they did during late summer and fall. Female and subadult males exhibited very similar activity patterns between seasons; and during late summer and fall, all bear classes exhibited similar activity patterns across daily time periods. Differences in activity patterns of males between seasons were potentially related to extensive movements undertaken during the mating season. Although adult males exhibited lower movement rates in late summer and fall compared to spring and early summer, females and subadult males did not appear to reduce movement rates during the late-summer berry season. Our research reveals that, although bear classes exhibit similar temporal patterns of daily activity and inactivity, the magnitude of movement rates revealed differences in activity patterns among bear classes, which allowed us to better understand factors influencing activity in animal populations. Los patrones de actividad de los animales pueden variar dependiendo, tanto los factores endgenos, como los ambientales. A pesar de que los osos negros exhiben gran variacin en su actividad durante el ao, se sabe relativamente poco acerca de cmo los patrones de actividad cotidiana y las tasas de movimientos asociados difieren entre los sexos y clases de edad a lo largo de las estaciones. Usamos datos de escala fina del movimiento de los osos negros, a travs de collares con sistema de posicionamiento global (SPG), para evaluar los patrones de movimiento y actividad por sexo y por clases de edad, durante periodos de tiempo diarios y estacionales con relacin al comportamiento de apareamiento y de forrajeo. Los osos negros fueron ms activos durante los periodos de tiempo crepuscular; moderadamente activos durante el da y menos activos durante la noche, lo cual es consistente con las investigaciones previas en las que se evaluaban los patrones de actividad del oso negro en lugares donde no eran fuertemente influenciados por las actividades humanas. Sin embargo, durante la primavera y el comienzo del verano, los machos adultos se movieron significantemente ms durante los periodos crepusculares, comparado con el final del verano y el otoo. Las hembras y los machos subadultos mostraron patrones de actividad muy similares entre las estaciones; y para finales del verano y el otoo, todas las clases de osos exhibieron patrones de actividad similares durante los periodos de tiempo diarios. Las diferencias en los patrones de actividad de los machos entre estaciones se relacionaron potencialmente a los extensos movimientos emprendidos durante la poca de apareamiento. A pesar de que los machos adultos exhibieron tasas bajas de movimiento a finales del verano y en el otoo, en comparacin con la primavera y principios del verano, las hembras y los machos subadultos no aparentaron disminuir las tasas de movimiento durante la poca de bayas al final del verano. Nuestra investigacin muestra que, a pesar de que las clases de osos exhiben patrones temporales similares de actividad e inactividad diaria, la magnitud de las tasas de movimiento revel diferencias en los patrones de actividad entre las clases de osos, lo cual nos permiti entender mejor los factores que influyen en la actividad de las poblaciones de animales.
41718282|Velvet lupine (Lupinus leucophyllus Dougl. ex Lindl) contains the teratogenic alkaloid anagyrine that causes a crooked calf syndrome. An outbreak of crooked calves occurred in the Channeled Scabland region of eastern Washington in 1997 following 2 years of above-average precipitation. Following this catastrophic loss, we began studies to track velvet lupine density and relate its population cycle to precipitation. In the first study, five 1-m quadrats were systematically placed in dense lupine patches at each of 5 locations throughout the scabland region. The quadrats were permanently marked and the number of seedlings and established mature plants were counted biweekly or monthly through the growing seasons of 2001-2005. In the second study, four 1  30-m belt transects were established at each of 3 additional locations in the scabland region. The number of seedlings and mature lupine plants were counted within these transects in June or July each year from 2002 to 2009. A third study was conducted to determine the slope or aspect where lupine was most abundant. Ten sites were located along the Cow Creek drainage which runs through the region. At each site, 1  10-m belt transects were established in alluvial bottoms, slopes, and shallow rocky ridges. In study 1, density of mature lupine plants generally declined between 2001 and 2005 (P < 0.001) and was correlated with spring precipitation (r = 0.77). In study 2, density of mature lupine plants differed between years (P < 0.001), declining from 2002 through 2005 but increasing in 2007 in response to heavy precipitation the previous fall and spring (mature lupine plants vs. fall precipitation, r = 0.75; and mature lupine plants vs. spring precipitation, r = 0.62). Density of lupine was greatest on slopes (2.6 plants  m), intermediate on alluvial bottoms (1.5 plants  m), and lowest on shallow rocky ridges (0.26 plants  m). Velvet lupine populations appear to cycle with climatic patterns, increasing following wet years and dying back in drought. El altramuz velvet (Lupinus leucophyllus Dougl. ex Lindi) contiene el alcaloide teratognico anagirina, el cual provoca el sndrome del ternero toricdo. Un brote de este sndrome ocurri en la regin Scabland, al este de Washington en 1997, despus de dos aos de precipitacin por encima del promedio. Luego de esta prdida catastrfica, iniciamos estudios para registrar la densidad del altramuz velvet y relacionar su ciclo poblacional con la precipitacin. En el primer estudio, cinco cuadrantes de 1 m se colocaron sistemticamente en manchones densos de altramuz en 5 sitios a lo largo de la regin Scabland. Marcamos los cuadrantes permanentemente y se cont el nmero de plntulas y plantas maduras establecidas cada dos semanas o mensualmente durante la temporada de crecimiento de los aos 2001-2005. En el segundo estudio, se establecieron cuatro transectos de 30 m en cada uno de 3 sitios adicionales en la regin Scabland. Se cont el nmero de plntulas y plantas maduras de altramuz en estos transectos en junio o julio de cada ao de 2002 a 2009. Se llev a cabo un tercer estudio para determinar la pendiente o aspecto de los lugares donde el altramuz era ms abundante para determinar su preferencia de habitat. Se ubicaron diez sitios a lo largo de la cuenca de desage de Cow Creek, la cual atraviesa la regin. En cada sitio, se establecieron transectos de 10 m en el lecho aluvial, las pendientes y crestas rocosas bajas. En el estudio 1, la densidad de plantas maduras de altramuz generalmente declin entre 2001 y 2005 (P < 0.001) y estuvo correlacionada con la precipitacin de primavera (r = 0.77). En el estudio 2, la densidad de plantas maduras de altramuz vari entre aos (P < 0.001), disminuy de 2002 a 2005, pero aument en 2007, respondiendo a la abundante precipitacin durante el otoo y la primavera anteriores (coeficiente de correlacin entre plantas maduras de altramuz y la precipitacin de otoo, r = 0.75 y la precipitacin primaveral, r = 0.62). El altramuz alcanz su mxima densidad en pendientes (2.6 plantas  m) en comparacin con el lecho aluvial (1.5 plantas  m), o a las crestas rocosas bajas (0.26 plantas  m). Las poblaciones del altramuz Velvet parecen fluctuar con los ciclos climticos, incrementando despus de aos hmedos y mermando en aos secos.
41718283|Temperature is a critical factor in the distribution of stream fishes. From laboratory studies of thermal tolerance, fish ecologists can assess whether species distributions are constrained by tolerable thermal habitat availability. The objective of this study was to use lethal thermal maxima (LTM) methodology to assess the upper thermal tolerance for mountain sucker Catostomus platyrhynchus, a species of greatest conservation need in the state of South Dakota. Adult fish were captured from wild populations in the Black Hills of South Dakota and acclimated to 20, 22.5, and 25 C. Four endpoints (3 sublethal, 1 lethal) were recorded, with death being the most precise (lowest SE, easily discernible). The LTM for mountain sucker was 34.0 C at 25 C acclimation, 33.2 C at 22.5 C acclimation, and 32.9 C at 20 C acclimation. Compared to co-occurring species in the Black Hills, the LTM of mountain sucker is higher than that of salmonids but lower than that of 3 cypriniforms. Mountain sucker LTM is intermediate compared to other species in the family Catostomidae. These results suggest that the mountain sucker is not currently limited by water temperatures in the Black Hills but may be affected by stream warming as a result of climate change. La temperatura es un factor crtico en la distribucin de peces de ro. Mediante estudios de laboratorio sobre la tolerancia termal, los eclogos de peces pueden evaluar si las distribuciones de especies estn limitadas por la disponibilidad de un habitat termalmente tolerable. El propsito de este estudio fue evaluar la tolerancia termal superior del lechn de montaa Catostomus platyrhynchus, una especie con la mxima necesidad de conservacin en el estado de Dakota del Sur, con metodologa de la temperatura letal superior (TLS). Se capturaron peces adultos de poblaciones silvestres en las Colinas Negras de Dakota del Sur, y se aclimataron a los 20, 22.5 y 25 C. Se registraron cuatro temperaturas lmite (tres subletales y una letal), siendo la letal la ms precisa (error estndar ms bajo y fcilmente discernible). La TLS del lechn de montaa fue de 34.0 C a una aclimatacin de 25 C, 33.2 C a una aclimatacin de 22.5 C y 32.9 C a una aclimatacin de 20 C. Cuando se compar con especies que cohabitan las Colinas Negras, la TLS del lechn de montaa es mayor a la de los salmnidos, pero menor a la de tres cypriniformes. La TLS del lechn de montaa es intermedia cuando se compara con otras especies de la familia Catostomidae. Estos resultados sugieren que el lechn de montaa no est limitado por las temperaturas en las Colinas Negras, pero podra ser afectado por el calentamiento de la corriente como resultado del cambio climtico.
41718284|A road-killed specimen of a large male ocelot (Leopardus pardalis) was salvaged on March 2010 from Palo Pinto County in north central Texas. Our review of the northern biogeography of the species indicates that the specimen is not out of historical context. The possibility that the animal represents a broader range of sparsely distributed individuals within the elusive cat's known historical range deserves consideration. Un ocelote (Leopardus pardalis) muerto de sexo masculino y de tamao grande fue recuperado en una carretera del Condado Palo Pinto en el centro-norte de Texas en Marzo del ao 2010. Una revisin de la biogeografa nortea del ocelot sugiere que la presencia de ste animal no est fuera del contexto histrico. La possibilidad que ste animal representa un grupo de individuos que estn escasamente distribuidos dentro los lmites histricamente conocidos de sta especie evasive merece ser considerada.
41718285|Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) depend on sagebrush habitat for food and cover during winter, yet few sage-grouse winter ecology studies have been conducted. During January and February 2007, we monitored 22 radio-collared sage-grouse (7 females and 15 males) in central Oregon to characterize winter habitat use and movement patterns. We estimated distances traveled between locations on a weekly basis and quantified habitat characteristics at locations used by male and female sage-grouse. The birds we collared moved extensively across the landscape, using approximately 1480 km. Sagebrush canopy height in sites used by sage-grouse varied from 0.25 to 0.75 m, with females tending to be found in sites with taller sagebrush and less foliar cover than in sites where we found males. The difference in foliar cover between sexes was related to a seasonal change in habitat use: 4 females found in little sagebrush (Artemisia arbuscula) in January and early February were no longer located nor found foraging in little sagebrush after 15 February. Also, by this date, most male sage-grouse had stopped using big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) as they migrated to leks. Sage-grouse mortality rates were low during our study, which may be attributed to the study area receiving half the long-term average amount of snow. The large area over which sage-grouse moved during winter indicates that conservation of Greater Sage-Grouse may require preservation of sagebrush at landscape scales (thousands of square kilometers). El urogallo de la salvia (Centrocercus urophasianus) depende del hbitat de la salvia para alimento y abrigo durante el invierno, sin embargo se han llevado a cabo pocos estudios sobre su ecologa invernal. Monitoreamos 22 urogallos de salvia (7 hembras y 15 machos) con radio collares en el centro de Oregn para caracterizar su uso del hbitat en invierno y los patrones de movimiento durante enero y febrero de 2007. Estimamos las distancias recorridas entre sitios cada semana, y cuantificamos las caractersticas del hbitat en los sitios utilizados por urogallos machos y hembras. Las aves con collares se desplazaron ampliamente por toda la regin, utilizando aproximadamente 1480 km. La altura del dosel de las salvias en los sitios utilizados por urogallos vari entre 0.25 y 0.75 m, con hembras encontradas en sitios con salvias ms altas y menor cobertura foliar que los sitos en donde encontramos a los machos. La diferencia en cobertura foliar entre los sexos estuvo relacionada con un cambio estacional en el uso del habitat; las 4 hembras encontradas en la salvia pequea (Artemisia arbuscula) en enero y a principios de febrero ya no se localizaron o se vio que forrajearan en la salvia pequea despus del 15 de febrero. Adems, para esta fecha la mayora de los urogallos machos haban dejado de utilizar la salvia grande (Artemisia tridentata) a medida que migraron a los leks. Las tasas de mortalidad del urogallo fueron bajas durante nuestro estudio, lo cual se podra atribuir a que el rea de estudio recibi la mitad de la cantidad de nieve promedio a largo plazo. La gran rea en que se desplazaron los urogallos durante el invierno indica que la conservacin del urogallo de la salvia podra requerir la preservacin de la salvia a escala regional (miles de kilmetros).
41718286|In a pilot study, I observed a relationship between domestic livestock grazing and location of American pika (Ochotona princeps) haypiles in the eastern Sierra Nevada and several Great Basin mountain ranges. Where vegetation communities adjacent to talus bases (forefields) were grazed, mean distance from the talus borders to the closest fresh haypiles was 30.1 m (SD = 18.9 m, n = 27), and haypiles were found only high in the talus. In ungrazed forefields, mean distance was 1.8 m (SD = 0.9 m, n = 57), and haypiles were found along the low-elevation talus-vegetation border. Where grazing was active, haypiles consistently contained vegetation gathered from plants growing within the talus. Talus vegetation appeared to be of lower diversity and the plant species of lower nutritional value than forefield plants. This difference, if real, would compromise quality of forage for summer browsing and winter haypile storage. This condition, combined with potentially less favorable summer and winter thermal conditions of upper talus locations relative to lower talus borders, suggests that grazing might be a factor compromising population conditions and status of pikas. Recent studies have reported higher extirpation rates of pika populations in Great Basin ranges (primarily in Nevada) than in adjacent regions. Because domestic livestock grazing is widely permitted on public lands throughout pika habitat in the Great Basin but not permitted (or much more restricted) in pika habitat of the Sierra Nevada, California, grazing effects might be contributing to observed regional differences in viability of pikas. En un estudio preliminar, observ la relacin entre el pastoreo por ganado domstico y la ubicacin de las reservas de comida de la pica americana (Ochotona princeps) en el este de la Sierra Nevada y de varias cordilleras de la Gran Cuenca. En las zonas de vegetacin adyacentes a bases del talud (antepas) que han sido pastoreadas, la distancia promedio de los lmites del talud a las reservas de alimento fresco ms cercanas fue de 30.1 m (DE = 18.9 m, n = 27); a su vez, slo se encontraron tales reservas en las partes altas del talud. En el antepas que no ha sido pastoreado, la distancia promedio fue de 1.8 m (DE = 0.9 m, n = 57), y se encontraron reservas de alimento a lo largo del lmite entre la parte baja del talud y la vegetacin. En lugares donde el pastoreo ha sido activo, las reservas de alimento estaban compuestas consistentemente de vegetacin recolectada de las plantas que crecan dentro del talud. Esta vegetacin del talud pareci ser de menor diversidad y las especies de plantas de menor valor nutricional en comparacin con la plantas del antepas. Si esta diferencia es real, comprometera la calidad del forraje para el ramoneo del verano y el almacenamiento de alimento para el invierno. Esta condicin, combinada con las condiciones trmicas potencialmente menos favorables del verano e invierno en las zonas altas del talud en comparacin con los extremos inferiores del talud, sugieren que el pastoreo podra ser un factor que est comprometiendo las condiciones de la poblacin y el estatus de las picas. Hay estudios recientes que han observado una extirpacin mayor de las poblaciones de picas en las cordilleras de la Gran Cuenca (principalmente en Nevada) en comparacin con regiones adyacentes. Debido a que el pastoreo por ganado domstico se permite en muchos terrenos pblicos a lo largo del habitat de la pica en la Gran Cuenca, pero no se permite (o est mucho ms restringido) en el habitat de la pica en la Sierra Nevada, California, los efectos del pastoreo podran estar contribuyendo a las diferencias regionales observadas en la viabilidad de las picas.
41718287|Alpine plant species are thought to have limited phenotypic plasticity, but few data exist on forbs. We assessed plasticity in allocation of biomass to belowground and aboveground parts and to reproduction in 5 forb species from a 50-year-old disturbance and adjacent undisturbed areas in an alpine dry meadow. Three of the species, mostly those with variable numbers of stems per genet, increased in size in the disturbed areas. All 5 forbs showed very limited plasticity in allocation of biomass. Lack of phenotypic plasticity in these forbs may limit their ability to respond to future changes in environment. Se cree que las especies de plantas alpinas tienen una plasticidad fenotpica limitada, pero existen pocos datos sobre la plasticidad de plantas herbceas. Evaluamos la plasticidad en la asignacin de biomasa entre las partes bajo el nivel del suelo y las partes arriba del nivel del suelo, y la plasticidad en la asignacin de recursos a la reproduccin para 5 especies de plantas herbceas de una zona que fue perturbada hace 50 aos y de reas adyacentes sin perturbar en un prado seco alpino. Tres de las especies, principalmente las que tienen nmeros variables de tallos por genet, aumentaron de talla en las reas perturbadas. Las 5 herbceas exhibieron plasticidad muy limitada respecto a la asignacin de biomasa. La falta de plasticidad fenotpica en estas herbceas podra limitar su capacidad para responder a cambios futuros en su entorno.
41718290|Lake suckers of the genus Chasmistes are a unique and important component of the fish assemblages of the western USA. To review recent research, discuss issues, and exchange information, researchers and managers working on the various species participated in a symposium on lake sucker biology as part of the 2010 annual meeting of the Western Division of the American Fisheries Society, held in Salt Lake City, Utah. This special feature of the Western North American Naturalist is dedicated to lake sucker ecology and natural history and provides a central venue for publication of several papers presented in the symposium. To provide a link to the broader peer-reviewed, published literature on lake sucker biology, we have included a bibliography as an appendix. Los peces de la familia Catostomidae de la gnero Chasmistes son un componente nico e importante de los ensambles de peces al occidente de los Estados Unidos. En la reunin anual de 2010 de la Western Division of the American Fisheries Society (Divisin Occidental de la Sociedad de Industrias Pesqueras Americanas), se llev a cabo un Simposium en Salt Lake City sobre la biologa de esta familia de peces para analizar las investigaciones recientes que se han hecho sobre ella y brindarle la oportunidad a los investigadores y administradores que trabajan con las diferentes especies de reunirse y hablar sobre diversos asuntos e informacin. Esta publicacin especial de Western North American Naturalist est dedicada a la ecologa e historia natural de los peces de la familia Catostomidae y brinda un lugar central para la divulgacin de varias publicaciones que se presentaron en el Simposium. Con el fin de otorgar un lazo al resto de la literatura sobre la biologa de la familia Catostomidae, incluimos una bibliografa como apndice.
41718291|The endangered Lost River sucker (Deltistes luxatus) and shortnose sucker (Chasmistes brevirostris) are endemic to the Upper Klamath Basin, Oregon and California. The once very abundant populations have declined drastically due to a combination of habitat loss and impairment, disruption of reproduction and gene flow, intensive harvest, and loss of entire populations. Spawning populations within Upper Klamath Lake are declining and have not had significant recruitment for over a decade. In addition to habitat loss, these populations are threatened by periodic harmful water conditions resulting from massive algal blooms and entrainment of larvae and juveniles into water delivery systems or hydroelectric structures. Populations of shortnose sucker in Clear Lake appear to be relatively healthy and stable, but recruitment of Lost River sucker appears to be sparse. These populations are affected by drought and water management. Other populations are potentially introgressed with Klamath largescale sucker (Catostomus snyderi) or lack sufficient spawning opportunities to be self-sustaining and therefore function as sink populations. Although genetic and ecological similarities between the species are strong, it is important to better understand the needs of both species individually to assure effectiveness and efficiency in recovery efforts. Determination of the factors limiting juvenile survival and recruitment is vital and should be part of a broader program which includes comparison among populations to understand demography and vital rates. Efforts should also include habitat restoration, improvement of water quality conditions, and reduction of entrainment, as well as monitoring to evaluate effectiveness. Lastly, a controlled propagation program should be considered and/or implemented to conserve unique genetic stocks and provide opportunity for augmentation of wild-spawned populations. Las especies en peligro de extincin Lost River sucker (Deltistes luxatus) y shortnose sucker (Chasmistes brevirostris) son endmicas de la parte alta de la cuenca Klamath en Oregn y California. Las poblaciones que alguna vez fueron muy abundantes han disminuido drsticamente debido a una combinacin de prdida y degradacin de los habitats, interrupcin de la reproduccin y del flujo de genes, pesca intensiva y prdida de poblaciones enteras. Las poblaciones que desovan dentro del Lago Upper Klamath estn disminuyendo y no han tenido un reclutamiento significativo por ms de una dcada. Adems de la prdida del hbitat, estas poblaciones se ven amenazadas por condiciones peridicas de aguas nocivas que son el resultado de la proliferacin desmedida de algas y por el arrastre de larvas y jvenes a los sistemas de suministro de agua o estructuras hidroelctricas. Las poblaciones de Chasmistes hrevirostris en el Lago Clear parecen estar relativamente saludables y estables, pero el reclutamiento de Deltistes luxatus parece ser escaso. La sequa y el manejo de las aguas afectan estas poblaciones. Es posible que otras poblaciones experimenten introgresin con el Klamath largescale sucker (Catostomus snyderi) o que carezcan de suficientes oportunidades para desovar y as poder sostenerse por s mismos, por lo que consecuentemente funcionan como poblaciones sumidero. A pesar de que las similitudes genticas y ecolgicas entre las especies son grandes, es importante entender mejor las necesidades individuales de ambas especies para asegurar la eficacia y eficiencia en los esfuerzos por recuperarlas. La determinacin de los factores que limitan la supervivencia y el reclutamiento de jvenes es vital y debera ser parte de un programa ms extenso para entender la demografa y las tasas vitales, incluyendo las comparaciones entre las poblaciones. Estos esfuerzos tambin deben incluir la restauracin del habitat, el aumento en la calidad del agua y la disminucin del arrastre, as como su monitoreo para evaluar su eficacia. Por ltimo, debe considerarse y/o implementarse un programa de propagacin controlada para conservar las reservas genticas nicas y brindar oportunidad para el aumento de poblaciones que desovan en su ambiente natural.
41718292|Size-structured spatial patterns in larvae of 2 sucker and 3 minnow species are described from fixed-site sampling in Upper Klamath Lake, Oregon, and are used to demonstrate patterns of size-based losses downstream and retention in the lake. The smallest larvae of shortnose suckers (Chasmistes brevirostris), Lost River suckers (Deltistes luxatus), and tui chubs (Siphateles bicolor) were least likely to be found in Lake Ewauna, a downstream catchment; yet the proportion of larger larvae downstream was often substantial, 20%40% of a size class. In contrast, the smallest larvae of blue chubs (Klamathella coerulea) and fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas) were least likely to be found in restoration marshes. For these 2 species, interannual differences in spatial size-structuring was variable, with larger size classes being found in high proportions in restoration marshes in some years but not in others. These patterns may be indicative of substantial emigration from Upper Klamath Lake, in the case of suckers and tui chubs, and of variable use of restoration marshes by larger blue chubs and fathead minnows. Although this and other approaches can provide insight into larval emigration and movement, spatially intensive sampling and knowledge of circulation patterns may allow for more rigorous estimates of larval movements. Describimos los patrones espaciales de las larvas estructuradas de acuerdo a su tamao de 2 especies de peces de la familia Catostomidae y 3 especies de peces de la familia Cyprinidae mediante el muestreo en sitios fijos del lago Upper Klamath, y los utilizamos para demostrar patrones en las prdidas de ciertos tamaos aguas abajo y su retencin en el lago. Las larvas ms pequeas de Chasmistes brevirostris, Deltistes luxatus y Siphateles bicolor se encontraron menos frecuentemente en el lago Ewauna, una cuenca aguas abajo; sin embargo, la proporcin de larvas ms grandes aguas abajo fue a menudo alta, con un 20%40% de una categora de tamao. Por el contrario, las larvas ms pequeas de Khmathella coerulea y de la carpita cabezona (Pimephales promelas) fueron menos comunes en las cinagas en restauracin. En estas especies, hubo variacin interanual en la estructura espacial por tamaos, en la que categoras de mayor tamao ocurrieron en proporciones elevadas en las cinagas en restauracin durante ciertos aos pero no en otros aos. Estos patrones podran indicar una emigracin substancial del lago Upper Klamath en el caso de los peces de la familia Catostomidae y de Siphateles bicolor, o podran indicar el uso variable que larvas grandes de Klamathella coerulea y de las carpitas cabezonas le dan a las cinagas en restauracin. Aunque tanto este como otros enfoques pueden brindar conocimiento sobre la emigracin y el movimiento de las larvas, se podran obtener estimados ms precisos sobre los movimientos de las larvas a travs del conocimiento de los patrones de circulacin y del muestreo espacialmente intensivo.
41718293|We monitored the response of endangered Lost River sucker (Deltistes luxatus) larvae and shortnose sucker (Chasmistes brevirostris) larvae prior to, and during the first 2 seasons after, restoration of historic wetlands at the mouth of the Williamson River, Upper Klamath Lake, Oregon. In 2006 and 2007 (prerestoration) and in 2009 and 2010 (postrestoration), we used pop nets set in shallow-water (<1-m-deep) wetland habitats to document the distribution and condition of larval fish throughout the Williamson River Delta Preserve, as well as at a reference site along the Goose Bay shoreline in Upper Klamath Lake. From prerestoration to postrestoration, we witnessed significant declines in abundance of larval suckers at the reference site along the Goose Bay shoreline but no similarly significant declines in the 2 pilot restoration projects (t = 9.92, df = 400, P < 0.0001; t = 0.8, df = 400, P = 0.3438). In 2009 and 2010, larvae were documented using the newly restored portions of the delta. Larval suckers captured during pre-and postrestoration in the pilot areas and during postrestoration in the restored areas of the preserve were more likely to have fuller guts than larvae captured at the reference site along the Goose Bay shoreline. Throughout the study, length trends were more variable than gut fullness trends: larvae captured in pilot areas prior to restoration were larger than those captured after restoration, and larvae captured at the reference site postrestoration were on average larger than postrestoration sucker larvae from the restored and pilot areas. Observamos la respuesta de las larvas de las especies de peces en peligro de extincin Deltistes luxatus y Chasmistes brevirostris antes de y durante las 2 primeras temporadas despus de la restauracin de los humedales histricos en la desembocadura del Ro Williamson, Lago Upper Klamath, Oregn. En 2006 y 2007 (antes de la restauracin) y 2009 y 2010 (despus de la restauracin), colocamos redes en habitats de aguas poco profundas (<1 m de profundidad) en los humedales para documentar la distribucin y condicin de las larvas de peces a lo largo de la Reserva del Delta del Ro Williamson; tambin, colocamos otras en un sitio de referencia sobre la costa de la Baha Goose en el Lago Upper Klamath. En el sitio de referencia sobre la costa de la Baha Goose, se observ un descenso significativo en la abundancia de las larvas de estos peces del tiempo previo a la restauracin al tiempo posterior a la misma; sin embargo, no se observaron descensos significativos similares en 2 proyectos piloto de restauracin (t = 9.92, gl = 400, P <0.0001; t = 0.8, gl = 400, P = 0.3438). En los aos 2009 y 2010, se documentaron larvas usando las zonas recientemente restauradas del Delta. Adems, las larvas de estos peces que se capturaron tanto antes como despus de la restauracin en las reas piloto y despus de la restauracin en las reas restauradas de la reserva tendan a tener los estmagos ms llenos, en comparacin con las larvas capturadas en el sitio de referencia a lo largo de la costa de la Baha Goose. Las tendencias en la longitud variaron ms durante el estudio, ya que se capturaron larvas ms grandes en las reas piloto antes de la restauracin, mientras que las larvas que se capturaron en los sitios de referencia despus de la restauracin eran en promedio ms grandes que las larvas de las reas restauradas y piloto.
41718294|The recovery program for the endangered June sucker (Chasmistes liorus) relies on population augmentation to overcome recruitment deficits. Successful recruitment of artificially propagated individuals is affected by release timing, release size, and rearing techniques. We examined the effect of release timing and release size (total length [TL] and a relative condition factor [W r ]) on recruitment probability of hatchery-reared June sucker (Utah Division of Wildlife Resources Fisheries Experiment Station [FES]) and captive-reared June sucker (Red Butte Reservoir [RBR] refuge population) stocked across multiple years. Because source and year effects were confounded, we assessed the probability of recruitment individually for each major stocking event (i.e., source  year combination). Successful recruitment occurred if an individual was recaptured or detected at least once during annual spawning runs up Utah Lake tributaries. For stocking events from RBR, probability of recruitment was highest in individuals stocked during spring and early summer but decreased as summer progressed. No difference existed between spring and fall stocking events. June sucker from the FES stocked in October had lower overall probability of recruitment than those stocked in August. The relationships between recruitment probability and TL and W r for stocking events from RBR were hump shaped, with peaks at approximately 375 mm TL and 100%, respectively. For FES individuals, a positive relationship existed between recruitment probability and TL for individuals stocked during August only; no relationship existed between the recruitment probability and W r . Release timing and release size affected the recruitment success of captive-reared June sucker; therefore, recovery plans should incorporate these factors in augmentation efforts to maximize augmentation efficiency and success. El programa de recuperacin para la especie de pez en peligro de extincin conocida como June sucker (Chasmistes liorus) se basa en el aumento de la poblacin para superar los dficits de reclutamiento. El reclutamiento exitoso de los individuos propagados artificialmente es afectado por el momento en que se liberan, el tamao al momento de la liberacin y las tcnicas de crianza. Examinamos los efectos que tienen el momento y el tamao (el largo total [TL] y un factor de condicin relativo [W r ]) al tiempo de la liberacin sobre la probabilidad de reclutamiento de Chasmistes liorus criados en piscifactora (Utah Division of Wildlife Resources Fisheries Experiment Station [FES]) y en cautiverio (poblacin protegida de la Red Butte Reservoir [RBR]) introducidos durante varios aos. Debido a que se confundieron los efectos de la fuente y el ao, evaluamos individualmente la probabilidad de reclutamiento de cada evento mayor de introduccin (i.e., fuente  combinacin de aos). El reclutamiento exitoso ocurri si se recapturaba o detectaba a un individuo al menos una vez durante los periodos en que desovaban a contracorriente en los ros afluentes del Lago Utah. Para los eventos de introduccin a partir de la RBR, la probabilidad de reclutamiento fue ms elevada cuando los individuos se introdujeron durante la primavera y a principios de verano; sin embargo, disminuy a medida que avanzaba el verano. No hubo diferencia entre las introducciones de primavera y otoo. Los Chasmistes liorus de la FES que fueron introducidos en octubre tuvieron en general menor probabilidad de reclutamiento que los que fueron sembrados en agosto. La relacin entre la probabilidad de reclutamiento y el TL y el W r para los eventos de introduccin a partir de la RBR tenan una forma de campana con su pico ms alto aproximadamente en 375 mm de TL y en 100%, respectivamente. Para los individuos de la FES, hubo una relacin positiva entre la probabilidad de reclutamiento y el TL de los individuos introducidos solamente en agosto; no hubo ninguna relacin entre la probabilidad de reclutamiento y el W r . El tamao y el momento de liberacin afectaron el xito de reclutamiento de los Chasmistes liorus criados en cautiverio; por lo tanto, para maximizar el xito y la eficiencia en el aumento de la poblacin, los planes de recuperacin deben incorporar estos factores a los esfuerzos por incrementarla.
41718295|One of the fundamental determinants of survival and growth of individuals is population density. Typically, individuals exhibit negative density dependence, but positive density dependence (Allee effect) may occur. Understanding patterns of density dependence is important for conservation and management of species that have low densities as a result of recent population declines. June sucker (Chasmistes liorus) is an endangered species that was formerly abundant but now is found at low densities in Utah Lake. We tested the hypothesis that young June sucker exhibit positive density dependence (i.e., Allee effects) in growth and survival at low densities. In addition, we tested the hypothesis that patterns of density dependence in growth and survival of young June sucker are consistent across years. We conducted a series of 5 experiments in 5 separate years. All 5 experiments included similar levels of density manipulations of young June sucker. June sucker exhibited Allee effects in both growth and survival in some years, but patterns of density dependence varied widely among years. Growth exhibited consistent patterns of negative density dependence, especially at higher densities. Survival was less affected by density, exhibiting no response to density in about half of the experimental comparisons. Overall, intermediate densities around 50 individuals  m seemed to provide the best tradeoff between growth and number produced. Uno de los elementos fundamentales para la supervivencia y crecimiento de individuos es la densidad poblacional. Tpicamente, los individuos muestran dependencia negativa a la densidad, pero la dependencia positiva a la densidad (el efecto Allee) puede ocurrir. El entendimiento de los patrones de dependencia a la densidad es importante para la conservacin y el manejo de especies que tienen bajas densidades como resultado de una declinacin reciente de la poblacin. El Chasmistes liorus es una especie en peligro que anteriormente fue abundante, pero ahora se encuentra en densidades bajas en el lago Utah. Examinamos la hiptesis de que los Chasmistes liorus jvenes muestran dependencia positiva a la densidad (es decir, efectos Allee) en crecimiento y sobrevivencia a densidades bajas. Adems, examinamos la hiptesis de que los patrones de dependencia a la densidad en crecimiento y sobrevivencia del Chasmistes liorus joven son consistentes de un ao a otro. Llevamos a cabo una serie de cinco experimentos durante cinco aos distintos. Los cinco experimentos incluyeron niveles similares de manipulaciones de densidad del Chasmistes liorus. El Chasmistes liorus demostr efectos Allee tanto en crecimiento como en sobrevivencia durante algunos aos, pero sus patrones de dependencia a la densidad variaron ampliamente de ao en ao. El crecimiento exhibi patrones consistentes de dependencia negativa a la densidad, especialmente en densidades ms altas. La densidad afect menos la supervivencia, sin exhibir respuesta a la densidad en aproximadamente la mitad de las comparaciones experimentales. En general, las densidades intermedias alrededor de 50 individuos  m parecieron proporcionar el equilibrio ptimo entre crecimiento y nmero producido.
41718296|The endangered June sucker, Chasmistes liorus, is a long-lived, zooplanktivorous sucker endemic to Utah Lake, Utah. Habitat degradation both in the tributaries, where adults spawn, and in the lake has contributed to near complete mortality of larval and juvenile fish within the first few weeks after hatching, leading to a long-term lack of recruitment to the adult population. Recovery of June sucker depends on habitat restoration in the river and the lake that will increase the survival of young fish. Thus, it is important to understand how habitat heterogeneity within the lake will influence the survival and growth of young June suckers. To this end, we compared the survival and growth of juvenile June suckers at 2 spatial scales: (1) large regions across the lake and (2) habitats within regions, namely, open water versus vegetated habitats. We related patterns of survival and growth to food availability (zooplankton density). Growth, but not survival, differed significantly among sites at the landscape scale. Sites with higher zooplankton density had higher mean growth. At the habitat scale, survival was greater in vegetated habitats, whereas growth was higher in the open water. Again, increased growth occurred in the area where zooplankton density was greatest. The density of small zooplankton (e.g., Brachionus rotifers) is a good indicator of habitat suitability for young June suckers at both the regional scale and the habitat scale. Future restoration activities should focus on submersed macrophytes and the spawning tributaries (e.g., Hobble Creek) that transport larval fish into the most productive regions of Utah Lake with the highest zooplankton densities (e.g., Provo Bay). La especie en peligro Chamistes liorus es una especie de pez longeva zooplanctvora de la familia Catostomidae endmica del Lago Utah, en el estado de Utah, Estados Unidos. La degradacin del hbitat tanto de los ros afluentes donde desovan los adultos como del lago ha contribuido a la casi absoluta mortalidad de las larvas y jvenes dentro de las primeras pocas semanas despus de eclosionar, llevando a largo plazo a la falta de reclutamiento de la poblacin adulta. La recuperacin de Chamistes liorus depende de la restauracin del habitat en el ro y en el lago lo cual aumentar la supervivencia de los jvenes. Para brindar informacin al esfuerzo por esta restauracin es importante entender la forma en la que la supervivencia y el crecimiento de los jvenes de Chamistes liorus se ven influenciados por la variacin en los hbitats encontrados en el lago. Con este objetivo, comparamos la supervivencia y el crecimiento de jvenes de Chamistes liorus entre hbitats en dos escalas espaciales (escala de paisaje y escala de habitat). Determinamos la relacin entre los patrones de supervivencia y crecimiento con la disponibilidad de alimento (densidad del zooplancton). A la escala de paisaje, el crecimiento, aunque no la supervivencia, difiri significativamente entre sitios. Los sitios con mayor densidad de zooplancton tuvieron un crecimiento promedio mayor. A la escala de habitat, la supervivencia fue ms elevada en el hbitat con vegetacin, mientras que el crecimiento fue mayor en aguas abiertas. Nuevamente, hubo un aumento en el crecimiento en el rea en donde la densidad del zooplancton fue ms alta. La densidad del zooplancton y la composicin de las especies son un buen indicador de la calidad del habitat para jvenes de Chamistes liorus tanto a la escala de paisaje como a la de hbitat. Las actividades para restaurar el hbitat en el futuro deben enfocarse en asegurar las conexiones entre los ros afluentes que se usan para desovar y las reas del lago con mayor densidad de zooplancton.
41718297|Although roundtail chub (Gila robusta) is generally considered a riverine species, 6 natural lakes in the upper Green River basin, Wyoming, have resident populations of this fish. In 2 of the lakes, Halfmoon and Little Halfmoon, we investigated the ecology of resident roundtail chub, including their habitat use, diet, weight-length relationships, growth, and reproduction. Lentic roundtail chub used littoral and mid-depth benthic habitats most often, with the highest catch rates in littoral habitats. Roundtail chub were rarely caught in pelagic or deep benthic habitats. Opportunistic foraging was observed in both lakes, with roundtail chub consuming terrestrial and aquatic insects, vegetation, and fish. Roundtail chub from both lakes had weightlength relationships similar to those reported for lotic populations but slower annual growth rates. Fish in spawning condition were captured from mid-June to late July when water temperatures ranged from 8.7 to 18.3 C and snowmelt runoff was at its maximum. Knowledge of roundtail chub ecology in lentic systems will influence management decisions and conservation actions important to preserving this species in the Colorado River basin. A pesar de que la carpita cola redonda (Gila robusta) se considera generalmente una especie de ro, seis lagos naturales en la cuenca alta del Ro Green, Wyoming tienen poblaciones residentes de este pez. En dos de los lagos, Halfmoon (Media luna) y Little Halfmoon (Pequea media luna), investigamos la ecologa de carpitas cola redonda residentes, incluyendo su uso de hbitat, dieta, la relacin entre peso y longitud, crecimiento y reproduccin. Las carpitas cola redonda lnticas usaron hbitats litorales y bentnicos de mediana profundidad ms a menudo, con las mayores tasas de captura en los hbitats litorales. Las carpitas cola redonda se capturaron raramente en en hbitats pelgicos o bentnicos profundos. En ambos lagos se observ un forrajeo oportunista, en donde la carpita consume insectos terrestres y acuticos, vegetacin y peces. Las carpitas provenientes de ambos lagos tuvieron una relacin peso-longitud similar a la reportada en poblaciones lticas, pero con tasas de crecimiento anual ms lentas. Se capturaron peces en condiciones de desove desde mediados de junio hasta finales de julio, cuando la temperatura en el agua oscil entre 8.7 y 18.3 C, y cuando el derretimiento de la nieve estaba en su mximo. El conocimiento de la ecologa de la carpita cola redonda en sistemas lnticos ayudar a influ en las decisiones de manejo y en las acciones para la conservacin, las cuales son importantes para preservar esta especie en la cuenca del Ro Colorado.
41718298|Ectoparasite infestation has been implicated in increased physiological costs and reduced fitness of several animals. The semiaquatic habit of muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) restricts its ectoparasites to small mites. We assessed variation in muskrat reproductive effort and fat content in response to relative abundance of parasitic mites. There were no significant correlations between total number of placental scars, number of litters, or percent body fat and the relative abundance of ectoparasitic mites. Our results suggest that these measures of muskrat reproduction and physiology are generally unaffected by arachnid ectoparasites. La infestacin de ectoparsitos ha sido vinculada con el aumento de costos fisiolgicos y una adecuacin reducida de varios animales. El hbito semiacutico de la rata almizclada (Ondatra zibethicus) restringe sus ectoparsitos a pequeos caros. Evaluamos la variacin en los esfuerzos de reproduccin y el contenido graso en respuesta a una abundancia relativa de caros parasitarios. No hubo ninguna correlacin significativa entre el total de las cicatrices placentarias, el nmero de carnadas o el porcentaje de grasa corporal y la abundancia relativa de caros ectoparsitos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que estas medidas de la reproduccin y fisiologa de la rata almizclada no son generalmente afectadas por los ectoparsitos arcnidos.
41718299|Insect exclusion from the flowers of Penstemon caryi showed that fruits are not produced unless pollen is moved between flowers by pollinators. We recorded over 30 species of bees visiting the flowers, and about a third of the bee species were common. Flower visitors were primarily pollen-collecting female bees, most of which also carried pollen on areas of the head that strongly implicated them as pollinators. While larger bees were generally more common on the flowers than smaller bees, there appeared to be no difference between size groups in (1) the percent of females collecting Penstemon pollen, (2) the percent of collected pollen that was Penstemon pollen, or (3) the percent of individuals that carried pollen in areas likely to effect pollination. Two long-tongued species, Anthophora ursina (Apidae) and Osmia brevis (Megachilidae), dominated the collections. These 2 species have very different host associations with Penstemon flowers: the specialist O. brevis collects pollen only from species of beardtongues in the western United States, while the generalist A. ursina uses a wide spectrum of plant species for pollen and seems to express fidelity to Penstemon flowers only when those flowers are abundant. There was no evidence that specialists are superior to generalists as pollinators of P. caryi. La exclusin de insectos de las flores de Penstemon caryi mostr que no hay produccin de frutos a menos que el polen se mueva entre las flores mediante un polinizador. Registramos a ms de 30 especies de abejas que visitaron las flores, de las cuales alrededor de un tercio eran especies comunes. Principalmente fueron abejas hembras recolectoras de polen quienes visitaron las flores; la mayora de estas abejas tambin llevaba polen en ciertas partes de sus cabezas, lo que implic fuertemente que eran polinizadoras. A pesar de que fue ms comn encontrar abejas de mayor tamao en las flores, en comparacin con abejas ms pequeas, al parecer no hubo ninguna diferencia entre los grupos de diferentes tamaos en materia de (1) el porcentaje de hembras que recolectaron polen de Penstemon; (2) el porcentaje de polen recolectado que fue de Penstemon; o (3) el porcentaje de individuos que llevaban polen en las reas que ms comnmente afectan la polinizacin. Hubo dos especies de lenguas largas que dominaron la colecta de polen: Anthophora ursina (Apidae) y Osmia brevis (Megachilidae). Estas 2 especies tienen una asociacin ecolgica muy diferente con las flores Penstemon. La especialista O. brevis solo recolecta polen de especies de Penstemon al occidente de los Estados Unidos; por su parte, la generalista A. ursine utiliza una amplia gama de especies de plantas para obtener polen y al parecer muestra lealtad a las flores Penstemon solamente cuando tales flores abundan. No se encontr evidencia de que las especialistas son superiores a las generalistas en cuanto a su desempeo como polinizadoras de P. caryi.
41718300|The distribution and geographic range of Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) have been reduced by 56% since European settlement. Although loss and fragmentation of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) habitats have been cited as the primary causes for the decline of the species, degradation of existing habitat also has been considered an important factor. Guidelines for protection and management of breeding and winter habitat have been developed for land managers, but winter habitat use has not been thoroughly described throughout the species' range, particularly for the western portion of its range in Oregon. We examined vegetation-type selection and use by Greater Sage-Grouse during winter (Nov-Feb) at 3 study areas in southeastern Oregon (1989-1992). Elevation gradients and vegetative communities differed among these 3 areas. Our objective was to examine the geographic variation in the selection and use of various vegetation types during winter, when sage-grouse distributions may be most restricted. We described differences in vegetation structure at the microhabitat scale among 3 areas and differences in vegetation-type selection at the macrohabitat scale. We found that the use of mixed sagebrush (basin big sagebrush [Artemisia tridentata tridentata]) and other shrubby vegetation types by sage-grouse was greater than expected at all 3 study areas. At the low-and high-elevation study areas, low sagebrush (Artemisia longiloba) vegetation types were selected more often than expected at random, which was contrary to our original hypotheses. Basin big sagebrush vegetation types were used in proportion to their availability at the 2 low-elevation study areas, and big sagebrush steppe was used less than available (avoided) at the low-elevation areas; these results were contrary to our original predictions. Such differences in selection among the study areas in southeastern Oregon create additional challenges for land managers, who are charged with managing habitats for sage-grouse use during autumn and winter in this portion of the species' geographic range. La distribucin y la extensin geogrfica del urogallo de las artemisas (Centrocercus urophasianus) se ha reducido en un 56% desde la colonizacin por los europeos. A pesar de que la prdida y fragmentacin de los habitats de artemisas (Artemisia spp.) se han citado como las causas principales de la reduccin de la especie, tambin se ha considerado como un factor importante la degradacin de los habitats existentes. Se han desarrollado directrices para los encargados de las tierras con la finalidad de mejorar la proteccin y el control de los habitats reproductivos y de invierno; sin embargo, el uso de los habitats de invierno no se ha descrito exhaustivamente a lo largo de la distribucin geogrfica de la especie, particularmente en la regin occidente de su distribucin en Oregon. Examinamos el tipo de vegetacin seleccionado y usado por el urogallo de las artemisas durante el invierno (noviembre-febrero) en tres reas de estudio al sureste de Oregn (1989-1992). Los gradientes de elevacin y las comunidades vegetales fueron diferentes entre estas 3 reas. Nuestro objetivo fue examinar la variacin geogrfica en la seleccin y el uso de varios tipos de vegetacin durante el invierno, cuando las distribuciones del urogallo de las artemisas podran estar ms restringidas. Describimos diferencias en la estructura de la vegetacin en el microhbitat de 3 reas, as como tambin diferencias en la seleccin del tipo de vegetacin a la escala de macrohbitat. Encontramos que el uso que le da el urogallo de las artemisas a la Artemisia tridentata mixta y a otros tipos de vegetacin arbustiva fue mucho mayor a lo esperado en las 3 reas estudiadas. En las reas estudiadas de elevacin baja y alta, el tipo de vegetacin conformado por A. longibba se seleccion aleatoriamente ms a menudo de lo esperado, contrario a nuestra hiptesis inicial. En las 2 reas estudiadas de elevacin baja, el tipo de vegetacin de A. tndentata se us en proporcin a su disponibilidad; tambin en las reas de elevacin baja, la estepa de artemisa se us menos de lo que corresponda a su disponibilidad (se evit). Estos resultados representan lo opuesto a nuestras predicciones originales. Estas diferencias en la seleccin entre las reas estudiadas al sureste de Oregn crea retos adicionales para los administradores de las tierras, quienes tienen el cargo de regular los hbitats para el uso del urogallo de las artemisas durante el otoo y el invierno en esta porcin de la distribucin geogrfica de la especie.
41718301|Biological soil crust ecology in the hot Mojave Desert is poorly understood with regard to crust distribution and abundance, as well as the impacts of trampling disturbance on crust development. Our objective was to study biological soil crusts in 2 areas of differing disturbance pressures in the high desert region of Joshua Tree National Park, California, with respect to visible crust cover and frequency, chlorophyll a, and soil stability. Impacts on biological soil crusts from 2 disturbance regimes, historic grazing and recent high foot traffic, were compared using a disturbance indicator. In addition, we measured a suite of abiotic and biotic soil parameters commonly associated with crust abundance and distribution and characterized occurrence with respect to 3 geomorphic features (pockets, slopes, and wash banks). Individual physical and chemical soil parameters historically have been associated with crust development. In contrast, this study demonstrates that geomorphic features with a suite of soil properties clearly impacted crust development. In both study areas, wash banks showed the best crust development (51%-52% total crust cover) and slopes showed the poorest crust development (<37% total crust cover). Lichens and mosses were best developed in the pocket areas (1.1% and 1.5% cover, 25%-30% frequency), which can accumulate and retain moisture during and following precipitation events. Our disturbance index suggested that the high-foot-traffic area, being associated with a reduction in visible crust cover, has experienced more recent disturbance than the historically grazed sites. However, despite the reduction in cover, the high-foot-traffic area had more lichen and moss crusts, indicating that the crusts in this area are more successionally mature. In contrast, the historically grazed area showed clear signs of recovery from past grazing disturbance, with a higher visual cover of biological soil crusts. However, crusts also had lower biomass values, supporting an earlier successional stage. Overall, we conclude that biological soil crusts of the Mojave Desert are very different in composition, form, and ecology than crusts of other desert regions of North America. La ecologa de la corteza biolgica del suelo en el caluroso desierto Mojave es poco entendida con respecto a su distribucin y abundancia, as como el impacto de las perturbaciones en el desarrollo de la corteza causadas por el pisoteo. Nuestro objetivo fue estudiar las cortezas biolgicas de 2 reas con diferentes presiones de perturbacin en la regin alta del desierto del Parque Nacional Joshua Tree, California, con respecto a la cobertura visible y la frecuencia de la corteza biolgica, laclorofila a y la estabilidad del suelo. Los impactos en la corteza biolgica de 2 regmenes de perturbacin, el pastoreo histrico y la frecuencia de pisoteo reciente fueron comparados utilizando un indicador de perturbacin. Adems, medimos un conjunto de parmetros abiticos y biticos del suelo comnmente asociados con la abundancia y distribucin de la corteza y caracterizamos su incidencia con respecto a 3 caractersticas geomorfolgicas (hondonadas, pendientes y bancos de deslave). Los parmetros fsicos y qumicos individuales del suelo han sido asociados histricamente con el desarrollo de la corteza biolgica. En contraste, este estudio demuestra que las caractersticas geomrficas, aunadas a un conjunto de propiedades del suelo, claramente impactaron el desarrollo de la corteza. En ambas reas de estudio, los bancos de deslave mostraron el mejor desarrollo de la corteza (51%-52% de la cobertura total de la corteza) y las pendientes exhibieron el peor desarrollo de la corteza (<37% de la cobertura total de la corteza). Los liqenes y musgos se desarrollaron mejor en las hondonadas (1.1% y 1.5% cobertura, 25%-30% frecuencia), las cuales pueden acumular y retener humedad durante y despus de las precipitaciones. Nuestro ndice de perturbacin, el cual estuvo asociado con una reduccin en la cobertura visible de la corteza biolgica, sugiri que el rea con alto pisoteo ha experimentado perturbacin ms reciente que los sitios histricamente pastoreados. Sin embargo, a pesar de la reduccin en la corteza, el rea con alto pisoteo tena ms cortezas de liqenes y musgos, lo cual indica que las cortezas en esta rea son sucesionalmente ms madura. En contraste, el rea histricamente pastoreada mostr claros signos de recuperacin de una perturbacin anterior por el pastoreo, con una mayor cobertura visual de la corteza biolgica del suelo. Pero tambin tuvieron valores menores de biomasa, indicando un estado sucesional ms temprano. En general, concluimos que las cortezas biolgicas del suelo del desierto Mojave son muy diferentes en composicin, forma y ecologa que las cortezas de otras regiones desrticas de Norteamrica.
41718302|Northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) are found in boreal forests of northern and northwestern North America, but a small population is isolated to the Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming. Few microsatellite primers have been developed for this species, though they are needed to examine the genetic structure of these populations. Thus, we isolated and characterized 5 microsatellite loci in northern flying squirrels through a series of steps involving microbiology, molecular biology, and genetic techniques. Data analyses with these primers indicated that the northern flying squirrel population found in the Black Hills may have low heterozygosity and significant departure from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The development of these primers not only provides additional data for analyzing a small, disjunct population but also serves as a mechanism for understanding population dynamics and assisting with overall management and conservation of unique populations. Las ardillas voladoras del norte (Glaucomys sabrinus) se encuentran en los bosques boreales del norte y noroeste de Norteamrica, pero existe una pequea poblacin aislada en las Colinas Negras de Dakota del Sur y Wyoming. Pocos cebadores microsatlites se han desarrollado para esta especie, a pesar de que se necesitan para examinar la estructura gentica de estas poblaciones. Por consiguiente, aislamos y marcamos cinco loci microsatlites en ardillas voladoras del norte utilizando varios pasos de microbiologa, biologa molecular y tcnicas de gentica. Los anlisis de datos con estos cebadores indicaron que la poblacin de ardillas voladoras del norte encontradas en las Colinas Negras podra tener baja heterocigosidad y una desviacin significativa del equilibrio de Hardy-Weinberg. El desarrollo de estos cebadores no solo brinda datos adicionales para analizar una pequea poblacin disyunta, sino que tambin sirve de mecanismo para entender la dinmica poblacional y auxiliar en el manejo y conservacin general de poblaciones nicas.
41718303|We analyzed the effects of a second-entry prescribed fire in a mixed conifer forest in Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona, 14 years after the initial burn to assess whether restoration and management objectives were achieved. The surface fire had little effect on large overstory ponderosa pine, Douglas-fir, and white fir trees and did not change total tree density or basal area. The fire reduced the overall density of conifer seedlings <30 cm tall by 87%, but had a smaller effect on seedlings >30 cm tall and on sapling density. The fire reduced litter depths by 33%, duff depths by 23%, fine woody debris by 21%, and coarse woody debris by 44%. These effects were mostly consistent with restoration goals in mixed conifer forests and continue to move this forest toward reference conditions. Grand Canyon National Park staff now considers this forest to be in "maintenance burning," meaning that they plan to allow natural ignitions to maintain forest structure in the future. This forest is now more resilient to projected increases in fire size and/or frequency under conditions of a warming climate. This example illustrates that use of prescribed fire in a ponderosa pine-dominated mixed conifer forest can be consistent both with restoring historical conditions and with managing for resilience under altered disturbance regimes accompanying a changing climate. Analizamos los efectos de una quema prescrita que se realiz por segunda vez 14 aos despus de la quema inicial en un bosque templado de conferas en el Parque Nacional del Gran Can en Arizona, para evaluar si las metas de restauracin y manejo se lograron. El incendio en la superficie casi no afect los pinos ponderosa de alto dosel, los abetos de Douglas ni los abetos del Colorado, y no cambi la densidad total de rboles o el rea basai. El fuego redujo en un 87% la densidad total de las plntulas de coniferas de <30 cm de altura, pero tuvo un impacto menor en las plntulas de >30 cm de altura y en la densidad de los rboles jvenes. El fuego redujo en un 33% la profundidad de la hojarasca, en un 23% la profundidad de la capa de fermentacin, en un 21% el detritus leoso fino y el grueso en un 44%. Estos efectos fueron en su mayora consistentes con las metas de restauracin para los bosques mixtos de coniferas y continan impulsando este bosque hacia sus condiciones de referencia. Ahora, el personal del Parque Nacional del Gran Can considera que este bosque est en "quemas de mantenimiento", queriendo decir con esto que planean permitir incendios naturales para mantener la estructura forestal en el futuro. En este momento, este bosque se encuentra ms fuerte para resistir los aumentos proyectados en la magnitud y frecuencia de los incendios derivados de condiciones climticas que sern ms calurosas. Este ejemplo ilustra que el uso de la quema prescrita en un bosque mixto de conferas dominado por pinos ponderosa puede ser consistente tanto con la restauracin de las condiciones histricas como con el manejo para la resistencia a regmenes de perturbaciones alteradas por el cambio climtico.
41718304|We examined the diets of 3 species of bufonids from northern Mexico (Anaxyrus debilis, Anaxyrus punctatus, and Incilius mazatlanensis) with the objective of better understanding the diets of amphibians in this region of Mexico, which is currently undergoing environmental change. The diet of A. debilis was numerically and volumetrically dominated by termites, followed by ants. In A. debilis, some aspects of prey size were correlated with toad head width but were not related to head length or body size (i.e., snout-vent length [SVL]). Ants were numerically the most important prey item in the diet of A. punctatus, but beetles were volumetrically the most important prey item. Prey size was not related to toad head size or body size in A. punctatus. The diet of I. mazatlanensis numerically consisted of ants, beetles, and bugs; however, volumetrically, its diet was dominated by beetles. In I. mazatlanensis, only prey length was correlated with toad head width and SVL. The diets of these 3 species generally fit our previous understanding of the diets of bufonids. Examinamos la dieta de 3 especies de bufnidos del norte de Mxico (Anaxyrus debilis, Anaxyrus punctatus e Incilius mazatlanensis) con el objetivo de entender mejor la dieta de los anfibios en esta regin de Mxico que actualmente experimenta un cambio ambiental. La dieta de A. debilis fue dominada numrica y volumtricamente por las termitas, seguidas por las hormigas. En A. debilis, algunos aspectos del tamao de sus presas estuvieron correlacionados con el ancho de la cabeza pero no estuvieron relacionados con el largo de la cabeza ni con el tamao del cuerpo. Numricamente, las hormigas fueron la presa ms importante en la dieta de A. punctatus, pero los escarabajos fueron la presa ms importante de acuerdo al volumen. El tamao de la presa no estuvo relacionado con el tamao de la cabeza o el cuerpo de los sapos en la dieta de A. punctatus. Numricamente, la dieta de I. mazatlanensis consisti principalmente de hormigas, escarabajos e insectos; sin embargo, su dieta fue dominada volumtricamente por escarabajos. En I. mazatlanensis, solo el largo de la presa estuvo correlacionado con el ancho de la cabeza de los sapos y con su LHC (longitud hocico-cloaca). Las dietas de estas 3 especies corroboran en general nuestro entendimiento previo de las dietas de los bufnidos.
41718308|Anthropogenic alterations to lotie systems are often implicated in global declines among stream-dwelling fishes. A primary step toward mediating fish declines is improving our understanding of species-environment relationships; unfortunately, such information is limited. The goal of this study was to assess relationships between fish communities and environmental variables in a relatively intact portion of the Rio Grande/Rio Bravo del Norte in the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. We quantified the relationship between riverine habitats and local fish communities at 7 sites in the Big Bend reach of the Rio Grande/Rio Bravo del Norte during 2006. Monthly collections yielded 10,565 individuals representing 20 species, including 6 species listed as threatened or otherwise at risk. Species richness varied among sites (range 1319) as did diversity (1  D: 0.490.72) and density (1645 fish  100 m). Fish community composition indicated spatial and temporal variations, but habitat characteristics indicated more variation among sampling sites than among months. Spatial variation in community structure correlated with site-specific habitat characteristics, and most threatened or at risk species were associated with run or riffle geomorphic units containing higher current velocities and gravel to cobble substrates. Temporal variation in community structure correlated with fall monsoonal flooding, during which composition of dominant species shifted from the habitat generalist red shiner (Cyprinella lutrensis) to the imperiled, regionally endemic Tamaulipas shiner (Notropis braytoni). Results from this study suggest that large flood pulses and maintenance of habitat heterogeneity are necessary for the persistence of both declining and intact local fish communities in the Rio Grande/Rio Bravo del Norte. Las alteraciones antropognicas a los sistemas lticos estn con frecuencia implicadas en las declinaciones globales entre peces de arroyos. Un paso primordial para mediar la disminucin de los peces, es mejorar nuestro entendimiento de las relaciones entre las especies y su ambiente; desafortunadamente, dicha informacin es limitada. El objetivo de este estudio fue evaluar las relaciones entre las comunidades de peces y las variables ambientales en una parte relativamente intacta del Ro Grande/Ro Bravo del Norte al suroeste de los Estados Unidos y al norte de Mxico. Cuantificamos la relacin entre los hbitats ribereos y las comunidades locales de peces en 7 sitios del tramo Big Bend del Ro Grande/Ro Bravo del Norte durante el 2006. Las colecciones mensuales aportaron 10,565 individuos representando a 20 especies, incluyendo a 6 especies listadas como amenazadas en riesgo. La riqueza de especies vari entre sitios (con un rango de 1319) al igual que la diversidad (1  D: 0.490.72) y la densidad (1645 peces  100 m). La composicin de la comunidad de peces indic variaciones espaciales y temporales, pero las caractersticas del habitat indicaron ms variaciones entre los sitios de muestreo que entre los meses. La variacin espacial en la estructura de la comunidad estuvo correlacionada con las caractersticas del hbitat especficas al sitio, y la mayora de las especies amenazadas o en riesgo estuvieron asociadas con unidades geomrficas de correderas o rpidos con corrientes de velocidades mayores y sustratos de grava o guijn. La variacin temporal en la estructura de la comunidad estuvo correlacionada con las inundaciones otoales del monzn, durante las cuales la especie dominante cambi de la generalista carpita rojiazul (Cyprinella lutrensis), a la especie en peligro y regionalmente endmica sardinita pechona de Tamaulipas (Notropis braytoni). Los resultados de este estudio sugieren que los pulsos de inundacin grandes y el mantenimiento de la heterogeneidad del hbitat son necesarios para la sobrevivencia de las comunidades locales de peces, tanto en declinacin como las intactas, en el ro Bravo del Norte.
41718309|Two prairie-clovers, Dalea ornata (Douglas ex Hook.) Eaton & J. Wright and Dalea searlsiae (A. Gray) Barneby, are perennial forbs found sporadically in the U.S. Intermountain West. Their seed is desirable for use in rangeland restoration. We experimentally characterized the breeding biologies of D. ornata and D. searlsiae in a common garden, surveyed their pollinator guilds, and sampled their seed predators. The 2 Dalea species, being primarily xenogamous, have comparable pollination requirements. For flowers manually pollinated with outcross pollen, an average of 42% of D. ornata flowers and 39% of D. searlsiae flowers yielded plump large seeds filled with endosperm. Both species proved to be self-compatible, but far fewer seeds resulted from either manual pollination with self-pollen (11% seed set for D. ornata and 7% for D. searlsiae) or unassisted autogamy (5% and 6% seed set, respectively). Limited surveys of the prairie-clovers' pollinator guilds in ruderal or cheatgrass-infested habitats revealed sparse visitation solely by wild bees, primarily of the genera Anthidium, Colletes, Bombus, Eucera, and Melissodes. Beetles (Acanthoscelides oregonensis Johnson and Apion amaurum Kissinger) infested seed sampled from 18 of 25 D. ornata populations across a 3-state region. Productive farming of the seed of these prairie-clovers for rangeland restoration in the western United States will require supplementation of bees for pollination and exclusion of seed beetles. Dos especies de daleas, Dalea ornata (Douglas ex Hook.) Eaton & J. Wright y Dalea searlsiae (A. Gray) Barneby, son plantas herbceas perennes que se encuentran espordicamente en la regin intermontaosa del oeste de los Estados Unidos. Sus semillas son tiles para la restauracin de pastizales. Caracterizamos experimentalmente la biologa de la reproduccin de D. ornata y D. searlsiae en un experimento de jardn comn; examinamos sus gremios de polinizadores y tomamos muestras de los depredadores de sus semillas. Las 2 especies de Dalea, siendo primordialmente xengamas, tienen requisitos comparables para la polinizacin. En las flores que fueron polinizadas manualmente con polen ajeno, un 42% en promedio de las flores de D. ornata y un 39% de las flores de D. searlsiae produjeron semillas grandes y voluminosas llenas de endospermo. Ambas especies resultaron ser auto-compatibles, pero resultaron muchas menos semillas tanto de la polinizacin manual con polen propio (11% de semillas en D. ornata y 7% en D. searlsiae) como de autogamia no asistida (5% y 6% de semillas, respectivamente). Muestreos limitados de los gremios de polinizadores en hbitats dominados por plantas ruderales o por Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass) revelaron visitas escasas conformadas exclusivamente por abejas silvestres, principalmente de los gneros Anthidium, Colletes, Bombus, Eucera y Melissodes. Dos especies de escarabajos (Acanthoscelides oregonensis Johnson y Apion amaurum Kissinger) infestaron las muestras de semillas en 18 de las 25 poblaciones de D. ornata a lo largo de una regin que abarca tres estados. Habr que proporcionar abejas para la polinizacin y excluir o controlar los escarabajos depredadores de semillas para tener una cosecha productiva de las semillas de estas daleas con el fin de usarlas en esfuerzos por restaurar pastizales en el oeste de los Estados Unidos.
41718310|We describe a new springsnail species, Pyrgulopsis cybele, from the Owyhee River basin (northwestern Nevada) based on morphologic and molecular (mtCOI) evidence. Pyrgulopsis cybele differs from other members of its genus in its unique pattern of penial ornament, which consists of small glands on the distal edge of the penial lobe, base of the penial filament, and outer edge of the medial section of the penis. It is further differentiated from regional congeners by its thickened inner-shell lip and mtCOI sequences. A Bayesian analysis based on COI data placed P. cybele in a well-supported clade that contained congeners from Snake River, Great Basin, Colorado River, and California Pacific Coastal drainages; the sister taxon of this new species was not resolved. The COI divergence of P. cybele relative to its most genetically similar congener (P. glandulosa) suggests that it evolved subsequent to emplacement of the Miocene basalt that carpets the upper South Fork Owyhee basin. Pyrgulopsis cybele was collected from 2 closely proximal springs along the South Fork Owyhee River below the Nevada Pipeline Crossing. Although these populations are in a remote wilderness study area, they may be threatened by livestock grazing and human disturbance. Describimos una nueva especie de caracol de manantial, Pyrgulopsis cybele, de la cuenca del Ro Owyhee (al noroeste de Nevada), con base en evidencias morfolgicas y moleculares (mtCOI). Pyrgulopsis cybele difiere de otros miembros de su gnero debido a su ornamentacin nica en el pene, la cual consiste de pequeas glndulas en el extremo distal del lbulo, en la base del filamento y en el extremo exterior de la seccin media del pene. Se distingue an ms de sus congneres regionales debido a que el labio interno de la concha est engrosado y a las secuencias del gen mtCOI. Un anlisis Bayesiano basado en datos del COI (citocromo c oxidasa subunidad I) coloc a P. cybele en un ciado bien apoyado que incluy a congneres del Ro Snake, de la Gran Cuenca, del Ro Colorado y de algunos ros de la costa del Pacfico en California; no se resolvi el taxn hermano de esta nueva especie. La divergencia en el COI de P. cybele con respecto a su congnere genticamente ms similar (P. glandulosa) sugiere que evolucion posteriormente al asentamiento de basalto del Mioceno que cubre la parte alta de la cuenca South Fork Owyhee. Se colect P. cybele de dos manantiales cercanos entre s a lo largo del Ro South Fork Owyhee y por debajo del cruce del gaseoducto de Nevada (Nevada Pipeline Crossing). A pesar de que estas poblaciones se encueatran en un rea de estudio silvestre y remota, podran estar siendo amenazadas por la ganadera y por perturbaciones humanas.
41718311|Surveys for foliar ozone injury on cutleaf coneflower, spreading dogbane, and quaking aspen were conducted in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, from 2006 through 2010. Foliar injury in the form of ozone stipple was found on coneflower each year. The incidence of injured plants on sites with injury ranged from 5% to 100%. The severity of injury on affected foliage was generally <4% but occurred on some leaves at a level greater than 12% in 3 years and in 1 year on 1 plant at a level >75%. No foliar ozone injury was found on spreading dogbane or quaking aspen in any year of the survey. This is the first documentation of ozone injury on vegetation in Rocky Mountain National Park. While ozone has long been a concern in the Colorado Front Range, spreading urbanization and oil and gas development are leading to increased levels of ozone in many areas in the Rocky Mountain region. Air monitoring data indicate that ozone exposures are exceeding injury thresholds in several locations and suggest that assessments of foliar ozone injury should be conducted on ozone-sensitive plant species in riparian and moist communities in those areas. De 2006 a 2010 se llevaron a cabo trabajos de investigacin en el Parque Nacional Rocky Mountain, estado de Colorado, para investigar el dao foliar causado por el ozono en Rudbeckia laciniata, Apocynum androsaemifolium y Populus tremuloides. Cada ao se encontraron en Rudbeckia laciniata manchas ocasionadas por el ozono representativas de dao foliar. La incidencia de plantas daadas en sitos afectados vari desde un 5% hasta un 100%. Por lo general, la severidad del dao en el follaje afectado fue menor de un 4%; sin embargo, en 3 aos ocurri a un nivel por encima del 12% en algunas hojas, y en un ao a un nivel superior al 75% en una planta. No se encontr ningn dao foliar ocasionado por el ozono ni en Apocynum androsaemifolium ni en Populus tremuloides durante ninguno de los aos en los que se llev a cabo el estudio. Esta es la primera documentacin existente de un dao ocasionado por el ozono sobre la vegetacin del Parque Nacional Rocky Mountain. Mientras que el ozono ha sido por mucho tiempo un punto de preocupacin para la cordillera frontal de Colorado (Colorado Front Range), la creciente urbanizacin y la extraccin de petrleo y de gas son las causas principales que aumentan los niveles de ozono en muchas reas de la regin de las Montaas Rocosas. Los datos del monitoreo del aire indican que la exposicin al ozono est excediendo los niveles crticos de dao en varias localidades; tambin indican que se deben llevar a cabo evaluaciones del dao foliar ocasionado por el ozono en especies de plantas susceptibles al ozono tanto en las comunidades ribereas como en las de los humedales de esas reas.
41718312|Quantifying an invasive species' negative impacts across its introduced range will be quite challenging if the impacts vary unpredictably from site to site or from population to population. Little emphasis, however, has been placed on quantifying such interpopulation variation in the impacts of individual invasive species. We studied the response of a native grass (Festuca rubra) to competition from 4 geographically dispersed invasive plant (Melilotus albus) populations in order to determine if some populations of this invader have greater competitive impacts than others. Despite the relatively large number of experimental units in our greenhouse study, we did not obtain evidence that competitive effects per gram of biomass varied by invader population. Therefore, in some cases it should be possible to estimate the effects of invasive weeds with simple competition models that ignore some forms of phenotypic variation, as long as the models control for invader biomass per unit area (i.e., invader yield). Cuantificar los impactos negativos de una especie invasora a lo largo del rango en el que se ha introducido es bastante difcil si tales impactos varan impredeciblemente de un sitio a otro o de una poblacin a otra. Sin embargo, poco ha sido el nfasis que se le ha dado a cuantificar tales variaciones interpoblacionales en los impactos de especies invasoras individuales. Estudiamos la forma en la que respondi una gramnea nativa (Festuca rubra) a la competencia generada por 4 poblaciones geogrficamente dispersas de una planta invasora (Melilotus albus) con la finalidad de determinar si ciertas poblaciones de esta invasora tienen un impacto competitivo mayor que otras. A pesar del relativamente gran nmero de unidades experimentales en nuestro estudio de invernadero, no obtuvimos evidencia de que los efectos competitivos por gramo de biomasa variaran de acuerdo a cada poblacin invasora. Por lo tanto, en algunos casos debe ser posible estimar los efectos de las malezas invasoras con modelos sencillos de competencia que ignoren algunas formas de variacin fenotpica, siempre y cuando los modelos tomen en cuenta la biomasa del invasor por unidad de rea (i.e., la productividad del invasor).
41718313|Groundwater-dependent ecosystems (GDEs) that do not meet the legal definition of wetlands are important for sustaining regional biodiversity, livestock grazing, and outdoor recreation in the Intermountain West. Such GDEs in Owens Valley, California, are also used to produce 11,225 hectare meters (91,000 acre-feet) of water annually from about 100 water wells. We used 21 years of Landsat data and 18 years of field monitoring data to analyze responses of 2 adjacent-meadow GDEs to different groundwater management practices. The northern meadow, which was subject to continuous water table drawdown below the rooting zone of phreatophytic grasses, experienced decline in total live cover from 42.7% to 30.2%, decline in grass cover from 27.5% to 14.1%, transition from grass to shrub dominance, and change from groundwater dependence to precipitation dependence. These responses had been predicted by managers in 1976. The southern meadow, which was managed with cycles of water table drawdown and recovery, experienced neither cover decline nor dominance-type conversion and remained groundwater dependent. Variation in depth-to-water table (DTW) explained 83% of the pooled variance in total live cover in both meadows. Results showed that nonwetland, nonriparian GDEs are vulnerable to water table decline, as are wetland and riparian GDEs. Managing groundwater extraction through imposing one- to several-year cycles of water table drawdown and recovery may avoid further cover decline and type conversion in GDEs already affected by groundwater withdrawals. En la regin intermontaosa occidental, los ecosistemas dependientes del agua subterrnea (de aqu en adelante denominados GDEs por sus siglas en ingls) que no cumplen con la definicin legal de humedales son importantes para mantener la biodiversidad regional, el pastoreo de ganado y las actividades recreativas al aire libre. En Owens Valley, California, dichos GDEs tambin se utilizan para producir anualmente 112.250.000 metros cbicos de agua de unos 100 pozos de agua. Utilizamos 21 aos de datos Landsat y 18 aos de datos del monitoreo en campo para analizar las respuestas de 2 prados adyacentes con GDEs a distintas prcticas de manejo de las aguas subterrneas. El prado del norte fue objeto de una reduccin continua del nivel fretico por debajo de la zona de enraizamiento de freatofitas. Este prado experiment una disminucin total de cobertura viva de un 42.7% a un 30.2%; la cubierta herbcea tambin disminuy de un 27.5% a un 14.1%; a su vez, exhibi una tendencia que favoreca el dominio de arbustos y no de pastizales, y por ltimo, cambi su dependencia de las aguas subterrneas a una dependencia de la precipitacin. Estas respuestas haban sido pronosticadas por expertos en manejo en 1976. El prado del sur, el cual se control mediante ciclos de reduccin y recuperacin de los niveles freticos, no experiment ni disminucin de la cobertura ni ninguna clase de cambio con respecto al tipo de vegetacin dominante y mantuvo su dependencia hacia las aguas subterrneas. En ambos prados, la variacin en la profundidad de los niveles freticos explic el 84% de la varianza conjunta en el total de cobertura viva. Los resultados mostraron que los GDEs que no son hmedales ni tampoco corresponden a vegetacin riberea son vulnerables al descenso de los niveles freticos, tal como lo son los GDEs de las zonas ribereas y de humedales. El control de la extraccin de aguas subterrneas a travs de la implementacin de ciclos de reduccin y recuperacin de los niveles freticos que duren de uno a varios aos puede evitar que contine la disminucin de la cobertura y que cambie el tipo de vegetacin dominante en los GDEs que estn siendo afectados por la extraccin de agua subterrnea.
41718314|The faunal assemblage from Five Finger Ridge, an archaeological site in central Utah that was occupied by the Fremont from approximately AD 1100 to 1350, shows marked transitions in the relative abundances of 3 leporid taxa. At the time of initial occupation of the site, Sylvilagus audubonii and Lepus sp. dominated the assemblage but through time were gradually replaced by Sylvihgus nuttallii. I contextualized the shifting frequencies of these species using independent paleovegetation data. The data collectively suggest that the altitudinal range of the leporid species shifted during occupation of the site as a response to expanding pinyon-juniper woodlands. El ensamble faunstico de la cordillera Five Finger Ridge, un sitio arqueolgico ubicado en la parte central de Utah que fue ocupado desde aproximadamente el ao 1100 d.C. al ao 1350 d.C., exhibe transiciones marcadas en la abundancia relativa de 3 taxa de lepridos. En el momento de la ocupacin inicial del sitio, Sylvilagus audubonii y Lepus sp. dominaban el ensamble, pero con el tiempo fueron remplazados paulatinamente por S. nuttallii. Las frecuencias cambiantes de estas especies se han contextualizado utilizando datos independientes sobre la paleovegetacin. Colectivamente, los datos sugieren que el rango altitudinal de las especies lepridas cambi durante la ocupacin del sitio como respuesta a la expansin de los bosques de pin y junpero.
41718315|The longnose gar (Lepisosteus osseus) is a primitive predaceous fish common throughout much of the east central United States, but research on its age and growth in lacustrine systems is rare. To characterize gar age and growth, I used bowfishing to collect spawning longnose gar in spring 2010 from littoral zones at Lake Arrowhead, Clay County, Texas. Females were older than males but significantly exceeded males in total length and mass when age was controlled. Von Bertalanffy growth curves suggested that males had faster growth rates, smaller maximum lengths, and shorter life spans than did females. However, females were always longer than males at any given age. Bowfishing capture beyond distances of 9 m was biased toward larger fish, but the method was viable for collecting spawning longnose gar at close range. This study will assist fisheries managers and aquaculturists by providing growth-age relationships for longnose gar in a southern lacustrine system. El pejelagarto narigudo (Lepisosteus osseus) es un pez depredador primitivo que es comn a lo largo de una gran parte del centro-este de los Estados Unidos; sin embargo, la investigacin sobre su edad y crecimiento en sistemas lacustres es rara. En la primavera de 2010, utilic pesca con arco y flecha para colectar pejelagartos narigudos en estado de desove de las zonas litorales del Lago Arrowhead, condado de Clay, Texas para caracterizar sus edades y crecimiento. Las hembras fueron mayores en edad que los machos, pero al corregir por la edad, stas superaban considerablemente a los machos en el largo y la masa total. Las curvas de crecimiento de Von Bertalanffy indicaron que los machos tuvieron tasas de crecimiento ms aceleradas, una longitud mxima menor y un promedio de vida ms corto que las hembras. Sin embargo, las hembras a cualquier edad siempre superaron en longitud a los machos. La captura con arco y flecha de ms all de 9 metros se orient hacia los peces ms grandes, pero el mtodo demostr ser viable para la captura del pejelagarto narigudo en estado de desove a distancias cercanas. Este estudio ayudar a los encargados de pesqueras y acuicultura porque describe las relaciones entre el crecimiento y la edad del pejelagarto narigudo en un sistema lacustre del sur.
41718316|To compensate for losses in overwintering habitat, elk are fed hay in winter at approximately 37 locations throughout the western United States. These winter feeding programs concentrate elk activity, and there is concern that such concentrations could degrade plant communities. Except for one study focused exclusively on aspen (Populus tremuloides), ours is the first to quantify vegetation responses to supplemental winter feeding of elk. The western Wyoming feedground we studied was established in winter 1981-1982, and supplemental feeding occurred every winter through 2006. Transects were arranged in a before-after control-impact (BACI) design, and vegetation data were gathered in the mid-summers of 1981 and 2006. Over the study period, the feedground became invaded by smooth brome (Bromus inermis), a nonnative grass constituent of hay fed to the elk. The smooth brome invasion was attended by declines in native forb cover and the apparent extirpation of shrubs from the feedground. The smooth brome invasion did not extend beyond the feedground, but an area 125 m from the feedground showed decreases in shrubs. At areas 750 m from the feedground, forbs and shrubs did not decrease demonstrable and in some cases they showed evidence of increasing over the study period. Supplemental winter feeding at a feedground in western Wyoming degraded the plant community, but, with the possible exception of aspen, the degradation did not appear to extend great distances beyond the small area where the animals were fed. Para compensar las prdidas en el habitat de hibernacin, se alimenta a los alces con heno durante el invierno en aproximadamente 37 sitios a lo largo del occidente de los Estados Unidos. Estos programas de alimentacin invernal concentran la actividad del alce, y existe la preocupacin de que estas concentraciones puedan degradar a las comunidades vegetales. Con la excepcin de un estudio enfocado exclusivamente en el lamo tembln (Populus tremuloides), nuestro estudio es el primero en cuantificar las respuestas de la vegetacin hacia la alimentacin invernal suplementaria del alce. El rea de alimentacin al occidente de Wyoming que estudiamos se estableci durante los inviernos de 1981 y 1982, y se efectu una alimentacin suplementaria durante cada invierno hasta 2006. Los transectos se hicieron de acuerdo con un diseo BACI (before-after control-impact, por sus siglas en ingls) y los datos de la vegetacin se recopilaron a mediados de los veranos de 1981 y de 2006. Durante el perodo del estudio, el rea de alimentacin fue invadida por Bromus inermis (bromo suave), un pasto nonativo componente del heno que alimenta a los alces. La invasin de bromo suave estuvo acompaada por disminuciones en la cobertura de plantas herbceas nativas y la aparente extirpacin de arbustos del rea de alimentacin. La invasin de bromo suave no se extendi ms all del rea de alimentacin; pero, una zona a 125 m del rea de alimentacin mostr una disminucin de arbustos. En zonas a 750 metros del rea de alimentacin, los arbustos y hierbas no decrecieron notablemente, y en algunos casos mostraron evidencia de incremento durante el periodo de estudio. La alimentacin invernal suplementaria en las reas de alimentacin al oeste de Wyoming degrad la comunidad vegetal, pero con la posible excepcin del lamo tembln, tal degradacin no aparent extenderse a distancias mucho ms all de la pequea rea en donde se aliment a los animales.
41718317|Mosses may compete with vascular plants for limited soil resources, facilitate vascular plants by buffering extremes in abiotic conditions, and potentially trap seeds and provide safe sites for germination and establishment. We conducted a field study to investigate the effects of moss on the distribution and performance of Primuh cusickiana var. maguirei, a threatened endemic perennial forb that occurs in an extremely narrow range within a single canyon in northern Utah, USA. Within the study population, we found that primroses occurred far more often on moss patches than on other substrates and that primroses occurring on moss patches had increased basal area and flower production. Furthermore, analyses revealed that soil under moss patches with primrose present had more organic matter, elevated magnesium concentrations, and lower Ca: Mg ratios. Our results suggest at least 3 hypotheses that may be evaluated through future studies. First, moss may facilitate P. cusickiana var. maguirei via the provision of increased soil resources. Second, moss may trap primrose seeds, leading to the observed pattern of distribution. And third, mosses and the primrose may both be responding to an as-yet-unmeasured habitat factor (e.g., soil depth or microtopography). Our results inform future research on P. cusickiana var. maguirei and have direct implications for the conservation of this threatened species. Los musgos pueden competir por los recursos limitados del suelo con las plantas vasculares, pueden favorecer a tales plantas al amortiguar las condiciones extremas que ocurren bajo condiciones abiticas y potencialmente atrapar semillas y proveerles de sitios seguros para la germinacin y el establecimiento. Llevamos a cabo un estudio de campo para averiguar los efectos del musgo sobre la distribucin y el desempeo de la prmula Maguire (Primula cusickiana var. maguirei), la cual es una planta herbcea perenne y endmica que est en peligro y que tiene una distribucin extremadamente limitada dentro de un solo can al norte de Utah (EE.UU.). Dentro de la poblacin de estudio, encontramos a P. cusickiana var. maguirei mucho ms a menudo en parches de musgos que en otros sustratos, y estas plantas creciendo en parches de musgos tuvieron mayor rea basai y ms produccin de flores. Ms an, los anlisis revelaron que el suelo que se encontraba bajo musgos y P. cusickiana var. maguirei tena ms materia orgnica, concentraciones elevadas de magnesio y una disminuin de la relacin Ca:Mg. Nuestros resultados sugieren al menos tres hiptesis que podran evaluarse mediante estudios futuros. Primero, el musgo puede favorecer a P. cusickiana var. maguirei al aumentar la provisin de recursos del suelo. Segundo, puede que los musgos atrapen semillas de P. cusickiana var. maguirei, conllevando as al patrn de distribucin observado. Por ltimo, es posible que tanto los musgos como P. cusickiana var. maguirei estn respondiendo a un factor del habitat que aun no medimos (e.g. la profundidad del suelo o la microtopografa). Nuestros resultados brindan informacin en cuanto a P. cusickiana var. maguirei para investigaciones futuras y tienen implicaciones directas para la conservacin de esta especie amenazada.
41718318|I report one new record for the threatened Mexican hairy porcupine (Coendou mexicanus) and 5 new records for the threatened tamandua (Tamandua mexicana) in northern Puebla, Mexico. Although additional distributional data is needed, the existence of populations in this area could be important for the conservation and management of these species in the region. Se reportan dos nuevos reporte para dos especies amenazadas: uno de puerco espn (Coendou mexicanus) y 5 nuevos reportes para el oso hormiguero (Tamandua mexicana) en el norte de Puebla. A pesar de que se necesita informacin adicional sobre la distribucin, poblaciones de las dos especies son importantes para la conservacin y manejo de las mismas en la regin.
41718319|We report details of a serendipitous encounter in July 2010 with a gopher snake (Pituaphis catenifer) hunting in the mud nests of Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota). The swallow nests occurred beneath a deeply overhung sandstone cliff ledge in a box canyon of Ferron Creek in the shale deserts near Ferron, Emery County, Utah. The inaccessibility of the nests and the movement of the snake to and through them attest to both the extraordinary climbing ability of the gopher snake and the nest site selection and nest construction ability of the swallows. Se presenta los detalles de un encuentro fortuito con una serpiente gfer Pituophis catenifer caza en los nidos de barro de las golondrinas de acantilados Petrochelidon pyrrhonota. Los nidos de golondrina se produjo debajo de una cornisa de piedra arenisca en un acantilado en un can de Ferron Creek en el desierto cerca de la Ferron, del condado de Emery, Utah, en julio de 2010. La inaccesibilidad de los nidos y el movimiento de la serpiente ya travs de ellos da fe de la extraordinaria capacidad de escalar de la serpiente y la seleccin de nidos in situ y la capacidad de construccin de las golondrinas.
41718320|Tibicen pruinosus (Say)a large, arboreal cicada typically found in the central United Statesis reported for the first time from Colorado. This new state record represents a significant western extension of this cicada's known range. Also reported are new records from Kansas that link the Colorado population to the previously known distribution of T. pruinosus. These results suggest that T. pruinosus has expanded its range westward, likely facilitated by human-induced changes in vegetation on the Great Plains. They also indicate the effectiveness of acoustic surveys as a tool for studying cicada distributions. Finally, an updated key including all 7 species of Tibicen now known from Colorado is provided. Por primera vez se ha reportado en Colorado la ccada Tibicen pruinosus (Say), una especie arbrea y grande que comnmente se encuentra en la parte central de los Estados Unidos. Este nuevo registro estatal representa una extensin hacia el occidente bastante significativa del rango que se conoce de esta ccada. Tambin se reportan nuevos registros en Kansas que vinculan la poblacin de Colorado con la distribucin que se conoca previamente de la T. pruinosus. Estos resultados sugieren que T. pruinosus ha expandido su territorio hacia el oeste, posiblemente debido a que lo han facilitado los cambios provocados por el hombre en la vegetacin de las Grandes Llanuras. Tambin, demuestran la eficacia de los monitoreos acsticos como herramienta para estudiar la distribucin de cicadas. Finalmente, se provee de una clave actualizada que incluye a las 7 especies de Tibicen que ahora se conocen en Colorado.
41718321|Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a rare disease with a high mortality rate, caused by New World viral species of the genus Hantavirus. The presence of hantaviruses both north and south of Mexico suggests an extended presence through the country. Our objective was to conduct serologic tests to detect antibodies against hantaviruses in wild rodents of the tropical deciduous forest in Morelos, Mexico, and to report information about the distribution and prevalence of these viruses. Blood samples from 153 cricetid and heteromyid rodents were tested for immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies. One individual of Liomys irroratus was seropositive for a Hantavirus antigen. Our results suggest that hantaviruses occur in rodents from southern Morelos in central Mexico. Given the possibility of a false positive result, it is important that this finding be validated with further research. El Sndrome Pulmonar por Hantavirus es una enfermedad rara con alta tasa de mortandad, causada por una especie viral del gnero Hantavirus del Nuevo Mundo. La presencia de hantavirus al norte y sur de Mxico sugiere una presencia extendida a travs del pas. Nuestro objetivo fue llevar a cabo pruebas serolgicas para detectar anticuerpos contra hantavirus en roedores del bosque tropical deciduo en Morelos, Mxico y reportar informacin acerca de la distribucin y prevalencia de estos virus. Muestras de sangre de 152 roedores crictidos y hetermidos fueron puestas a prueba con anticuerpos inmunoglobulina G (IgG). Un individuo de Liomys irroratus fue seropositivo para un antgeno de Hantavirus. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los hantavirus ocurren en la parte central de Mxico en roedores del sur de Morelos. Dada la posibilidad de un falso resultado positivo, es importante que estos resultados sean validados con estudios adicionales.
41718322|The plateau giant tiger beetle, Amblycheila picolominii, Reiche, 1839, is recorded from Utah for the first time. This is the northernmost record of the species. Se documenta por primera vez en el estado de Utah el descubrimiento del escarabajo tigre gigante de meseta, Amblycheila picolominii, Reiche, 1839. Este es el registro ms boreal de esta especie.
41718329|Once feared to be extinct, black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) were rediscovered near Meeteetse, Wyoming, in 1981, resulting in renewed conservation and research efforts for this highly endangered species. A need for information directly useful to recovery has motivated much monitoring of ferrets since that time, but field activities have enabled collection of data relevant to broader biological themes. This special feature is placed in a context of similar books and proceedings devoted to ferret biology and conservation. Articles include general observations on ferrets, modeling of potential impacts of ferrets on prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.), discussions on relationships of ferrets to prairie dog habitats at several spatial scales (from individual burrows to patches of burrow systems) and a general treatise on the status of black-footed ferret recovery. Cuando se tema que ya hubieran desaparecido, se volvieron a descubrir hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes) cerca de Meeteetse, Wyoming en 1981, lo que result en la renovacin de esfuerzos por la conservacin e investigatin de esta especie en peligro crtico de extincin. Desde entonces, la necesidad de informacin directamente til para su recuperacin ha sido la motivacin para gran parte del monitoreo de los hurones; sin embargo, las actividades en el campo han permitido la coleccin de informacin relevante para contextos biolgicos ms amplios. Esta edicin especial se ubica en el contexto de los libros y memrias similares que se han dedicado a la biologa y conservacin de los hurones. Este nmero incluye descripciones de observaciones generales sobre los hurones, modelos de los impactos potenciales de los hurones sobre los perros llaneros (Cynomys), discusiones de las relaciones entre los hurones y los hbitats de los perros llaneros en diferentes escalas espaciales desde madrigueras individuales a reas con sistemas de madrigueras, y tambin un tratado general dei estatus de la recuperacin del hurn.
41718330|Multi-opening burrow systems constructed by prairie dogs (Cynomys) ostensibly provide escape routes when prairie dogs are pursued by predators capable of entering the burrows, such as black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes), or by predators that can rapidly dig into the tunnels, such as American badgers (Taxidea taxus). Because badgers also prey on ferrets, ferrets might similarly benefit from multi-opening burrow systems. Using an air blower, white-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) burrow openings were tested for connectivity on plots occupied by black-footed ferrets and on randomly selected plots in Wyoming. Significantly more connected openings were found on ferret-occupied plots than on random plots. Connected openings might be due to modifications by ferrets in response to plugging by prairie dogs, due to selection by ferrets for complex systems with multiple openings that are already unobstructed, or simply due to ferrets lingering at kill sites that were multi-opening systems selected by their prairie dog prey. Los sistemas de madrigueras con entradas multiples construdos por perros llaneros (Cynomys) aparentemente sirven como rutas de escape para cuando los persiguen depredadores que caben en las madrigueras, tal como el hurn de patas negras (Mustela nigripes), o para cuando hay depredadores que pueden cavar rapidamente hacia los tneles, tal como el tejn (Taxidea taxus). Debido a que los tejones tambin matan hurones, estos ltimos podran beneficiarse de forma similar de los sistemas de madrigueras con entradas mltiples. Se utiliz un ventilador en las entradas de las madrigueras de los perros llaneros de cola blanca (Cynomys leucurus) para probar su conectividad en los cuadrantes ocupados por los hurones de patas negras y en otros cuadrantes seleccionados al azar en Wyoming. Se encontr un aumento significativo en el nmero de entradas conectadas en los cuadrantes ocupados por hurones con relacin a los que se escogieron ai azar. La conexin en las entradas podra deberse a un cambio hecho por los hurones como respuesta ai taponamiento de los perros llaneros, a Ia seleccin por parte de los hurones de sistemas complejos con entradas multiples que se encuentran libres de obstrucciones, o simplemente a que los hurones se quedan un tiempo en donde matan a su presa y estos son lugares con sistemas de entradas multiples que su presa, el perro llanero, haba seleccionado.
41718331|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) excavate soil from prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) burrows, thereby creating characteristic soil deposits at burrow openings. These soil deposits have been observed only rarely in summer. We monitored adult ferrets during June-October of the years 2007 and 2008 on a 452-ha colony of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) in the Conata Basin, South Dakota. We located and identified ferret excavations during nighttime spotlight surveys for ferrets and daytime sampling of prairie dog burrow openings around locations where ferrets were located via spotlight. We accumulated 48 observations of in-process or recently completed ferret excavations during spotlight surveys (21 in 2007, 27 in 2008) and located 51 diggings during daytime burrow sampling (25 in 2007, 26 in 2008). We located diggings during 5.5% of spotlight observations, most frequently in July-August. These results collectively suggest ferrets may frequently excavate soil in summer, because prairie dogs frequently use soil to plug burrow openings and tunnels in defense against ferrets. Prairie dogs might frequently destroy soil deposits left by ferrets during summer, thereby reducing detection of diggings by biologists. Los hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes) excavan tierra de las madrigueras de los perros llaneros (Cynomys spp.), creando as depsitos de tierra caractersticos en las entradas de las madrigueras. Los depsitos de tierra hechos por los hurones raras veces se han observado durante el verano. En la Cuenca Conata, Dakota del Sur, observamos hurones adultos en una colonia de perros llaneros de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) de 452 ha durante junio a octubre de 2007 y de 2008. Al realizar bsquedas de hurones con reflectores durante la noche, localizamos e identificamos excavaciones que estos animales habin hecho, mientras que de dia las localizamos e identificamos mediante la revisin de madrigueras de perros llaneros alrededor de los lugares en donde se habian ubicado hurones con el uso de reflectores. Durante las bsquedas con reflectores, acumulamos 48 observaciones de excavaciones de hurones ya fuera en proceso o recientemente terminadas (21 en 2007 y 27 en 2008); tambin ubicamos 51 excavaciones durante la revision de madrigueras durante el da (25 en 2007 y 26 en 2008). Encontramos excavaciones durante el 5.5% de las observaciones hechas con reflectores, principalmente en julio y agosto. Estos resultados sugieren colectivamente que los hurones podran hacer excavaciones frecuentemente durante el verano, tal vez debido a que a menudo los perros llaneros usan la tierra para tapar las madrigueras y tneles para defenderse de los hurones en el verano, forzando a que estos ltimos tengan que excavar. Podra ser que los perros llaneros con frecuencia destruyen los depsitos de tierra que dejan los hurones durante el verano, disminuyendo as la deteccin de las excavaciones por bilogos.
41718332|Intensive radio-tracking during August-December enabled us to collect detailed information on digging behaviors of a small sample of black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) occupying colonies of white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus). A sample of 33 prairie dogs, also radio-tagged, progressively ceased aboveground activity during late summer and fall, presumably as they descended into burrows to hibernate. Most of the time ferrets spent digging was in November-December when >95% of the radio-tagged prairie dogs were inactive, suggesting that digging was primarily to excavate hibernating prey. Although 43.9% of the burrow openings were estimated to be in large mounds, which are common on colonies of white-tailed prairie dogs, all of a sample of 17 deposits of soil (diggings) made by ferrets were excavated at small mounds or nonmounded openings. The average duration of 23 nocturnal sessions of digging by ferrets was 112.2 minutes. A digging session consisted of multiple bouts of soil movement typically lasting about 5 min, and sessions were separated by pauses above-or belowground lasting several minutes. Bouts of moving soil from a burrow involved round-trips of 12.5-30.3 s to remove an average of 35 cm 3 of soil per trip. These digging bouts are energetically costly for ferrets. One female moved 16.8 kg of soil an estimated 3.3 m during bouts having a cumulative duration of 178 minutes, removing a soil plug estimated to be 178 cm long. Increasing evidence suggests that some behaviors of ferrets and prairie dogs are coevolutionary responses between this highly specialized predator and its prairie dog prey. Mediante el uso intensivo del monitoreo por radio desde agosto hasta diciembre, logramos colectar informacin detallada sobre Ia conducta de excavacin de una pequea muestra de hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes) que habitan colnias de perros llaneros de cola blanca (Cynomys leucurus). Una muestra de 33 perros llaneros, tambin monitoreados por radio, cesaron gradualmente su actividad sobre el suelo durante finales del verano y el otoo, probablemente debido a que descendieron a sus madrigueras para hibernar. De noviembre a diciembre fue cuando los hurones pasaron la mayor parte de su tiempo cavando y cuando ms dei 95% de los perros llaneros monitoreados por radio no se encontraban activos, lo cual indica que las excavaciones se hacan primordialmente para extraer presas que estaban hibernando. A pesar de que se estima que el 43.9% de Ias madrigueras se encuentra en los montculos grandes que son comunes en las colnias de perros llaneros de cola blanca, de una muestra de 17 depsitos de tierra (excavaciones) realizados por hurones, todos se haban excavado en montculos pequenos o en madrigueras sin montculos. La duracin promedio de 23 sesiones nocturnas de excavacin realizadas por hurones fue de 112.2 minutos. Una sesin de excavacin consisti de vrios ratos de movimiento de tierra que tipicamente duraban alrededor de 5 minutos, separados por pausas tanto sobre el suelo como en el subsuelo que duraban vrios minutos. En estos ratos, se realizaban viajes de 12.5-30.3 segundos para remover 35 cm de tierra por viaje. Estas excavaciones de tierra consumen mucha energa de los hurones. Una hembra removi 16.8 Kg de tierra a lo largo de una distancia de aproximadamente 3.3 m durante sus ratos de excavacin, los cuales duraron 178 minutos en total y en los que logro remover un taponamiento de 178 cm de largo. Existen cada vez ms evidencias que indican que algunos comportamientos de los hurones y los perros llaneros son respuestas coevolutivas entre este depredador altamente especializado y su presa, el perro llanero.
41718333|Black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys budovicianus) plug burrows occupied by black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes), and they also plug burrows to entomb dead prairie dogs. We further evaluated these phenomena by sampling connectivity and plugging of burrow openings on prairie dog colonies occupied by ferrets, colonies where recreational shooting was allowed, and colonies with neither shooting nor ferrets. We counted burrow openings on line surveys and within plots, classified surface plugging, and used an air blower to examine subsurface connectivity. Colonies with ferrets had lower densities of openings, fewer connected openings (suggesting increased subsurface plugging), and more surface plugs compared to colonies with no known ferrets. Colonies with recreational shooting had the lowest densities of burrow openings, and line-survey data suggested colonies with shooting had intermediate rates of surface plugging. The extent of surface and subsurface plugging could have consequences for the prairie dog community by changing air circulation and escape routes of burrow systems and by altering energetic relationships. Burrow plugging might reduce prairie dogs' risk of predation by ferrets while increasing risk of prdation by American badgers (Taxidea taxus); however, the complexity of the trade-off is increased if plugging increases the risk of prdation on ferrets by badgers. Prairie dogs expend more energy plugging and digging when ferrets or shooting are present, and ferrets increase their energy expenditures when they dig to remove those plugs. Microclimatic differences in plugged burrow systems may play a role in flea ecology and persistence of the flea-borne bacterium that causes plague (Yersinia pestis). El perro llanero de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) tapa las madrigueras que ocupan los hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes). Tambin tapa las madrigueras para enterrar los cuerpos de otros perros llaneros muertos. Llevamos a cabo ms evaluaciones de este fenmeno al hacer un muestreo de la conectividad y el taponamiento de madrigueras en colnias de perros llaneros ocupadas por hurones, en colnias donde se permite la cacera recreativa y tambin en colnias en donde no se permite la cacera ni tampoco habitan hurones. Contamos las madrigueras abiertas en lineas de muestreo y dentro de los cuadrantes, clasificamos el taponamiento de la superficie y usamos un ventilador para examinar la conectividad subterrnea de las madrigueras. Las colonias con hurones tuvieron una densidad menor de madrigueras abiertas, menos madrigueras conectadas entre si (lo cual indica un aumento en el taponamiento del subsuelo) y ms taponamientos hechos en la superficie en comparacin con las colonias en las que no se ban encontrado hurones. De las 3 categorias de colnias, las colnias en donde se permite la cacera recreativa tuvieron la menor densidad de madrigueras abiertas; a su vez, los datos de las lneas de muestreo indicaron que estas colnias tuvieron un promedio intermdio de taponamientos en la superficie. El grado de taponamientos subterrneos y en la superficie podria tener consecuencias en la comunidad dei perro llanero al cambiar la circulacin del aire y las rutas de escape de los sistemas de las madrigueras, as como al alterar las relaciones energticas. Los taponamientos hechos por los perros llaneros podrian disminuir el riesgo que tienen de ser depredados por los hurones, pero podria aumentar el riesgo de ser presa del tejn (Taxidea taxus); sin embargo, Ia complejidad de esta disyuntiva aumenta si los taponamientos aumentan el riesgo de que los hurones se vuelvan presa de los tejones. Los taponamientos y las excavaciones aumentan la energia que los perros llaneros utilizan cuando hay hurones o cacera; por otro lado, los taponamientos hechos por los perros llaneros aumentan el consumo de energia de los hurones al tener que cavar para destapar los hoyos. Las diferencias microclimticas en los sistemas de taponamientos de las madrigueras podrian influenciar la ecologia de las pulgas y la persistencia de la bacteria transmitida por las pulgas que ocasiona la peste (Yersinia pestis).
41718334|Black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) can surface-plug openings to a burrow occupied by a black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes). At a coarse scale, surface plugs are more common in colonies of prairie dogs occupied by ferrets than in colonies without ferrets. However, little is known about spatial and temporal patterns of surface plugging in a colony occupied by ferrets. In a 452-ha colony of black-tailed prairie dogs in South Dakota, we sampled burrow openings for surface plugs and related those data to locations of ferrets observed during spotlight surveys. Of 67,574 burrow openings in the colony between June and September 2007, 3.7% were plugged. In a colony-wide grid of 80 m  80 m cells, the occurrence of surface plugging (1 opening plugged) was greater in cells used by ferrets (93.3% of cells) than in cells not observably used by ferrets (70.6%). Rates of surface plugging (percentages of openings plugged) were significantly higher in cells used by ferrets (median = 3.7%) than in cells without known ferret use (median = 3.2%). Also, numbers of ferret locations in cells correlated positively with numbers of mapped surface plugs in the cells. To investigate surface plugging at finer temporal and spatial scales, we compared rates of surface plugging in 20-mradius circle-plots centered on ferret locations and in random plots 1-4 days after observing a ferret (Jun-Oct 2007 and 2008). Rates of surface plugging were greater in ferret-plots (median = 12.0%) than in random plots (median = 0%). For prairie dogs and their associates, the implications of surface plugging could be numerous. For instance, ferrets must dig to exit or enter plugged burrows (suggesting energetic costs), and surface plugs might influence microclimates in burrows and consequently influence species that cannot excavate soil (e.g., fleas that transmit the plague bacterium Yersinia pestis). Los perros llaneros de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) pueden tapar al nivel de la superficie las madrigueras ocupadas por hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes). En la escala de Ia colnia entera, los taponamientos al nivel de la superficie son ms comunes en las colnias de perros llaneros ocupadas por hurones que en las colonias sin hurones. Sin embargo, poo se conoce en cuanto a los patrones espaciales y temporales de los taponamientos al nivel de la superficie en las colonias ocupadas por hurones. En una colonia de 452 hectreas de perros llaneros de cola negra en Dakota del Sur, realizamos un muestreo de las madrigueras con taponamientos al nivel de la superficie y relacionamos esa informacin con los lugares en donde se observaron hurones durante los monitoreos con reflectores. De las 67,574 madrigueras en una colnia que se localizaron de junio a septiembre de 2007, el 3.7% estaban tapadas. En una colonia en la que se traz una cuadrcula con celdas de 80 m  80 m, la incidencia de taponamientos hechos ai nivel de la superficie (1 entrada taponada) fue mayor en las celdas usadas por los hurones (93.3% de las celdas) que en las celdas en las que no se observaba que stos las usaran (70.6%). Las tasas de taponamientos al nivel de la superficie (las proporciones de madrigueras tapadas) fue significativamente mayor en las celdas usadas por los hurones (mediana = 3.7%) que en aquellas que no usaban los hurones (mediana = 3.2%). Tambin, el nmero de ubicaciones de los hurones en las celdas tuvo una correlacin positiva con el nmero de taponamientos al nivel de la superficie ubicados en las celdas. Para investigar espacialmente los taponamientos al nivel de la superficie en una escala temporal ms fina, comparamos las tasas de este tipo de taponamientos en terrenos con radios circulares de 20 metros centrados en los lugares donde se ubicaron hurones y en ubicaciones aleatrias de 1 a 4 dias despus de haber observado un hurn (junio a octubre de 2007 a 2008). Las tasas de taponamientos ai nivel de la superficie fueron mayores en los terrenos de los hurones (mediana = 12.0%) que en los tomados al azar (mediana = 0%). Para los perros llaneros y las espcies con las que interactan, las implicaciones del taponamiento hecho al nivel superficial podran ser numerosas. Por ejemplo, los hurones tendran que excavar tanto para salir de las madrigueras tapadas como para entrar en ellas (infiriendo un costo energtico) y los taponamientos hechos al nivel de la superficie podran influir en los microclimas de Ias madrigueras, y por ende influir en las espcies que no pueden excavar (e.g., las pulgas que transmiten Yersinia pestis).
41718335|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) spend most daylight hours underground in prairie dog (Cynomys) burrows and exhibit aboveground movements primarily at night. Moonlight can influence the activity patterns of ferrets and, consequently, might influence the efficiency of spotlight surveys used by biologists to monitor ferret populations. We related detection of adult ferrets during postbreeding spotlight surveys to lunar and temporal conditions. We most frequently located ferrets during surveys in which the moon breached the horizon. The data suggested intersexual differences in response to moonlight. We located male ferrets most frequently during nights with greater moon illumination, but we did not detect a correlation between moon illumination and spotlight detection of female ferrets. In general, moonlight could facilitate aboveground navigation by ferrets. However, it seems activity under bright moonlight could be costly for female ferrets while they raise young. Detection of ferrets also varied among months. We detected female ferrets most frequently in August-September, when mothers increase hunting efforts to acquire prey for growing offspring (kits). Detection of adult female ferrets declined in October, when kits were likely independent of their mother. We located male ferrets most frequently in September-October, when males might increase activity to monitor female ferrets and male competitors. Consideration of lunar and temporal influences and standardization of postbreeding surveys could enhance site-specific assessment of reintroduction success and across-site assessment of species recovery progress. We suggest that postbreeding surveys for ferrets should be enhanced by concentrating efforts in August-September during moonlit nights when the moon is above the horizon. Los hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes) pasan la mayor parte de las horas del dia debajo de la tierra en madrigueras de perros llaneros (Cynomys). La actividad que exhiben sobre el suelo principalmente ocurre de noche. La luz de la luna puede influenciar los patrones de actividad de los hurones y, como consecuencia, podra afectar la eficiencia de las revisiones basadas en reflectores que usan los bilogos para monitorear las poblaciones de hurones. Examinamos la relacin entre la probabilidad de deteccin de hurones adultos durante los monitoreos con reflectores y que fueron realizados despus dei perodo de apareamiento con las condiciones lunares y temporales. Encontramos hurones ms a menudo durante los monitoreos realizados cuando la luna sali sobre el horizonte. Sin embargo, los datos sugirieron diferencias entre sexos en la respuesta a la luz de la luna. Encontramos hurones machos ms frecuentemente durante las noches en las que haba ms luz lunar; sin embargo, no detectamos una correlacin entre la iluminacin lunar y la deteccin de hembras con el uso de reflectores. En general, la luz de la luna podra facilitar la orientacin de los hurones sobre el suelo, pero parece ser que la actividad bajo una resplandeciente luz lunar podra ser costosa para los hurones hembras que tienen crias. La deteccin de hurones tambin vario dependiendo dei mes. Detectamos hurones hembras ms frecuentemente en agosto y septiembre, cuando las madres aumentan sus esfuerzos de caza para obtener presas para sus crias en desarrollo (kits). La deteccin de los hurones hembras adultas disminuy en octubre, cuando muy posiblemente las crias lograron independizarse de sus madres. Ubicamos con mayor frecuencia hurones machos en septiembre y octubre, que es cuando tal vez los machos aumentan su actividad para vigilar a las hembras y a posibles machos competidores. La consideracin de los efectos lunares y temporales as como Ia estandarizacin de monitoreos despus dei apareamiento podran mejorar las evaluaciones en sitios particulares para medir el xito de las reintroducciones y tambin las evaluaciones entre sitios dei progreso en la recuperacin de la espcie. Sugerimos que deben mejorarse los monitoreos de los hurones despus de su perodo de apareamiento concentrando los esfuerzos en agosto y septiembre durante Ias noches cuando hay luz de la luna y esta se encuentra por encima dei horizonte.
41718336|During 2007-2009 in the Conata Basin, South Dakota, field studies provided opportunities to accumulate incidental observations of wild-born black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) and their interactions with other species. Here, I describe maternal behaviors by female ferrets; interactions between a female ferret and a rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis viridis); and attacks by ferrets on a horned lark (Eremophila alpestris), a deer mouse (Peromyscus sp.), and a cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus sp.). Additionally, I present hypotheses for future testing and discuss conservation implications. Durante 2007 a 2009 en la Cuenca Conata, Dakota del Sur, estudios de campo brindaron oportunidades para acumular observaciones incidentales dei hurn de patas negras nacido en libertad (Mustela nigripes) y sus interacciones con otras espcies. En el presente estdio, describo los comportamientos maternales de Ias hurones hembra, las interacciones entre estas hembras y una vbora de cascabel (Crotalus viridis viridis) y los ataques de hurones sobre una alondra cornuda (Eremophila alpestris), un ratn ciervo (Peromyscus sp.) y un conejo de cola de algodn (Sylvilagus sp.). Adems, presento varias hiptesis para ser evaluadas en el futuro y discuto las implicaciones para la conservacin.
41718337|We estimated annual home ranges and core areas of black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) in Conata Basin, South Dakota, by collecting 834 locations of 28 ferrets (20 females, 8 males) through spotlighting from October 1997 to September 2000. Area-per-observation curves showed that a minimum of 23 locations were needed to estimate fixedkernel home-range size. Mean 95% and 50% fixed-kernel annual home-range sizes of females (95%: 64.7 ha, SE = 11.6; 50%: 12.7 ha, SE = 3.0) were significantly smaller and less variable than those of males (95%: 131.8 ha, SE = 40.3; 50%: 35.6 ha, SE = 16.5). Minimum convex polygon home-range estimates also differed between females (41.9 ha, SE = 6.5 ha) and males (86.3 ha, SE = 21.3). Females' ranges were consistently less variable than males' ranges, regardless of the homerange estimator used. Female home-range size was negatively related to male density (r = 0.433), and male home-range size was positively associated with age (r = 0.671). Intersexual overlap and intrasexual exclusivity of home ranges was evident, suggesting that ferrets conform to a typical mustelid spacing pattern. Core use areas (50% fixed-kernel ranges) had significantly higher black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) densities than 95% areas (t = 5.17, P = 0.014), suggesting that core areas are located in areas of higher prairie dog densities. Relative to other mustelids, black-footed ferrets have considerably smaller home ranges. Estimamos las reas de actividad y los ncleos de actividad anuales de los hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes) en la Cuenca Conata, Dakota del Sur a travs de la colecta de 834 localizaciones de 28 hurones (20 hembras, 8 machos) mediante el uso de reflectores durante octubre de 1997 -septiembre de 2000. Las curvas del rea por observacin mostraron que se necesitaba un mnimo de 23 localizaciones para estimar el tamano del rea de actividad mediante el estimador fjo de kernel. En promedio el 95% y el 50% dei tamano anual dei rea de actividad de acuerdo con el estimador fijo de kernel en las hembras (95%: 64.7 ha, = 11.6; 50%: 12.7 ha, = 3.0) fue significativamente ms pequeno menos variable que el de los machos (95%: 131.8 ha, = 40.3; 50%: 35.6 ha, = 16.5). Los estimados dei rea de actividad dei polgono convexo mnimo tambin difirieron entre las hembras (41.9 ha, = 6.5 ha) los machos (86.3 ha, = 21.3 ha). Las reas de las hembras fueron consistentemente menos variables que las de los machos, independientemente dei mtodo utilizado para estimar el rea de actividad. El tamano dei rea de actividad de las hembras se relaciono negativamente con la densidad de los machos (r = 0.433), mientras que el tamano dei rea de actividad de los machos se asoci positivamente con la edad (r = 0.671). Fue evidente la superposicin intersexual y la exdusividad intrasexual de las reas de actividad, lo cual sugiere que los hurones se adaptan a un modelo espacial tpico de mustlidos. Las reas ncleo de actividad (50% estimador fijo de kernel) tuvieron densidades mucho ms elevadas de perros Uaneros de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) que el 95% de las reas (t = 5.17, P = 0.014), lo cual sugiere que las reas ncleo se encuentran en reas con densidades ms elevadas de perros Uaneros. En comparacin con otros mustlidos, los hurones de patas negras tienen reas de actividad considerablemente ms pequeas.
41718338|Wildlife-habitat relationships are often conceptualized as resource selection functions (RSFs)models increasingly used to estimate species distributions and prioritize habitat conservation. We evaluated the predictive capabilities of 2 black-footed ferret (Mustelu nigripes) RSFs developed on a 452-ha colony of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) in the Conata Basin, South Dakota. We used the RSFs to project the relative probability of occurrence of ferrets throughout an adjacent 227-ha colony. We evaluated performance of the RSFs using ferret space use data collected via postbreeding spotlight surveys June-October 2005-2006. In home ranges and core areas, ferrets selected the predicted "very high" and "high" occurrence categories of both RSFs. Count metrics also suggested selection of these categories; for each model in each year, approximately 81% of ferret locations occurred in areas of very high or high predicted occurrence. These results suggest usefulness of the RSFs in estimating the distribution of ferrets throughout a black-tailed prairie dog colony. The RSFs provide a fine-scale habitat assessment for ferrets that can be used to prioritize releases of ferrets and habitat restoration for prairie dogs and ferrets. A method to quickly inventory the distribution of prairie dog burrow openings would greatly facilitate application of the RSFs. A menudo las relaciones entre los animales silvestres y su hbitat se conceptualizan como funciones de seleccin de recursos (RSFs, por sus siglas en ingls), las cuales son modelos que se usan cada vez ms para estimar las distribuciones de las especies y establecer prioridades para la conservacin del hbitat. Evaluamos las capacidades de prediccin de dos RSFs de hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes) desarrolladas en una colonia de perros llaneros de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) de 452 hectreas en la Cuenca Conata, Dakota del Sur. Usamos las RSFs para proyectar la probabilidad relativa de presencia de hurones a lo largo de una colonia adyacente de 227 hectreas. Evaluamos el desempeo de las RSFs utilizando informacin sobre el espacio que usan los hurones. Dicha informacin se recolect durante monitoreos con reflectores en los periodos post-reproductivos de junio a octubre de 2005 y 2006. En los mbitos hogarenos y en las reas ncleo, los hurones escogieron las categoras de incidencia Muy Alta y Alta predichas por ambas RSFs. Las medidas basadas en conteos tambin indicaron la seleccin de estas categoras; para cada modelo, en cada ano,~81% de las ubicaciones de los hurones ocurrieron en reas en las que se haba predicho que su incidencia sera Muy Alta o Alta. Estos resultados sugirieron que las RSFs son utiles para estimar la distribucin de hurones a lo largo de una colnia de perros llaneros de cola negra. Las RSFs brindan una evaluacin dei habitat de los hurones a escala fina que puede utilizarse para priorizar la liberacin de estos animales y la restauracin de sus hbitats y los de los perros llaneros. Un mtodo que permita hacer un inventario rpido de la distribucin de madrigueras de perros llaneros podra facilitar mucho la aplicacin de las RSFs.
41718339|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) are among the most endangered animals in North America. Rintroductions of captive-born ferrets onto prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) colonies are crucial to the conservation of the species. In September 2007, captive-born ferrets were released on a black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colony at the Vermejo Park Ranch, New Mexico. Ferret kits experimentally released in areas of comparatively low and high prairie dog burrow densities were located via spotlight surveys. Some maturing ferret kits were subsequently translocated to areas of low and high burrow densities on nearby prairie dog colonies. For 2 months, fine-scale habitat use was quantified by mapping all burrow openings within a 30-m radius of each ferret location. Spatial statistics accounted for autocorrelation in the burrow densities in areas used by ferrets. It was hypothesized that ferrets would select areas of high burrow densities within colonies; however, burrow densities in areas used by ferrets were generally similar to the available burrow densities. Because ferrets used areas with burrow densities similar to densities available at the colony level and because of the potential energetic benefits for ferrets using areas with high burrow densities, releasing ferrets on colonies with high burrow densities might increase reintroduction success. Los hurones de patas negras (Mustela nigripes) se encuentran entre los animales en mayor peligro en Norteamrica. Las reintroducciones de hurones criados en cautiverio a las colonias de perros llaneros (Cynomys spp.) son cruciales para la conservacin de la especie. En septiembre de 2007, se liberaron hurones criados en cautiverio en una colonia de perros llaneros de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) en Vermejo Park Ranch, Nuevo Mxico. Mediante monitoreos con reflectores, se identificaron crias de hurn que se haban liberado experimentalmente en reas con densidades comparativamente bajas y altas de madrigueras de perros llaneros. Posteriormente, se traslado a algunos hurones que se aproximaban a la madurez sexual a reas con densidades altas y bajas de madrigueras en colonias cercanas de perros llaneros. Durante 2 meses, se cuantific el uso del habitat con una escala detallada al identificar en un mapa todas las entradas de las madrigueras que haba en un radio de 30 metros alrededor de donde estaba cada hurn. Al generar estadsticas espaciales pudimos explicar la autocorrelacin en las densidades de madrigueras en uso. Nuestra hiptesis era que los hurones seleccionaran reas con densidades elevadas de madrigueras dentro de las colonias; sin embargo, las densidades de las madrigueras en las reas ocupadas por los hurones fueron generalmente similares a las densidades de las madrigueras disponibles. Debido a que las densidades de madrigueras usadas por los hurones son similares a las densidades disponibles al nivel de Ia colnia, y debido a los benefcios energticos potenciales que las reas de densidades altas de madrigueras tienen para los hurones, el liberar a los hurones en las colonias con densidades altas de madrigueras podra aumentar el xito de su reintroduccin.
41718340|The black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) recovery program is an example of single-species management to preserve flora and fauna. We argue that conservationists must move beyond that approach for success. In 1988, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed a down-listing goal of 1500 adult black-footed ferrets in 10 wild populations by 2010. The recovery program has only reached 23% ofthat goal. The overriding reason is the lack of regulatory mechanisms for poisoning and shooting prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) and our inability to control occurrence of plague (Yersinia pestis) in prairie dogs. We propose that prairie dogs need, and deserve, some level of federal protection to address these factors and that the primary goal for conservation of black-footed ferrets should be maintaining numbers and distributions of prairie dogs at sufficient temporal and geographic scales to restore them to a level of ecological function in the grasslands. We contend that prairie dogs qualify for protection in at least 4 of the 5 categories used to assess level of threat under the Endangered Species Act. A species needs to qualify in one of those categories to merit protection. The threat posed by plague should itself be sufficient reason to justify prairie dog protection, both for themselves and for the black-footed ferret recovery program. El programa de recuperacin de los hurones de patas negras es un ejemplo del manejo de una sola especie para la preservacin de la flora y fauna. Argumentamos que los conservacionistas deben de hacer algo ms all de este enfoque para lograr el xito. En 1988, U.S. el Servido de Pesca y Vida Silvestre de los Estados Unidos (Fish and Wildlife Service) propuso una meta de 1500 hurones de patas negras adultos en 10 poblaciones silvestres para el 2010 para poder darle a esta especie una calificacin de menor peligro de extincin. El programa de recuperacin tan solo ha podido alcanzar el 23% de esa meta. La razn principal de esto es la falta de mecanismos regulatorios para el envenenamiento y la caza de perros llaneros, as como tambin nuestra falta de capacidad para controlar las plagas en los perros llaneros. Proponemos que los perros llaneros necesitan, y merecen, cierto nivel de proteccin federal para afrontar estos factores, y que la meta principal para lograr la conservacin de los hurones de patas negras debe ser el mantener los nmeros y la distribucin de los perros llaneros en un nivel temporal y geogrfico suficiente para restaurarlos a un nivel de funcin ecolgica en las praderas. Afirmamos que los perros llaneros califican para la proteccin en al menos 4 de las 5 categoras que se utilizan para evaluar el nivel de amenaza. Una especie necesita calificar en solo una de estas categoras para merecer proteccin. La plaga debera de ser razn suficiente para justificar la proteccin del perro llanero, tanto para ellos mismos como para el programa de recuperacin de los hurones de patas negras.
41718341|Purshia spp. (Rosaceae) comprise a widespread western North American species complex that is important as landscape dominants, wildlife habitat, browse for wild and domestic ungulates, and seed reserves for small mammals. This study examined aspects of the phenology, compatibility, pollination biology, and progeny fruit characteristics of multiple accessions of bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata), as well as a putative hybrid between bitterbrush and Purshia stansburiana. Except for open-and wind-pollination treatments, mass pollination was accomplished at anthesis within white paper sacks, which were used to isolate treatment branches. Ritterbrush appears to be largely self-incompatible and requires some agent, either wind or animal, to effect pollination. While the majority of pollination of bitterbrush flowers is undoubtedly accomplished by insects, some pollination by wind is possible (ambophily) when shrubs are closely spaced, as flowering is fairly synchronous. Flower duration varied among shrubs, but generally lasted from 12 to 24 hours, depending on weather conditions. Flower development stage had little effect on fruit set, indicating prolonged stigma receptivity. Populations of bitterbrush exhibit considerable interfertility, as well as substantial hybridization with congeners. Intrapopulation crosses were only slightly more successful than interpopulation crosses. One of the populations analyzed exhibits characteristics consistent with its putative hybrid nature, having more than one pistil per receptacle, smaller but longer fruits, and a greater reliance on insects for pollination. Both maternal and paternal effects are important in fruit development. Taxonomic relationships within the complex are discussed. Las especies del gnero Purshia abarcan un amplio complejo de especies del rea occidental de Norteamrica, las cuales son importantes como dominantes del paisaje, habitat de la vida silvestre, follaje para ungulados silvestres y domesticados y reservas de semillas para mamferos pequeos. En este estudio se examinan aspectos de la fenologa, compatibilidad, biologa de la polinizacin y caractersticas de la progenie de diversos lotes de la maleza amarga (Purshia tridentata) y de un hbrido putativo entre esta misma especie y Purshia stansburiana. Con la excepcin de los tratamientos de polinizacin abierta y por viento, la polinizacin masiva se logr en la etapa de antesis dentro de boisas de papel bianco, las cuales se usaron para aislar las ramas del tratamiento. Al parecer, la maleza amarga es mayormente auto-incompatible y necesita de algn agente, ya sea del viento o algn animal, para efectuar la polinizacin. Aunque la polinizacin de las flores de maleza amarga sin duda se lleva a cabo principalmente a travs de insectos, es posible que ocurra cierto grado de polinizacin mediante el viento (ambofilia) cuando los arbustos se encuentran cercanamente espaciados, debido a que florecen de manera bastante sincronizada. La duracin de la flor vari entre arbustos, pero por lo general dur de 12 a 24 horas, dependiendo de las condiciones climatolgicas. La etapa del desarrollo de la flor tuvo poco efecto en la produccin de frutos, indicando as una prolongada receptividad del estigma. Las poblaciones de maleza amarga mostraron tanto una interfertilidad considerable como una hibridacin substancial con sus congneres. Las cruzas intrapoblacionales fueron solamente un poo ms exitosas que las interpoblacionales. Una de las poblaciones analizadas exhibi varias caractersticas consistentes con su naturaleza hbrida putativa debido a que tuvo ms de un pistilo por receptculo, frutos ms pequeos pero alargados y una dependencia mayor de los insectos para la polinizacin. Tanto los efectos maternos como los paternos son importantes para el desarrollo de los frutos. Se discuten las relaciones taxonmicas dentro dei complejo de especies.
41718342|On the basis of reports in the literature, incidence of dystocia in wild elk (Cervus elaphus) across the west is rare. In 2011, one of 34 (3%) pregnant cow elk in our study experienced dystocia during birth. Our visual observations indicated that it took approximately 4 days for a radio-collared cow elk to succumb to dystocia in our study. Little is known about dystocia in wild elk populations, and our observation provides some insight about fetal malpresentations. Con base en los reportes en la literatura, en el occidente no es muy frecuente la incidencia de distocia en el ciervo rojo (Cervus elaphus). En 2011, 1 de cada 34 (3%) hembras preadas en nuestro estudio experimento distocia al momento de parir. Nuestras observaciones visuales indican que durante nuestro estudio pasaron aproximadamente 4 das para que una hembra preada con un collar de telemetria sucumbiera a la distocia. Se conoce muy poco sobre la distocia en las poblaciones de ciervos rojos, y nuestra observacin proporciona informacin sobre la mala presentacin fetal.
41718343|The eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana) occurs in eastern and central parts of the United States, with 3 subspecies inhabiting Nebraska. Herein, we report on distributional records of N. f. baileyian isolated, disjunct subspecies in north-central Nebraska. We searched for diagnostic sign of woodrats in 4 counties in Nebraska and 1 county in South Dakota. We obtained distributional records for N. f. baileyi east, west, and north of known distribution limits in Nebraska, but none in South Dakota. Most distributional records represent range extensions because of lack of prior mammalian surveys in those areas. Observations of woodrats in isolated, human-established woodlots surrounded by prairies represent range expansions because such habitats were not present in the past. La rata cambalachera (Neotoma floridana) se encuentra en reas orientales y centrales de los Estados Unidos; 3 de sus subespecies habitan en Nebraska. En el presente estudio, reportamos registros de distribucin de N. f. baileyila cual es una subespecie aislada y separada que se encuentra en la parte norte-central de Nebraska. En 4 condados de Nebraska y en 1 de Dakota del Sur buscamos seales de la presencia de la rata cambalachera. Logramos obtener registros de distribucin de N. f. baueyi al este, oeste y norte de los lmites de distribucin conocidos en Nebraska, pero no obtuvimos ninguno en Dakota del Sur. La mayoria de los registros de distribucin representan extensiones del rango debido a la falta de exploraciones previas de mamferos en esas reas. Las observaciones de ratas cambalacheras en arboledas aisladas, establecidas por el ser humano y rodeadas por llanuras representan expansiones de su rango de distribucin debido a que dichos habitats no se encontraban en el pasado.
41718344|The meadow jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius luteus) is a riparian obligate with a fragmented distribution in the American Southwest. Because of recent rapid declines in populations, it is a candidate for federal protection under the Endangered Species Act. In Arizona, its known distribution has been restricted to the White Mountains region in the east central part of the state. I present evidence for an historical occurrence of jumping mice in the Verde River watershed, Yavapai County, in west central Arizona. Evidence includes record of a specimen collected by Edgar Mearns in the 1880s, a 1944 report of parasites collected from jumping mice in Yavapai County, and a phylogeographic history that is consistent with an occurrence in the region, including an ecological niche model that predicted suitable conditions for Z. h. luteus in the upper Verde River watershed during the last glacial maximum. Field surveys should be conducted to determine if Z. h. luteus currently exists within the Verde River watershed. El ratn saltador de la pradera (Zapus hudsonius luteus) es una especie riberea obligada con una distribucin fragmentada en el suroeste de los EE.UU. Debido a recientes descensos precipitados en sus poblaciones, se encuentra como candidato para la proteccin federal bajo el Endangered Species Act. En Arizona, su distribucin conocida se ha visto reducida a la region de la Sierra Bianca en la parte oriental del centro del estado. Presento evidencia de que estos ratones habitaron Ia cuenca hidrolgica dei rio Verde, condado de Yavapai, en la parte occidental del centro de Arizona. Entre la evidencia figura el registro de un espcimen colectado por Edgar Mearns en la dcada de 1880, un reporte de parsitos colectados de ratones saltadores en el condado de Yavapai y una historia filogeogrfica consistente con su presencia en la region, incluyendo un modelo de nicho ecolgico que predice condiciones aptas para Z. h. luteus en la parte alta de Ia cuenca dei rio Verde durante el mximo glacial ms reciente. Deben Uevarse a cabo muestreos para determinar si Z. h. luteus actualmente est presente en la cuenca hidrolgica dei ro Verde.
41705449|Devils Hole, a unique ecosystem in the Mojave Desert, is home to a few dominant species of algae and invertebrates as well as the endangered Devils Hole pupfish, Cyprinodon diabolis. With consistently high water temperature (33.5 C/93 F) and low dissolved oxygen (O) concentration (about 2.5 mg O  L), organisms are at the extremes of their physiological limits, and production of O by microbial biofilms is essential to ecosystem stability. Water column O concentrations were measured from July 2008 to March 2010 in the deep pool and shallow shelf habitats of Devils Hole to quantify variability in O concentrations and ecosystem metabolism rates. Benthic O dynamics were also measured in microbial biofilms using microelectrode surveys. Water column O ranged from 2 to 6 mg O  L in summers and from 1.5 to 2.2 mg O  L in winter across the deep pool and shallow shelf habitats. Primary production ranged from 4 to 21 mg O  L, with a significant decline over the study period, potentially due to a change in the microbial biofilm community. Respiration ranged from 1.5 to 9.7 mg O  Ld and showed a significant increase over time. Within microbial biofilms, O ranged from 0 to 76 mg O  L. Higher concentrations of O produced by these microbial biofilms may be due to improved photosynthetic efficiency under limited sunlight exposure. Autotrophic biofilms had higher O concentrations during direct light exposure than during indirect light exposure. In contrast, heterotrophic biofilms had similar O concentrations regardless of light exposure. Because microbial biofilms are important components of this unique ecosystem, shifts in their composition or activity may threaten ecosystem stability by reducing background O concentrations below the physiological limits of the endangered Devils Hole pupfish and the entire biotic community. La Garganta del Diablo (Devils Hole), un ecosistema nico en el Desierto de Mojave, es el hogar de algunas especies dominantes de algas e invertebrados, as como tambin del pez Cyprnodon diabolis, que se encuentra en peligro de extincin. Con temperaturas elevadas constantes del agua (33.5 C/93 F) y bajas concentraciones de oxgeno disuelto (O) (~2.5 mg O  L), los organismos se encuentran en sus lmites fisiolgicos superiores y la produccin de O por parte de las biopelculas microbianas es fundamental para la estabilidad del ecosistema. Desde julio de 2008 a marzo de 2010 se midieron las concentraciones de O en la columna de agua, en las pozas profundas y en habitats superficiales de la Garganta del Diablo, para determinar la variabilidad en las concentraciones de O y las tasas metablicas del ecosistema. Tambin se midi la dinmica bentnica del O en las biopelculas microbianas mediante el uso de microelectrodos. El O de la columna de agua vari de 2 a 6 mg O  L en verano y de 1.5 a 2.2 mg O  L en invierno en pozas profundas y en los habitats superficiales. La productividad primaria vari de 4 a 21 mg O  Ld con una disminucin significativa durante el perodo de estudio, posiblemente debido al cambio en la comunidad de biopelculas microbianas. La respiracin vari de 1.5 a 9.7 mg O  Ld y aument significativamente con el tiempo. En las biopelculas microbianas, el O vari de 0 a 76 mg O  L. Las concentraciones ms elevadas de O que estas biopelculas microbianas produjeron podra deberse a una mejora en la eficiencia fotosinttica bajo una limitada exposicin a la luz del sol. Las biopelculas auttrofas tuvieron concentraciones ms elevadas de O durante la exposicin directa a la luz en comparacin con la exposicin indirecta, a diferencia de las biopelculas hetertrofas que tuvieron concentraciones de O similares, sin importar la exposicin a la luz. Debido a que las biopelculas microbianas son componentes importantes de este ecosistema nico, los cambios en su composicin o actividad pueden amenazar la estabilidad del ecosistema al reducir las concentraciones subyacentes de O por debajo de los lmites fisiolgicos del pez de la Garganta del Diablo que se encuentra en peligro de extincin, y de toda la comunidad bitica.
41705450|Because nest prdation strongly limits avian fitness, ornithologists identify nest predators to inform ecological research and conservation. During 2002-2008, we used both video-monitoring of natural nests and direct observations of prdation to identify nest predators of open-cup nesting riparian songbirds along tributaries of Mono Lake, California. Video cameras at 50 nests of 3 songbird species and direct observations of additional nests confirmed 10 distinct nest-predator species and suggested one additional species. Video-monitored nests experienced reduced prdation rates, and video observations mainly captured nestling prdation, even though prdation rates were higher for nonvideo-monitored nests during the egg period. These findings suggest cameras may have missed some predators. By supplementing video records with field observations, we reduced the likelihood of excluding species from our predator list that substantially impact fitness due to camera-related biases. No single predator species emerged as predominantly important for shaping avian fitness. Nevertheless, we frequently observed garter snakes (Thamnophis sp.) depredating nestlings and Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) depredating eggs. Corvids and rodents were also identified as potentially frequent groups of nest predators. Video cameras recorded partial prdation by 5 predator types, as well as several cases in which nests were visited by multiple predators. Finally, 6 of 7 predators that were video-recorded depredating artificial nests were species also documented depredating natural nests. These observations verify the relevance of artificial-nest data for further study of these predators. Debido a que la depredacin de nidos limita de manera contundente la adecuacin de las aves, los ornitlogos identifican a los depredadores de nidos para documentar la investigacin ecolgica y la conservacin. Durante 2002-2008, utilizamos el monitoreo por video de nidos naturales y observaciones directas de la depredacin para identificar a los depredadores de nidos de ruiseores ribereos que realizan nidos abiertos en los afluentes del Lago Mono en California. Las cmaras de video en 50 nidos de 3 especies de ruiseores y las observaciones directas de nidos adicionales confirmaron 10 especies diferentes de depredadores de nidos y sugirieron 1 especie adicional. Los nidos monitoreados por video experimentaron tasas de depredacin reducidas y las observaciones de video capturaron principalmente la depredacin de las cras, a pesar de que las tasas de depredacin fueron ms elevadas en los nidos que no estaban monitoreados por video durante el perodo de huevos. Estos descubrimientos sugieren que las cmaras pueden haber omitido algunos depredadores. Al complementar los registros de videos con las observaciones de campo, redujimos la posibilidad de excluir especies de nuestra lista de depredadores que impactan de manera sustancial la adecuacin, debido a las parcialidades de la cmara. Ninguna especie individual de depredador surgi como predominantemente importante en la determinacin de la adecuacin de las aves. Sin embargo, con frecuencia observamos culebras de agua (Thamnophis sp.) depredando a las cras y Garrapateros de cabeza marrn (Molothrus ater) depredando a los huevos. Crvidos y roedores tambin se identificaron como grupos posiblemente frecuentes de depredadores de nidos. Las cmaras registraron una depredacin parcial realizada por 5 tipos de depredadores, as como tambin varios casos en los cuales los nidos reciban la visita de mltiples depredadores. Finalmente, 6 de 7 depredadores registrados por las cmaras mientras depredaban nidos artificiales eran especies que tambin se documentaron mientras depredaban nidos naturales, lo que comprueba la relevancia de los datos recogidos de nidos artificiales para estudios adicionales de estos depredadores.
41705451|From 1985 to 2006, we tracked cui-ui, Chasmistes cujus, survival from potential egg deposition of migrating spawners to emigrating larvae. Tahoe sucker larvae emigrated to Pyramid Lake the same time as cui-ui larvae, but cui-ui was the predominant catostomid larvae we captured. Survival of cui-ui larvae ranged from 0.46% to 21.17%, declining significantly with decreased flow and increased number of spawners (P < 0.01). Mean total length of emigrating larvae ranged from 11.5 to 12.6 mm and may have been affected by stream flow. Removal of impediments to upstream migrating cui-ui spawners, along with sufficient stream flows, may enhance early life-stage survival. Desde 1985 hasta 2006, rastreamos la supervivencia de peces cui-ui, Chasmistes cujus, de una posible deposicin de huevos de hembras migratorias a larvas emigrantes. Las larvas del pez Tahoe sucker emigraron al Lago Pirmide al mismo tiempo que las larvas cui-ui, pero las cui-cui fueron las larvas catostmidas predominantes que capturamos. La supervivencia de las larvas cui-ui vari de 0.46% a 21.17%, y disminuy significativamente con la reduccin del caudal y con el aumento de la cantidad de hembras en desove (P < 0.01). La longitud promedio de las larvas emigrantes vari de 11.5 a 12.6 mm en longitud total y pueden haberse visto afectadas por el caudal de la corriente. La remocin de los obstculos para la migracin aguas arriba de peces hembras cui-ui, junto con la provisin de suficiente caudal de corriente pueden mejorar la supervivencia en etapas tempranas de la vida.
41705452|The genus Quercus represents an important component of the scrublands and low forests of the Four Corners area of northeastern Arizona, southeastern Utah, southwestern Colorado, and northwestern New Mexico. The area is dominated by the widespread Quercus gambelii, although relictual and marginal populations of Q. turbinella and Q. havardii are also present. Hybridization among these 3 species is common, leading to much variability in phenotypic traits, and this hybridization forms part of the widespread complex of hybrid oaks recognized as Q. x undulata. Multivariate analysis of leaf morphology was performed in 9 populations, representing the various taxa and levels of hybridization. This analysis was intended to determine the distinctiveness conferred by, and extent of influence from, hybridization and successive introgression. It was found that, though common, hybridization seems to act at very restricted spatial scales and not in the production of a region-wide hybrid swarm. Most hybridization occurs between the predominant Q. gambelii and Q. turbinella. Quercus havardii appears to maintain itself as a fairly discrete taxon, with little gene exchange among congener species. Though morphological introgression actively occurs only at the local population level, it seems to have significantly altered the morphology of the parental species. This seems to be supporting evidence for extensive introgression toward the southern Q. turbinella. when its distribution was more widespread. This asymmetric introgression toward Q. turbinella. suggests a pattern of character coherence and the presence of a suite of advantageous traits, which may allow the species to enlarge its niche via hybridization. El gnero Quercus es un importante componente de los matorrales y bosques bajos de la regin de las Cuatro Esquinas del Noreste de Arizona, Sureste de Utah, Suroeste de Colorado y Noroeste de Nuevo Mexico. Esta region es dominada por la especie de amplia distribucin Q. gambelii, aunque tambin es posible encontrar poblaciones relictuales y marginales de Q. turbinella y Q. havardii. La hibiridizacin entre estas tres especies es comn y ha contribuido a la gran variacin fenotpica presente en el complejo conocido como Q. x undulata. Un anlisis multivariado de la variacin morfologica de las hojas en nueve poblaciones que representan los diferentes niveles de hibridizacin fue realizado. Este estudio mostr que aunque la hibridizacin es comn acta a niveles muy restringidos dentro de las poblaciones. La majora de la hibridizacin ocurre entre Q. gambelii y Q. turbinella. Quercus havardii parece mantenerse como un taxon discreto con poco flujo gnico con las otras especies. Mientras que la hibridizacin solo ocurre a nivel local parece haber alterado la morfologa de las especies parentales. Esto ha servido de evidencia para hipotetizar la extensiva hibridizacin hacia Q. turbinella durante el tiempo en el que esta especie tena una distribucin mas amplia. Esta introgresin asimtrca hacia Q. turbinella sugiere un patron de "character coherence" asi como la presencia de caractersticas que le permiten incrementar su area de distribucin via hibridizacin.
41705453|The population dynamics of Sclerocactus mesae-verdae were documented annually in 3 plots over 20 years in southwestern Colorado. Demographic studies of this duration are rare but they are necessary to gain a more accurate estimate of population trends in long-lived desert species. Sclerocactus mesae-verdae was federally listed as threatened in 1979; this study was initiated in 1986 with the objective of determining whether Colorado populations were growing, declining, or stable. Data collected yearly around 1 May included diameter, vigor, and flower/fruit counts for 1629 stems belonging to 659 plants. We used regression analysis to estimate the mean, variance, and average population growth rate for each plot. Observations made throughout the study suggested that the cactus responded strongly to climatic variables, especially precipitation and temperature, and that 2 of the 3 subject populations were subject to periodic devastation by a longhorn beetle {Moneilema semipunctatum). These observations led us to attempt to correlate significant mortality (beetle-caused) or recruitment events to climate variables. We found that the cactus populations appear to be roughly stable to increasing slightly, possibly due to several wet springs and warmer-than-average winter temperatures since 1992. However, the warming trend also favors beetle prdation, which overall presents a concern for the species' long-term survival. We conclude that 20 years may not be long enough to clarify large-scale climate influences on the persistence of long-lived desert species. La dinmica poblacional del Sclerocactus mesae-verdae se documentaron anualmente en 3 parcelas durante ms de 20 aos en el suroeste de Colorado. Los estudios demogrficos de esta duracin son poco comunes, pero necesarios para obtener una estimacin ms acertada de las tendencias poblacionales de especies desrticas longevas. En 1979, el gobierno federal clasific a Sclerocactus mesae-verdae como una especie en peligro de extincin; este estudio inici en 1986 con la finalidad de determinar si las poblaciones de Colorado estaban creciendo, disminuyendo o mantenindose estables. La informacin colectada anualmente alrededor del 1 de mayo incluye el dimetro, vigor y los conteos de flores y frutos de 1629 tallos provenientes de 659 plantas. Usamos anlisis de regresin para estimar el promedio, la varianza y la tasa promedio de crecimiento poblacional de cada parcela. Las observaciones hechas a lo largo del estudio indicaron que el cactus reaccion fuertemente a las variaciones climticas, especialmente a la precipitacin y a la temperatura; tambin que 2 de las 3 poblaciones estuvieron sujetas a una devastacin peridica causada por una especie de escarabajo longicornio (Moneilema semipunctatum). Estas observaciones nos llevaron a tratar de correlacionar la mortalidad significativa (causada por el escarabajo) o eventos de reclutamiento con las variables climticas. Hallamos que las poblaciones de cactus parecen estar casi estables o incrementndose ligeramente, posiblemente debido a las varias primaveras lluviosas desde 1992 as como a las temperaturas de invierno que fueron ms calientes de lo normal. Sin embargo, las tendencias de calentamiento tambin ocasionan la depredacin por el escarabajo, la cual en general representa una preocupacin para la supervivencia a largo plazo de la especie. Llegamos a la conclusin que 20 aos tal vez no sean suficientes para clarificar las influencias a gran escala que tiene el clima en la persistencia de las especies desrticas longevas.
41705454|Fremont cottonwood (Populus fremontii) is an early successional foundation species found in riparian forest ecosystems in the North American Southwest. Along rivers, the upper limit of the seedling establishment zone depends on the proximity of seedling roots to the declining water table. The lower limit is a function of the maximum elevation of inundation or scour. Fremont cottonwood seedlings are likely to experience short-term (1-to 5-week) inundation during their first year of growth under both natural and human-influenced hydrologie regimes. Previous studies show that inundation can account for more than 70% of seedling mortality during this time. Using controlled inundation experiments, we found that seedlings of Fremont cottonwood have high tolerance of inundation to the soil surface and a reasonable tolerance of complete shoot submergence for a duration of 1 or 2 weeks (22% and 50% mortality, respectively). Mortality increased linearly with days of complete submergence (mortality percentage = 4.6 + [2.5 X days of submergence]). Warm water temperature (25/18 C day/night) during complete submergence adversely affected seedling biomass and survival, resulting in 64% mortality versus 39% with cooler water temperatures (18/11 C day/night). Our results indicate that establishment of new Fremont cottonwood populations in the riparian corridor will be more successful when flows do not completely cover the shoots of seedlings for more than 2 weeks and if water temperatures during inundation are cool. From the perspective of the management of river flows for cottonwood recruitment, deep, prolonged, late-season (warm water) inundations are the most detrimental. El lamo negro (Populus fremontii) es una especie de sucesin temprana en los ecosistemas de bosques ribereos, en el suroeste norteamericano. A lo largo de los ros, el lmite superior de la zona de establecimiento de plntulas depende de la proximidad de las races de las plntulas al nivel fretico decreciente. El lmite inferior es una funcin de la elevacin mxima de inundacin o abrasin. Es posible que las plntulas de lamo negro experimenten una inundacin de corto plazo (de 1 a 5 semanas) durante sus primeros aos de crecimiento en sistemas hidrolgicos naturales y con influencia humana. Estudios anteriores revelaron que la inundacin puede explicar ms del 70% de la mortalidad de las plntulas durante este tiempo. Mediante experimentos de inundacin controlada, encontramos que las plntulas de lamo negro poseen una elevada tolerancia a la inundacin de la superficie del suelo y una tolerancia razonable a la inmersin completa del tallo durante una o dos semanas (22% y 50% de mortalidad respectivamente). La mortalidad aument en forma lineal con los das de inmersin completa (porcentaje de mortalidad = 4.6 + (2.5 X das de inmersin). La temperatura caliente del agua (25/18 C da/noche) durante la inmersin completa afect de manera adversa la biomasa y la supervivencia de las plntulas, lo que result en un 64% de mortalidad contra el 39% en temperaturas ms fras (18/11 C da/noche). Nuestros resultados indican que el establecimiento de nuevas poblaciones de lamos negros en el corredor ribereo tendr mayor xito cuando los caudales no cubran por completo los tallos de las plntulas por ms de dos semanas, y si la temperatura del agua es fra durante la inundacin. Desde la perspectiva del manejo de los caudales de los ros para el reclutamiento de lamos negros, las inundaciones profundas, prolongadas y en temporada tarda son las ms perjudiciales.
41705455|Water in the Little Colorado River within Grand Canyon is naturally high in salt (NaCl), which is known to prohibit development of external fish parasites such as Ich (lchthyophthirius multifiliis). The naturally high salinity (>0.3%) of the Little Colorado River at baseflow may be one factor allowing survival and persistence of larval and juvenile humpback chub (Ga cypha) and other native fishes in Grand Canyon. We compared salinity readings from the Little Colorado River to those reported in the literature as being effective at removing protozoan parasites from fish. In laboratory tests, 10 juvenile roundtail chub (Ga robusta; 61-90 mm TL) were randomly placed into each of 12, 37-L aquaria filled with freshwater, water obtained from the Little Colorado River (0.3% salinity), or freshwater with table salt added until the salinity reached 0.3%. Roundtail chub was used as a surrogate for humpback chub in this study because the species is not listed as endangered but is morphologically and ecologically similar to humpback chub. All roundtail chub infected with Ich recovered and survived when placed in water from the Little Colorado River or water with 0.3% salinity, but all experimental fish placed in freshwater died because of Ich infection. The naturally high salinity of the Little Colorado River at baseflow (0.22%0.36%), appears sufficiently high to interrupt the life cycle of Ich and may allow increased survival of larval and juvenile humpback chub relative to other areas within Grand Canyon. El agua en el Ro Colorado Pequeo (Little Colorado River) dentro del Gran Can (Grand Canyon) es naturalmente elevada en sal (NaCl), lo que prohibe el desarrollo de parsitos externos en los peces como el Ich (lchthyophthirius multifiliis). La salinidad naturalmente elevada (>0.3%) del Ro Colorado Pequeo en el caudal de base puede ser un factor que permite la supervivencia y persistencia de las larvas y juveniles del humpback chub (Gila cypha) y otros peces nativos en el Gran Can. Comparamos las lecturas de salinidad obtenidas del Ro Colorado Pequeo con aquellas reportadas en la literatura como eficaces en la remocin de parsitos protozoarios de los peces. En pruebas de laboratorio, 10 peces roundtail chub jvenes (Gila robusta; de 61 a 90 mm de longitud total) fueron ubicados al azar en cada una de 12 peceras de 37 litros llenadas con agua dulce, agua obtenida del Ro Colorado Pequeo (0.3% de salinidad), o agua dulce con sal de mesa agregada hasta que la salinidad alcanz el 0.3%. El pez roundtail chub se utiliz como un sustituto del humpback chub en este estudio, debido a que no figura como una especie en peligro de extincin, pero es similar al humpback chub desde el punto de vista morfolgico y ecolgico. Todos los peces roundtail chub infectados con Ich se recuperaron y sobrevivieron al ser colocados en aguas del Ro Colorado Pequeo o aguas con salinidad del 0.3%, pero todos los peces murieron debido a la infeccin causada por el Ich si se los colocaban en agua dulce. La salinidad naturalmente elevada del Ro Colorado Pequeo en el caudal de base (0.22% a 0.36%), parece lo suficientemente elevada para interrumpir el ciclo de vida del Ich y puede permitir el aumento de la supervivencia de larvas y juveniles del humpback chub, en relacin con otras reas dentro del Gran Can.
41705456|We conducted a study to examine the ability of granivorous rodents to detect caches made with wildland (native and nonnative) and cultivated seeds at 3 locations in western Nevada with different vegetation types and rodent community structures. We established artificial caches containing either 2 or 3 species of wildland seeds or cultivated seeds. Five seed species were tested at each site. Under dry conditions, rodents found caches containing cultivated seeds much more rapidly than caches containing wildland seeds. Wet conditions resulted in a similar order of detectability; however, all species of seeds were located much faster in wet conditions than under dry conditions. Natural selection has likely acted on the wildland seeds to reduce their olfactory signal and potentially reduce prdation upon those seeds. Llevamos a cabo un estudio para examinar la capacidad que poseen los roedores para detectar escondites de semillas forestales (nativas y no nativas) y de semillas de cultivos en tres localidades en el oeste de Nevada, con diferentes tipos de vegetacin y diferentes comunidades de roedores. Establecimos escondites artificiales que contenan ya sea dos o tres especies de semillas forestales o semillas de cultivos. Se probaron cinco especies de semillas en cada sitio. En condiciones secas, los roedores encontraron ms rpidamente los escondites que contenan semillas de cultivados que aquellos escondites que contenan semillas forestales. Las condiciones hmedas resultaron en un orden de deteccin similar. Sin embargo, todas las especies de semillas se localizaron ms rpidamente en condiciones hmedas que en condiciones secas. Posiblemente, la seleccin natural haya actuado sobre las semillas forestales para reducir sus seales olfativas y reducir potencialmente la depredacin de estas semillas.
41705457|While we know much about the diet of Western Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) in many of their more natural habitats, little is known about their diets in urban environments. We analyzed pellets and prey remains collected at burrows used by Burrowing Owls living in urban grasslands in Santa Clara County, California. We hypothesized that the composition of prey species in the diet of these urban owls would differ from that of owls living in agricultural and more-natural western habitats and, in particular, that rodents would be a smaller component of the diet. We found the invertebrate-to-vertebrate ratio to be approximately 94:6 by number. Orthoptera, Dermaptera, and Coleptera were the most abundant invertebrate orders, while rodents accounted for 70% of the estimated biomass per burrow of all orders. This overall composition and these taxa are typical for Burrowing Owls in western habitats. However, Botta's pocket gopher (Thomomys bottae) was an important prey species by biomass, a species not often recorded as a dominant prey item of owls living in western habitats. The California vole (Microtus californicus) and house mouse (Mus musculus) were also dominant prey items by biomass. We recommend managing Western Burrowing Owl habitat for species, especially rodents such as pocket gophers and voles, that do well in urban habitats. A pesar de saber mucho acerca del rgimen alimenticio del tecolote llanero occidental (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) en muchos de sus hbitats ms naturales, poco se sabe acerca de su dieta en ambientes urbanos. Analizamos las bolas de hueso, pelo y plumas que vomitan los tecolotes y los restos de presas colectados en las madrigueras habitadas por los tecolotes llaneros que viven en las praderas urbanas del condado de Santa Clara, California. Planteamos la hiptesis de que la composicin de las especies de presas que conforman la dieta de estos tecolotes urbanos diferira de la de los tecolotes que viven en hbitats agrcolas y ms naturales de la regin occidental, y en particular, que los roedores seran un componente ms pequeo de su dieta. Descubrimos que la proporcin de invertebrados a vertebrados es aproximadamente 94:6 por nmeros. Orthoptera, Dermaptera y Coleptera fueron los rdenes de invertebrados ms abundantes, mientras que, de todas las rdenes de animales, los roedores componen el 70% del nmero estimado de biomasa por madriguera. Esta composicin en general y estos taxa son caractersticos de los tecolotes llaneros en habitats occidentales. Pero la tuza de Botta (Thomomys bottae) fue una especie de presa importante por biomasa, una especie que pocas veces se ha observado como una presa principal de los tecolotes que viven en habitats occidentales. La rata de campo californiana (Microtus californicus) y el ratn domstico (Mus musculus) tambin fueron presas principales por biomasa. Recomendamos manejar el hbitat de los tecolotes llaneros para las especies que prosperan en hbitats urbanos, especialmente los roedores tales como las tuzas y ratas de campo.
41705458|We estimated population abundance and sex ratio for a freshwater live-bearing fish species (Poeciliopsis baenschi) that inhabits fluvial systems in western Mexico. We conducted mark-recapture experiments in 6 distinct populations. We used both our catch data as well as estimates of capture probability to calculate the number of individuals per unit water volume for adult males, adult females, and juveniles. Overall, abundance varied among sites from 23.8 individuals  m to 363.2 individuals  m. In most of our study sites, the estimated sex ratio was markedly biased toward females (up to 11 females per male). We discuss the potential causes and implications of the observed demographic features. Estimamos abundancia poblacional y proporcin sexual para una especie de pez vivparo de agua dulce (Poeciliopsis baenschi) que habita sistemas fluviales en el occidente de Mxico. Llevamos a cabo experimentos de mareaje y recaptura en seis poblaciones distintas. Utilizamos tanto nuestras capturas observadas as como estimaciones de probabilidad de captura para calcular el nmero de individuos por unidad de volumen de agua para machos adultos, hembras adultas y juveniles. En general, la abundancia vari entre sitios desde 23.8 individuos por m y hasta 363.2 individuos por m. En la mayora de nuestros sitios de estudio, la proporcin sexual estimada estuvo marcadamente sesgada hacia las hembras (hasta 11 hembras por cada macho). Discutimos las causas potenciales y las implicaciones de los rasgos demogrficos observados.
41705459|Translocation success of Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) is generally measured by documenting whether translocated individuals survive and reproduce at the release site. However, demographic parameters, such as annual survival of translocated individuals, provide a more accurate measure of translocation success. We translocated 60 female sage-grouse from Oregon and Nevada to Clear Lake National Wildlife Refuge, California, during 2005-2010 to augment a small population of resident grouse. We radio-marked each translocated female and a sample of resident female sage-grouse, recorded their locations, and monitored their survival at monthly intervals over the study period. We observed most (55/60) translocated birds near (<100 m from) the only lek in the study area within one week of their release. To examine factors influencing survival, we developed a set of a priori models that included the effects of translocation status, season (breeding vs. nonbreeding), year, and age on annual survival and compared the models' AIC c values using program MARK. The null model was the best supported model and received 33% of the model weight. Models that included survival during the first year posttranslocation, age, and season, however, were competitive (<2 AIC c ) with the top model. However, the  coefficient distinguishing breeding from nonbreeding season survival was the only coefficient whose 95% confidence interval did not overlap zero; monthly survival during the breeding season (0.952  0.014) was lower than during the nonbreeding season (0.960  0.008). The model average estimate of annual survival for female sage-grouse in our study area was 59.6% (95% CI 47.9-70.1). Our analyses provide little support for a difference in survival between translocated and resident sage-grouse, and our annual survival estimates were comparable to annual survival estimates of resident sage-grouse in other locations. Our results suggest that when current recommendations for translocation protocols are followed, translocated female sage-grouse survive just as well as resident individuals and quickly integrate into the local population. El xito del traslado del urogallo de las praderas (Centrocercus urophasianus) generalmente se ha medido al documentar si los ejemplares trasladados han sobrevivido y se han reproducido en los lugares donde han sido puestos en libertad. Sin embargo, los parmetros demogrficos como la tasa anual de supervivencia de ejemplares trasladados proveen una medida ms precisa del xito del traslado. Trasladamos a 60 urogallos hembras de Oregn y Nevada al Clear Lake National Wildlife Refuge (Refugio Nacional para la Fauna Silvestre Clear Lake) en California entre 2005 y 2010 con el fin de incrementar la poblacin pequea de urogallos residentes. Se coloc un trasmisor telemtrico a cada ejemplar trasladado y a una muestra de hembras residentes y registramos sus ubicaciones y monitoreamos su supervivencia en intervalos de un mes durante dicho periodo. Observamos a la mayora (55/60) de las aves trasladadas cerca (a menos de 100 m) del nico grupo de machos en el rea de estudio durante la primera semana de haber sido puestas en libertad. Para poder examinar los factores que afectaron la supervivencia, desarrollamos un conjunto de modelos a priori en los que se incluyeron los efectos del estado de traslado, la estacin, el ao y la edad sobre la supervivencia anual y comparamos sus valores de AIC c usando el programa MARK. El modelo nulo fue el modelo ms apoyado y recibi el 33% de peso relativo. Sin embargo, los modelos que incluyeron supervivencia durante el primer ao despus del traslado, la edad y la temporada de apareamiento fueron competitivos (<2 AIC c en relacin con el modelo ms apoyado. No obstante, el coeficiente beta que distingue la supervivencia durante la temporada de apareamiento de la supervivencia durante el resto del ao fue el nico coeficiente cuyo intervalo de confianza de 95% no incluy al cero; la supervivencia mensual durante la temporada de apareamiento (0.952  0.014) fue menor que la supervivencia fuera de dicha temporada (0.960  0.008). El promedio ponderado de la supervivencia anual de los urogallos hembras en nuestra rea de estudio fue 59.6% (IC 95% 47.9-70.1).Nuestro anlisis brinda poco respaldo en cuanto a la diferencia de supervivencia entre los urogallos trasladados y los residentes, y nuestras estimaciones de la supervivencia de urogallos fueron comparables a las estimaciones de supervivencia de individuos residentes en otras reas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que cuando se cumplen las recomendaciones actuales para los protocolos de traslado, los urogallos hembras trasladados sobreviven tanto como los ejemplares residentes y se integran rpidamente a la poblacin local.
41705460|Hispid pocket mice (Chaetodipus hispidus) are found from the grasslands of the Great Plains to the deserts of the southwestern United States, but the natural history and ecology of this species have not been described in native tallgrass prairie at the eastern edge of its range. We initiated an ongoing long-term study of small mammals on Konza Prairie Biological Station, Kansas (a Long-Term Ecological Research [LTER] site), in autumn 1981. Our sampling scheme for 14 LTER sites was a 20-station trapline; small mammals were sampled in autumn and spring for 30 years and in summer for a shorter period. We combined data for these sites with those from shorter studies on Konza Prairie that used traplines and trapping grids. We recorded only 96 hispid pocket mice over the 30 years of study (>300,000 trap-nights overall). Pocket mice were more likely to be captured in autumn and summer than in spring. The earliest annual capture was on 20 March and the latest on 7 December; males emerged from torpor in spring before females, whereas females entered torpor later in autumn. Precipitation (January-September) had a tight limiting effect on maximal number of individuals that were present in autumn. Pocket mice were more common on slope prairie than on upland or lowland prairie, but burning and grazing had no effect. Their spatiotemporal distribution showed a slightly "anti-nested" pattern with only weakly preferred sites and no focal years that might indicate favorable conditions. Collectively, our data suggested the presence of 3 age classes when individual body masses (no differences between males and females) were plotted against capture date. Finally, our study illustrates the importance of long-term data sets, especially in the study of uncommon to rare species. El ratn de bolsa hspido (Chaetodipus hispidus) se encuentra desde los pastizales de las Grandes Llanuras hasta los desiertos del suroeste de los Estados Unidos, pero la historia natural y la ecologa de esta especie no se ha descrito en las praderas nativas de gramneas altas en el borde este de su distribucin. Iniciamos un estudio continuo a largo plazo de pequeos mamferos en la Estacin Biolgica de la Pradera de Konza, en Kansas (un sitio de investigacin ecolgica a largo plazo [Long-Term Ecological Research, LTER]) en el otoo de 1981. Nuestro esquema de muestreo para los 14 sitios LTER fue una lnea de trampas de 20 estaciones. Durante 30 aos se muestrearon mamiferos pequeos en otoo y primavera, y en verano se muestrearon por un perodo ms corto. Combinamos los datos de estos sitios con aquellos de estudios ms breves en la Pradera de Konza que utilizaron lneas de trampas y trampas de rejillas. Registramos slo 96 ratones de bolsa hspidos durante los 30 aos de estudio (ms de 300,000 noches de trampas en total). Estos ratones tuvieron mayores posibilidades de ser atrapados en otoo y verano que en primavera. La primera captura anual fue el 20 de marzo y la ltima el 7 de diciembre; en primavera los machos despertaban del letargo antes que las hembras, mientras que en otoo las hembras entraban en letargo despus que los machos. La precipitacin (enero a septiembre) tuvo un fuerte efecto limitante en la cantidad mxima de individuos presentes en otoo. Los ratones eran ms comunes en praderas de pendiente que en praderas de tierras altas o tierras bajas, pero la quema y el pastoreo no tuvieron efecto. Su distribucin espacio-temporal revel un patrn ligeramente "anti-anidado" con sitios dbilmente preferidos y sin aos focales que pudieran indicar condiciones favorables. De manera conjunta, nuestros datos sugieren la presencia de 3 clases de edad cuando se grfico la masa corporal de los individuos (sin diferencias entre machos y hembras) contra la fecha de captura. Finalmente, nuestro estudio demuestra la importancia de los conjuntos de datos de largo plazo, especialmente en el estudio de especies poco comunes a raras.
41705461|Springs located on the Colorado Plateau are highly threatened and represent a small percentage of the landscape; yet they are disproportionately important to diverse native flora and fauna. The relationships between anthropogenic disturbance, aquatic macroinvertebrate species composition, and environmental variables at these springs have received little study. We selectively visited 40 sandstone springs in southeastern Utah and southwestern Colorado to span a range of impacts. We classified the springs into impact categories based on a spring impact score, and we measured biodiversity (aquatic macroinvertebrates), water chemistry (nutrients, dissolved O, pH, specific conductivity, temperature, turbidity, coliform bacteria [Escherichia coli]), physical characters (solar radiation, substrate, vegetation cover, bank stability, discharge), and presence of anthropogenic disturbance. Escherichia coli abundance was higher in high impact categories, and turbidity increased with increasing disturbance. No differences in total N, total F, specific conductivity, flow, dissolved O, pH, or substrate were found among the impact categories. Vegetation cover was higher in low impact categories than in moderate and high impact categories, while potential annual and growing-season solar radiation was lower in low impact categories than in high impact categories. Global and subsequent multiple response permutation procedure (MRPP) comparisons suggested strong differences in aquatic macroinvertebrates between low and high impact springs and no difference at moderate impact springs. Mean taxa richness (-diversity), total taxa richness (-diversity), and percent of taxa richness composed of shredders peaked at moderate disturbance levels. The percentage of non-insect taxa richness was reduced in high impact categories, and Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) were higher in low impact categories than in high impact categories. All high impact springs had both livestock use and vehicle use (roads or off-highway vehicles), and our data suggest that disturbances caused by one or both of these uses alter the aquatic macroinvertebrate assemblage. We suggest that disturbance may increase macroinvertebrate richness, where a mix of tolerant and intolerant species co-occur, until macroinvertebrate richness reaches a threshold; after surpassing this threshold, macroinvertebrate diversity decreases. Los manantiales ubicados en Colorado Plateau estn sumamente amenazados y representan un pequeo porcentaje del paisaje. Sin embargo, son desproporcionadamente importantes para una gran variedad de flora y fauna nativas. La relacin entre la perturbacin antropognica, la composicin de las especies de macroinvertebrados acuticos y las variables ambientales en los manantiales de Colorado Plateau han sido objeto de poco estudio. De manera selectiva, visitamos 40 manantiales de piedra arenisca en el sureste de Utah y el suroeste de Colorado para abarcar una serie de impactos, y los dividimos en categoras de impacto, segn una calificacin de Impacto en Manantiales. Medimos la biodiversidad (macroinvertebrados acuticos), la qumica del agua (nutrientes, oxgeno disuelto, pH, conductividad especfica, temperatura, turbidez, bacterias coliformes [Escherichia coli]), caractersticas fsicas (radiacin solar, sustratos, cubierta vegetal, estabilidad de los bancos, descargas) y la presencia de perturbacin antropognica. La abundancia de Escherichia coli fue mayor en las categoras de Gran Impacto y la turbidez aument con el aumento de la perturbacin. No se encontraron diferencias en el nitrgeno total, fsforo total, conductividad especfica, caudal, oxgeno disuelto, pH o sustratos entre las diferentes categoras de impacto. La cubierta vegetal fue mayor en las categoras de Bajo Impacto que en las categoras de Moderado y Alto Impacto, mientras que la posible radiacin solar anual y en la temporada de crecimiento fue menor en las categoras de Bajo Impacto que en las categoras de Alto Impacto. Las comparaciones realizadas a travs del procedimiento de permutacin de respuestas mltiples (multiple response permutation procedure, MRPP) tanto globales como subsecuentes sugirieron una marcada diferencia en los macroinvertebrados acuticos entre los manantiales de Alto y Bajo Impacto, y ninguna diferencia en los manantiales de Moderado Impacto. La riqueza promedio de taxa (diversidad -), la riqueza total de taxa (diversidad -) y el porcentaje de la riqueza de taxa compuesta de trituradores alcanzaron el mximo en niveles moderados de perturbacin. El porcentaje de riqueza de taxa de no insectos se redujo en las categoras de Alto Impacto y la presencia de Odonatos (liblulas) fue ms elevada en las categoras de Bajo Impacto que en las categoras de Alto Impacto. Todos los manantiales de Alto Impacto tuvieron la presencia de ganado y de vehculos (vehculos de carretera o fuera de carretera), y nuestros datos sugieren que uno o ambos de estos impactos alteran el ensamble de macroinvertebrados acuticos. Sugerimos que la perturbacin puede aumentar la riqueza de macroinvertebrados, donde un conjunto de especies tolerantes y no tolerantes coocurren, hasta que alcanza cierto nivel; luego de alcanzar este nivel, la diversidad de los macroinvertebrados disminuye.
41705462|Through a phylogenetic study using LEGCYCIA nucleotide sequences and a survey of historical botanical literature, we propose clarifications in the nomenclature of Lupinus oreganus and Lupinus biddlei. The former taxon has been incorrectly classified as Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii and recently as L. oreganus var. kincaidii. The latter has recently been incorrectly delimited as L. oreganus var. oreganus. Se proponen aclaraciones en la nomenclatura de Lupinus oreganus y Lupinus biddlei a travs de un estudio filogentico que utiliza secuencias nucletidas de LEGCYCIA y una revisin de literatura botnica histrica. El primer taxn mencionado se ha clasificado incorrectamente como Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii y recientemente como L. oreganus var. kincaidii. El segundo taxn mencionado ha sido delimitado errneamente como L. oreganus var. oreganus.
41705463|This paper reports the first record of Eumops underwoodi in the Baja California peninsula. This record expands the species' distributional range in Mexico along the peninsula. We propose 2 plausible biogeographical explanations. First, the species has the ability to travel across the Gulf of California from the coast of Sonora to the eastern side of the Baja California peninsula and there establish. Second, there is a continuous distribution of the species throughout the mountain ranges that run longitudinally along the Baja California peninsula from the United States border down to the southern tip. We collected one male specimen of E. underwoodi in xeric-riparian habitat. We suggest a continuous distribution pattern of this species along the cliffs in the Baja California peninsula. Se realiza el primer registro de Eumops underwoodi en la pennsula de Baja California, con lo que se ampla su intervalo de distribucin a lo largo de la pennsula y para Mxico. Se proponen dos explicaciones biogeogrficas para este registro. La primera analiza la capacidad de viajar a travs del Golfo de California, desde la costa de Sonora hasta la pennsula de Baja California. La segunda, considera que existe una distribucin continua de E. underwoodi a travs de las cadenas montaosas presentes longitudinalmente a lo largo de la pennsula de Baja California, desde la frontera de Estados Unidos hasta el extremo sur. Se colect un ejemplar macho de E. underwoodi en habitat xrico ripario. Se considera que esta especie tiene un patrn de distribucin continuo a lo largo de los acantilados de la pennsula de Baja California.
41705464|A specimen of an adult male of the southern grasshopper mouse Onychomys torridus was collected in Punta Choros, 25 km SE of Baha de los ngeles, Baja California, Mxico. This record extends the species' distribution 330 km SE of the prior southernmost locality on the peninsula. Se colect un espcimen de un macho adulto del ratn chapulinero Onychomys torridus en Punta Choros a 25 km al SE de Baha de los ngeles, Baja California, Mxico. Este registro extiende la distribucin de esta especie 330 km al SE de la localidad mas surea de la pennsula.
42003917|Nest-area fidelity is common among many birds including those in the orders Anseriformes, Ciconiiformes, and Procellariiformes. Successful nesting attempts are often associated with a higher probability that nesting adults wall return in a consecutive year. Conversely, unsuccessful birds are often less likely to show fidelity in subsequent years. Despite substantial natural history information from across the range of Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus), the prevalence of sage-grouse nest-area fidelity remains unclear. Our objectives were to (1) determine if individual female sage-grouse showed fidelity to nesting areas in subsequent years, (2) test whether successful females were more likely to demonstrate fidelity than unsuccessful females, and (3) examine the distance between nest sites and active leks in Strawberry Valley, Utah. We observed 30 radio-marked females that attempted a nest in consecutive nesting seasons between 1998 and 2010. The mean distance between initial year's nests and subsequent year's nests (x = 1459 m, SE = 84.9 m) was lower (P < 0.01) than the mean distance from initial year's nests to random nests (x = 13,263 m, SE = 227.5 m) indicating that sage-grouse demonstrated nest-area fidelity. We found no support (P > 0.05) for the hypothesis that successful females (n = 17, x = 1355 m, SE = 142.6 m) were more likely to nest closer to the previous nest location than unsuccessful females (n = 13, x = 1595 m, SE = 214.9 m) in our study area. Mean distance from all nests (n = 181) to nearest active lek was 4.3 km. We found only 57% of our nests located within the 3.2-km distance from an active lek often used to delineate critical nesting habitat. We suggest a more conservative distance of 10 km for our study area and consideration of nest-area fidelity in conservation planning. La fidelidad al rea del nido es comn entre muchas aves, incluyendo aquellas en los rdenes Anseriformes, Ciconiiformes y Procellariiformes. Los intentos exitosos de anidacin estn generalmente relacionados con una mayor probabilidad de que los adultos anidadores regresen en un ao consecutivo. Por el contrario, las aves que fracasan tienen por lo general menos posibilidades de mostrar fidelidad en los aos subsiguientes. A pesar de la informacin sustancial sobre su historia natural a lo largo de su rango de distribucin, la prevalencia de la fidelidad al rea del nido an es poco clara en el caso del urogallo mayor (Centrocercus urophasianus). Nuestros objetivos fueron 1) determinar si el urogallo hembra muestra fidelidad a las reas del nido en aos subsiguientes, 2) examinar si las hembras exitosas tienen ms posibilidades de mostrar fidelidad que las hembras que fracasan, y 3) examinar la distancia entre los sitios de anidacin y los leks activos en Strawberry Valley, Utah. Observamos 30 hembras marcadas a travs de radio que procuraban un nido en temporadas de anidacin consecutivas entre 1998 y 2010. La distancia promedio entre los nidos del ao inicial y los del ao subsiguiente (x = 1,459 m; EE = 84.9 m) fue menor (P < 0.01) que la distancia promedio de nidos del ao inicial hacia nidos aleatorios (x = 13,263 m; EE = 227.5 m) lo que indica que el urogallo mostr una fidelidad al rea del nido. No encontramos respaldo (P > 0.05) para la hiptesis que indicaba que las hembras exitosas (n = 17; x = 1,355 m; EE = 142.6 m) tienen ms posibilidades de anidar ms cerca de la ubicacin previa del nido que las hembras que fracasan (n = 13; x = 1,595 m; EE = 214.9 m) en nuestra rea de estudio. La distancia promedio desde todos los nidos (n = 181) hasta el lek activo ms cercano fue de 4.3 km. Encontramos slo 57% de nuestros nidos ubicados a una distancia de 3.2 km desde un lek activo que generalmente se usa para delimitar el habitat de anidacin crtico. Sugerimos una distancia ms conservadora de 10 km para nuestra rea de estudio y la consideracin de la fidelidad al rea del nido para planificar la conservacin.
42003918|Establishment of sampling frameworks to monitor the occurrence of ecological indicators and to identify the covariates that influence occurrence is a high-priority need for natural resource restoration and management efforts. We utilized occupancy modeling to identify patterns of beaver occurrence and factors influencing these patterns (i.e., type and amount of vegetation cover) in the Grand Canyon of the Colorado River ecosystem. We used rafts and kayaks to access a stratified random sample of sites (i.e., 100-m-long sections of riverbank) and used repeated sampling procedures to sample for beaver sign (i.e., lodges, cuttings, tracks, and beaver sightings). We quantified the type and amount of vegetation cover at each sampled section by using a GIS database of remotely sensed information on the riparian vegetation in the Grand Canyon. We first modeled occurrence of beaver sign as a function of the total amount of vegetation cover (summed across classes) and then determined the relative importance score for each of the 7 vegetation classes. Detection probability (p) was 2 times higher when observers traveled in kayaks (0.61) than when they traveled in rafts (0.29). Occurrence of beaver sign () in sampled transects was widespread throughout the Grand Canyon ( = 0.74, SE = 0.06) and positively associated with total vegetation. The relative importance scores for Tamarix and Pluchea vegetation classes were 1.5-2.5 times larger than those for all other vegetation classes, indicating that occurrence of beaver sign was most strongly associated with the cover of these 2 vegetation classes. Our results imply that quantifying the amount of riparian vegetation in close proximity to a river helps determine the occurrence of an important ecological indicator in riparian systems. The results also demonstrate a useful and cost-effective method for monitoring riverine species' usage patterns by explicitly accounting for detectability. El establecimiento de infraestructura de muestreo, para controlar la existencia de indicadores geolgicos y para identificar las covariables que influencian dicha existencia, es una necesidad de alta prioridad para la restauracin de los recursos naturales y los esfuerzos de gestin. Utilizamos el modelado de ocupacin para identificar los patrones de la existencia de castores y los factores que influencian estos patrones, (es decir, el tipo y la cantidad de cubierta de vegetacin) en el ecosistema del Gran Can del Ro Colorado. Utilizamos balsas y kayaks para tener acceso a una muestra aleatoria y estratificada de emplazamientos (es decir, secciones de 100 m de largo de las mrgenes del ro), y utilizamos procedimientos de muestreo repetidos para tomar muestras de indicios de castores (es decir, refugios, cortezas, huellas y avistamiento de castores). Medimos el tipo y la cantidad de cubierta de vegetacin en cada seccin muestreada utilizando una base de datos del Sistema de Informacin Geogrfica (Geographic Information System, GIS), de informacin detectada en forma remota, sobre la vegetacin riberea del Gran Can. Primero modelamos los indicios de la existencia de castores como una funcin de la cantidad total de cubierta de vegetacin (sumado entre las clases), y luego determinamos la calificacin de importancia relativa para cada una de las 7 clases de vegetacin. La probabilidad de deteccin (p) fue 2 veces ms elevada cuando los observadores se trasladaban en kayaks (0.61) que cuando se trasladaban en balsas (0.29). Los indicios de existencia de castores () en transectos muestreados fueron extensos a lo largo del Gran Can ( = 0.74, SE = 0.06) y relacionados en forma positiva con la vegetacin total. La calificacin de importancia relativa para las clases de vegetacin Tamarix y Pluchea fue de 1.5 a 2.5 veces mayor que todas las otras clases de vegetacin, lo que indica que los indicios de la existencia de castores estaba relacionada de forma ms contundente con la cubierta de estas 2 clases de vegetacin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el medir la cantidad de vegetacin riberea en proximidad cercana a un ro ayuda a determinar la existencia de un indicador ecolgico importante en sistemas ribereos. Los resultados tambin demuestran un mtodo til y rentable para realizar el control del uso de las especies ribereas, al dar cuenta explcitamente de la deteccin.
42003919|Described as new from Moffat and adjacent Rio Blanco counties, Colorado, are 4 taxa: Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) Britton var. linearifolius S.L. Welsh & S. Goodrich, var. nov.; Erigeron nematophyUoides S.L. Welsh & A. Huber, sp. nov.; Lepidium montanum Nuttall var. diffusum S.L. Welsh & S. Goodrich, var. nov.; and Iva axifaris Pursh var. parvifolia S.L. Welsh & A. Huber, var. nov. Se describen cuatro nuevos taxa del condado de Moffat y del condado adyacente de Rio Blanco, en Colorado: Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) Britton var. linearifolius S.L. Welsh & S. Goodrich, var. nov.; Erigeron nematophyUoides S.L. Welsh & A. Huber, sp. nov.; Lepidium montanum Nuttall var. diffusum S.L. Welsh & S. Goodrich, var. nov.; e Iva axilhris Pursh var. parvifolia S.L. Welsh & A. Huber, var. nov.
42003920|Eccentricity of stems of Artemisia trdentata Nutt. (big sagebrush) has been reported previously. Analysis of samples observed over 2 years documented that each stem terminal produces about 8-10 branches each year, and during second-year growth, 3-8 of these develop into short, flowering, determinate branches. Each flowering branch produces hundreds of seeds and then dies at the end of the season, while the other vegetative branches persist. However, growth of the determinate flowering branches causes the death of vascular cambium surrounding their attachment points on the main stem. This death then results in the observed eccentric growth of the stem. In a separate experiment, when presumptive flowering branches were removed prior to elongation, the vascular cambium of the stem was not destroyed, and no eccentric growth occurred. Since the vascular cambium is responsible for continued wood production, the effect of these areas of cambial death is amplified during subsequent years and leads to weak stem segments and possibly to limitations on overall growth. Nevertheless, in spite of these negative side effects, flowering stem growth provides for ample seed production year after year. This peculiar eccentric growth phenomenon, coupled with the anomalous interxylary cork that has also been reported for Artemisia trdentata, supports the idea that this and related species are descended from an herbaceous ancestry and have therefore evolved their rather imperfect woodiness secondarily. Anteriormente se ha reportado la rareza de los tallos de Artemisia trdentata Nutt. (arbusto Artemisa). El anlisis de las muestras realizadas durante dos aos document que cada extremidad del tallo produce aproximadamente de ocho a diez ramas cada ao, y durante el segundo ao de crecimiento, de tres a ocho de estas ramas se desarrollan en ramas cortas, florecientes y definidas. Cada una produce cientos de semillas y luego mueren al final de la estacin, mientras que las otras ramas vegetativas persisten. Sin embargo, el crecimiento de las ramas florecientes y definidas provoca la muerte del cambium vascular que rodea sus puntos de fijacin en el tallo principal. Esta muerte luego resulta en el extrao crecimiento que se ha observado en los tallos. En un experimento aparte, cuando se removieron las ramas presumiblemente florecientes antes de la elongacin, no se destruy el cambium vascular de la rama y no se produjo ningn crecimiento extrao. Debido a que el cambium vascular es el responsable de la produccin continua de madera, el efecto de estas reas de muerte cambial aumenta durante los aos siguientes y conduce al debilitamiento de los segmentos del tallo y posiblemente a limitaciones del crecimiento general. Sin embargo, a pesar de estos efectos secundarios negativos, el crecimiento de la rama floreciente proporciona una vasta produccin de semillas ao tras ao. Este fenmeno peculiar de crecimiento extrao, junto con un corcho interno del xilema anmalo que tambin se ha reportado para Artemisia trdentata, respalda la idea de que sta y otras especies relacionadas descienden de un ancestro herbceo, y por lo tanto su capacidad imperfecta para producir madera evolucion de manera secundaria.
42003921|Neviusia cliflonii (Rosaceae), the Shasta snow-wreath, is an endemic shrub found in the vicinity of Shasta Lake, Shasta County, California. First described 20 years ago, the species is of conservation concern due to its restricted range, a low number of known populations, and the potential impacts on or threats to many of these populations. To assess the genetic structure of N. cliflonii, 21 of the 23 known populations were sampled for isozyme analysis. Genetic and multivariate analyses were used to assess levels of genet (genotypic) diversity, allelic variation, and population differentiation. When assessed at 17 loci, a total of 48 multilocus genotypes were identified in the collection of 410 samples, indicating N. cliflonii is capable of significant vegetative reproduction. Five populations were composed of a single genet each, with an average of 3.14 genets per population and a maximum of 15 genets in a single population. Allelic diversity was low, with a maximum of 3 alleles observed at one locus. Populations were differentiated, with 85% of the allele frequency variance distributed among populations. Multivariate analysis identified 3 clusters of genetically similar populations: one cluster composed of 15 populations, a second cluster composed of 5 populations, and one population being distinct. Individuals from the distinct population displayed unique aleles at 2 loci (AAT-1 and AAT-2). The distribution of populations among clusters did not correspond to geographic (watershed) or substrate classifications, indicating that additional, unmeasured factors may influence the genetic structure of this species. Neviusia cliflonii (Rosaceae), "Shasta snow-wreath," es un arbusto endmico que se encuentra en las inmediaciones del Lago Shasta, en el condado de Shasta en California. Se describi por primera vez hace veinte aos y se considera una especie de preocupacin por su conservacin debido a su distribucin restringida, la escasa cantidad de poblaciones conocidas y los posibles impactos o amenazas a muchas de estas poblaciones. Para evaluar la estructura gentica de N. cliftonii, se muestrearon 21 de las 23 poblaciones conocidas para un anlisis de isoenzimas. Los anlisis genticos y multivariados se utilizaron para evaluar los niveles de diversidad de genets (genotpica), la variacin allica y la diferenciacin poblacional. Al evaluarse en 17 loci, se identificaron un total de 48 genotipos multilocus en la coleccin de 410 muestras, lo que indica que N. cliftonii es capaz de una reproduccin vegetativa significativa. Cinco poblaciones estuvieron compuestas de un solo genet cada una, con un promedio de 3.14 genets por poblacin y un mximo de 15 genets en una sola poblacin. La diversidad allica fue baja, con un mximo de tres alelos observados en un locus. Las poblaciones estuvieron diferenciadas, con 85% de la varianza en la frecuencia de alelos distribuida entre las poblaciones. Los anlisis multivariados identificaron tres grupos de poblaciones genticamente similares: un grupo compuesto de 15 poblaciones, un segundo grupo compuesto de cinco poblaciones y una poblacin marcadamente diferente. Los individuos de la poblacin diferente mostraron alelos nicos en dos loci (AAT-1 y AAT-2). La distribucin de las poblaciones entre los grupos no correspondi a las clasificaciones geogrficas (cuencas) o de sustrato, lo que indica que factores adicionales y que no fueron medidos pueden influir en la estructura gentica de esta especie.
42003922|Benthic macroinvertebrates are integral components of stream ecosystems and are often used to assess the ecological integrity of streams. We sampled streams in the upper Clear Creek drainage in the Klamath-Siskiyou Ecoregion of northwestern California in fall 2004 (17 sites) and 2005 (original 17 plus 4 new sites) with the objectives of documenting the benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages supported by the streams in the area, determining how those assemblages respond to environmental variables, assessing the biological condition of the streams using a benthic index of biotic integrity (IBI), and understanding the assemblages in the context of biodiversity of the ecoregion. We collected both reach-wide (RW) and targeted-riffle (TR) macroinvertebrate samples at each site. The macroinvertebrate assemblages were diverse, with over 150 genera collected for each sampling protocol. The macroinvertebrate assemblages appeared to be most responsive to a general habitat gradient based on stream size, gradient, flow, and dominance of riffles. A second important habitat gradient was based on elevation and dominance of riffles. A gradient in water quality based on concentrations of dissolved ions and metals was also important. Models based on these 3 gradients had Spearman's rank correlations with macroinvertebrate taxonomic composition of 0.60 and 0.50 for the TR and RW samples, respectively. The majority (>50%) of the sites were in good or very good biological condition based on IBI scores. The diversity of macroinvertebrate assemblages is associated with the diversity of habitats available in the Klamath-Siskiyou Ecoregion. Maintaining the aquatic habitats in good condition is important in itself but is also vital to maintaining biodiversity in this diverse and unique ecoregion. Los macroinvertebrados bentnicos son componentes integrales de los ecosistemas fluviales y por lo general se les utiliza para evaluar la integridad ecolgica de los arroyos. Tomamos muestras de arroyos en la parte alta del ro Clear Creek en la Ecoregion de Klamath-Siskiyou en el noroeste de California en otoo de 2004 (17 sitios) y 2005 (los 17 sitios originales ms 4 sitios nuevos) con los objetivos de documentar los ensambles de invertebrados bentnicos que habitan en los arroyos del rea, determinar la manera en que estos ensambles responden a las variables ambientales, evaluar la condicin biolgica de los arroyos mediante el uso del ndice Bentnico de Integridad Bitica (IBI), y entender los ensambles en el contexto de la biodiversidad de la ecoregin. Recolectamos muestras de macroinvertebrados a lo ancho del arroyo (RW) y en puntos rpidos (TR) en cada sitio. Los ensambles de macroinvertebrados fueron diversos con ms de 150 gneros colectados en cada protocolo de muestra. Los ensambles de macroinvertebrados parecen responder ms al gradiente general del habitat segn el tamao del arroyo, el gradiente, el caudal y la dominancia de rpidos. Un segundo gradiente importante de habitat se bas en la elevacin y la dominancia de rpidos. Un gradiente en la calidad del agua basado en las concentraciones de iones y metales disueltos tambin fue importante. Los modelos basados en estos tres gradientes tuvieron correlaciones de rangos de Spearman con la composicin taxonmica de macroinvertebrados de 0.60 y 0.50 para las muestras de TR y RW, respectivamente. La mayora (>50%) de los sitios tuvieron buenas o muy buenas condiciones biolgicas basadas en los valores del IBI. La diversidad de ensambles de macroinvertebrados est relacionada con la diversidad de habitats disponibles en la Ecoregin de Klamath-Siskiyou. El mantener los habitats acuticos en buenas condiciones es importante en s mismo, pero tambin es vital para mantener la biodiversidad en esta ecoregin diversa y nica.
42003923|I studied the ecology and behavior of ringtails (Bassariscus astutus) in juniper (Juniperus monosperma) woodland on the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in central New Mexico. Average home-range sizes of ringtails (males 462 ha, females 94 ha, 95% fixed kernel) were among the largest reported to date. Females moved least in summer and most in autumn, but males showed no seasonal trend in movements. The average stay in a single den was 1.3 days. I found no effect of the closeness of approach of the den observer on the distance moved between successive dens. Ringtails used a variety of den settings: rocks, trees, shrubs, rocks and shrubs, and holes in the ground. Males used trees and rocks more and shrubs less than females. In summer and autumn, ringtails used rocks more and shrubs less than expected, and in winter ringtails used rocks less and shrubs and holes in the ground more than expected. There was no tendency to reuse certain types of dens, and 31.6% of dens were reoccupied at least once. Most ringtails died before the age of 4 due to prdation, resulting in an annual survival rate of 0.375. Contrary to the popular conception that ringtails require open, permanent water for survival, 16 of 18 ringtail home ranges had no water source within them, and no ringtail was observed in the vicinity of water. Latrines of 2 scats contained 89.4% of scats found. As measured by frequency of occurrence in scats, ringtails consumed primarily fruits, followed by arthropods, mammals, birds, and reptiles. Many arthropod prey were venomous or chemically defended. Average weights were 1.0 kg for males and 0.9 kg for females. Estudi la ecologa y el comportamiento de los cacomixtles (Bassariscus astutus) en el bosque ejuniperus monosperma, en el Refugio Nacional para la Vida Silvestre de Sevilleta en el centro de Nuevo Mxico. El tamao promedio del mbito hogareo de los cacomixtles (machos: 462 ha, hembras: 94 ha y ncleo fijo del 95%) se encuentra entre los ms grandes que se han reportado hasta la fecha. Observ que las hembras se movieron menos en verano y ms en otoo, pero los machos no demostraron una tendencia estacional en sus movimientos. El promedio de permanencia en una sola guarida fue de 1.3 das. No encontr ningn efecto de la proximidad del observador de guaridas sobre la distancia desplazada entre guaridas sucesivas. Los cacomixtles utilizaban una variedad de entornos para sus guaridas: rocas, rboles, arbustos, rocas y arbustos y huecos en el suelo. Los machos utilizaron ms rboles y rocas y menos arbustos que las hembras. En verano y otoo, los cacomixtles utilizaron ms rocas y menos arbustos que lo esperado y en invierno utilizaron menos rocas y ms arbustos y huecos en el suelo que lo esperado. No hubo una tendencia a reutilizar ciertos tipos de guaridas, y un 31.6% de las guaridas se volvieron a ocupar al menos una vez. La mayora de los cacomixtles murieron antes de los cuatro aos de edad debido a la depredacin, lo que dio como resultado una tasa de supervivencia anual del 0.375. Contrario a la concepcin popular de que los cacomixtles necesitan agua permanente para su supervivencia, 16 de los 18 mbitos hogareos de los cacomixtles no tenan fuente de agua, y no se observ ningn cacomixtle en las cercanas de agua. Las letrinas de 2 excrementos contenan el 89.4% de los excrementos encontrados. Segn se midi por la frecuencia de ocurrencia en los excrementos, los cacomixtles consumieron principalmente frutas, seguidas de artrpodos, mamferos, aves y reptiles. Muchas presas de artrpodos fueron venenosas o con defensas qumicas. Los pesos promedios fueron de 1.0 kg para los machos y 0.9 kg para las hembras.
42003924|Alien plant species often use areas of heavy human activity for habitat and dispersal. Roads and utility corridors have been shown to harbor more alien species than the surrounding vegetation and are therefore believed to contribute to alien plant persistence and spread. Recreational trails represent another corridor that could harbor alien species and aid their spread. Effective management of invasive species requires understanding how alien plants are distributed at trailheads and trails and how their dispersal may be influenced by native vegetation. Our overall goal was to investigate the distribution of alien plants at trailheads and trails in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. At trailheads, we found that although the number of alien species was less than the number of native species, alien plant cover (x = 50%) did not differ from native plant cover, and we observed a large number of alien seedlings in the soil seed bank, suggesting that alien plants are a large component of trailhead communities and will continue to be so in the future. Along trails, we found higher alien species richness and cover on trail (as opposed to 4 m from the trail) in 3 out of 4 vegetation types, and we observed higher alien richness and cover in meadows than in other vegetation types. Plant communities at both trailheads and trails, as well as seed banks at trailheads, contain substantial diversity and abundance of alien plants. These results suggest that recreational trails in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado may ftinction as corridors that facilitate the spread of alien species into wildlands. Our results suggest that control of alien plants should begin at trailheads where there are large numbers of aliens and that control efforts on trails should be prioritized by vegetation type. Las especies de plantas exticas generalmente utilizan reas de gran actividad humana como su habitat y para su dispersin. Las carreteras y los corredores de utilidad albergan ms especies exticas que la vegetacin circundante y, por lo tanto, se cree que contribuyen a la persistencia y propagacin de plantas exticas. Los senderos recreativos representan otro corredor que podra albergar estas especies y contribuir a su propagacin. El manejo efectivo de especies invasoras requiere comprender de qu manera se distribuyen las plantas exticas en las entradas de los senderos y en los senderos en s y cmo su propagacin puede estar influenciada por la vegetacin nativa. Nuestro objetivo general fue investigar la distribucin de plantas exticas en las entradas de senderos y en los senderos de las Montaas Rocosas en Colorado. En las entradas de los senderos, descubrimos que, a pesar de que la cantidad de especies exticas fue menor que la cantidad de especies nativas, la cobertura de plantas exticas (un promedio del 50%) no fue diferente de la cobertura de plantas nativas, y observamos un gran nmero de plntulas exticas en el banco de semillas del suelo, lo que sugiere que las plantas exticas son un gran componente de las comunidades que habitan las entradas de los senderos y continuarn sindolo en el futuro. A lo largo de los senderos, encontramos mayor riqueza y mayor cobertura de especies exticas en los senderos (en lugar de a 4 metros de distancia desde el sendero) en tres de cuatro tipos de vegetacin y observamos ms riqueza y cobertura de plantas exticas en praderas que en los otros tipos de vegetacin. Las comunidades de plantas en las entradas de los senderos y en los senderos, as como los bancos de semillas en las entradas de los senderos, contienen una diversidad y abundancia sustancial de plantas exticas. Estos resultados sugieren que los senderos recreativos en las Montaas Rocosas de Colorado pueden funcionar como corredores que facilitan la propagacin de especies exticas en tierras silvestres. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el control de plantas forneas debera comenzar en las entradas de los senderos donde existen grandes cantidades de estas especies exticas y que se deberan priorizar los esfuerzos de control en los senderos segn el tipo de vegetacin.
42003925|The Sierra San Pedro Mrtir (SSPM) in northern Baja California, Mexico, is a remote mountain at the southern edge of the California Floristic Province, a vegetation type that includes the Sierra Nevada of California and western Nevada. Unlike most forests in the southwestern United States, the forests of the SSPM have never been logged and have experienced only light grazing in recent years, and wildfires have not been suppressed until recent decades. The SSPM represents one of the best examples of an intact presettlement forest in the California Floristic Province. We investigated the mode of seed dispersal of Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi) in the SSPM, and compared it to that from the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada, to determine how this process might differ between nearly pristine and heavily altered forests. We found that seed dispersal appears to occur by the same means in both forests (i.e., scatter hoarding of seeds by rodents), but that seedling establishment is much less successful in the SSPM. We considered several hypotheses for why this difference might exist, including the size of seed crops, fire regimes, climate change, grazing by domestic ungulates, and lack of facilitation by shrubs (i.e., nurse plants), but none of these explanations appears adequate to account for the difference. Instead, we suggest that the slow rate of seedling establishment at the SSPM is due to a greater consumption of seeds cached by California chipmunks (Tamias obscurus) y who experience a relatively long period of euthermic winter activity in the warm climate of the SSPM. This greater consumption leaves few seeds to germinate. Future studies should test the relative importance of these alternative causes for low seedling recruitment at the SSPM. La Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir (SSPM) en Baja California Norte, Mxico es un conjunto remoto de montaas en el extremo sur de la Provincia Florstica de California, un tipo de vegetacin que incluye la Sierra Nevada de California y el oeste de Nevada. A diferencia de la mayora de los bosques en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos, los bosques de la SSPM no se han talado, solo han experimentado pastoreo ligero en aos recientes y no se ha acometido la extincin de los incendios hasta dcadas recientes. La SSPM representa uno de los mejores ejemplos de un bosque intacto pre-asentamiento en la Provincia Florstica de California. Investigamos la forma de dispersin de la semilla del pino Jeffrey (Pinus jeffreyi) en la SSPM y lo comparamos con la de la zona este de la Sierra Nevada, para determinar de qu manera este proceso puede diferir entre bosques casi prstinos y bosques sumamente alterados. Encontramos que la dispersin de las semillas parece producirse mediante los mismos medios en ambos bosques (i.e., acumulacin dispersa de semillas por parte de roedores) pero que el establecimiento de las plntulas es mucho menos exitoso en la SSPM. Consideramos varias hiptesis de por qu podra existir esta diferencia, incluyendo el tamao de las semillas, los regmenes de fuego, el cambio climtico, el efecto de ungulados domsticos y la falta de facilitacin por parte de arbustos (i.e., plantas nodrizas), pero ninguna de estas explicaciones parece ser adecuada para explicar la diferencia. En lugar de esto, sugerimos que la baja tasa de establecimiento de plntulas en la SSPM se debe a que el clima ms clido resulta en un periodo ms largo de actividad eutrmica en invierno de las ardillas de California (Tamias obscurus), lo que resulta en un mayor consumo de semillas acumuladas durante el invierno, lo que implica que muy pocas de ellas puedan germinar. Estudios futuros deben examinar la importancia relativa de estas causas alternativas del escaso reclutamiento de plntulas en la SSPM.
42003926|Postfire revegetation with native perennial grasses is difficult to achieve in disturbed arid rangelands. If local populations are adapted to current conditions, then locally collected seed would be predicted to have higher survival than nonlocal seed, and using local seed should improve revegetation success. However, for revegetation projects in the Great Basin, sufficient quantity of local seed is often difficult to obtain commercially, so seeds often originate from source populations that are hundreds of kilometers from the project site. We investigated whether seed source affected first-year establishment of big squirreltail (Elymus multisetus M.E. Jones) seedlings in a common garden field trial 50 km north of Reno, Nevada. For the trial, we used wild, locally collected seed and commercially produced seed originating from Oregon, Idaho, and California. Several phenological and growth traits varied significantly between source populations. Eighty-six percent of local seeds emerged, compared to 71%, 61%, and 12% of seeds from Idaho, Oregon, and California, respectively. Local seeds emerged, on average, 9 days earlier than seeds from other sources. Fourteen percent of the local seedlings survived through the first year, exceeding survival by Oregon (12%), Idaho (8%), and California (2%) seedlings. Though survivorship was highest for local seed, local seedlings were smaller, producing 24% fewer leaves than the most productive seedlings from the Idaho seed source. Our data suggest that seed source is an important factor in seedling establishment. If local seed can survive significantly better than regionally collected, commercially produced seed, it may be both ecologically and economically beneficial to use local seed in revegetation. Despus de un incendio, es dificil lograr la revegetacin con hierbas perennes nativas en tierras ridas de pastoreo afectadas. Si las poblaciones locales estn adaptadas a las condiciones actuales, las semillas recolectadas localmente tendran ms posibilidades de sobrevivir que las semillas que no son del lugar, y el uso de las semillas del lugar debera mejorar el xito de la revegetacin. Sin embargo, para los proyectos de revegetacin en la Gran Cuenca (Great Rasin), generalmente es difcil conseguir comercialmente una cantidad suficiente de semillas del lugar, por lo que a menudo las semillas provienen de poblaciones de origen que se encuentran a cientos de kilmetros del sitio del proyecto. Investigamos si la procedencia de las semillas afecta el primer ao de establecimiento de las plntulas de centeno silvestre o big squirreltail (Elymus multisetus M.E. Jones), en una prueba de campo de jardn comn a 50 km al norte de Reno, Nevada, mediante el uso de semillas silvestres recolectadas en el lugar y semillas producidas comercialmente provenientes de Oregon, Idaho y California. Varias caractersticas fenolgicas y de crecimiento variaron de manera significativa entre las poblaciones de origen. 86% de las semillas locales emergieron, comparadas con el 71%, 61% y 12% de las semillas de Idaho, Oregon y California, respectivamente. Las semillas del lugar emergieron, en promedio, nueve das antes que las otras fuentes de semillas. 14% de las plntulas locales sobrevivieron durante el primer ao, lo que excedi en supervivencia a las plntulas de Oregon (12%), Idaho (8%) y California (2%). Aunque la supervivencia fue mayor para las semillas locales, las plntulas locales fueron ms pequeas y produjeron un 24% menos hojas que las plntulas ms productivas provenientes de la fuente de semillas de Idaho. Nuestros datos sugieren que el origen de las semillas es un factor importante en el establecimiento de plntulas. Si las semillas del lugar pueden sobrevivir considerablemente mejor que las semillas recolectadas regionalmente y producidas comercialmente, el uso de semillas locales para la revegetacin puede ser beneficioso ecolgicamente y econmicamente.
42003927|Distribution of the plains pocket mouse (Perognathus flavescens) overlaps tallgrass prairies in northeastern parts of the species' range in the central United States. Distribution and abundance of the plains pocket mouse appears negatively impacted by agricultural practices during the last century due to the scarcity of records throughout the region. In eastern Nebraska, few plains pocket mice have been captured and no published account exists in recent decades. We investigated the current status of P.f. perniger, the eastern subspecies in Nebraska, because of a paucity of information regarding this subspecies' natural history and suspected extirpation from the state. We captured 56 P.f. perniger in 13 counties in northeastern and east-central Nebraska in 2008, including 10 counties lacking prior records. We also obtained data on its presence in extreme eastern Nebraska (Douglas and Lancaster counties) via a literature review and query for specimens in museums. Some individuals without darker-colored guard hairs represented the eastern limits of the western subspecies P.f. flavescens associated with the easternmost extent of the Sandhill Region of the state or other isolated sandy habitats. Across eastern Nebraska, many sites with captures of plains pocket mice appear to represent strongholds associated with isolated areas of friable, sandy soils. To date, presence of the species has not been detected in southeastern parts of the state. Conservation of habitats with sandy soils, along with implementation or continuance of disturbance regimes (i.e., grazing), will benefit this species and a number of other sand-adapted species in eastern Nebraska. La distribucin del ratn de bolsillo de las llanuras (Perognathus flavescens) coincide con la de las praderas de pastizales altos en partes del noreste de su rango en el centro de los Estados Unidos. Su distribucin y abundancia parece estar afectada de forma negativa por las prcticas agrcolas realizadas durante el ltimo siglo, debido a la escasez de registros en toda la regin. En el este de Nebraska, pocos ratones de bolsillo de las llanuras han sido capturados y no existe ningn registro publicado en dcadas recientes. Investigamos el estado actual de P.f. perniger; la subespecie del este de Nebraska, debido a la escasez de informacin sobre su historia natural y su supuesta extirpacin del estado. Capturamos 56 P.f. perniger en 13 condados en el noreste y centro-este de Nebraska en 2008, incluidos 10 condados que carecan de registros anteriores. Tambin obtuvimos datos sobre su presencia en el extremo este de Nebraska (en los condados de Douglas y Lancaster) a travs de una revisin de literatura y de bsqueda de especmenes en museos. Algunos individuos sin pelambre spero y oscuro representaron los lmites orientales de la subespecie occidental P.f. flavescens asociados con el extremo ms oriental de la regin arenosa del estado (Sandhill Region) u otros habitats arenosos aislados. En el este de Nebraska, muchos sitios con capturas del ratn de bolsillo de las llanuras parecen representar un refugio asociado con reas aisladas de suelos friables y arenosos. A la fecha, no se ha detectado la presencia de la especie en las partes del sureste del estado. La conservacin de los habitats con suelos arenosos, adems de la implementacin o la continuacin de los regmenes de perturbacin (i.e., el pastoreo) beneficiar a esta especie y a un nmero de otras especies adaptadas a la arena en el este de Nebraska.
42003928|Douglas' dustymaiden, Chaenactis douglasii (Hook.) Hook. & Arn., is a widespread, inconspicuous, short-lived perennial wildflower that blooms in early summer and is found in basin sagesteppe to upper montane areas throughout the U.S. Intermountain West. The species is proving practical to grow for seed and is expected to be used for western rangeland rehabilitation. Through manual pollination experiments, C. douglasii was found to be only weakly self-fertile; 15% of flowers from geitonogamy and autogamy treatments yielded filled achenes. In contrast, 57% of outcrossed flowers produced achenes filled with endosperm, with every capitulum yielding some fertile seeds. Freely visited flowers from a wild population produced 91% fertile achenes, indicating that seed production was not pollinator limited. Floral visitors to C. douglasii were sparse, consisting entirely of bees, most of them floral generalists. Museum specimens of bees taken at C. douglasii and 3 closely related congenerics comprise 175 species in 39 genera and all 6 North American bee families. A population of the manageable mesolectic cavity-nesting bee, Osmia californica, when released at one sagesteppe site, provisioned its cells primarily with pale, spiny pollen resembling that of the C. douglasii growing at the site. This bee and the honey bee appear most promising for pollinating dustymaiden that is being farmed for seed. La doncella de Douglas, Chaenactis douglasii (Hook). Hook. & Arn., es una flor silvestre ampliamente distribuida, no conspicua, de corta vida y perenne que florece a principios de verano desde las estepas de salvia hasta las reas montaosas a lo largo del oeste de los Estados Unidos. Ha resultado prctico cultivarla por sus semillas y se espera que se las utilice para la rehabilitacin de las tierras de pastoreo del oeste. Mediante experimentos manuales de polinizacin, se comprob que esta especie es apenas auto-frtil; 15% de las flores provenientes de los tratamientos de geitonogamia y autogamia produjeron aquenios cubiertos. En contraste, el 57% de las flores desarrolladas por fecundacin cruzada produjeron aquenios cubiertos con endospermo, con cada captulo produciendo algunas semillas frtiles. Las flores de una poblacin silvestre que fueron visitadas libremente produjeron un 91% de aquenios frtiles, lo que indica que la produccin de semillas en ese lugar no estuvo limitada por la polinizacin. Los visitantes florales de C. douglasii fueron escasos, y consistieron totalmente de abejas, la mayora de las cuales fueron generalistas. Especmenes de abejas de museo colectadas en C. douglasii y tres congenricas estrechamente relacionadas comprenden 175 especies en 39 gneros y las seis familias de abejas de Amrica del Norte. Una poblacin de abejas manejables que anidan en cavidades, Osmia californica, cuando fue liberada en un sitio de estepa de salvia, provision a sus celdas principalmente con polen plido y espinoso que se asemejaba al de C. douglasii que creca en el sitio. Esta abeja y la abeja de miel parecen ser las ms propicias para polinizar las plantas doncellas que se cultivan para semillas.
42003929|Habitat fragmentation is hypothesized to influence movements of animals between isolated habitat fragments and to affect survival of animals moving between fragments. Translocation experiments can provide quantitative information on movements and survival. We assessed potential barriers to dispersal and survival of pygmy rabbits (Brachylagus idahoensis), a species of conservation concern that is hypothesized to be sensitive, after translocation, to fragmentation of its sagebrush habitats. We measured homing tendency and estimated survival of pygmy rabbits after short-distance (1-2 km) experimental translocations at sites in southeastern Oregon. We captured, radio-tagged, and translocated 59 pygmy rabbits across 3 landscape categories of habitat fragmentation. We used logistic regression to compare among landscapes the odds of homing, after accounting for sex and displacement distance of individuals. We used known-fate models in program MARK to estimate survival rates of rabbits after translocation. Fifteen percent of translocated pygmy rabbits successfully homed to within 150 m of their original capture locations. Individuals translocated across fragmented landscapes with patchy cover of big sagebrush were the most likely to home, whereas rabbits translocated across relatively continuous big sagebrush cover bisected by a road were least likely to home. We also found that pygmy rabbits that homed had higher survival rates than those that did not return to their home areas, and rabbits that settled near roads had lower survival rates than those that did not settle near roads. The proximity of the largest patch of big sagebrush also had a positive influence on the survival of rabbits after translocation. Our results indicate that fragmentation does not necessarily impede movements nor does it necessarily reduce survival. Se hipotetiza que la fragmentacin del habitat influye los movimientos de animales entre fragmentos de habitats aislados y que afecta la supervivencia de animales que se trasladan entre fragmentos. Los experimentos de translocacin pueden proporcionar informacin cuantitativa sobre los movimientos y la supervivencia. Evaluamos las posibles barreras a la dispersin y la supervivencia de los conejos pigmeos (Brachyhgus idahoensis), una especie que se intenta conservar y que se considera sensible a la fragmentacin de sus habitats de arbustos Artemisa, despus de su translocacin. Medimos la tendencia hogarea y estimamos la supervivencia de los conejos pigmeos despus de translocaciones experimentales de corta distancia (1 a 2 km) en sitios del sureste de Oregon. Capturamos, marcamos con radiotransmisores, y translocamos a 59 conejos pigmeos a travs de tres categoras de entornos de fragmentacin del habitat. Usamos una regresin logstica para comparar las probabilidades de establecer su hogar entre los entornos luego de tomar en cuenta el sexo y la distancia de desplazamiento de los individuos. Usamos modelos de destino conocido en el programa MARK para estimar las tasas de supervivencia de conejos despus de la translocacin. El 15% de los conejos pigmeos translocados establecieron su hogar exitosamente a < 150 m de sus ubicaciones de captura originales. Los individuos translocados a lo largo de entornos fragmentados con cubierta irregular de Artemisas grandes fueron los que ms probabilidades tuvieron de establecerse, mientras que los conejos translocados a lo largo de cubiertas relativamente continuas de arbustos Artemisa grandes, bisectadas por una carretera, fueron los que tuvieron menos probabilidades de establecer su hogar. Tambin encontramos que los conejos pigmeos que establecieron su hogar tuvieron una mayor tasa de supervivencia que aquellos que no regresaron a sus mbitos hogareos, y que los conejos que se establecieron cerca de las carreteras tuvieron una menor tasa de supervivencia que aquellos que no se establecieron cerca de las carreteras. La proximidad del parche ms grande de arbustos artemisas tambin tuvo una influencia positiva en la supervivencia de los conejos despus de la translocacin. Nuestros resultados indican que la fragmentacin no impide necesariamente los movimientos ni reduce necesariamente la supervivencia.
42003930|Population studies of the dunes sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus arenicolus) suggest that fluctuations in the population dynamics of this lizard are driven by spatial and temporal variation in annual recruitment. Although variation in survival of eggs or embryos is known to contribute greatly to variation in annual recruitment in many other lizard species, little is known about these early life history stages and their contributions to the population dynamics of S. arenicolus. Here we describe the first 3 observations of nesting in the wild for S. arenicolus. All observations took place between 2005 and 2011 at Caprock Wildlife Area, 48 km east of Roswell, New Mexico. From these observations, we supplement existing knowledge of these early life history stages, which can inform working models of life history evolution for this lizard endemic to the Mescalero Sands and Monahans Sandhills ecosystems. Estudios poblacionales sobre las lagartijas Artemisa de las dunas (Sceloporus arenicolus) sugieren que las fluctuaciones en la dinmica poblacional de esta lagartija se deben a la variacin espacial y temporal en el reclutamiento anual. Aunque se conoce que la variacin en la supervivencia de huevos o embriones contribuye en gran medida a la variacin en el reclutamiento anual en muchas otras especies de lagartijas, poco se sabe sobre estos estadios tempranos de la historia de vida y sus contribuciones a la dinmica poblacional de S. arenicolus. Aqu describimos las primeras tres observaciones de anidaciones en zonas silvestres para S. arenicolus. Todas las observaciones tuvieron lugar entre 2005 y 2011 en el rea Silvestre de Caprock, 48 kilmetros al este de Roswell, en Nuevo Mxico. Con estas observaciones, podemos complementar el conocimiento existente sobre estas etapas tempranas de la historia de vida, que puede utilizarse para documentar los modelos de evolucin de la historia de vida de esta lagartija endmica a los ecosistemas arenosos Mescalero y Monahans.
42003931|Diet items and ectoparasites were identified from 15 southern short-tailed shrews (Bhrina carolinensis) captured during a one-year study (December 2009-November 2010). Twenty different diet items were found in 13 southern short-tailed shrews. Collectively, insects made up the bulk of these shrews' diet (92%), with Diptera and Hymenoptera being most prevalent. Plant material and arachnids occurred 46% of the time. Six of the diet items identified are new reports for the southern short-tailed shrew. Nine ectoparasite species were collected from 11 of the southern short-tailed shrews, comprising 8 species of mites and one species of tick. Orycteroxenus soricis and Androlaehps fahrenholzi were the most frequent (36%) ectoparasites collected. Two of the ectoparasites (Ornithonyssus bacoti and Ixodes scapuhris) are new host records, and 5 of the 8 species of mites collected were not previously reported as occurring in Louisiana. Se identificaron elementos de la dieta y ectoparsitos en 15 musaraas de cola corta del sur (Bhrina carolinensis) que se capturaron durante un estudio realizado durante un ao (diciembre de 2009-noviembre de 2010). Se encontraron veinte elementos diferentes de la dieta en 13 musaraas de cola corta del sur. De manera conjunta, los insectos constituyeron la mayor parte de la dieta de las musaraas (92%) siendo Dptera e Hymenoptera los ms prevalentes. El 46% de las veces se encontr material vegetal y arcnidos. Seis de los elementos de la dieta identificados son reportes nuevos para la musaraa de cola corta del sur. Se colectaron nueve especies de ectoparsitos de 11 de las musaraas de cola corta del sur que comprendieron ocho especies de caros y una especie de garrapata. Orycteroxenus soricis y Androlaehps fahrenholzi fueron los ectoparsitos colectados ms frecuentes (36%). Dos de los ectoparsitos (Ornithonyssus bacoti e Ixodes scapuhris) son nuevos registros en estos huspedes y cinco de las ocho especies de caros colectados no se haban reportado anteriormente para Louisiana.
42003932|We report the southernmost records of the spotted skunk (Spilogale gracilis) and the ring-tailed cat (Bassariscus astutus) for the state of Baja California, Mxico. We also report the first specimens of the California chipmunk (Neotamias obscurus meridionalis) for the Central Desert of Baja California. Se reportan los registros ms sureos del zorrillo moteado (Spilogale gracilis) y del cacomixtle (Bassariscus astutus) para el Estado de Baja California; adems de la confirmacin de la presencia del chichimoco (Neotamias obscurus meridionalis) para el Desierto Central Bajacaliforniano.
42003936|Members of the Artemisia tridentata complex (ASTERACEAE: Anthemideae: Artemisia subgen. Tridentatae) have adapted to changing environmental conditions through geographic migration, introgression, and hybridization. These processes have resulted in morphologic and genetic variation. A presumed hybrid ("Bonneville" big sagebrush) of the complex occurs in the moister ranges of A. t. ssp. wyomingensis and can be found growing with shrub species commonly associated with A. t. ssp. vaseyana. These populations appear to be preferred habitat for sage-grouse and are more heavily grazed by ungulates than the parental populations. We determined ploidy levels and conducted a detailed morphological analysis to determine if "Bonneville" is a hybrid entity. Sixteen populations (12 in Oneida Co., ID, and 4 in Rich Co., UT) were selected for the study, representing the putative hybrid (Taxon B) and the putative parentsA. t. ssp. vaseyana (2n = 18), A. t. ssp. wyomingensis (2n = 36), and A. t. ssp. tridentata (2n = 36). Each population consisted of 25 randomly selected individuals for a total of 400 samples. Our analysis showed 3 populations with morphological and chemical characteristics indicating introgression of A. t. ssp. wyomingensis with populations containing A. t. ssp. vaseyana. Based on these results, we designate the Bonneville sagebrush with formal hybrid status of nothotaxon: Artemisia tridentata ssp. x bonnevillensis H. Garrison, L. Shultz, and E.D. McArthur [pro subsp.], 2n = 36. Los arbustos que forman parte del complejo Artemisia tridentata (ASTERACEAE: Anthemideae: Artemisia subgnero Tridentatae) se han adaptado a las condiciones ambientales cambiantes a travs de la migracin geogrfica, la introgresin y la hibridacin, lo cual ha dado como resultado variacin morfolgica y gentica. Un supuesto hbrido (Artemisia "Bonneville") del complejo habita en sitios hmedos de A. t. ssp. wyomingensis y se puede encontrar creciendo entre las especies de arbustos que habitualmente se asocian con A. t. ssp. vaseyana. Estas poblaciones parecen ser el habitat preferido del gallo de salvia y donde pastan ms los ungulados, en comparacin con las poblaciones parentales. Determinamos niveles de ploida y realizamos un anlisis morfolgico exhaustivo para determinar si "Bonneville" es una entidad hbrida. Se seleccionaron diecisis poblaciones para realizar el estudio, que representan el hbrido potencial (Taxn B) y los parentales potenciales: A. t. ssp. vaseyana (2n = 18), A. t. ssp. wyomingensis (2n = 36), A. t. ssp. tridentata (2n = 36): doce en el condado de Oneida, Idaho y cuatro en el condado de Rich, Utah. Cada poblacin consisti de veinticinco individuos seleccionados al azar con un total de cuatrocientas muestras. Nuestro anlisis mostr tres poblaciones con caractersticas morfolgicas y qumicas que indican introgresin de A. t. ssp. wyomingensis con poblaciones de A. t. ssp. vaseyana. Con base en estos estudios, asignamos a la Artemisia Bonneville la condicin de hbrido formal de un nototaxon, como Artemisia tridentata ssp. x bonnevillensis H. Garrison, L. Shultz, y E.D. McArthur [pro subsp.], 2n = 36.
42003937|The distribution and abundance of game fish populations are commonly monitored closely, whereas sampling of nongame species is often neglected. We used a broad-scale salmonid sampling project both to simultaneously assess the distribution and relative abundance of nongame fish species in small streams (i.e., 15 m wetted width) in the Snake River basin of southern Idaho and to relate the distribution and abundance of nongame species to abiotic and biotic stream conditions in the study area. Of the 1738 reaches surveyed, 34% were dry or contained too little water to support fish, and an additional 21% had flowing water but were still absent offish. At least one species of nongame fish was captured at 30% of the reaches surveyed, and all 18 native nongame fish species believed present in study area streams were captured. The most widely distributed species was speckled dace Rhinichthys osculus (present in 21% of surveyed reaches, excluding dry and nearly dry reaches), followed by bridgelip sucker Catostomus columbianus (19%), Paiute sculpin Cottus beldingi (15%), and redside shiner Richardsonius balteatus (13%). The species least often present (1%) were leopard dace Rhinichthys fahatus and peamouth Mylocheilus caurinus. Common carp Cyprinus carpi (captured at 3 locations) and oriental weatherfish Misgurnus anguillicaudatus (2 locations) were the only nonnative nongame species encountered. Catostomids and cyprinids generally formed a composite fish assemblage that was associated with higher stream order (i.e., farther from headwaters), lower elevation, and lower-gradient reaches where streams were wider and deeper. Stream order was the strongest loading factor for canonical correlations constructed for study reaches both above and below Shoshone Falls, suggesting that the increased abundance of catostomids and cyprinids generally occurred on a longitudinal downstream gradient. Biologists sampling game fish populations in streams should also record data on nongame species to more closely monitor their status through time. La distribucin y abundancia de las poblaciones de peces de valor deportivo (game fish) comnmente se monitorean cercanamente, mientras que el muestreo de especies de peces que no son de valor por lo general suele descuidarse. Utilizamos un proyecto de mustreos de salmnidos a gran escala para evaluar de manera simultnea la distribucin y la abundancia relativa de especies de peces que no son de valor en arroyos pequeos (i.e., 15 m de ancho), en la cuenca del Ro Snake en el sur de Idaho y para relacionar su distribucin y abundancia con las condiciones biticas y abiticas del arroyo en el rea de estudio. De los 1738 tramos revisados, el 34% estaban secos o contenan muy poca agua para mantener a los peces, y un 21% adicional tuvo caudal de agua pero tampoco se encontraron peces. Se captur al menos una especie de pez que no es de valor en el 30% de los tramos revisados, y se capturaron las 18 especies nativas de peces que no son de valor y que se estimaban presentes en los arroyos del rea de estudio. Las especies ms ampliamente distribuidas fueron Rhinichthys osculus (presente en 21% de los tramos revisados, sin incluir los tramos secos y casi secos), seguido por Catostomus columbianus (19%), Cottus beldingi (15%) y Richardsonius balteatus (13%), mientras que las especies menos presentes (1%) fueron Rhinichthys fahatus y Mylocheilus caurinus. La carpa comn Cyprinus carpi (capturada en tres sitios) y Misgurnus anguillicaudatus (dos sitios) fueron las nicas especies encontradas que son no nativas y que no poseen valor. Los catostmidos y ciprnidos generalmente formaron un ensamble compuesto de peces que estuvo asociado con arroyos de orden superior (es decir, ms lejos de las partes altas del ro), menor elevacin y tramos de gradiente ms bajo donde los arroyos fueron ms amplios y profundos. El orden del arroyo fue el factor con carga ms alta en las correlaciones cannicas construidas para los tramos revisados tanto por encima y por debajo de las Cataratas Shoshone, lo que sugiere que la creciente abundancia de catostmidos y ciprnidos generalmente ocurri en un gradiente longitudinal aguas abajo. Los bilogos que toman muestras de las poblaciones de peces de valor deportivo en arroyos tambin deben registrar datos de las especies que no poseen valor, para supervisar su estado con mayor detalle a travs del tiempo.
42003938|We examined parental provisioning behavior of 2 grassland obligate birds, Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) and Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum) in south central Nebraska. We assessed rates of food delivery (provisions nestlingh) and prey composition by using video recordings. We estimated arthropod availability from sweep net samples collected during 2 breeding seasons. We evaluated the effects of provisioning rate and prey composition on nestling quality inferred through nestling mass. We focused our efforts on lepidopteran larvae and orthopterans, as these orders comprised the bulk of identified prey deliveries. Total provisioning rates at 53 Bobolink nests and 32 Grasshopper Sparrow nests did not predict nestling mass for either species in either year. In one of 2 years, we observed a positive relationship between unidentified prey items and Bobolink nestling mass and a negative relationship between percentage of lepidopteran larvae and Bobolink nestling mass. These observed relationships are likely spurious, however. Parents of both species provided lepidopteran larvae at higher rates than were expected based on availability, and this particular result highlights the potential importance of dietary content to developing nestlings. Examinamos el comportamiento de aprovisionamiento parental de dos aves obligadas de pastizal, Dolichonyx oryzivorus y Ammodramus savannarum en el centro-sur de Nebraska. Evaluamos las tasas de entrega de alimento (elementos  crahora) y la composicin de las presas, utilizando grabaciones de videos, y la disponibilidad de artrpodos a partir de muestras tomadas con redes durante dos temporadas de apareamiento. Evaluamos los efectos de la tasa de aprovisionamiento y la composicin de las presas sobre la calidad de las cras, inferida a travs de la masa de las cras. Nos enfocamos en las larvas Lepidpteras y en los Ortpteros ya que estos rdenes abarcaron la mayor parte de las presas entregadas que fueron identificadas. Las tasas totales de aprovisionamiento en 53 nidos de Dolichonyx oryzivorus y en 32 nidos de Ammodramus savannarum no predijeron la masa de las cras para ninguna de las especies en ninguno de los aos. En uno de los dos aos, observamos una relacin positiva entre los elementos de presas no identificadas y la masa de las cras de Dolichonyx oryzivorus, y una relacin negativa entre el porcentaje de larvas Lepidpteras y la masa de las cras de Dolichonyx oryzivorus, aunque esto es probablemente espurio. Los padres de ambas especies proporcionaron larvas Lepidpteras en mayores tasas que las esperadas segn la disponibilidad, resaltando la posible importancia del contenido dietario para las cras en desarrollo.
42003939|This study investigated influences of flow regulation of the Dolores River, Colorado, by McPhee Dam on establishment of 3 native riparian tree species (Populus angustifolia, Populus deltoides subsp. wislizenii, and Acer negundo). Tree establishment was documented with dendrochronology at 2 reference sites, the unregulated Upper Dolores and San Miguel rivers, and at multiple reaches along the Lower Dolores River for a pre-dam, canal-diverted period (1961-1984) and a post-dam period (1985-2008). Tree establishment along the Lower Dolores River relative to unregulated reference rivers was negatively affected by river regulation for A. negundo, but not for P. angustifolia and P. deltoides. For P. angustifolia, similar establishment occurred at the Upper and Lower Dolores rivers; establishment was low from 1969-1988, with greater establishment occurring prior to and following this period. For P. deltoides, pulses of tree recruitment occurred along the Lower Dolores River after river damming during 1989-1993 and 2005-2008, and overall recruitment after river damming was significantly greater than that observed for unregulated rivers. Establishment of A. negundo was low at the Lower Dolores River during the last 8 years (2001-2008) of the study period. Our results suggest that flow releases from McPhee Dam into the Lower Dolores River between 1985 and 2008 provided appropriate conditions for Populus establishment, particularly at low topographic positions within the active channel in recent years, whereas A. negundo may require greater flows to bolster establishment at the higher topographic positions where it often occurs. Este estudio investig las influencias de la regulacin del caudal del Rio Dolores, en Colorado por la Presa McPhee sobre el establecimiento de tres especies de rboles nativos riparios (Populus angustifolia, Populus deltoides subsp. wislizenii y Acer negundo). El establecimiento de rboles se document con dendrocronologa en varios tramos a lo largo del curso inferior del Ro Dolores, durante un perodo anterior a la construccin de la represa en el que se utilizaban canales (1961-1984) y un perodo posterior a la construccin de la represa (1985-2008), y en dos sitios de referencia no regulados, el curso superior del Ro Dolores y el Ro San Miguel. El establecimiento de rboles a lo largo del curso inferior del Ro Dolores, en relacin con los ros de referencia no regulados, fue afectado de forma negativa por la regulacin del ro para A. negundo, pero no para P. angustifolia y P. deltoides. Para P. angustifolia, un establecimiento similar se produjo en los cursos inferior y superior del Ro Dolores; el establecimiento fue bajo de 1969 a 1988, con mayor establecimiento antes y despus de este perodo. Para P. deltoides, los pulsos de reclutamiento de rboles se produjeron a lo largo del curso inferior del Ro Dolores despus del represamiento del ro durante 1989-1993 y 2005-2008, y el reclutamiento en general despus del represamiento del ro fue significativamente mayor que el que se observ en los ros no regulados. En el curso inferior del Ro Dolores, el establecimiento de A. negundo fue bajo durante los ltimo ocho aos del perodo de estudio (2001-2008). Nuestros resultados sugieren que la liberacin del caudal desde la Represa McPhee al curso inferior del Ro Dolores entre 1985 y 2008, proporcion las condiciones adecuadas para el establecimiento de Populus, particularmente en posiciones topogrficas bajas dentro del canal activo en aos recientes, mientras que A. negundo puede requerir mayores caudales para reforzar el establecimiento en las posiciones topogrficas ms elevadas donde suele ocurrir.
42003940|Medusahead (Taeniatherum caput-medusae [L.] Nevski), an exotic annual grass, is rapidly spreading and causing ecological damage across the western United States. Because this exotic plant occupies vast areas and because management resources are limited, it is critical that land managers prioritize where they direct treatment and monitoring efforts. Identifying where and by what means medusahead is spreading could provide valuable information to assist in determining where prevention and control efforts should be applied. We compared medusahead invasion levels along unimproved roads, animal trails, and random transects at 6 sites in southeastern Oregon to determine where medusahead was more common and to identify potential vectors for its spread. Medusahead was more common and its cover was greater along unimproved roads than along trails and random transects. Medusahead infestations were also larger along roads. Medusahead was more common along animal trails than along random transects, but differences were less evident. Our results suggest that medusahead spreads along roads. This outcome implies, though not conclusively, that vehicles may be one of the most important vectors for medusahead spread. Our results also suggest that animals may be a vector for medusahead dispersal; however, invasions were much more concentrated near roads than trails, suggesting that medusahead management along roads should receive higher priority. Medusahead invasion is not random across the landscape, and thus, control and monitoring efforts can be prioritized, based on potential vector pathways, to manage this invasive plant. La Cabeza de Medusa (Taeniatherum caput-medusae [L.] Nevski), una hierba extica anual, se est esparciendo rpidamente y est provocando dao ecolgico en la regin oeste de los Estados Unidos. Es esencial que los manejadores de las tierras prioricen hacia dnde dirigen los esfuerzos de tratamiento y seguimiento debido a las extensas reas que ocupa esta planta extica, y a la cantidad limitada de recursos disponibles para su manejo. El identificar dnde y de qu modo se esparce la Cabeza de Medusa podra proporcionar informacin valiosa para ayudar a determinar dnde deben aplicarse los esfuerzos de control y prevencin. Comparamos los niveles de invasin de esta hierba a lo largo de caminos no mejorados, senderos de animales y transectos aleatorios en seis sitios del sureste de Oregon para determinar dnde fue ms comn la Cabeza de Medusa y para identificar los posibles vectores para su propagacin. Descubrimos que la Cabeza de Medusa fue ms comn y su cobertura mayor en caminos no mejorados que en senderos y transectos aleatorios. Las infestaciones de Cabeza de Medusa tambin fueron extensas en los caminos. Esta hierba fue ms comn en senderos de animales que en ubicaciones aleatorias, pero las diferencias fueron menos evidentes. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la Cabeza de Medusa se esparce a lo largo de los caminos. Esto implica, aunque no de manera concluyente, que los vehculos pueden ser uno de los vectores ms importantes para la propagacin de esta hierba. Nuestros resultados tambin sugieren que los animales pueden ser un vector para la dispersin de la Cabeza de Medusa. Sin embargo, las invasiones de Cabeza de Medusa estuvieron mucho ms concentradas cerca de los caminos que en los senderos, lo que sugiere que el manejo de dicha hierba en los caminos debe tener mayor prioridad. La invasin de Cabezas de Medusa no es aleatoria en el paisaje y, por lo tanto, los esfuerzos de control y de seguimiento pueden priorizarse con base en las rutas de los posibles vectores para manejar esta planta invasora.
42003941|The Snowy Plover (Charadrius nivosus) is unique in being a determinate layer of an odd modal clutch size and in having a variable mating system in which female brood desertion occurs regularly. These traits make determining Snowy Plover offspring sex ratios important not only for long-term population stability, as the species is of conservation concern, but also for application to sex allocation theory. In this study, we determined Snowy Plover offspring sex ratios, examined differential costs of producing male and female offspring, and evaluated sex ratio variation in relation to maternal condition, habitat condition, and time during the nesting season on saline lakes of the Southern High Plains of Texas. Examination of 245 chicks from 118 clutches during 1999-2000 and 2008-2009 showed that male offspring were more costly to produce than female offspring; however, offspring sex ratio did not differ from parity, but was slightly male-biased in most years. The probability of producing a male offspring was greater both earlier and later in the breeding season than in the middle. As the availability of saline lake surface water and the subsequent availability of food vary unpredictably throughout the breeding season, depending on precipitation events, we suggest that sex ratio adjustment in unpredictable environments may not be straightforward and may follow nonlinear models and/or vary annually. The effects such changes in sex ratios may have on population growth and stability remain unknown. El chorlitejo bianco (Charadrius nivosus) es nico en producir una cantidad fija impar de huevos y en tener un sistema de apareamiento variable en el cual la hembra abandona la puesta de manera regular. Por estos motivos es muy importante determinar la proporcin sexual de las cras del chorlitejo blanco, no slo por la estabilidad de la poblacin a largo plazo, ya que se busca conservar la especie, sino porque se relaciona con la teora de asignacin de sexos. En este estudio, examinamos la proporcin de sexos de las cras del chorlitejo blanco, examinamos los costos diferenciales de producir machos y hembras y evaluamos la variacin en la proporcin sexual en relacin con la condicin de la madre, del habitat y el tiempo durante la poca de anidacin en lagos salinos de Southern High Plains en Texas. De un grupo de 245 pollos provenientes de 118 puestas durante 1999-2000 y 2008-2009, observamos que fue ms costoso producir cras machos; sin embargo, la proporcin de sexos no fue distinta de la paridad, aunque se inclin ligeramente hacia los machos en la mayora de los aos. La probabilidad de producir machos fue superior tanto en las fases tempranas como en las fases tardas de la poca de reproduccin en comparacin con las fases intermedias. Como la disponibilidad de agua del lago salino y la consecuente disponibilidad de alimento, varan de manera impredecible a lo largo de la poca de reproduccin, segn las precipitaciones, sugerimos que los ajustes de la proporcin sexual en ambientes impredecibles pueden no ser directos, siguiendo modelos no lineales y/o variando cada ao. No se conocen los efectos de tales cambios en la proporcin de sexos sobre el crecimiento y la estabilidad de la poblacin.
42003942|Measuring site quality for birds at migration stopover grounds and identifying critical stopover habitats are both important components of gauging the full life cycle conservation of migratory birds. We evaluated riparian stopover habitat quality on the San Joaqun and Mokelumne rivers in California's Central Valley for migrant Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii), Orange-crowned Warblers (Oreothlypis cehta), Yellow Warblers (Setophaga petechia), and Wilson's Warblers (Cardellina pusilla). For each species, we used 3 approaches to assess habitat quality: (1) we examined change in mass of individuals that were recaptured at least once; (2) we tracked body condition over the time of day and over the course of the migratory season; and (3) we compared the rates of hourly mass change for Wilson's Warbler to similar studies in Canada and the United States. On average, individuals of all species recaptured at stopover sites increased mass from initial capture to final capture (0.49 g to 0.88 g). Over the course of the day, the average condition of individuals of all study species either showed increases or remained stable, although most increases were driven by after-hatch-year birds in the population. Only Yellow and Wilson s warblers at the San Joaqun sites showed a positive relationship between capture date and condition. For Wilson s Warblers, rate of mass change was higher at California riparian sites than at other stopover sites in Canada and the United States. Our results demonstrate the importance of riparian floodplain forests in California as a stopover for migrating landbirds. La medicin de la calidad de los sitios para las escalas de las aves durante su migracin y el identificar los habitats crticos para hacer dichas escalas son componentes importantes para conservar el ciclo de vida completo de las aves migratorias. Evaluamos la calidad del habitat de las escalas ribereas en los ros San Joaqun y Mokelumne en el valle central de California, para las siguientes aves migratorias: los mosqueros sauceros (Empidonax traillii), las birijitas de coronilla anaranjada (Oreothlypis celata), las birijitas amarillas (Setophaga petechia) y las birijitas de Wilson (Cardellina pusitta). Para cada especie utilizamos tres enfoques diferentes para evaluar la calidad del habitat: examinamos (1) los cambios en la masa corporal de los individuos que se recapturaron por lo menos una vez, (2) la condicin corporal segn la hora del da y a lo largo de la temporada migratoria, y (3) comparamos las tasas de cambio en la masa corporal por hora de las birijitas de Wilson con estudios similares realizados en Canad y los Estados Unidos. Todas las especies aumentaron su masa corporal (de 0.49 g a 0.88 g), desde el momento de la captura inicial hasta la captura final de los individuos recapturados en los sitios de escala. La condicin de todas las especies estudiadas aument o se mantuvo estable en el transcurso del da, aunque la mayor parte de los incrementos se produjo en las aves de un ao en la poblacin. Slo las birijitas amarillas y de Wilson en los sitios de San Joaqun mostraron una relacin positiva entre la fecha de captura y su condicin. En el caso de las birijitas de Wilson, la tasa de cambio en la masa corporal fue superior en los sitios ribereos de California al que se registr en otros sitios de escalas de Canad y los Estados Unidos. Nuestros resultados demuestran la importancia de los bosques riparios inundables en California que sirven como escala de las aves terrestres migratorias.
42003943|Environmentally cued hatching plasticity is a common attribute of the eggs of oviparous organisms that has been especially well studied in amphibians. Nevertheless, this process has been largely overlooked in species with complex natural histories. We exposed embryos of the rough-skinned newt (Taricha granulosa) to chemical and mechanical stimuli from multiple potential threats, including caddisfly larvae, a major predator on the egg stage of newts. Newt embryos did not exhibit hatching plasticity toward chemical cues from any treatment but, contrary to prediction, did delay hatching in response to mechanical stimuli from an egg predator. Observations of prdation by caddisfly larvae on recently hatched newt embryos indicate that caddisflies may prey on multiple life history stages of T. granulosa. The results of this study indicate that hatching plasticity may be a complicated phenomenon in some taxa and that additional factors, such as toxicity of eggs or larvae and maternal behavior, may play an important role in the evolution of this phenomenon. La plasticidad en la eclosin de los huevos originada por seales del ambiente es un atributo comn de los huevos de organismos ovparos que ha sido especialmente bien estudiado en anfibios. Sin embargo, en especies con historias naturales complejas, este proceso se ha pasado por alto. Expusimos embriones del tritn de piel spera (Taricha granulosa) a estmulos qumicos y mecnicos de mltiples amenazas potenciales, incluyendo larvas de insectos del orden Trichoptera, que son grandes depredadores de huevos de tritones. Si bien los embriones de los tritones no exhibieron plasticidad en la eclosin al exponerlos a estmulos qumicos de ninguno de los tratamientos, a diferencia de lo que esperbamos, retrasaron la eclosin como respuesta a los estmulos mecnicos de un depredador de huevos. Las observaciones de depredacin de embriones de tritones recin eclosionados por parte de larvas de tricpetros indican que los tricpteros pueden ser depredadores de los distintos estadios de la historia de vida de T. granulosa. Los resultados de este estudio indican que la plasticidad en la eclosin puede ser un fenmeno complicado en algunos taxa, y que ciertos factores adicionales, tales como la toxicidad de los huevos o las larvas y la conducta materna pueden desempear un papel muy importante en la evolucin de este proceso.
42003944|Basic natural history information is lacking for many bats, especially for bats of the Texas Panhandle. We examined community composition, relative abundance, and seasonal activity of bats in Palo Duro Canyon State Park, Texas, using 3 survey methods (mist net, roost surveys, and acoustic monitoring) between July 2006 and May 2009. Twelve species of bats were captured or observed, with the Brazilian free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis) canyon bat (Parastreilus hesperus), and big brown bat (Eptesicusfuscus) being the most common. Acoustic calls of 2 additional species, most likely the California myotis (Myotis californicus) and big free-tailed bat (Nyctinomops macrotis), were also recorded. The Brazilian free-tailed bat was captured year-round, and an evening bat (Nycticeius humeralis), uncommon in the area, was captured. This study increases our understanding of the occurrence, abundance, and seasonality of bats in the Texas Panhandle. Hace falta informacin bsica sobre la historia natural de muchos murcilagos, especialmente en la regin saliente del norte de Texas. Examinamos la composicin de la comunidad, la abundancia relativa y la actividad estacional de los murcilagos en el parque estatal Palo Duro Canyon, Texas, utilizando tres mtodos de estudio (red de niebla, revisin de nidos de murcilagos y monitoreo acstico), entre julio de 2006 y mayo de 2009. Se capturaron u observaron doce especies de murcilagos, entre las cuales las ms comunes fueron el murcilago cola de ratn (Tadarida brasiliensis), el murcilago de can (Parastrellus hesperus) y el murcilago grande marrn (Eptesicusfuscus). Adems se registraron llamadas acsticas de dos especies adicionales, probablemente el miotis californiano (Myotis californicus) y el murcilago cola de ratn grande (Nyctinomops macrotis). El murcilago cola de ratn fue capturado durante todo el ao y se captur a un murcilago nocturno (Nycticeius humeralis), que no es comn en esa rea. A travs del presente estudio podremos comprender mejor la incidencia, abundancia y estacionalidad de los murcilagos en la regin saliente del norte de Texas.
42003945|In early May 2007, northern Utah mountains experienced a period of prolonged warmer-than-normal temperatures, followed by a frost that killed or damaged much of the first-flush quaking aspen (Populus tremuhides) foliage. We assessed the effects of this transitory disturbance on the aspen bird species assemblage by comparing breeding bird survey data collected in the Bear River Mountain Range, Utah, USA, in 2005 and 2006 (predisturbance) to data from 2007 (postdisturbance). Whereas bird total abundance, species richness, and species diversity did not differ significantly among years, there were significant year-by-frost damage severity interactions, with plots with low levels of frost damage having significantly higher total abundance, richness, and diversity. Based on these results, we concluded that (1) at the landscape scale, the postdisturbance avian species assemblage was essentially identical to the predisturbance assemblage both in terms of number of individuals and species, and (2) there was a pronounced shift in the spatial distribution of birds at the stand scale, with most individuals favoring stands with low levels of frost damage over those with intermediate and high levels of frost damage. Thus, aspen stands with little or no frost damage served as refugia for birds displaced from highly impacted sites, thereby buffering any adverse effects on the avian community as a whole, at least in the short term. However, with severe climatic events predicted to become more frequent, cumulative effects of successive frost-induced defoliations on long-term avian productivity and survival may be more severe. A comienzos de mayo de 2007, las montaas del norte de Utah experimentaron un perodo prolongado de temperaturas ms clidas que lo normal, seguido de una helada que mat o da a gran parte del follaje del lamo Populus tremuloides. Evaluamos los efectos de esta perturbacin transitoria en el ensamble de las especies de aves del lamo al comparar los datos del monitoreo de aves en etapa de reproduccin, recopilados en la cadena montaosa Bear River en Utah, Estados Unidos, durante 2005 y 2006 (previo a la perturbacin) con los datos de 2007 (despus de la perturbacin). Mientras que la abundancia total de aves, la riqueza y diversidad de las especies no difirieron significativamente entre aos, hubo interacciones significativas entre los aos y la severidad de los daos producidos por la helada: las parcelas con niveles bajos de daos producidos por la helada tuvieron una abundancia total, riqueza y diversidad significativamente mayores. Con base en estos resultados, concluimos que: (1) a escala del paisaje, el ensamble de aves despus de la perturbacin fue esencialmente idntico al ensamble previo a la perturbacin, en trminos de la cantidad de individuos y especies; (2) hubo un cambio pronunciado en la distribucin espacial de las aves a escala del microhbitat: la mayora de los individuos prefirieron sitios con niveles bajos de daos producidos por la helada, con respecto a sitios con niveles intermedios y elevados de daos. Por lo tanto, los lamos, con poco o sin ningn dao producido por la helada, sirvieron de refugio para las aves desplazadas de los sitios muy impactados. De este modo, redujeron cualquier efecto adverso en la comunidad aviar en su conjunto, al menos en el corto plazo. Sin embargo, con los severos eventos climticos que se predice que sern ms frecuentes, los efectos acumulativos de las defoliaciones provocadas por heladas sucesivas sobre la productividad de las aves a largo plazo y sobre su supervivencia podran ser ms severos.
42003946|Most descriptions of food utilized by Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinas) list birds as the primary food source. Here, I report on an adult female Peregrine Falcon that learned how to acquire fish and then continually exploited this unusual source of food to feed her young. La mayora de las descripciones del alimento utilizado por el Halcn Peregrino (Faho peregrinus) incluyen a las aves como la fuente principal de alimento. Aqui, reporto sobre una hembra adulta de Halcn Peregrino que aprendi a capturar peces y luego a explotar continuamente esta fuente inusual de alimento para alimentar a sus cras.
42003947|Gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) was introduced to the Colorado River basin in 1996 as a result of unintentional stocking. It then rapidly spread into lakes and rivers in both the upper and lower Colorado River basins. We captured adult gizzard shad in the Yampa and White rivers in Colorado in 2012 during boat electrofishing surveys not specifically targeting gizzard shad. These captures document the range expansion of gizzard shad into these Green River tributaries. We also collected larval and young-of-year gizzard shad during seining surveys in backwaters of the middle Green River in 2012, thereby confirming that this species successfully reproduces and recruits in the Green River. The introduction and expansion of gizzard shad has the potential to negatively affect sport fisheries and native fish communities in the Colorado River basin. Arenque de molleja (Dorosoma cepedianum) fue introducido en la cuenca del Ro Colorado en 1996 no intencionalmente como resultado de un cultivo de peces, y se extendi rpidamente en los lagos y ros tanto en la parte superior e inferior de las cuencas del Ro Colorado. Capturamos adultos del arenque de molleja en los ros Yampa y White en Colorado en 2012 durante encuestas de barco electropesca no especficamente dirigidos a los arenque de molleja. Estas capturas documentan la expansin del rango del arenque de molleja en los afluentes del Ro Green. Tambin recogimos larvas y juveniles del arenque de molleja en 2012 en media del Ro Green, lo que confirma que esta especie se reproduce con xito y recluta en el Ro Green. La introduccin y expansin del arenque de molleja tiene el potencial de afectar negativamente a la pesca deportiva y las comunidades de peces nativos en la cuenca del Ro Colorado.
42003948|Descriptions of previously undescribed taxa are provided for plant taxa from Colorado (Phacelia), New Mexico (Phacelia; Mentzelia), and Arizona (Xylorhiza). Se proveen descripciones de taxa de plantas de Colorado (Phacelia), Nuevo Mexico (Phacelia; Mentzelia), y Arizona (Xylorhiza) que no se haban descrito con anterioridad.
42003953|Interspecies interactions can affect how species are distributed, put constraints on habitat expansion, and reduce the fundamental niche of the affected species. Using logistic regression, we analyzed and compared 174 Tamias palmen and 94 Tamias panamintinus within an isolated mountain range of the Basin and Range Province of southern Nevada. Tamias panamintinus was more likely to use pinyon/ponderosa/fir mixed forests than pinyon alone, compared to random sites. In the presence of T. palmeri, however, interaction analyses indicated T. panamintinus was less likely to occupy the mixed forests and more likely near large rocks on southern aspects. This species-by-habitat interaction data suggest that T. palmen excludes T. panamintinus from areas of potentially suitable habitat. Climate change may adversely affect species of restricted distribution. Habitat isolation and species interactions in this region may thus increase survival risks as climate temperatures rise. Las interacciones entre las especies pueden afectar la manera en que se distribuyen, imponer restricciones a la expansin del habitat y reducir el nicho fundamental de las especies afectadas. Por medio de regresin logstica, analizamos y comparamos 174 Tamias palmeri y 94 Tamias panamintinus dentro de una cadena aislada de montaas de la regin Basin and Range del sur de Nevada. Se encontr a T. panamintinus con ms frecuencia en los bosques mixtos de pinos pioneros, ponderosa y abetos que en los bosques conformados nicamente de pinos pioneros, al comparar con lugares al azar. Sin embargo, los anlisis de interaccin indicaron que, en presencia de T. palmeri, hubo menos probabilidad de que T. panamintinus se encontrara en los bosques mixtos y ms probabilidad de que se encontrara cerca de las rocas grandes en la parte sur. Esta interaccin entre especies y hbitat sugiere que Tamias palmeri excluye a T. panamintinus de reas donde el hbitat podra ser apropiado. El cambio climtico puede afectar de manera desfavorable a especies con distribucin restringida. Por lo tanto, el aislamiento del habitat y la interaccin entre las especies en esta regin pueden incrementar los riesgos de supervivencia al aumentar las temperaturas ambientales.
42003954|Most alpine glaciers worldwide are receding rapidly, revealing new streams to be colonized by aquatic organisms. Several major questions are whether these new streams are colonized by aquatic organisms, how fast this colonizing occurs, which organisms are colonizing, and what factors constrain dispersal. We examined longitudinal patterns (over a length of 5 km) in physicochemistry, as well as periphyton and macroinvertebrate composition in 2 glacier streams (Dinwoody, Gannett) in the Wind River Range wilderness, home to the few remaining glaciers in the contiguous USA. We found that newly emerged streams near the glacial snout were inhabited by periphyton and macroinvertebrates, suggesting rapid colonization by biota. Longitudinal (distance from the glacier) patterns were documented in water temperature (increasing), particulate organic carbon (decreasing), particulate phosphorus (decreasing), and benthic organic matter (increasing in Dinwoody). Macroinvertebrate total density and operational taxonomic units (OTUs) also increased with distance from the glacier. Chironomids (Diamesinae) dominated the macroinvertebrate assemblages, a result supporting the importance of water temperature as a controlling factor influencing macroinvertebrates. Sixteen OTUs were documented, with low-elevation mayflies, stoneflies, and caddisflies occurring at sites with warmer temperatures (>3.0 C). Only Diamesinae were found at sites nearest the glacial source where water temperature was <2.0 C. As glaciers recede, the physicochemistry of alpine streams will change and likely differ among glacial streams. The mechanistic basis for the consequent effects of these physicochemical changes on freshwater biodiversity is still poorly understood. La mayora de los glaciares alpinos de todo el mundo estn desapareciendo con rapidez, lo cual da origen a la existencia de nuevos arroyos que pueden ser colonizados por organismos acuticos. Es importante determinar si dichos organismos acuticos pueden colonizar los nuevos arroyos, qu organismos los estn colonizando, con qu rapidez y cules son los factores fundamentales que frenan la dispersin. Examinamos patrones longitudinales (aproximadamente 5 km) en fisicoqumica, perifiton y macroinvertebrados en dos arroyos glaciares (Dinwoody, Gannett) en Wind River Range, donde se encuentran los glaciares que quedan en los Estados Unidos Continentales. Encontramos que los nuevos arroyos que se encuentran cerca de la orilla del glaciar estaban habitados por perifiton y macroinvertebrados, lo cual sugiere una rpida colonizacin de biota. Los patrones longitudinales (segn la distancia al glaciar) se documentaron en la temperatura del agua (en aumento), carbono orgnico particulado (en disminucin), fsforo particulado (en disminucin) y materia orgnica bentnica (en aumento, en Dinwoody). La densidad total de macroinvertebrados y las unidades taxonmicas operacionales (OTUs) tambin se incrementaron al aumentar la distancia al glaciar. Los quironmidos (Diamesinae) dominaban entre los grupos de macroinvertebrados, lo cual refuerza la importancia de la temperatura del agua como factor de control que influye en los macroinvertebrados. Se documentaron diecisis OTUs donde se encontraron efemerpteros, plecpteros y frigneas en terrenos con temperaturas ms clidas (>3.0 C). Slo se encontr Diamesinae en lugares cercanos al nacimiento del glaciar, donde la temperatura del agua era <2.0 C. La estructura fisicoqumica de los arroyos alpinos se modificar y probablemente ser diferente entre los arroyos glaciares, a medida que los glaciares desaparezcan, lo cual traer consecuencias para la biodiversidad de agua dulce, para la cual las bases funcionales estn poco comprendidas.
42003955|Pleurocladia lacustris A. Braun is a freshwater member of the Phaeophyceae, a class of algae that occurs almost entirely in marine waters. It has previously been reported from only about 13 freshwater locations worldwide, just 2 of which are in North America. Outside of North America, P. lacustris has been listed as a threatened species on several European red lists. In this paper, we report the discovery of P. lacustris in 3 calcareous streams draining the Santa Lucia Mountains in coastal California, sites that are more than 1200 km from the nearest known population. Pleurocladia lacustris is a filamentous, benthic species that forms distinctive hemispherical colonies. It co-occurs with the green alga Cladophora glomerata and species of cyanobacteria (Rivularia, Nostoc, Schizothrix spp.). Detailed color illustrations of the diagnostic macroscopic and microscopic features are provided and appear identical to those features of European populations. In the California streams, P. lacustris and other associated algae co-precipitate CaCO to form carbonate crusts on rocks. Preliminary ecological data are consistent with other streams and lakes in Europe where P. lacustris has also been reported (pH > 8.0, calcareous substrata, travertine). The global distribution of this presumed rare alga is also described and examined with respect to a specialized ecological niche. Pleurocladia hcustris A. Braun es un organismo de agua dulce perteneciente a Phaeophyceae, una clase de algas que habita casi exclusivamente aguas marinas. Ha sido reportada solo en aproximadamente trece sitios de agua dulce en todo el mundo y slo dos sitios en los Estados Unidos. Fuera de Norteamrica, est incluida en varias listas rojas de Europa como especie amenazada. En este trabajo presentamos el hallazgo de P. lacustris en 3 arroyos con material calcreo que confluyen en las Montaas de Santa Luca en la costa de California y se encuentran a ms de 1200 km de la poblacin conocida ms cercana. Es una especie filamentosa, bentnica, que forma colonias hemisfricas distintivas y coexiste con el alga verde Cladophora glomerata y especies de cianobacterias (Rivularia, Nostoc, Schizothrix spp.). Mostramos ilustraciones detalladas en color de las caractersticas macroscpicas y microscpicas, donde se puede apreciar que son idnticas a las poblaciones europeas. En los arroyos de California, P. lacustris y otras algas asociadas precipitan CaCO y forman cortezas de carbono sobre las rocas. La informacin ecolgica preliminar coincide con la de otros arroyos y lagos de Europa donde se registr la presencia de esta alga (pH > 8.0, sustrato calcreo, travertino). Adems, se describe y se estudia la distribucin global de esta alga aparentemente poco frecuente en relacin con un nicho ecolgico especfico.
42003956|Most of the native shrubsteppe habitat in the northern Columbia Basin of eastern Washington has been invaded by cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) or converted to agricultural lands. Therefore, ecological patterns and dynamics on native shrubsteppe and reestablished grasslands are of high conservation interest. We analyzed the cheek pouch contents of Great Basin pocket mice (Perognathus porous) from 48 study sites in this region to quantify seed collection by this species and to determine the influence of habitat type on cheek pouch seed contents. In all 3 habitat typesnewly established Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands, older CRP lands, and shrubsteppeB. tectorum constituted the majority of seeds collected from the cheek pouches. Mean generic richness of collected seeds was higher in shrubsteppe than in new CRP habitats. On average, females collected a greater number of seed genera than males did, and pocket mice collected more seed genera as the autumn season progressed. Exotic B. tectorum has become the most frequently collected autumn food resource for pocket mice in the northern Columbia Basin. La mayor parte del hbitat de la estepa de arbustos nativos de Columbia Basin del norte, ubicada al este de Washington, ha sido invadida por bromo velloso (Bromus tectorum) o se ha convertido en terrenos agrcolas. Por lo tanto, los patrones ecolgicos y la dinmica de la estepa de arbustos nativos, y los pastizales que se restablecieron, despiertan un gran inters por su estado de conservacin. Analizamos los contenidos de las cavidades laterales de las mejillas del ratn de bolsas de la Gran Cuenca (Perognathus parvus) en 48 lugares de esta regin para cuantificar las semillas que acumul esta especie y determinar la influencia del tipo de hbitat en el contenido de semillas en estas cavidades. En los tres tipos de habitats, el nuevo Programa para la Conservacin de Reservas (Conservation Reserve Program [CRP]), el anterior CRP y las extensiones de estepas de arbustos, la mayor parte de las semillas que se encontraron en las cavidades laterales fueron B. tectorum. La riqueza genrica promedio de las semillas acumuladas fue superior en la estepa de arbustos que en los hbitats del nuevo CRP. En promedio, las hembras acumularon ms variedad de gneros de semillas que los machos, y el ratn de bolsas acumul ms gneros de semillas a medida que avanzaba el otoo. Bromus tectorum es el alimento que el ratn de bolsas ms acumula en el otoo, en Columbia Basin del norte.
42003957|American bison (Bison bison L.) preferentially use black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus L.) colonies over uncolonized range in the mixed-grass prairie of North America. To assess bison use of prairie dog colonies in a different ecosystem, the shortgrass steppe, this study was conducted at the Vermejo Park Ranch, New Mexico. Driving surveys were conducted in summer 2007 to determine the number of bison on and off prairie dog colonies in 2 pastures. Prairie dogs occupied 25.5% and 48.5% of the 2 pastures surveyed. Bison of both sexes used prairie dog colonies more than expected compared to a scenario of bison using colonies based on colony availability (P < 0.001). With the exception of bulls in one pasture, bison observed off-colony were more likely to be grazing than bison observed oncolony (P < 0.04). When selection of prairie dog colonies was assessed for only those bison observed grazing, bulls in both pastures and cows in one pasture used prairie dog colonies more than expected based on availability (P < 0.001). Forage quality was superior on prairie dog colonies, with crude protein higher (P < 0.001) and acid detergent fiber lower (P < 0.001) in blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis [Willd. ex Kunth] Lag. ex Griffiths) collected on-colony than offcolony. Further studies under a variety of conditions are still needed, but selection for prairie dog colonies by bison at Vermejo, combined with findings from previous studies, suggests that during the growing season, bison and cattle (Bos taurus L.) might select prairie dog colonies over uncolonized range in both the northern and southern extents of North American grasslands. El bisonte americano (Bison bison L.) utiliza preferentemente las colonias de los perritos de la pradera de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus L.) en lugar del habitat no colonizado de las praderas mixtas de Norteamrica. Con el fin de analizar el uso de las colonias de los perritos de las praderas por el bisonte en un ecosistema diferente, la estepa de pastos cortos, este estudio se realiz en Vermejo Park Ranch, New Mexico. En el verano del 2007 se realizaron monitoreos desde vehculos para establecer la cantidad de bisontes que haba dentro y fuera de estas colonias en dos pastizales. Los perritos de la pradera ocupaban el 25.5% y el 48.5% de los dos pastizales que se analizaron. Los bisontes de ambos sexos utilizaban estas colonias ms de lo esperado, en comparacin con la situacin hipottica de que los bisontes utilizaban colonias segn su disponibilidad (P < 0.001). Con excepcin de los toros en uno de los pastizales, se encontr que era ms probable que los bisontes observados pastaran fuera de la colonia que dentro de ella (P < 0.04). Cuando se evalu la seleccin de las colonias de los perritos de la pradera por parte de los bisontes que se observaron mientras pastaban, los toros de ambos pastizales y las vacas de un pastizal utilizaron las colonias ms de lo esperado, segn la disponibilidad (P  0.001). La calidad en la bsqueda de alimentos fue superior en el caso de las colonias de los perritos de la pradera, donde el porcentaje de protena cruda fue superior (P < 0.001) y el porcentaje de fibra detergente cida fue inferior (P < 0.001) en la grama azul (Bouteloua gracilis [Willd. ex Kunth] Lag. ex Griffiths) que se recogi en mayor cantidad en la colonia que fuera de ella. Si bien es necesario realizar ms estudios en distintas condiciones, la seleccin de los bisontes de las colonias de los perritos de la pradera en Vermejo, combinada con los hallazgos de estudios previos, sugiere que durante la temporada de cultivo, es posible que el bisonte y el ganado (Bos taurus L.) seleccionen estas colonias en lugar del habitat no colonizado en las zonas del norte y del sur de los pastizales de Norteamrica.
42003958|Population declines of Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) throughout the western United States have been attributed to the loss, degradation, and fragmentation of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) habitats. Increased energy development may further fragment sagebrush habitat, isolating sage-grouse populations and resulting in genetic drift, inbreeding, local extinction, or rapid divergence. We conducted a genetic survey of 3 remote sagegrouse populations in northeastern Utah to assess mitochondrial diversity relative to other portions of the species' range. We did not detect any unusual haplotype compositions in these populations. However, haplotype composition of the Anthro Mountain and Strawberry Valley reference populations differed from haplotype compositions of other northeastern Utah populations. These populations are spatially separated by Desolation Canyon of the Green River. This canyon may constitute a geographic barrier to gene flow in this area, given low population densities and reduced dispersal potentials. This potential barrier will be an important consideration in future conservation efforts such as translocations. The halotype composition of the Anthro Mountain and Strawberry Valley reference populations may be altered by translocations subsequent to our sampling effort. The effect of these translocations on the reference halotypes and population vital rates is currently under study. La disminucin de las poblaciones del gallo de salvia (Centrocercus urophasianus) en el oeste de los Estados Unidos se atribuye a la prdida, degradacin y fragmentacin de los habitats de artemisas (Artemisia spp.). Es posible que el mayor desarrollo de la energa contribuya a fragmentar an ms el habitat de artemisas aislando las poblaciones de gallos de salvia y provocando deriva gnica, endogamia, extincin local o divergencia rpida. Realizamos una investigacin gentica de tres poblaciones remotas de gallos de salvia en el noreste de Utah para analizar la diversidad mitocondrial relativa a otras reas de distribucin de la especie. No detectamos ninguna composicin inusual de haplotipos en estas poblaciones. Sin embargo, la composicin de haplotipos de las poblaciones de referencia de Anthro Mountain y Strawberry Valley fue distinta de la composicin de haplotipos de otras poblaciones del noreste de Utah. Estas poblaciones estn separadas geogrficamente por Desolation Canyon del ro Green River. Este can podra ser una barrera geogrfica al flujo gnico en esta rea dadas las bajas densidades poblacionales y las reducidas posibilidades de dispersin. Esta barrera potencial ser un factor muy importante que debe considerarse en futuros esfuerzos de conservacin, tales como las translocaciones. Es posible que las translocaciones ya hayan alterado la composicin de haplotipos de las poblaciones de referencia de Anthro Mountain y Strawberry Valley. En la actualidad se estn estudiando los efectos de las translocaciones sobre los haplotipos de referencia y sobre las tasas vitales de las poblaciones.
42003959|Investigation of amphibian occupancy at potential breeding sites can provide information about the distribution and relative abundance of species, as well as insights into habitat relationships across large areas such as national parks. Based on previous research in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE), we hypothesized that the probability of amphibian occupancy increases with water conductivity. We conducted amphibian surveys with habitat measurements at 235 wetland sites in the GYE in 2002, thereby locating breeding populations of boreal toads (Anaxyrus boreas), boreal chorus frogs (Pseudacris maculata), Columbia spotted frogs (Lithobates luteiventris), and barred tiger salamanders (Ambystoma mavortium). Repeat surveys provided detection probabilities, which allowed for unbiased estimates of occupancy. The boreal chorus frog was the most common amphibian in the GYE, with breeding populations occupying approximately 48% of the sites, followed by Columbia spotted frog (35%), barred tiger salamander (14%), and boreal toad (13%). Occupancy corrected for detection probability averaged 36% higher (range 27%-50%) than nave estimates of occupancy. Detection rates ranged from 0.65 to 0.78 for the 4 species. Modeling of habitat covariates indicated that higher conductivity was positively associated with toad occupancy but negatively associated with chorus frog occupancy; Columbia spotted frog and barred tiger salamander occupancy was little influenced by water conductivity. Fish presence had a negative effect on occupancy of barred tiger salamanders and boreal chorus frogs. These results may help managers in the GYE manage and conserve important breeding habitat for amphibians, particularly if longterm monitoring efforts indicate declines in amphibian populations. La investigacin sobre anfibios de ocupacin de sitios potenciales de reproduccin puede brindar informacin sobre la distribucin y la abundancia relativa de las especies, y sobre la relacin con el habitat en grandes reas, como los parques nacionales. Basados en investigaciones previas realizadas en Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE), tenemos la hiptesis de que la probabilidad de ocupacin de anfibios se incrementa con la conductividad del agua. En el 2002 realizamos monitoreos de anfibios con mediciones en el habitat en 235 terrenos hmedos de GYE, y localizamos poblaciones reproductoras de sapos boreales (Anaxyrus breas), Pseudacris maculata, ranas luteiventris y ajolote tigre rayado (Ambystoma mavortium). Los monitoreos repetidos proporcionaron probabilidades de deteccin, las cuales permitieron realizar estimaciones exactas de ocupacin. Pseudacris maculata result ser la especie de anfibios ms comn en GYE, y sus poblaciones reproductoras ocupan aproximadamente el 48% de los terrenos, seguidas de las ranas luteiventris (35%), el ajolote tigre rayado (14%) y los sapos boreales (13%). Las estimaciones corregidas de ocupacin de la probabilidad de deteccin tuvieron un promedio del 36% superior (rango del 27 al 50%) a las estimaciones de ocupacin iniciales. Las tasas de deteccin oscilaron entre 0,65 y 0,78 en las cuatro especies. El modelaje de las covariables relacionadas con el habitat indic que una mayor conductividad se asociaba de manera positiva con la ocupacin de sapos, y de manera negativa con la existencia de Pseudacris maculata; la ocupacin de ranas luteiventris y de ajolote tigre rayado tuvo una pequea influencia de la conductividad del agua. La presencia de peces tuvo un efecto negativo en la ocupacin del ajolote tigre rayado y en la de Pseudacris maculata. Estos resultados pueden ser de utilidad para que los administradores del GYE puedan cuidar y conservar el habitat de reproduccin de los anfibios, especialmente si los monitoreos a largo plazo de las poblaciones de anfibios indican que stas estn disminuyendo.
42003960|Palmer's chipmunk (Neotamias palmeri) is a medium-sized chipmunk whose range is limited to the higherelevation areas of the Spring Mountain Range, Nevada. A second chipmunk species, the Panamint chipmunk (Neotamias panamintinus), is more broadly distributed and lives in lower-elevation, primarily pinyon-juniper (Pinus monophylla-Juniperus osteosperma) habitat types. Panamint chipmunks are not closely related to Palmer's, but field identification of the 2 species is unreliable. Palmer's chipmunk is a species of concern in the state of Nevada and is listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as endangered. As such, conservation of Palmer's chipmunks is a priority in the Spring Mountains National Recreation Area. We sampled putative Palmer's chipmunks from 13 sites distributed across the Spring Mountains during 2010-2011. We removed Panamint chipmunks by using DNA-based identifications and then analyzed the genetic population structure of Palmer's chipmunks by using a panel of 9 microsatellites. Of the 228 samples that were genotyped, 186 were Palmer's; there was no evidence of hybridization between species. Four sites had exclusively Panamint chipmunks, 5 had exclusively Palmer's chipmunks, and 3 had a mixture of the 2 species. In this study, Palmer's chipmunks were exclusively captured at sites above 2400 m elevation, and Panamint chipmunks were exclusively captured at sites below 2200 m. Panamint chipmunks were trapped in areas typed as pinyon-juniper, but they were also trapped at sites typed as ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) and mixed conifer. Both species were trapped at 3 sites; at all 3 sites, the lowerelevation traps contained Panamint chipmunks and the higher ones Palmer's chipmunks. Population structure within Palmer's chipmunks was minimal: heterozygosity was relatively high, and the populations displayed no signs of recent bottlenecks. Indications are that the distribution of Palmer's chipmunk is limited to higher-elevation areas in the Spring Mountains, but within this area, Palmer's chipmunk occurs as a single, large, well-connected, and stable population. Neotamias palmen es una ardilla de tamao mediano cuyo hbitat se limita a las reas ms elevadas de Spring Mountain Range, Nevada. Una segunda especie de ardilla, Neotamias panamintinus, tiene una distribucin ms amplia y vive en reas ms bajas, principalmente en ambientes de pino pionero (Pinus monophyUa-Juniperus osteosperma). Si bien Neotamias panamintinus no se relaciona con Neotamias palmen, la identificacin de ambas especies en el terreno no es confiable. Neotamias palmen es una especie en riesgo en el estado de Nevada y est incluida en la lista de especies en peligro de extincin de la Unin Internacional para la Conservacin de la Naturaleza (IUCN), por lo tanto, la conservacin de esta especie es una prioridad en Spring Mountains National Recreation Area. Entre el 2010 y el 2011 tomamos muestras de supuestas Neotamias palmeri en 13 lugares ubicados en Spring Mountains. Eliminamos Neotamias panamintinus identificando con muestras de ADN y analizamos la estructura gentica de la poblacin de Neotamias palmeri utilizando un panel de 9 microsatlites. De los genotipos de las 228 muestras que tomamos, 186 correspondan a Neotamias palmeri y no se encontraron rastros de hibridacin entre las especies. En cuatro lugares se encontraban exclusivamente Neotamias panamintinus, en cinco exclusivamente Neotamias palmeri y en tres se encontr una mezcla de las dos especies. En este estudio, se capturaron nicamente Neotamias palmeri en lugares con una elevacin >2400 m y se capturaron nicamente Neotamias panamintinus en lugares con una elevacin <2200 m. La especie Neotamias panamintinus se atrap en ambientes de pino pionero, en ambientes de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) y tambin en bosque mixto de coniferas. Ambas especies se encontraron en tres lugares, en los cuales las trampas ubicadas en zonas menos elevadas contenan Neotamias panamintinus y las ubicadas en zonas ms elevadas contenan Neotamias palmeri. La estructura de la poblacin en la especie Neotamias palmeri era mnima, la heterocigosidad era relativamente elevada y las poblaciones no mostraron signos de cuellos de botella recientes. Se observ que Neotamias palmeri se limita a reas de mayor elevacin en Spring Mountains, dentro de dicha rea, esta especie constituye una poblacin nica, de tamao considerable, estable y sin aislamiento entre sus miembros.
42003961|Sonic transmitters were affixed to 10 large (40.4-51.4 cm TL) adult bonytail Gila elegans in 2003 from Cbola High Levee Pond, a small, isolated backwater adjacent to the lower Colorado River in Arizona and California. Point and paired directional observations showed that all marked adult bonytail occupied interstices of large riprap during daytime and used open water areas during darkness, presumably to feed. There were 2 spatial patterns of nighttime distribution by adult fish: 70% of fish exhibited mesohabitat site fidelity to a particular area of the pond, while others appeared to move about at random. Selection or design of bonytail management areas including grow-out and refuge sites should consider cover requirements for larger fish, as this may be a limiting factor if lack of cover subjects some individuals to higher predation risk. Transmisores sonicos se fijaron a 10 charolito elegante (Gila elegans) adultos grandes (40.4-51.4 cm LT) en el 2003 localizados en el estanque dique superior de Cbola (Cbola High Levee Pond), un pequeo remanso adyacente a la parte baja del ro Colorado en Arizona y California. Observaciones direccionales de punto y de pareja demostraron que los charolitos adultos que fueron marcados utilizan intersticios en escolleras grandes durante el da, y luego salen a reas de aguas abiertas cuando oscurece, al parecer para alimentarse. Los pecess adultos exibiheron dos patrones espaciales de distribucin nocturna: 70% de los peces mostraron fidelidad de mesohbitat a una determinada zona de la laguna, mientras que otros pareceran moverse al azar. La seleccin o el diseo de reas de manejo de charolito elegante, incluyendo reas de crecimiento y sitios de refugio, debe considerar los requerimientos de encubrimiento de los peces ms grandes, ya que esto puede ser un importante factor limitante si la falta de encubrimiento somete a algunos individuos a un riesgo de depredacin ms alto.
42003962|We assessed the current distributions for 2 subspecies of the brush rabbit, Sylvilagus bachmani peninsularis and S. b. exiguus, on the Baja California Peninsula, Mexico. On the basis of field sampling, field notes, and voucher specimens in scientific collections, we demonstrated that (1) both subspecies have been previously recorded in mesic habitats with conditions associated with oases and streams; (2) the 2 subspecies exhibit disjunction in their distributions in the middle and southern portions of the peninsula; (3) habitats are threatened by human activities and desertification, which explains why brush rabbit populations are currently fragmented; and (4) specimens of S. bachmani have not been collected or observed in the last 20 years, with effort concentrated mainly in the southernmost part of the peninsula (San Lucas faunal district). We suggest that S. b. exiguus be considered threatened, requiring immediate conservation actions, including habitat preservation; and we suggest that the southern form, S. b. peninsularis, be considered extinct due to anthropogenic activities. Se evalu la distribucin actual de dos subespcies del conejo matorralero Sylvilagus bachmani (S. b. peninsuhris y S. b. exiguus) en la pennsula de Baja California, Mxico. Basados en mustreos de campo, notas de campo y ejemplares en las colecciones cientficas, demostramos que: (1) ambas subespcies se han registrado previamente en habitats especficos en condiciones msicas asociadas a oasis y arroyos; (2) estas dos subespcies exhiben una separacin en sus distribuciones en las porciones central y sur de la pennsula; (3) sus habitats estn amenazados por las actividades humanas y la desertificacin, lo que explica por qu sus poblaciones estn actualmente fragmentadas; y (4) no se han colectado u observado especmenes de S. bachmani en los ltimos 20 aos, principalmente en la parte sur de la pennsula. Sugerimos que el estado actual de la poblacin de ambas subespecies se considere como amenazada, se requieren acciones inmediatas para su conservacin, incluyendo sus habitats. La forma del sur, S. b. peninsularis, podra ser considerada como extinta por actividades antropognicas.
42003963|The desert spring ecosystem of the Cuatro Cinegas basin, Mexico, hosts an extraordinary but increasingly imperiled assemblage of native and endemic aquatic organisms. Among the more vulnerable to extinction is the microendemic Cuatro Cinegas platyfish Xiphophorus gordoni, which is at particular risk due to its highly restricted distribution and small population size. Given the growing demands on water resources in this arid region, we conducted a survey of mitochondrial DNA sequence variation in the cytochrome b gene to establish a baseline for long-term genetic monitoring of this endangered species. Fifty-eight specimens were collected from the 2 subpopulations known to persist, Laguna Santa Tecla (27) and Teclitas (31). Three haplotypes were observed across all samples, with 3 and 2 haplotypes observed at Laguna Santa Tecla and Teclitas, respectively. Sequence divergence ranged from 0.02% to 0.03% among variants and averaged 0.317 differences between populations. Haplotype and nucleotide diversities were moderately low in Laguna Santa Tecla (0.467 and 0.0008, respectively) and severely low in Teclitas (0.065 and 0.0001, respectively). Exact tests revealed significant heterogeneity in haplotype distributions between sites (P = 0.006), as did the pairwise estimate of  ST (0.135; P = 0.005). Tests of deviation from neutrality were nonsignificant. Microendemism of X. gordoni and marginal substitution differences between the few extant haplotypes suggest that low genetic variation is a historical characteristic of this species; however, population declines associated with recent habitat loss have likely further compromised standing levels of genetic variation. Development of a long-term population and genetic monitoring program that incorporates multilocus nuclear DNA markers is advised and should be tied to a more thorough characterization of the basic biology and life history of this species, establishment of captive or refuge populations, and further improvement of habitat. El ecosistema desrtico de Cuatro Cinegas es un oasis extraordinariamente diverso y amenazado por las presiones agrcolas a su acufero profundo. Entre los organismos mas amenazados es el pez microendmico Xiphophorus gordoni, debido a su distribucin restringida y a sus pequeos tamaos poblacionales. Dado que las demandas del agua por la agricultura en este desierto han incrementado, decidimos estudiar la estructura gentica de estas poblaciones para establecer una base para monitorear a largo plazo a esta especie amenazada. La variacin gentica de la poblacin de X. gordoni en Cuatrocinegas Coahuila fue evaluada utilizando mtodos de gentica de poblaciones utilizando como marcador el citocromo b en 58 ejemplares de dos poblaciones microendmicas de estos peces que sobreviven en la Laguna Santa Tecla (27) y en Teclitas (31). Se observaron 3 haplotipos en el total de las muestras con 2 haplotipos presentes en cada sitio. La divergencia en las secuencias fue 0.02%-0.03% entre variantes con un promedio de 0.317 diferencias entre poblaciones. Esta diversidad de haplotipos y secuencias fue moderadamente baja en laguna de Santa Tecla (0.467 and 0.0008, respectivamente) y muy baja en Teclitas (0.065 and 0.0001, respectivamente). Se observ una heterogeneidad significativa entre sitios utilizando las pruebas exactas (P = 0.006) con un estimado  ST (0.135; P = 0.005). Las pruebas de desviacin a la neutralidad fueron no significativas. El microendemismo de X. gordoni y las diferencias marginales en las tasas de sustitucin en los haplotipos estudiados sugiere que la baja diversidad gentica observada es parte histrica de la especie; sin embargo, la cada en la poblacin debido a la prdida del habitat probablemente comprometer an ms la diversidad gentica de esta especie. Sugerimos el desarrollo de programas a largo plazo de monitoreo gentico de esta especie en peligro de extincin, utlizando multiples marcadores nucleares, mismo que debern unirse a estudis cuidadosos de la historia natural e historias de vida de esta especie. Tambin sugerimos el establecimiento de poblaciones cautivas o en refugios estables para mantener a la especie hasta que las polcicas sobre la conservacin del ecosistema mejoren las posibilidades de esta especie.
42003964|Surveys were performed to examine the diversity of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera in selected lakes in Glacier National Park, Montana, and to generate data for use by the National Park Service. Shallow shoreline sites were sampled by disturbing the bottom and examining the substratum. Published records and previously collected reference specimens were examined. Data were obtained from a total of 29 lakes, but 3 yielded no mayflies or stoneflies. Twelve genera and 21 species of Ephemeroptera, and 11 genera and 5 species of Plecoptera, were found. Most lakes sampled had a diverse fauna of both orders. Se realizaron monitoreos en donde se examin la diversidad de la fauna de Ephemeroptera y Plecoptera en lagos seleccionados del Parque Nacional Glacier, Montana, con el fin de utilizar la informacin como material didctico para estudiantes universitarios y para uso del Servicio de Parques Nacionales. Se tomaron muestras en lugares poco profundos de la costa alterando el fondo y examinando el sustrato. Se analizaron estudios ya publicados y especmenes de referencia colectados previamente. Se obtuvo informacin de un total de 29 lagos, en tres de los cuales no se registr la presencia de efemerpteros ni de plecpteros. Se hallaron doce gneros y 21 especies de Ephemeroptera y 11 gneros y 5 especies de Plecoptera. La mayora de los lagos tenan una fauna muy diversa correspondiente a ambos rdenes.
42003965|The recently described Oreoleptis torrenticola Zloty, Sinclair and Pritchard (Diptera: Tabanomorpha), belonging to the monotypic family Oreoleptidae, was previously described from the Northern Rocky Mountains of the USA and Canada. However, as part of a broad, multidisciplinary study by the Yakama Nation, 30 larvae of O. torrenticola were collected at multiple sites within the Twisp River of the Cascade Mountains in Okanogan County, Washington, 2008-2010. This finding represents a substantial range extension for the species. La especie, recientemente descrita, Oreoleptis torrenticola Zloty, Sinclair y Pritchard (Dptero: Tabanomorpha), de la familia monotpica Oreoleptidae, provena de las Montaas Rocosas del Norte de los Estados Unidos y Canad. Sin embargo, se colectaronn 30 larvas de O. torrenticola en una gran cantidad de lugares dentro del ro Twisp de la cordillera Cascade del Condado de Okanogan, Washington, entre el 2008 y el 2010, como parte de un extenso estudio multidisciplinario realizado por la Nacin Yakama. Este hallazgo representa una extensin significativa de las zonas en las que se encuentra esta especie.
42003966|The gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) is an under-studied species in North America. Here we provide data gathered through observations over 17 d at a gray fox den in San Mateo County, California. We recorded prey indices through direct observation, as well as through indirect observation with photos recorded by motion-triggered cameras. The largest prey was a mule deer fawn, which we determined was killed by a gray fox. This finding is the first record of gray fox predation on mule deer. Lagomorphs and rodents formed the majority of prey items. We also recorded behavior that both contradicted and corroborated previous literature. We observed the male bringing food items to the den, a behavior that previous researchers have disagreed about. We also observed allogrooming between the adult pair, as well as one instance among pups where leg-lifting accompanied by presentation of the genitalia was clearly used as an aggressive dominant behavior rather than a submissive behavior, as reported in previous literature. El zorro gris {Urocyon cinereoargenteus) es una especie poco estudiada en Norteamrica. Aqu brindamos informacin que se obtuvo al observar la guarida de un zorro gris en el condado de San Mateo, California, durante ms de 17 das. Registramos la presencia de presas a travs de la observacin directa, y de manera indirecta por medio de fotografas tomadas con cmaras automticas activadas a travs de movimiento. La presa ms grande fue un cervatillo de venado bura, el cual determinamos que fue cazado por un zorro gris, y es el primer registro de que el zorro gris depreda al venado bura. La mayor parte de las presas fueron lagomorfos y roedores. Adems, registramos conductas que contradicen o confirman la literatura publicada sobre el tema. Observamos el macho mientras traa alimentos a la guarida, con lo cual otros investigadores no estaban de acuerdo. Tambin observamos a la pareja de adultos en conducta de aseo mutuo, y realizamos una nueva interpretacin de una conducta registrada por otros investigadores. Si bien algunos observadores previos hicieron hincapi en que el levantar la pata y mostrar los genitales representa una conducta de sumisin entre los cachorros de zorro, registramos un evento en el que esta conducta se utiliz tambin de manera dominante y agresiva.
42003967|During research on brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis [Mitchili]), we collected larval and pupal specimens of the midge Odontomesa fulva (Kieffer) (Dptera: Chironomidae) from Pine Cree Creek, in the Cypress Hills area of the Northern Great Plains of Saskatchewan, Canada. This record is the first observation of O. fulva from the province. The larvae of the population of O. fulva in this study prefer shallow pools in this first-order, cold water stream. The species displays a univoltine emergence phenology. This range extension of O. fulva highlights and reinforces the importance of the Cypress Hills to the unique aquatic faunal biodiversity and ecology of Saskatchewan and the Northern Great Plains. Durante investigaciones sobre la trucha de manantial (Salvelinus fontinalis [Mitchili]), colectamos especmenes en estadios larvario y crislida de Odontomesa fulva (Kieffer), (Diptera: Chironomidae) de Pine Cree Creek, en el rea de Cypress Hills de las Grandes Llanuras del norte en Saskatchewan, Canad. Este registro constituye la primera observacin de O. fulva en la provincia. Las larvas de la poblacin de O. fulva en este estudio prefieren pozas de poca profundidad en arroyos de agua fra y presentan una fenologa de emergencia univoltina. Esta extensin biogeogrfica de O. fulva hace que se destaquen y se refuercen la biodiversidad nica de fauna acutica y la ecologa de Cypress Hills en Saskatchewan y en las Grandes Llanuras del norte en general.
42003968|Capturing Common Ravens (Corvus corax) is very difficult. Several methods are currently used, but none effectively catch large numbers (>25 birds) of ravens at one time. Efficient capture of large numbers of ravens is needed for some autecology studies. We describe and evaluate the effectiveness of using a prebaited rocket net trapping method for simultaneously capturing large numbers of ravens. The study sites were within 2 landfills in California's Mojave Desert, one at Edwards Air Force Base and the other at Fort Irwin National Training Center. We captured 283 ravens on 5 trapping occasions between 1995 and 1997, with an average of 57 birds per trapping occasion. We observed greater numbers of ravens at the bait sites with increasing bait duration, and these numbers appeared to level off after 25 to 30 days of baiting. Longer bait durations may habituate ravens to the resource and compensate for their wariness, which could increase capture success. More than half of the ravens captured (55%) were adults, and subadults composed the remaining age class (42%). Only 3% of the ravens captured were hatch-year birds, a result of trapping early in the breeding season. Using rocket nets is a safe and effective method to capture large numbers of ravens. Es muy difcil capturar cuervos comunes (Corvus corax). Si bien en la actualidad se utilizan varios mtodos, ninguno de ellos logra capturar de manera efectiva grandes cantidades (>25 aves) de cuervos; la captura masiva resultara til para realizar estudios de autoecologa. Describimos y evaluamos la efectividad de un mtodo de captura que consiste en una red con cebo para capturar una gran cantidad de cuervos de manera simultnea. El estudio se realiz dentro de dos vertederos en el Desierto Mojave de California: uno ubicado en la Base de la Fuerza Area Edwards y el otro ubicado en el Fort Irwin National Training Center. Capturamos 283 cuervos en cinco ocasiones de captura por ao, entre 1995 y 1997, con un promedio de 57 aves por cada trampa. Observamos una mayor cantidad de cuervos en los sitios donde haba cebos, en los cuales el cebo estuvo una mayor cantidad de tiempo, y se estabilizaban despus de 25 a 30 das de colocarlos. Es posible que con una mayor duracin de los cebos los cuervos se acostumbraran al recurso y dejaron de desconfiar, lo cual posiblemente haya incrementado las posibilidades de xito en la captura. Ms de la mitad de los cuervos que se capturaron eran adultos (55%), mientras que el resto eran subadultos (42%). Debido a la captura temprana durante la temporada de reproduccin, slo el 3% de los cuervos que se capturaron eran recin nacidos. El mtodo de la red para capturar grandes cantidades de cuervos es seguro y efectivo.
42003969|Males of solitary wasp species are faced with the task of locating potential mates, a task made more difficult by inconspicuous females and a landscape seemingly devoid of landmarks. Males may employ a variety of strategies to locate females. In this study, we test for variation among males within the sun dance of Bembix. We show that males of Bembix americana spinolae Lepeletier behave differently within the sun dance and that these differences can be predicted by the size of the male. We show that large males spend more time at "rest" and require a greater number of male-male contacts to be displaced from rest than small males. This difference in mate location strategy, however, appears to be density dependent, as large and small males in small aggregations exhibit no difference in the strategies they employ. Los machos de la especie de avispa solitaria se enfrentan a la bsqueda de parejas potenciales, lo cual es difcil debido a que las hembras son apenas visibles y el paisaje parece estar desprovisto de puntos de referencia. Es posible que los machos utilicen una gran variedad de estrategias para encontrar hembras. En este estudio examinamos la variacin entre la danza ritual del sol de los machos del gnero Bembix. Mostramos que los machos del gnero Bembix americana spinolae Lepeletier se comportan de manera diferente dentro del ritual de la danza del sol y que estas diferencias se pueden predecir segn el tamao del macho; encontramos que los machos de tamao grande pasan ms tiempo "en reposo" y necesitan una mayor cantidad de contacto macho-macho para ser desplazados del resto que los machos pequeos. Sin embargo, estas diferentes estrategias para hallar pareja aparentemente son dependientes de la densidad, ya que no se registraron diferencias entre las que emplean los machos grandes y los machos pequeos en los grupos pequeos.
42003973|Knowing how physical and biogenic habitat characteristics affect microspatial variability of larval caddisflies is important to understanding potential population distributions and local species assemblages. We show that larval caddisfly densities and assemblages vary between study reaches and streams on the Angelo Coast Range Reserve in northern California and that species abundance patterns are associated with specific habitat variables. Dicosmoecus gilvipes and Psychoglypha spp. were most dense in 4th-order reaches of the south fork of the Eel River (SFE) and rare or absent in shallow 2nd-and lst-order reaches of the Elder and Fox Creek tributaries, respectively. Multidimensional scaling (MDS) suggested D. gilvipes densities were associated with water depth, as microdistributions were restricted to depths >40 cm. Microdistributions were also associated with Rivularia-dominated algal patches, but it is doubtful grazing D. gilvipes tracked these cyanobacteria. Psychoglypha spp. were typically found between roughness elements (stones) in relatively deep waters, and MDS suggested that densities of Psychoglypha spp. were related to current velocity. Lepidostoma sp. was densest in Fox Creek, and densities of this detritivore were associated with benthic organic matter (BOM). Glossosoma spp. densities were similar among streams (~25 larvae  m) and did not configure around any of the habitat variables used in MDS. Neophylax (likely rickeri), Heteroplectron, Ecclisomyia, and Hydatophylax hes perus were uncommon and found only in either Elder or Fox creeks. Our work shows that larval caddisfly assemblages are more diverse in SFE tributaries than in the mainstem and that species traits and microdistributions are related to local-scale habitat variables in these Mediterranean-climate streams. Es importante conocer de qu manera las caractersticas del hbitat fsico y biognico afectan la variabilidad microespacial de la larva de las frigneas para comprender la posible distribucin local y cmo estn compuestos los grupos de especies locales. Demostramos que las densidades y los grupos de las larvas de las frigneas varan entre los fragmentos del arroyo y entre los arroyos que se encuentran en Angelo Coast Range Reserve en el norte de California y que los patrones de abundancia de las especies se asocian con variables especficas del hbitat. Las especies Dicosmoecus gilvipes y Psychoglypha registraron una mayor densidad en las extensiones del 4 orden de South Fork del Eel River (SFE) y su densidad disminuy o se extingui en las extensiones de menor profundidad del 2 y del 1 orden de sus afluentes, los arroyos Elder y Fox respectivamente. El escalamiento multidimensional (EMD) sugiri que la densidad de D. gilvipes se asoci con la profundidad del agua, ya que la microdistribucin se limit a profundidades > 40 cm. La microdistribucin tambin se asoci a zonas con predominancia de algas de Rivuhria, pero no es seguro que D. gilvipes haya rastreado estas cianobacterias. La especie Psychoglypha se encontr tpicamente entre elementos speros (piedras) en aguas relativamente profundas y el EMD sugiri que su densidad se relacionaba con la velocidad de la corriente. La especie Lepidostoma fue la ms densa en el arroyo Fox y la densidad de este detritvoro se asoci con la materia orgnica bentnica (BOM). La densidad de la especie Glossosoma fue similar entre los arroyos (~25 larvas  m) y no determin ninguna de las variables del habitat utilizadas en el EMD. Neophyhx (probablemente rickeri), Heteroplectron, Ecclisomyia y Hydatophylax hesperus fueron poco comunes y slo se encontraron en el arroyo Elder o en el Fox. Nuestra investigacin demuestra que los grupos de larvas de las frigneas son ms diversos en los afluentes del SFE que en la corriente principal, y que las caractersticas y la microdistribucin de las especies se relacionan con variables del hbitat a escala local en estos arroyos de clima mediterrneo.
42003974|Caddisflies were collected at 181 wall seep, stream, river, and lake habitats in 7 counties in northwest and north central Washington over a 6-year period. From 17,405 specimens, we identified 164 adult caddisfly species within 62 genera and 16 families. Twenty taxa were new state records, bringing the number of species currently reported from Washington to 230. Species assemblages were compared to altitude, physicochemical factors, aquatic habitats, and land use (urban, agriculture, and forest) on the west and east sides of the North Cascade Range. Species richness showed significant positive correlations to altitude and pH and showed significant negative correlations to total phosphorus, total nitrogen, and specific conductivity, as well as especially to channel embeddedness. A multilevel hierarchical clustering model separated wall seeps, streams, and rivers into geographic and land-use regions based on adult caddisfly assemblages. We used a multimetric index (caddisfly tolerance index [CTI]) to determine environmental tolerance levels for adult caddisfly species. The index performed well in distinguishing among the effects of total phosphorus, total nitrogen, specific conductance, and channel embeddedness on the distribution of caddisfly species. These CTI values provide baseline information for monitoring changes in ecosystem health in drainages throughout Washington landscapes. Se colectaron frigneas en 181 hbitats que incluyen filtraciones en paredes, arroyos, ros y lagos, en siete condados ubicados en el noroeste y la parte norte-central de Washington, en un perodo de seis aos. Identificamos 164 especies adultas de frigneas de 62 gneros y 16 familias de 17,405 especmenes. Se registraron veinte nuevos taxones en el estado, 230 especies ya reportadas en Washington. Se compararon distintos ensambles de especies en relacin con la altitud, los factores fisicoqumicos, los hbitats acuticos y la explotacin del suelo (urbano, agrcola y bosque) en el lado oeste y este de North Cascade Range. La riqueza de especies mostr correlaciones positivas significativas en relacin con la altitud y el pH, y correlaciones negativas significativas con el fsforo total, el nitrgeno, la conductividad especfica y, en especial, con la superposicin de los cauces de agua. Un modelo de agrupamiento jerrquico multinivel separ las filtraciones en paredes, los arroyos y los ros, en regiones geogrficas y de explotacin del suelo, segn los grupos de adultos de frigneas. Utilizamos un ndice multimtrico (ndice de tolerancia de frigneas [CTI, por sus siglas en ingls]) para determinar los niveles de tolerancia ambiental para adultos de las especies de frigneas. El ndice funcion correctamente para distinguir entre el efecto del fsforo total, el nitrgeno total, la conductancia especfica y la superposicin de los cauces de agua en la distribucin de las especies de frigneas. Estos valores del CTI proporcionan informacin de referencia para monitorear los cambios de estado del ecosistema en los desages de los paisajes de Washington.
42003975|Over 200 species of freshwater and terrestrial water bears (phylum Tardigrada) are known to occur in North America. Of these, 20 species have been recorded in Louisiana. Foliose and fruticose lichen and moss samples collected in 2011 in the city of Lake Charles and in Sam Houston Jones State Park, Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana, USA, were stored in paper envelopes and later soaked in tap water overnight. Tardigrade specimens and eggs were extracted and mounted in polyvinyl lactophenol. The samples contained a new species of tardigrade. Milnesium hgniappe sp. n. has claw formula [2-3]-[3-2] and 9 sculptured bands in the dorsal and lateral cuticle. The new species most closely resembles Milnesium reticulatum, a species known only from the Seychelles Islands, in its cuticular pattern. However, M. lagniappe sp. n. is almost twice as large as M. reticulatum, lacks gibbosities, has proportionally wider buccal tube and longer claws, and has a more posterior point of stylet insertion. Reexamination of tardigrades from central Florida, USA, previously reported as M. tardigradum shows that they are in fact M. lagniappe sp. n. Se sabe que hay ms de 200 especies de tardgrados terrestres y acuticos (phylum Tardigrada) en Norteamrica, de las cuales se registraron veinte en Louisiana. Las muestras de liquen folioso y fructiculoso y de musgo que se recogieron en la ciudad de Lake Charles y en Sam Houston Jones State Park, Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana, Estados Unidos, en el ao 2011, se colocaron en sobres de papel y luego se enjuagaron con agua corriente durante la noche; posteriormente se extrajeron especmenes de tardgrados y huevos, los cuales se montaron con polivinil lactofenol, y se observ que las muestras contenan una nueva especie de tardgrados. Milnesium lagniappe sp. n. tiene frmula de garras [2-3]-[3-2] y nueve bandas esculpidas en la cutcula dorsal y lateral. La nueva especie se parece a Milnesium reticuhtum, una especie que slo se ha registrado en las Islas Seychelles , en su patrn cuticular, pero tiene el doble de tamao, carece de jorobas, tiene un tubo bucal proporcionalmente ms ancho, garras ms largas y el punto de insercin del estilete se encuentra ms atrs. La reevaluacin de los tardgrados del centro de Florida, Estados Unidos, que se indic anteriormente como M. tardigradum, muestra que, de hecho, son M. lagniappe sp. n.
42003976|Seasonal succession and interannual variation of modern diatom populations in Fallen Leaf Lake, Sierra Nevada, California, are characterized and discussed in relation to stratification, water quality, and inflow during spring runoff. Fallen Leaf Lake is a deep, transparent subalpine lake that undergoes a 56 month period of stratification and develops a deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) dominated by diatoms. A seasonal succession was observed, where the early spring was dominated by Asterionella formosa, Fragilaria tenera-group (F. tenera and F. nanana), Tabellaria flocculosa strain IIIp, Aulacoseira subarctica, and Urosolenia eriensis. Asterionella formosa and T. flocculosa strain IIIp persisted into the summer, becoming dominant components of the DCM. In late summer, Cyclotella rossii succeeded the araphids in the DCM and persisted until deep mixing in the late fall. In winter, the lake is ice free and well mixed, and Au. subarctica was abundant in surface waters, along with Nitzschia and the other components of the spring bloom. Strong species partitioning occurred between the epilimnion and hypolimnion, and Handmannia bodanica was the dominant summer epilimnetic diatom in all years. During a 3-year period, we observed interannual variation in the species of dominant phytoplankton. These years also varied in the depth and development of stratification, development of snowpack in the watershed, and timing of spring melt. The maximum depth of the epilimnion ranged from 12.5 to 17.5 m, and the DCM varied from 30 to 40 m deep. The weakest epilimnetic development was associated with 2011, a year with unusually deep snowpack, wintery spring conditions, and late melting. During 2011, Fragilaria tenera-group dominated the phytoplankton, and water clarity was low. A considerable portion of dead lotie diatoms were suspended in the water column, washed in from higher in the watershed during spring runoff. The lotic fraction is a significant portion of surface sediments and may be a useful proxy for identifying past changes in inflow. In addition, ratios of H. bodanica and C. rossii are explored as a possible proxy for strength in stratification. Collectively, these data provide a solid picture of the seasonal and interannual dynamics of the modern lake system, an essential step in evaluating the climate potential of the diatom record, which is currently being analyzed from lake cores. La sucesin estacional y la variacin interanual de las poblaciones modernas de diatomeas en Fallen Leaf Lake, Sierra Nevada, California, se describen y caracterizan en relacin a la estratificacin, la calidad del agua y la afluencia durante la escorrenta de primavera. Fallen Leaf Lake es un lago profundo, subalpino y transparente que pasa por un perodo de estratificacin de entre 5 y 6 meses, y desarrolla un mximo profundo de clorofila (DCM) en el que predominan las diatomeas. Se observ una sucesin estacional en donde durante la primera etapa de la primavera predomin la especie Asterionella formosa, el grupo Fraguaria tenera (F. tenera y F. nanana), Tabellaria floceulosa de la variedad strain IIIp, Aulacoseira subarctica y Urosolenia eriensis. Asterionella formosa y T. floceulosa de la variedad strain IIIp permanecieron durante el verano y fueron los componentes principales del DCM. En la ltima etapa del verano, Cychtella rossii reemplaz a araphids en el DCM y persisti hasta la dilucin en aguas profundas al finalizar el otoo. En el invierno, el lago no tiene hielo y la dilucin es completa, se encontr gran abundancia de Au. subarctica en las aguas superficiales, junto con Nitzschia y los dems componentes caractersticos del inicio de la primavera. La divisin ms desarrollada de especies se produjo entre el epilimnion (parte superior ms clida) y el hypolimnion (parte ms fra), y Handmannia bodanica fue la diatomea predominante del verano en el epilimnion en todos los aos. Durante un perodo de tres aos, observamos la variacin interanual en la especie del fitoplancton predominante. A lo largo de estos aos tambin variaron la profundidad y el desarrollo de la estratificacin, la acumulacin de nieve en la cuenca y el momento del deshielo en primavera. Se observ que la mxima profundidad del epilimnion oscilaba entre 12.5 y 17.5 m, y el DCM vari entre 30 y 40 m. de profundidad. El desarrollo ms dbil del epilimnion se registr en el ao 2011, cuando se produjeron fenmenos poco habituales: gran acumulacin de nieve, temperatura invernal en primavera y deshielo tardo. Durante el 2011, el grupo Fraguara tenera predomin en el fitoplancton y el agua se enturbi. Se encontr una cantidad considerable de diatomeas de agua dulce muertas suspendidas en la columna de agua, provenientes de la cuenca durante la escorrenta de primavera. La fraccin ltica de agua es una cantidad significativa de sedimentos que se acumulan en la superficie y puede ser un indicador til para identificar cambios anteriores en la afluencia de agua. Adems, se estudi la relacin entre H. bodanica y C. rossii como un posible indicador de la fuerza de estratifcacin. En trminos generales, se puede decir que esta informacin brinda una idea clara de la dinmica estacional e interanual del sistema moderno de lagos, lo cual es un paso fundamental para evaluar el potencial del clima para el registro de diatomeas, que en la actualidad, se est analizando a travs de material extrado del ncleo del lago.
42003977|Big Spring spinedace (Lepidomeda mollispinis pratensis) is a cyprinid whose entire population occurs within a section of Meadow Valley Wash, Nevada. Other spinedace species have suffered population and range declines (one species is extinct). Managers, concerned about the vulnerability of Big Spring spinedace, have considered habitat restoration actions or translocation, but they have lacked data on distribution or habitat use. Our study occurred in an 8.2-km section of Meadow Valley Wash, including about 7.2 km in Condor Canyon and 0.8 km upstream of the canyon. Big Spring spinedace were present upstream of the currently listed critical habitat, including in the tributary Kill Wash. We found no Big Spring spinedace in the lower 3.3 km of Condor Canyon. We tagged Big Spring spinedace 70 mm fork length (range 70103 mm) with passive integrated transponder tags during October 2008 (n = 100) and March 2009 (n = 103) to document movement. At least 47 of these individuals moved from their release location (up to 2 km). Thirty-nine individuals moved to Kill Wash or the confluence area with Meadow Valley Wash. Ninety-three percent of movement occurred in spring 2009. Fish moved both upstream and downstream. We found no movement downstream over a small waterfall at river km 7.9 and recorded only one fish that moved downstream over Delmue Falls (a 12-m drop) at river km 6.1. At the time of tagging, there was no significant difference in fork length or condition between Big Spring Spinedace that were later detected moving and those not detected moving. We found no significant difference in fork length or condition at time of tagging of Big Spring spinedace 70 mm fork length that were detected moving and those not detected moving. Kill Wash and its confluence area appeared important to Big Spring spinedace; connectivity with these areas may be key to species persistence. These areas may provide a habitat template for restoration or translocation. The lower 3.3 km of Meadow Valley Wash in Condor Canyon may be a good candidate section for habitat restoration actions. El pez Big Spring spinedace (Lepidomeda mollispinis pratensis) es un ciprnido cuya poblacin completa se encuentra en una seccin del arroyo Meadow Valley Wash, Nevada. Otras especies de spinedace han sufrido una disminucin en la poblacin y en el rea (una de las especies se encuentra en extincin). Si bien los directores de los espacios de conservacin del hbitat, que estaban preocupados por la posible extincin de Big Spring spinedace, se propusieron poner en prctica obras de restauracin del hbitat y de traslado, no contaron con la suficiente informacin sobre la distribucin o la utilizacin del habitat. Nuestro estudio se realiz en una seccin de Meadow Valley Wash que tiene una longitud de 8.2 km, incluyendo aproximadamente 7.2 km en Condor Canyon y 0.8 km a contracorriente del barranco. Se encontr Big Spring spinedace a contracorriente del hbitat que se considera crtico, y en el afluente Kill Wash. No encontramos Big Spring spinedace en la parte baja de 3.3 km de Condor Canyon. Realizamos el marcado de Big Spring spinedace con un largo de horquila de 70 mm (rango 70103 mm) con Transmisores Integrados Pasivos durante octubre del ao 2008 (n = 100) y marzo del ao 2009 (n = 103) para documentar los patrones de movimiento. Por lo menos 47 de estos individuos se trasladaron desde el lugar de donde partieron (hasta 2 km) a otros lugares. Treinta y nueve individuos se trasladaron a Kill Wash o al rea de confluencia con Meadow Valley Wash. El 93% del movimiento se observ durante la primavera del ao 2009. Los peces se trasladaron en las dos direcciones, contra la corriente y ro abajo. No observamos movimiento ro abajo en una pequea catarata en un trayecto de 7.9 kilmetros de ro y registramos que slo un pez se traslad ro abajo a lo largo de Delmue Falls (con una cada de 12 m) en un trayecto de 6.1 kilmetros de ro. No observamos diferencias significativas en el largo de horquila o las condiciones en el momento de realizar el marcado de los Big Spring spinedace de 70 mm de distancia focal o de mayor tamao que se detectaron en movimiento y los que no se detectaron en movimiento. Kill Wash y su rea de confluencia parecen ser factores importantes para el Big Spring spinedace, y, por lo tanto, es posible que la conectividad con estas reas sea clave para la persistencia de las especies. Estas reas representan un ejemplo de habitat propicio para la restauracin o el traslado. La parte baja de 3.3 km de Meadow Valley Wash en Condor Canyon puede ser un rea apropiado para realizar acciones de restauracin del hbitat.
42003978|The aim of this research was to determine whether permanent and nonpermanent plots for describing riparian plant communities would yield the same results. This research was conducted at 4 streams in central eastern Idaho. Permanent and nonpermanent greenline plots (first perennial vegetation adjacent to stream) were sampled repeatedly from June to October 2010, and we assessed differences between plot types by comparing species richness, wetland indicator rating, and percent cover of live vegetation, forbs, graminoids, litter/moss, and bare ground. We found few statistically significant differences between permanent and nonpermanent greenline plots. Because both types of plots yielded similar results, we suggest that nonpermanent plots are a better choice for riparian monitoring because they are defined by their spatial relationship to the stream, rendering a permanent marker unnecessary, and they are also less labor intensive. El objetivo de esta investigacin fue determinar si se obtienen los mismos resultados al describir las comunidades de plantas ribereas en los terrenos permanentes y en no permanentes. Esta investigacin se realiz en cuatro arroyos ubicados en la zona central este de Idaho. Se tomaron muestras repetidas de los terrenos verdes (primeras plantas perennes adyacentes al arroyo) permanentes y no permanentes entre junio y octubre del 2010, y analizamos las diferencias entre los tipos de terreno comparando la riqueza de especies, la clasificacin del indicador de humedales, la cantidad de vegetacin viva, las pasturas, las gramneas, los desechos, el musgo y el suelo descubierto. Encontramos pocas diferencias significativas desde el punto de vista estadstico, entre los terrenos verdes permanentes y no permanentes. Como los dos tipos de terreno mostraron resultados similares, consideramos que los terrenos no permanentes son ms indicados para el monitoreo ribereo porque se definen por su relacin espacial con el arroyo, lo cual hace que no sea necesario colocar un indicador permanente, y, adems, requieren menos trabajo.
42003979|Development for wind energy is increasing rapidly across the United States, particularly in Wyoming, despite a general lack of information on the potential interaction development could have on wildlife species. Therefore, knowledge of the space use and movement patterns of individuals can help define spatial distributions and management unit boundaries for populations prior to development. Such knowledge can also be used as baseline data from which to assess any future impacts on animal populations. We investigated the spatial ecology of female mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus; n = 18) equipped with global positioning system collars from 23 February 2011 to 15 January 2012 in an area along the Wyoming-Colorado border that has been proposed for wind energy development. The objectives of this study were to collect predevelopment baseline estimates of annual and seasonal home-range and core area size and fidelity, movement between seasonal ranges, changes in the use of elevation, and movement patterns at 2 temporal resolutions (i.e., within-season diel patterns and year-round diurnal and nocturnal movements by week). Annual size of home ranges averaged 2495 ha (SE = 121), whereas size of core areas averaged 310 ha (SE = 30). Seasonal site fidelity was substantial (81.1%, SE = 5.7) between successive cool-season ranges. Migration distances between cool-and warm-season home ranges were minimal (spring migration = 1319 m; autumn migration = 1342 m). Deer exhibited crepuscular movement patterns (peaks near 06: 00 and 18: 00) during the warm season but showed a diurnal movement pattern during the cool season (peak from 06: 00 to 15: 00). Partuition influenced movement during the warm season; movement was much reduced during a period from mid-June to mid-July. Deer in this population appear to be year-round residents that exhibit strong seasonal and annual fidelity to previously established ranges and modify movement patterns in relation to general changes in environmental conditions (e.g., snow). These findings can be used to define seasonally important ranges and formulate boundaries and sizes of game management units. Understanding fine-scale temporal movement allows the development of strategies that could minimize disturbance to deer while allowing for development or recreation. El desarrollo de la energa elica est creciendo con rapidez en los Estados Unidos, particularmente en Wyoming, a pesar de que no hay mucha informacin sobre la influencia que este desarrollo podra tener sobre las especies de vida silvestre. Por lo tanto, el conocer el uso del espacio y los patrones de movimiento de los individuos, puede ayudar a definir la distribucin espacial y los lmites de las reas de las poblaciones antes del desarrollo, y servirn como informacin de referencia para evaluar el futuro impacto sobre las poblaciones animales. Investigamos la ecologa espacial del venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus; n = 18) con un sistema de rastreo de posicionamiento global, desde el 23 de febrero del 2011 hasta el 15 de enero del 2012 en un rea de la frontera de Wyoming-Colorado que se sugiri como candidata para desarrollar energa elica. Los objetivos de este estudio fueron obtener estimaciones de referencia previas al desarrollo, de tamao y fidelidad del mbito hogareo y del rea central anual y estacional, el movimiento en las distintas reas por estacin, los cambios en el uso de la elevacin y los patrones de movimiento en dos resoluciones temporales (es decir, patrones diarios dentro de la misma estacin y movimientos diurnos y nocturnos de cada semana durante todo el ao). El tamao anual del mbito hogareo tuvo un promedio de 2495 ha (SE = 121) y el tamao de las reas centrales tuvo un promedio de 310 ha (SE = 30). La fidelidad al lugar segn la estacin fue significativa (81.1%, SE = 5.7) entre las reas durante las estaciones de clima fresco. Las distancias de migracin entre los mbitos hogareos en las estaciones clidas fueron mnimas (migracin en primavera = 1319 m; migracin en otoo = 1342 m). El venado exhibi patrones de movimiento crepuscular (con puntos mximos entre 6: 00 y 18: 00 hrs.) durante la estacin clida, pero exhibi un patrn de movimiento diurno durante la estacin de clima fresco (con puntos mximos entre 6: 00 y 15: 00 hrs.). El alumbramiento tuvo una influencia adicional en el movimiento; se redujo de manera significativa entre mediados de junio y mediados de julio. Esta poblacin de venado parece ser residente permanente y mostr una gran fidelidad estacional y anual en reas ya establecidas, y modific sus patrones de movimiento en relacin con los cambios generales de las condiciones ambientales (por ejemplo, la nieve). Estos hallazgos se pueden utilizar para definir reas importantes segn la estacin y para establecer los lmites y los tamaos de las reas de caza. El comprender el movimiento temporal en detalle permite desarrollar estrategias para no alterar la vida del venado bura y al mismo tiempo permitir el desarrollo y el esparcimiento.
42003980|Reintroductions and translocations of northern river otters have been a common management practice throughout the United States from the 1970s to the 2000s. Though many reintroductions have been successful, populations are not always monitored or evaluated post-release. From 2009 through 2012, we translocated 27 radio-marked otters into the Provo River watershed in northern Utah. Our objective was to determine what factors influenced the translocation-related mortality of otters. We developed a series of a priori models and used logistic regression to determine the most influential factors. We used Akaikes information criterion to evaluate relative model support. We found that the univariate model including body mass bore the most model weight and that body mass was the most important factor influencing the initial survival of translocated otters. Model-averaged  estimates indicated that otters at the high end of body mass were 4 times more likely to survive the translocation than otters at the low end of body mass. Sex was the next most important factor influencing survival, as odds ratios indicated that males were more likely to survive the translocation than females. We urge ecologists and managers to delay the trapping and translocating of otters until young-of-the-year are likely large enough to have a high probability of survival. We further recommend female-biased translocations, as females were less likely to survive translocations. La reintroduccin y traslocacin de las nutrias de ro del norte fueron comunes en todo Estados Unidos desde los aos setenta hasta la dcada del 2000. Si bien muchas prcticas de reintroduccin fueron exitosas, no siempre se monitorea y/o evala a las poblaciones despus de liberarlas. Entre el ao 2009 y el ao 2012, realizamos la traslocacin de 27 nutrias de un determinado radio a la lnea divisoria del Ro Provo al norte de Utah. Nuestro objetivo fue determinar qu factores influyeronn en la mortalidad de las nutrias a causa del traslado. Desarrollamos una serie de modelos a priori y utilizamos la regresin logstica para determinar qu factores tuvieron ms influencia. Utilizamos el criterio de informacin de Akaike para evaluar el apoyo relativo del modelo y descubrimos que el modelo univariable que inclua la masa corporal registraba el peso mximo del modelo, y que la masa corporal fue el factor ms importante que influy en la supervivencia inicial de las nutrias a las que se haba sometido a la traslocacin. Las estimaciones  promedio del modelo indicaron que las nutrias que se encontraban en el extremo ms alto de los indicadores de masa corporal tenan cuatro veces ms probabilidades de sobrevivir al traslado que las nutrias que se encontraban en el extremo ms bajo. El sexo fue el siguiente factor ms importante que influy en la supervivencia, los ndices de probabilidad indicaron que los machos tenan ms probabilidades de sobrevivir el traslado que las hembras. Solicitamos a los ecologistas y a los encargados de cuidar el medioambiente que posterguen la colocacin de trampas y el traslado de nutrias hasta que los juveniles sean lo suficientemente grandes como para tener una mayor probabilidad de supervivencia. Adems, recomendamos no trasladar hembras, las cuales mostraron menos probabilidades de sobrevivir a las traslocaciones.
42003981|I tested 3 hair-collection devices used for population surveys of ringtails (Bassariscus astutus): PVC pipes, modified cage traps, and triangular Coroplast tunnels. Coroplast tunnels were the most efficient, with hair obtained by 92% of tunnels tested on radio-collared ringtails. I used the tunnels to survey ringtails on the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in central New Mexico. Probability of detection in areas where ringtails were present was 74% (95% CI 0.56-0.86). Population density was estimated to be 0.17-0.33 ringtails  km and occupancy () by ringtails was 0.56 (95% CI 0.35-0.75). Examin tres dispositivos para colectar muestras de pelo que se utilizan en los monitoreos de poblaciones del Cacomixtle Norteo (Bassariscus astutus): tubos de PVC, trampas-jaula modificadas y tneles triangulares de Coroplast  para roedores. Los tneles de coroplast fueron los ms eficientes, ya que se obtuvo pelo en el 92% de los tneles que se examinaron donde se registr la presencia de Cacomixtle Norteo con radio-collares. Utilic los tneles para monitorear a los cacomixtles norteos en Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge, en la parte central de Nuevo Mxico. La probabilidad de deteccin en las reas donde se registr la presencia de Cacomixtle Norteo fue 74% (95% I. C. 0.56 a 0.86). La densidad de la poblacin se estim entre 0.17 y 0.33 Cacomixtle Norteo/km y la ocupacin () fue del 0.56 (95% I. C. 0.35 a 0.75).
42003982|Astragalus (Fabaceae) is a broadly distributed, diverse, and economically important group of plants. Given the number of species and its distribution, it is not surprising that there are many species that are highly restricted and endangered. Among these is the Ash Meadows milkvetch, Astragalus phoenix. Here we investigate the breeding biology of As. phoenix. Our data show that As. phoenix is xenogamous and that Anthophora porterae (Hymenoptera: Apidae) is the most likely pollinator. We also noticed Apis mellifera visiting As. phoenix, though it appears unlikely that Ap. mellifera contributes significantly to the reproductive success of As. phoenix. We located a nesting aggregation of An. porterae and offer a description of its nest architecture. Astragalus (Fabaceae) es un grupo de plantas con amplia distribucin, muy diverso y de gran importancia econmica. Debido a la cantidad de especies y a su distribucin, no es sorprendente que muchas especies estn restringidas y en peligro de extincin. Entre dichas especies se encuentran Astragalus phoenix, cuya reproduccin estudiamos en esta investigacin. La informacin que obtuvimos muestra que As. phoenix es una especie algama y que lo ms probable es que Anthophora porterae (Hymenoptera: Apidae) sea el polinizados Observamos que Apis mellifera visit a As. phoenix, aunque parece poco probable que contribuya significativamente al xito reproductivo de As. phoenix. Localizamos un conjunto de nidos de An. porterae, y ofrecemos una descripcin de la estructura de sus nidos.
42003983|We report the first records of the eastern fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) in Trans-Pecos Texas. Sciurus niger is widely established in pecan orchards in the Lower El Paso Valley of the Rio Grande, El Paso County. Expansion of this population to other pecan-growing regions along the Rio Grande in New Mexico is possible. Research is needed on both the extent of damage caused by S. niger to pecan production and the control methods in this situation. We recommend a goal of complete eradication of S. niger from this region. Sciurus niger should be delisted as a game species in El Paso County, Texas, and throughout New Mexico, where there are no native populations of the species. Estamos reportando los primeros records de la prescencia de la ardilla eastern fox (Sciurus niger) en el area de Trans-Pecos Texas. Sciurus niger se encuentra ampliamente establecida en las huertas de nogal en el Valle Bajo del Rio Grande en el Condado de El Paso, Texas. La expansion de esta poblacin de S. niger es posible a otras regiones productoras de nogal a lo largo de el Rio Grande en el estado de Nuevo Mexico. Es necesario investigar la extensin de el dao causado por S. niger en la produccin de nogal, asi como tambin los posibles mtodos de control. Recomendamos como meta final la completa erradicacin de S. niger de esta regin. Sciurus niger debe ser eliminada de la lista de especies de caza en el condado de El Paso, Texas, y a lo largo de el Estado de Nuevo Mexico donde no existen poblaciones nativas de esta especie.
42003984|Between 27 June 1997 and 16 May 1999, 423 rodents were collected from North Texas (Collin, Denton, and Grayson counties) by using Sherman live-traps (trapping success rate ~22%). Of the 423 rodents collected, 328 were tested for evidence of IgG antibodies to New World hantaviruses. Hantavirus antibodies were detected in 34 individuals (~10%). This is the first record of hantavirus antibody-positive rodents from the highly urbanized area of North Texas. Entre el 27 de Junio 1997 y el 16 de Mayo 1999, 423 roedores fueron colectados usando trampas Sherman de capturas en vivo (xito de captura ~22%) en el Norte de Texas (condados Collin, Dentn, y Grayson). De los 423 roedores colectados, 328 roedores fueron puestos a prueba para evidenciar la presencia de anticuerpos IgG de Hantavirus del Nuevo Mundo. Los anticuerpos de Hantavirus fueron detectados en 34 individuos (~10%). Este es el primer registro de roedores con anticuerpo-positivo para Hantavirus de un rea altamente urbanizada en el norte de Texas.
42003985|As presently recognized, the snake genus Chersodromus (Colubridae) is composed of 2 species, C. liebmanni and C. rubriventris, both of which are endemic to eastern Mexico. Distribution of the genus is largely restricted to the states of Veracruz and Oaxaca and broadly corresponds to the south of the Sierra Madre Oriental and the eastern portion of the Transvolcanic Belt. Chersodromus liebmanni is the more common species of the genus and is distributed in the foothills of several localities in central Veracruz and northern Oaxaca. However, C. rubriventris is restricted to only a few small localities in San Luis Potosi and now the state of Hidalgo. Both species appear to be restricted to montane forest communities, including pine-oak, cloud forest, and tropical forest habitats. Tal como se ha observado, el gnero Chersodromus (Colubridae) se compone de dos especies, C. liebmanni y C. rubriventris, las cuales son endmicas al este de Mxico. La distribucin del gnero se restringe a los estados de Veracruz y Oaxaca, que en trminos generales corresponden al sur de la Sierra Madre Oriental, y la porcin este del Eje Volcnico Transmexicano. Chersodromus liebmanni es la especie ms comn del gnero, y se distribuye en las pendientes de varias localidades del centro de Veracruz y norte de Oaxaca. Sin embargo, C. rubriventris est restringida a pequeas localidades en San Luis Potos y ahora en el estado de Hidalgo. Ambas especies parecen estar restringidas a comunidades de bosques de montaa, incluyendo bosque de pino-encino, bosque de niebla, y habitats de selva tropical.
42003986|The pocket mouse from the southern Baja California peninsula, Chaetodipus dalquesti, is synonymized to Chaetodipus ammophilus, following the Principle of Priority of the Code of Zoological Nomenclature, because C. ammophilus was described before C. dalquesti. The subspecies are reassigned. La especie de ratn de abazones del sur de la Pennsula de Baja California, Chaetodipus dalquesti, es sinonimizada a Chaetodipus ammophilus por el Principio de Prioridad, segn el Cdigo de Nomenclatura Zoolgica vigente, ya que C. ammophilus fue descrita con anterioridad que C. dalquesti. Se reasigna la nomenclatura correcta para las subespecies.
24644073|The Dusky Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus saturatus) of the Pacific Northwest region of North America is generally considered to be nonmigratory. Here we report a specimen of a Dusky Great Horned Owl that was salvaged in New Mexico and identified based on comparison of its plumage with a large series of museum skins. We attempted to corroborate this identification by comparing mitochondrial DNA sequences between the specimen and a representative sample of 5 Great Horned Owl subspecies from western North America. This analysis revealed minimal mitochondrial genetic variation and no evidence of population genetic structure, suggesting that the marked plumage differences among subspecies evolved since the late Pleistocene. To evaluate the possibility that the salvaged specimen was transported after death, we analyzed its stomach contents. The stomach contained remains of a desert cottontail (Sylvilagus audubonii), a locally abundant rabbit species in central New Mexico. The mitochondrial haplotype of the rabbit was novel but closely related to haplotypes found in New Mexico and west Texas. This is the first report of long distance movement in the Pacific Northwest subspecies of Great Horned Owl, though we cannot rule out the possibility of anomalous melanism. Although there is tremendous potential for forensic-style phylogeographic investigation of animal movements, this study illustrates that sequence databases are not yet adequate to the task, even for common North American vertebrate species. Por lo general, se considera que el Bho Americano (Bubo virginianus saturatus) de la regin Noroeste del Pacfico de Norteamrica no tiene hbitos migratorios. En este estudio nos referiremos a un espcimen de Bho Americano que se rescat en Nuevo Mxico y se identific de acuerdo con comparaciones del plumaje con una gran cantidad de pieles. Intentamos corroborar esta identificacin comparando secuencias de ADN mitocondrial del espcimen con una muestra representativa de cinco subespecies del Bho Americano del oeste de Norteamrica. Este anlisis revel una variacin mitocondrial gentica mnima y ninguna evidencia de estructura gentica de la poblacin, lo cual indica que las marcadas diferencias del plumaje entre subespecies se han ido desarrollando desde el final del Pleistoceno. Para evaluar la posibilidad de que el espcimen que se rescat haya sido transportado despus de su muerte, analizamos el contenido del estmago, en el cual se hall una especie de conejo que abundaba en la zona, en el centro de Nuevo Mxico, llamado conejo del desierto (Sylvilagus audubonii). El haplotipo mitocondrial del conejo era nuevo, pero se relacionaba estrechamente con los haplotipos que se encuentran en Nuevo Mxico y en el oeste de Texas. Este es el primer informe de migracin a larga distancia de las subespecies del Bho Americano del noroeste del Pacfico, sin embargo existe la posibilidad de melanismo anmalo. Existen grandes posibilidades de realizar investigaciones filogeogrficas de estilo forense sobre la migracin de los animales, este estudio demuestra que las bases de datos de las secuencias no son suficientes para realizar esa tarea, inclusive en los casos de especies comunes de vertebrados de Norteamrica.
24644074|Subalpine meadows are some of the most ecologically important components of mountain landscapes, and primary productivity is important to the maintenance of meadow functions. Understanding how changes in primary productivity are associated with variability in moisture and temperature will become increasingly important with current and anticipated changes in climate. Our objective was to describe patterns and variability in aboveground live vascular plant biomass in relation to climatic factors. We harvested aboveground biomass at peak growth from four 64-m2 plots each in xeric, mesic, and hydric meadows annually from 1994 to 2000. Data from nearby weather stations provided independent variables of spring snow water content, snow-free date, and thawing degree days for a cumulative index of available energy. We assembled these climatic variables into a set of mixed effects analysis of covariance models to evaluate their relationships with annual aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP), and we used an information theoretic approach to compare the quality of fit among candidate models. ANPP in the xeric meadow was negatively related to snow water content and thawing degree days and in the mesic meadow was negatively related to snow water content. Relationships between ANPP and these 2 covariates in the hydric meadow were not significant. Increasing snow water content may limit ANPP in these meadows if anaerobic conditions delay microbial activity and nutrient availability. Increased thawing degree days may limit ANPP in xeric meadows by prematurely depleting soil moisture. Large within-year variation of ANPP in the hydric meadow limited sensitivity to the climatic variables. These relationships suggest that, under projected warmer and drier conditions, ANPP will increase in mesic meadows but remain unchanged in xeric meadows because declines associated with increased temperatures would offset the increases from decreased snow water content. Las praderas subalpinas son algunos de los componentes de mayor importancia ecolgica de los paisajes de montaa, y la productividad primaria es importante para mantener las funciones de la pradera. El comprender de qu manera se asocian los cambios de la productividad primaria con la variabilidad de la humedad y la temperatura ser cada vez ms importante por los cambios climticos actuales y los que se pronostican. Nuestro objetivo fue describir los patrones de biomasa de las plantas vasculares vivas sobre el nivel de la tierra y su variabilidad en relacin con los factores climticos. Extrajimos biomasa sobre el nivel de la tierra, en su punto mximo de crecimiento, de cuatro terrenos de 64 m2 cada uno, de praderas ridas, secas y hmedas, anualmente, entre el ao 1994 y el ao 2000. Las estaciones meteorolgicas cercanas proporcionaron informacin sobre las variables independientes del contenido de agua proveniente de la nieve de primavera, las pocas sin nieve y el grado de deshielo por da para un ndice acumulativo de energa disponible. Reunimos estas variables climticas en un anlisis de covarianza de efectos mixtos para evaluar sus relaciones con la productividad primaria neta anual sobre el nivel de la tierra (ANPP = annual net primary productivity), y utilizamos un enfoque terico de la informacin para evaluar cul de los modelos candidatos se ajusta mejor. La ANPP de la pradera rida se relacion con el contenido de agua de nieve y el grado por da de descongelamiento de manera negativa. En la pradera seca, la ANPP se relacion con el contenido de agua de nieve de manera negativa. Las relaciones entre la ANPP y estas dos covariables no fueron significativas en la pradera hmeda. El incremento del contenido de agua de nieve puede restringir la ANPP en estas praderas si las condiciones anaerbicas hacen que se deteriore la actividad microbiana y la disponibilidad de nutrientes. El incremento del grado por da de descongelamiento puede limitar la ANPP en las praderas ridas haciendo que la humedad del suelo disminuya de manera prematura. La gran variacin de la ANPP en la pradera hmeda en el transcurso del ao restringi la sensibilidad a las variables climticas. Estas relaciones sugieren que, bajo las condiciones ms clidas y ms secas que se pronostican, la ANPP se incrementar en las praderas secas, pero se mantendr sin cambios en las praderas ridas porque las disminuciones asociadas con el aumento de la temperatura compensaran el contenido de agua de nieve que registr una disminucin.
24644075|Research indicates that low nest success and juvenile survival may be factors contributing to Greater Sage-Grouse population declines. Recent technological advances in microtransmitters have allowed researchers to monitor individual chicks and broods. We initiated a chick survival study in 2006 and used microtransmitters to (1) examine the viability of using microtransmitters on chicks to assess survival, including the effect of handling time during the suturing process; (2) estimate overall chick survival; and (3) compare chick survival in the Strawberry Valley population to other published reports. We used a known-fate model in program MARK to estimate  (overdispersion), weekly survival rates, and 49-day survival of radio-marked chicks. Chick survival rates were lowest during the initial 3 weeks of life, after which point weekly survival stabilized. Survival over 49 days was estimated at 0.25 (SE 0.10) and was comparable to estimates from other populations. Handling time was negatively associated with chick survival, and chicks were 2 times more likely to survive to 49 days when handled for only 5 minutes instead of 19 minutes. We recommend that researchers be judicious in using microtransmitters and make every effort to reduce handling time during transmitter attachment. Las investigaciones indican que el bajo xito de anidacin y la supervivencia juvenil del gallo de salvia pueden ser factores que contribuyen a la disminucin de las poblaciones. Los recientes avances tecnolgicos en microtransmisores permiten a los investigadores monitorear individualmente a los polluelos y a las nidadas. Iniciamos un estudio de supervivencia de polluelos en el ao 2006 utilizando microtransmisores con el fin de (1) examinar si se pueden utilizar microtransmisores en polluclos para evaluar la supervivencia, incluyendo el efecto del tiempo de manipulacin durante el proceso de sutura; (2) estimar la supervivencia general de los polluelos; y (3) comparar la supervivencia de los polluelos en la poblacin de Strawberry Valley contra informes ya publicados. Utilizamos un modelo de destino conocido en el programa MARK para estimar  (sobredispersin), los ndices de supervivencia semanal y la supervivencia de 49 das de los polluelos marcados. Los ndices ms bajos de supervivencia de los polluelos fueron durante las primeras tres semanas de vida, en este punto, el ndice de supervivencia semanal se estabiliz. La supervivencia de los 49 das se estim en 0.25 (SE 0.10) y fue comparable con las estimaciones de otras poblaciones. El tiempo de manipulacin se asoci de manera negativa con la supervivencia de los polluelos, los cuales tuvieron el doble de probabilidades de sobrevivir a los 49 das cuando se los manipul durante slo 5 minutos, en lugar de 19 minutos. Recomendamos a los investigadores que sean cautos al tomar la decisin de utilizar microtransmisores, y que, si lo hacen, intenten reducir el tiempo de manipulacin.
24644076|Interactions among seeds, mediated by granivorous rodents, are likely to play a strong role in shrubsteppe ecosystem restoration. Past studies typically consider only pairwise interactions between preferred and less preferred seed species, whereas rangeland seedings are likely to contain more than 2 seed species, potentially leading to complex interactions. We examined how the relative proportion of seeds in a 3-species polyculture changes rodent seed selectivity (i.e., removal) and indirect interactions among seeds. We presented 2 rodent species, Peromyscus maniculatus (deer mice) and Perognathus parvus (pocket mice), in arenas with 3-species seed mixtures that varied in the proportion of a highly preferred, moderately preferred, and least preferred seed species, based on preferences determined in this study. We then conducted a field experiment in a pocket mousedominated ecosystem with the same 3-species seed mixtures in both "treated" (reduced shrub and increased forb cover) and "untreated" shrubsteppe. In the arena experiment, we found that rodents removed more of the highly preferred seed when the proportions of all 3 seeds were equal. Moderately preferred seeds experienced increased removal when the least preferred seed was in highest proportion. Removal of the least preferred seed increased when the highly preferred seed was in highest proportion. In the field experiment, results were similar to those from the arena experiment and did not differ between treated and untreated shrubsteppe areas. Though our results suggest that 3-species mixtures induce complex interactions among seeds, managers applying these results to restoration efforts should carefully consider the rodent community present and the potential fate of removed seeds. Las interacciones entre las semillas mediadas por roedores granvoros, podran tener una gran influencia en la restauracin del ecosistema de las estepas de arbustos. Estudios anteriores slo consideran las interacciones en pares entre las especies de semillas preferidas y las especies de semillas menos preferidas, mientras que las siembras de pastizales pueden contener ms de dos especies de semillas, lo cual generara interacciones ms complejas. Examinamos de qu manera la proporcin relativa de semillas, en un policultivo de tres especies, modifica la selectividad de semillas de los roedores (lo cual equivale a eliminacin) y las interacciones indirectas entre semillas. Presentamos dos especies de roedores, Peromyscus maniculatus (ratn ciervo) y Perognathus parvus (ratn de abazones), en reas con mezclas de tres especies de semillas que variaban en la proporcin de una especie de mxima, moderada o baja preferencia, segn las preferencias que se determinaron en este estudio. Luego realizamos un experimento de campo en un ecosistema con predominancia de ratones de abazones con las mismas mezclas de semillas de tres especies, en estepas de arbustos "modificadas" (cantidad reducida de arbustos y mayor cantidad de cobertura de hierba de grandes hojas) y en estepas de arbustos "no modificadas." En la arena experimental, encontramos que los roedores eliminaron ms semillas de alto grado de preferencia, cuando la proporcin de los tres tipos de semillas era igual. Las semillas de preferencia moderada se eliminaron en mayor cantidad, y hubo una proporcin mayor de semillas de baja calidad. La eliminacin de las semillas de menor grado de preferencia se increment, y se registr una mayor proporcin de semillas de alta calidad. Los resultados del experimento de campo fueron similares a los de la arena experimental y no se registraron diferencias entre las estepas de arbustos modificadas y las estepas de arbustos no modificadas. Los resultados indican que las mezclas de tres especies de semillas generan interacciones complejas entre las semillas, cuando se aplican estos resultados a los intentos de restauracin, se deben tomar precauciones al considerar la comunidad de roedores existente y el destino posible de las semillas eliminadas.
24644077|Understanding anthropogenic and environmental factors that influence seasonal habitat selection is critical in establishing conservation objectives for wildlife populations. However, many resource selection studies provide inferences only for single seasons, potentially masking factors essential to populations during other times of the year. Our objective was to model elk (Cervus elaphus) habitat selection for 4 seasons to identify factors influencing selection within and across seasons. Using aerial relocation data, we evaluated seasonal habitat selection for 46 radio-marked, migratory adult female elk in a 6123-km2 landscape in north central Utah, USA, from 1993 to 1997. We evaluated habitat use and availability within estimated seasonal range boundaries by using binary logistic regression to model habitat selection. Habitat use was measured as a response to predictor variables collected from analysis regions around elk locations. Habitat use was compared to habitat availability by measuring those same variables collected from randomly located analysis regions. Our results showed that roads, topography, and vegetation cover influenced elk habitat selection within and across seasons. Roads did not influence elk habitat selection in spring; rather, elk selected areas with aspen (Populus tremuloides) at higher elevations. In summer, elk selected forage-rich habitats, particularly aspen and mountain brush at higher elevations and on cooler aspects. In fall, elk selected sites with steeper slopes at higher elevations in areas with greater cover of aspen and mountain brush than was available in seasonal range boundaries. In winter, elk selected sagebrush (Artemisia spp.)-meadow cover on steeper slopes at lower elevations away from major roads. The full array of seasonal habitat selection patterns we found provides managers with greater options for setting conservation objectives for elk on a year-round basis. El comprender los factores antropognicos y ambientales que influyen en la seleccin del hbitat segn la estacin es fundamental para establecer los objetivos de conservacin de las poblaciones de vida silvestre. Muchos estudios relacionados con la seleccin de recursos slo proporcionan conclusiones para cada una de las estaciones del ao por separado, lo que puede enmascarar factores fundamentales para las poblaciones durante otras pocas del ao. Nuestro objetivo fue modelar la seleccin del hbitat del alce (Cervus elaphus) durante las cuatro estaciones para identificar los factores que influyen en la seleccin durante y a lo largo de las estaciones. Evaluamos la seleccin del hbitat, segn la estacin, de 46 hembras adultas de hbitos migratorios, en un paisaje de 6123 km2 en la zona norte central de Utah, EE. UU., entre los aos 1993 y 1997, utilizando la informacin del traslado obtenida con tomas areas. Evaluamos la utilizacin y disponibilidad del hbitat, dentro de los lmites estimados de la zona, segn la estacin utilizando el mtodo de regresin logstica para modelar la seleccin del hbitat. La utilizacin del hbitat se midi como respuesta a variables explicativas que se obtuvieron de las regiones que se analizaron en zonas donde se encontraba el alce, en comparacin con las regiones que se analizaron al azar para representar la disponibilidad del hbitat. Nuestros resultados demostraron que los caminos, la topografa y la cobertura de vegetacin influyeron en la seleccin del hbitat del alce durante y a lo largo de las estaciones. Los caminos no influyeron en la seleccin del hbitat del alce durante la primavera, en esa estacin, el alce seleccion reas en las que haba lamo tembln (Populus tremuloides) y matorrales montaosos en terrenos elevados. Durante el verano, el alce seleccion hbitats con abundancia de alimentos, en particular lamo tembln y matorrales montaosos en terrenos ms elevados y en reas ms frescas. Durante el otoo, el alce seleccion lugares con pendientes ms empinadas, en terrenos ms elevados, en zonas con mayor cobertura de lamo tembln y matorrales montaosos de la que haba en los lmites de la zona segn la estacin. Durante el invierno, el alce seleccion artemisas (especie Artemisia) que cubran las praderas en pendientes ms empinadas, en terrenos con menor elevacin, alejadas de los caminos principales. La variedad de patrones de seleccin del hbitat segn la estacin que reportamos, proporciona mejores opciones para establecer los objetivos de conservacin del alce durante todo el ao.
24644078|We describe 46 new site records documenting occupancy by American pika (Ochotona princeps) at 21 locations from 8 mountain regions in the western Great Basin, California, and Nevada. These locations comprise a subset of sites selected from regional surveys to represent marginal, isolated, or otherwise atypical pika locations, and to provide information for assessing environmental tolerance limits. Several locations are known from historic observations (Madeline Plain, Bodie Mtns., Wassuk Mtns., Mono Craters) and are included here to update current status. Site elevations range from 1848 m to 3392 m; relative to the broad range of pika sites in the region, the new locations have climates that are 24 C warmer and receive approximately half the annual precipitation. Sites are located in lava flows and domes, inselbergs (isolated, rocky exposures on a small hill), eroding bedrock, rock-glacier till, talus slopes, and anthropogenic roadbed armaments and mining ore dumps. Several sites are situated in uncommon vegetation contexts, for example, montane desert scrub communities or locations where vegetation adjacent to taluses is sparse or lacking. Proximity to surrounding pika habitats (as a measure of marginality) was evaluated based on relative talus distribution patterns for 0.5-km, 2.5-km, and 5.0-km circular areas nested around each site. Seven idealized, schematic spatial patterns were used to assess potential connectivity among sites, ranging from "island" (no other talus within the respective areas) to "even" (many talus patches regularly distributed). Applying this approach to the 21 sites demonstrated a simple method for qualitatively assessing pika habitat relative to dispersal potential and metapopulation viability and also revealed complexities of biogeographic patterns related to marginality. Describimos 46 nuevos lugares donde documentamos la presencia de Pica Americana (Ochotona princeps), en 21 lugares de ocho regiones montaosas en la parte oeste de la Gran Cuenca, California y Nevada. Estos lugares comprenden un subconjunto de sitios que se seleccionaron de investigaciones regionales para representar lugares donde se encuentra esta especie, donde son poco comunes o estn aislados, y as dar informacin con el fin de evaluar sus lmites de tolerancia ambiental. Varios lugares se conocen por observaciones histricas (Madeline Plain, Bodie Mtns, Wassuk Mtns, Mono Craters) y los incluimos para actualizar su condicin. Las elevaciones de los lugares oscilan entre 1848 m y 3392 m; en relacin con la amplia variedad de lugares donde se encuentra la pica en la regin, los nuevos lugares tienen temperaturas de 2 a 4 C ms clidas y registran aproximadamente la mitad de las precipitaciones anuales. Los lugares estn ubicados en ros y domos de lava, inselbergs (relieves aislados y rocosos sobre una pequea colina), roca madre erosionada, sedimento glacial-rocoso, taludes rocosas, armamentos en el balasto de origen humano y vertederos de desechos de minera. Varios lugares se encuentran en contextos de vegetacin poco comn, por ejemplo: comunidades de arbustos montaosos o lugares en los cuales la vegetacin contigua a los taludes es escasa o inexistente. Evaluamos la proximidad a los hbitats de pica de los alrededores (como medida de marginalidad) segn los patrones relativos de distribucin de taludes para reas circulares de 0.5 km, 2.5 km y 5.0 km ubicadas alrededor de cada lugar. Utilizamos siete patrones espaciales relativos y esquemticos para evaluar la posible conexin entre los lugares, desde "aislado" (donde no hay ningn otro talud dentro de las reas) hasta "regular" (muchas reas de taludes distribuidas de manera regular). La aplicacin de este enfoque a los 21 lugares aport un mtodo simple para evaluar de manera cuantitativa el hbitat de la pica en relacin con el potencial de dispersin y la viabilidad de la metapoblacin, y revel las complejidades de los patrones biogeogrficos relacionados con la marginalidad.
24644079|Seed-feeding beetles of the genera Acanthoscelides, Apion, and occasionally Tychius were commonly found occurring in seeds from wild populations of Astragalus filipes and Dalea ornata across rangelands of the United States Intermountain West, resulting in many new state, county, and host records. These 2 legumes, as well as other perennial herbaceous species, are being commercially farmed to produce seed supplies to rehabilitate sagebrush-steppe and adjoining juniper woodlands following wildfires. Most of the seeds examined in this study hosted one or more seed-feeding beetles; beetles that pupate and overwinter in the seeds pose the risk of being transported to storage warehouses and distributed to new seedings, unless the beetles are first detected and then controlled. Encontramos escarabajos que se alimentan de semillas de los gneros Acanthoscelides, Apion y, ocasionalmente, Tychius en semillas de poblaciones silvestres de Astragalus filipes y Dalea ornata en los pastizales de la zona montaosa del oeste de Estados Unidos, lo cual increment los registros en el estado, el condado y de nuevos huspedes. Estas dos legumbres y otras especies herbceas perennes se cultivan a nivel comercial con el fin de producir la reserva de semillas para rehabilitar las estepas de artemisa y los bosques de enebros despus de incendios forestales. La mayor parte de las semillas que examinamos en este estudio alojaron a uno o ms escarabajos; los que se transforman en pupas y pasan el invierno en las semillas corren el riesgo de ser trasladados a depsitos de almacenamiento y ser distribuidos a nuevas semillas a menos que sean detectados y controlados con anterioridad.
24644080|Aplodontia rufa (mountain beaver) is considered the sole remaining extant genus and species of an ancient lineage that once broadly inhabited the Great Basin and is now restricted to the Pacific Northwest and portions of California and Nevada. Aplodontia rufa californica in Nevada is distributed patchily at the edge of mountain beaver distribution. Due to concern over the status of these populations this subspecies is listed in Nevada as sensitive. The Nevada Department of Wildlife is concerned about the status of Aplodontia rufa californica populations scattered across areas of central western Nevada and has worked to gain an understanding of the subspecies' current distribution and numbers. Because there is a lack of a thorough genetic analysis of these populations in Nevada, this study aims to assess the evolutionary relationships and connectivity of populations within Nevada and California. Therefore, we sampled each of the 9 known localities of Aplodontia rufa in Nevada, as well as 4 sites from the type locality region of the central Sierra Nevada Mountains of California for comparison, using mitochondrial DNA for phylogenetic and network analyses. Additionally, we used microsatellite markers to assess connectivity of populations within Nevada and to proximate California populations. We found that Nevada populations share mitochondrial DNA haplotypes with California populations and therefore belong to the same subspecies. Furthermore, we found evidence of gene flow between Nevada and California populations. Within Nevada, we detected population differentiation that suggested fragmented populations with restricted connectivity. The results of this study will allow Nevada wildlife managers to develop targeted management strategies to enhance connectivity between populations where it is lacking, to protect connectivity that exists, and also to conserve habitat required by this species. This study increases our understanding of this unique and ancient rodent species at the edge of its distribution. Aplodontia rufa (castor de montaa) es considerado el nico gnero y especie an existente de un linaje antiguo que habit en la Gran Cuenca, en la actualidad, se limita al noroeste del Pacfico y a algunas partes de California y Nevada. Aplodontia rufa californica en Nevada tiene una distribucin dispersa y est en disminucin. Como el estado de estas poblaciones es preocupante, esta subespecie se encuentra entre las especies susceptibles de Nevada. Este estudio se origin debido a la falta de un anlisis gentico exhaustivo de estas poblaciones en Nevada la necesidad de comprender mejor cmo viven para desarrollar estrategias de manejo efectivas. El Departamento de Vida Silvestre (Department of Wildlife) de Nevada tiene inters en la conservacin de las poblaciones de Aplodontia rufa californica que se encuentran en las reas centro oeste de Nevada y ha intentado obtener informacin sobre su actual distribucin y cifras concretas. En este estudio, analizamos la conexin y las relaciones evolutivas de las poblaciones que se encuentran dentro de Nevada y California. Por lo tanto, tomamos muestras de cada una de las 9 reas conocidas donde se encuentra Aplodontia rufa en Nevada y de 4 lugares de la regin tipo de la parte central de las Montaas Sierra Nevada de California para compararlas utilizando ADN mitocondrial con el fin de llevar a cabo anlisis filogenticos y de relacin entre las especies. Adems, utilizamos microsatlites como marcadores para evaluar la conexin de las poblaciones dentro de Nevada y poblaciones cercanas de California. Encontramos que las poblaciones de Nevada comparten haplotipos de ADN mitocondrial con las poblaciones de California; por lo tanto, ambas pertenecen a la misma subespecie. Adems, encontramos indicios de flujo gnico entre ambas poblaciones. En Nevada detectamos que las poblaciones se diferenciaban, lo cual sugiri la existencia de poblaciones fragmentadas con conexin limitada. Los resultados de este estudio permitirn a los directores de los espacios de conservacin de vida silvestre de Nevada desarrollar estrategias de control bien enfocadas para mejorar la conexin entre las poblaciones donde la especie no est presente, proteger la conexin ya existente y conservar el hbitat que estas especies necesitan. Este estudio nos permite un mejor entendimiento de esta especie de roedores nica y antigua en el borde de su distribucin.
24644081|Foothills rough fescue (Festuca campestris) grasslands provide important foraging habitat for wildlife and livestock in the northwestern United States and southwestern Canada. Foothills rough fescue is sensitive to grazing during late springearly summer but is believed to be more tolerant of grazing during winterearly spring. We evaluated vegetation and soil impacts from long-term winterearly spring grazing at 2 intensities (HG = heavy grazing, LG = light grazing). We studied a foothills rough fescue grassland in west central Montana, USA, that had been grazed almost exclusively by Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) during winterearly spring for 58 years. Foothills rough fescue tolerated LG but not HG, whereas bluebunch wheatgrass (Pseudoroegneria spicata) and Idaho fescue (Festuca idahoensis) did not tolerate either LG or HG. Decreased productivity of foothills rough fescue in HG was accompanied by decreased herbaceous ground cover and increased abundance of the invasive dense clubmoss (Selaginella densa). Soil nutrient status (OM, C, N, C:N ratio) did not differ between HG and LG; however, soil bulk density was 18% greater in HG, and the Ah horizon was 20% thinner in HG. Overall, our results indicate that long-term elk grazing during winterearly spring degraded this terrestrial ecosystem, and we conclude that periodic rest from ungulate grazing during winterearly spring is necessary to sustain foothills rough fescue grasslands. Los prados de Festuca campestris en las laderas montaosas constituyen un hbitat muy importante para la bsqueda de alimento de la fauna silvestre y el ganado en el noroeste de los Estados Unidos y el sudoeste de Canad. Los prados de F. campestris son menos resistentes al pastoreo durante el perodo de finales de la primavera y principios del verano, sin embargo se cree que son ms resistentes en invierno y al inicio de la primavera. Evaluamos el impacto del suelo y la vegetacin del pastoreo a largo plazo durante el invierno y al inicio de la primavera, con dos intensidades (HG = gran pastoreo; LG = pastoreo ligero). Estudiamos un prado en las laderas montaosas en la parte central-oeste de Montana, EE. UU., en el cual el Alce de las Montaas Rocallosas (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) fue casi la nica especie que se registr en el pastoreo, en el invierno y al inicio de la primavera, durante 58 aos. En este prado de F. campestris se realiz el LG, pero no se pudo realizar el HG, mientras que Pseudoroegneria spicata y Festuca idahoensis de Idaho no toleraron ni el LG ni el HG. Observamos una baja productividad del prado de F. campestris en las laderas montaosas en el HG, un bajo nivel de cobertura herbcea del suelo y un aumento de Selaginella densa, una especie invasora. La concentracin de nutrientes del suelo (ndice OM, C, N, C:N) no fue diferente entre el HG y el LG, pero la densidad del suelo fue 18% mayor en HG y el horizonte Ah/A fue 20% ms fino en el HG. Nuestros resultados generales indican que el pastoreo del alce a largo plazo durante el invierno y el inicio de la primavera degrad este ecosistema terrestre y llegamos a la conclusin de que es necesario un descanso peridico del pastoreo de ungulados durante el invierno y el inicio de la primavera para conservar los prados de F. campestris en las laderas montaosas en buen estado.
24644082|We assessed the effects of livestock grazing on vegetation and small mammals in semiarid habitat at a site in northeastern Nevada. Habitat within a fenced exclosure that had been protected from grazing for more than 50 years supported more vegetation and had greater plant diversity compared to habitat immediately outside the exclosure. Likewise, species richness and abundance of small mammals were greater in ungrazed areas. Results suggest that grazing regulation in recent decades may account for some of the changes seen in regional plants and small mammals over the past century. The incorporation of long-term exclosures in a comparative framework permits differentiation of the direct effects of grazing on biotic communities and thus provides a reference point for assessing the influence of grazing relative to other factors in the interpretation of historical change. Se evaluaron los efectos del pastoreo sobre la vegetacin y pequeos mamferos en habtat semirido en un sitio en Nevada del noreste. Hbitat dentro de un cercamiento que haban sido protegido de pastoreo para ms de 50 aos tena ms vegetacin y haba una mayor diversidad de plantas en comparacin con el hbitat inmediatamente fuera el cercamiento. Adems, la riqueza de especies y abundancia de mamferos pequeos fueron mayores en reas protegidas. Los resultados sugieren que la regulacin del pastoreo en las ltimas dcadas puede explicar algunos de los cambios observados en plantas y pequeos mamferos de la regin durante el siglo pasado. La incorporacin de cercamientos de largo duracin en un marco comparativo permite la diferenciacin de los efectos directos del pastoreo sobre comunidades biticas, y por lo tanto ofrece un punto de referencia para evaluar la influencia del pastoreo en relacin con otros factores al interpretar el cambio histrico.
24644083|Wind turbines are being deployed all across the world to meet the growing demand for energy, and in many areas, these turbines are causing the deaths of insectivorous migratory bats. One of the hypothesized causes of bat susceptibility is that bats are attracted to insects on or near the turbines. We examined insect remains in the stomachs and intestines of hoary bats (Lasiurus cinereus) found dead beneath wind turbines in New York and Texas to evaluate the hypothesis that bats die while feeding at turbines. Most of the bats we examined had full stomachs, indicating that they fed in the minutes to hours leading up to their deaths. However, we did not find prey in the mouths or throats of any bats that would indicate the bats died while capturing prey. Hoary bats fed mostly on moths, but we also detected the regular presence of beetles, true bugs, and crickets. Presence of terrestrial insects in stomachs indicates that bats may have gleaned them from the ground or the turbine surfaces, yet aerial capture of winged insect stages cannot be ruled out. Our findings confirm earlier studies that indicate hoary bats feed during migration and eat mostly moths. Future studies on bat behaviors and insect presence at wind turbines could help determine whether feeding at turbines is a major fatality risk for bats. Las turbinas elicas se estn implementando en todo el mundo para cumplir con la creciente demanda de energa y en muchas reas estas turbinas estn provocando la muerte de murcilagos insectvoros migratorios. Una de las posibles causas de la muerte de los murcilagos es que son atrados por insectos que se encuentran en las turbinas o cerca de ellas. Examinamos los restos de insectos en los estmagos y en los intestinos de los murcilagos grises (Lasiurus cinereus) que encontramos muertos debajo de las turbinas elicas en Nueva York y Texas para evaluar la veracidad de la hiptesis que sostiene que los murcilagos murieron mientras se alimentaban en las turbinas. La mayor parte de los murcilagos que examinamos tenan el estmago lleno, lo cual indicaba que se estaban alimentando cuando murieron. Sin embargo, no encontramos presas en la boca ni en la garganta de ninguno de los murcilagos que indicaran que haban muerto al capturar las presas. Los murcilagos grises se alimentaron principalmente de polillas, detectamos la presencia regular de escarabajos, chinches de campo y grillos. La presencia de insectos terrestres en el estmago indica que es posible que los murcilagos los atraparan en el suelo o en las turbinas, sin embargo no se puede descartar que capturaran a los insectos alados en el aire. Nuestros hallazgos confirman estudios anteriores en los que indican que el murcilago gris se alimenta durante la migracin y que consume principalmente polillas. Se necesitan estudios que se enfoquen en la conducta de los murcilagos y en la presencia de insectos en las turbinas elicas para determinar si los murcilagos que se alimentan en las turbinas corren un mayor riesgo de morir.
24644084|In a landscape, abiotic features, such as boulders, influence microhabitats and consequently affect patterns of vegetation. We hypothesized that boulders in the foothills of the Wasatch Mountains east of Provo, Utah, affected the growth patterns of netleaf hackberry (Celtis reticulata) by providing shade on their north faces. To test this hypothesis, we set up 3 transects 6 m wide and up to 50 m long. Along these transects, we measured all hackberries taller than 30 cm (n = 249). We recorded whether the hackberries grew within 0.5 m of a boulder that was at least 0.5 m along one dimension. We found that hackberries at our study site were more likely to be associated with boulders (n = 225; 90.4%) than to be growing alone (n = 24; 10.7%) (2 = 162.25, df = 1, P < 0.001). For each hackberry associated with a boulder, we took a direction bearing from the center of the boulder to the place where the hackberry was rooted. We found that hackberries associated with boulders were more likely to grow near the south (n = 92; 40.9%) side than near the north (n = 35; 15.6%), west (n = 55; 24.4%), or east sides (n = 43; 19.1%) (2 = 33.90, df = 3, P < 0.001). These results suggest that boulders influence patterns of hackberry growth and may actually provide thermal radiation that melts snow in the Wasatch foothills, rather than shade protection as we had originally hypothesized. Las caractersticas abiticas de un paisaje, tales como los peascos, afectan los patrones de vegetacin debido a su influencia en los microhbitats. Establecimos la hiptesis de que los peascos en la ladera de las montaas Wasatch, al este de Provo, Utah, afectan los patrones de crecimiento del almez occidental (Celtis reticulata) al proyectar sombra en las caras del norte. Con el fin de comprobar dicha hiptesis, trazamos tres transectos de seis metros de ancho y hasta 50 m de longitud. En cada transecto medimos todos los rboles (n = 249) cuya altura superara los 30 cm. Registramos si los rboles crecan a una distancia de 0.5 m de un peasco que estaba situado al menos 0.5 m a lo largo de una dimensin. Encontramos que los rboles de C. reticulata tenan ms posibilidades de crecer si haba peascos (n = 225; 90.4%) que de manera aislada (n = 24; 10.7%) (2 = 162.25, df = 1, P < 0.001). Entre los que crecan con los peascos, medimos la direccin del crecimiento utilizando la brjula electrnica de un telfono celular para determinar hacia qu cara del peasco tenan mayor tendencia a crecer; descubrimos que los rboles asociados con la existencia de peascos tenan ms posibilidades de crecer cerca del lado sur (n = 92; 40.9%) que del lado norte (n = 35; 15.6%), oeste (n = 55; 24.4%) o este (n = 43; 19.1%) (2 = 33.90, df = 3, P < 0.001). Estos resultados nos indican que los peascos tienen influencia en los patrones de crecimiento del Celtis reticulata y que, de hecho, tal vez puedan radiar calor que derrite la nieve en las laderas de las montaas Wasatch, en lugar de proyectar sombra como establecimos en nuestra hiptesis original.
24644085|Arizona bark scorpions (Centruroides sculpturatus Ewing) are commonly found throughout the Sonoran Desert in southwestern North America, and they are well known for being the most venomous scorpion in the United States. Despite their medical significance, C. sculpturatus remains ecologically understudied, and little is known regarding its natural foraging and feeding behaviors. Here, we present the first documented case of C. sculpturatus feeding on the Sonoran Desert centipede (Scolopendra polymorpha Wood) in the wild. Los Alacranes de Corteza de Arizona (Centruroides sculpturatus Ewing), por lo general, se encuentran en todo el Desierto de Sonora, en el sudoeste de Norteamrica, y se conocen por ser los alacranes ms venenosos de los Estados Unidos. A pesar de su importancia medicinal, C. sculpturatus no ha sido my estudiado desde el punto de vista ecolgico, y se conoce muy poco sobre su comportamiento natural de forrajeo y alimentacin. A continuacin presentamos el primer caso documentado de un C. sculpturatus alimentndose de un ciempis (Scolopendra polymorpha Wood) en medio del desierto.
24644086|Fifty-six speckled rattlesnakes, Crotalus mitchellii, from western North America were examined for helminths. One species of Cestoda (tetrathyridia of Mesocestoides sp.) and 5 species of Nematoda (gravid adults of Abbreviata terrapenis, Physaloptera abjecta, Thubunaea cnemidophorus, and Travassoascaris araujoi and larvae of Physocephalus sp.) were found. Travassoascaris araujoi had the highest prevalence and greatest mean intensity of helminths infecting C. mitchellii. Three new host records for C. mitchellii are reported. As has been reported for other North American rattlesnakes, C. mitchellii is parasitized by "generalist" helminths. Cincuenta y seis Viboras de Cascabel (Cascabeles Pinttas, Crotalus mitchellii) del oeste de Amrica del Norte fueron examnadas para determiner la presencia de helmintos. Se encontr una especie de Cestoda (larvas de Mesocestoides sp.) y cinco especes de Nematoda (adultos grvidos de Abbreviata terrapenis, Physaloptera abjecta, Thubunaea cnemidophorus y Travassoascaris araujoi y larvas de Physocephalus sp.). Travassoascaris araujoi tuvo la prevalencia ms alta y la intensidad promedio mayor de helmintos que infectan a C. mitchellii. Se documentan tres nuevos records de C. mitchellii. Como ha sido reportado para otras Viboras de Cascabel de Amrica del Norte, C. mitchellii es infectada por parsitos helmintos generalistas.
