10.2307/3224628|Lepidurus lemmoni Holmes, 1894 is redescribed in detail from an examination of over 200 specimens from the type locality, Honey Lake, Lassen County, California. Morphological differences between the sexes are recorded. Lepidurus lynchi Linder, 1952 is considered an infrasubspecific variety of L. lemmoni Holmes. The extreme variability in the development of the spines of the carapace, both within the population of Honey Lake and between populations in widely separated habitats, is described. The species has been collected from ponds of alkaline, opaque water in northeastern California, northwest Nevada, south central Oregon, central Washington, Montana, and Wyoming.
10.2307/3224629| Heart or arterial blood smears were made from 1,340 marine fishes of 126 species, collected from the coastal waters of Puerto Rico. The only blood parasites found were haemogregarines. Haemogregarina bigemina was present in 11 fishes belonging to the following eight genera: Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linnaeus), Lutjanus apodus (Walbaum), Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch), Caranx bartholomaei Cuvier, C. hippos (Linnaeus), Haemulon aurolineatum Cuvier, Scarus croicensis (Bloch), Sparisoma aurofrenatum (Valenciennes), and Auxis thazard (Lacpde). All except Lutjanus apodus, Ocyurus chrysurus, and Caranx hippos are believed to be new records of infection by any haemogregarine. 
10.2307/3224630|The Tiedemann bodies, axial organ, axial organ head process, and gastric-haemal tufts, of Asterias forbesi were examined for cell production using H
10.2307/3224631|Cyclocoelum (Haematotrephus) lanceolatum (Wedl, 1858) is described from the abdominal air sacs of the avocet, Recurvirostra americana, taken in southwestern United States. The species is cosmopolitan in distribution and has been reported from various charadriiform birds in Europe, Africa, Russia, China, Japan, and Australia. It was described by Hannum and Wilson (1934) as Uvitellina macroisophaga from the killdeer, Oxyechus vociferus, taken in California.
10.2307/3224632|The male reproductive cycles of Cambarellus shufeldti and Cambarellus puer were compared. Although form I males in breeding condition and ovigerous females of each species can be found at almost any time throughout the year, two peaks of reproductive activity were shown; a major peak in January, February, and March and a lesser peak in July. C. shufeldti shows a strong tendency toward continuous, year-round breeding; while C. puer shows more clumping of reproductive activities into the two peak periods. Males of both species show two major cycles of sperm production as adults, the first occurring during the first breeding season following the one in which they were spawned. A second cycle of sperm production occurs when the males are approximately one year old. Growth increment studies showed an average growth increment of approximately 0.45 mm in cephalothorax length per molt for each species, with 12 to 13 molts required for reaching maturity in C. shufeldti and 13 to 14 for C. puer.
10.2307/3224633|Aufwuchs production was measured from its accrual on plexiglass substrates submerged in a stream. A method was developed for separating autotrophic and heterotrophic aufwuchs production and for separating this production from organic and inorganic sediments. The average aufwuchs production in the entire river during the summer of 1961 was 281.8 mg organic weight M
10.2307/3224634|One hundred three sites were searched in the headwaters of the Tennessee, Savannah, and Saluda river systems within a 25-mile radius of Highlands, North Carolina during the period from late July to early September, 1964. Plumatella repens was found 29 times, Fredericella sultana five, Hyalinella punctata once, and Plumatella emarginata once. The growth was most abundant, and occurrence most frequent, in streams immediately below impoundments. Concentration of plankton was the most important factor determining the occurrence of bryozoans. Slightly alkaline waters favored abundant growth. The organisms were attached almost exclusively to the underneath, downstream side of dark rocks; this specificity may be related to a photic response.
10.2307/3224635|Thirteen (13.1%) of 99 specimens of Crassostrea virginica collected from West Loch, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, were found to be infected with Tylocephalum metacestodes. In addition, ciliated coracidia of this tapeworm were found in the stomach and intimately associated with the gill surfaces of some of the infected oysters. The histology of these coracidia is described. The parenchyma consists of two distinct types of cells, somatic and germinative, and also includes characteristic yellow globules and pigmented granules. Penetration glands are present. Coracidia enter the mollusc either through the alimentary wall or through the gill surfaces after sloughing their ciliated epithelial coat, with the former route being the more common. No appreciable host reaction to invading parasites occurred while they were penetrating the epithelium but fibrous and cellular reactions occurred once the parasites passed the epithelial barrier. If developing metacestodes were not encapsulated in the subepithelial zone along the digestive tract, they commonly migrated to the digestive gland or to the adjacent Leydig tissues. Healthy metacestodes in Leydig tissue were not or only slightly encapsulated while heavy capsules of fibers and leucocytes surrounded metacestodes in the process of being resorbed. C. virginica is not believed to be the natural intermediate host of Tylocephalum.
10.2307/3224636|Sambonia parapodum n. sp. is described from Varanus salvator as the fourth member of the genus after Megadrepanoides, Self & Kuntz, 1957, with its two species, is relegated to synonymy with Sambonia based on Fain's (1961) redescription of the latter. Armillifer agkistrodontis n. sp. is described from Agkistrodon acutus.
10.2307/3224637|Twenty-three species, varieties, and forms of Pyrrhophyta and Chloromonadophyta, observed during an ecological investigation of two Michigan lakes, are described and illustrated. With the exception of a few rarely reported species, all are believed to represent new records for the state.
10.2307/3224638|In an attempt to determine the effect of digestive enzymes on egg hatchability, the eggs of the brine shrimp, Artemia salina, were subjected to eight sequences of four digestive enzymes. The eggs were exposed to all possible combinations of lipase, pepsin, and trypsin, and to two combinations of chitinase, lipase, pepsin, and trypsin. Egg hatchability was found to be neither increased nor decreased by either the combinations of the enzymes or the pH values of 1.8, 5.6, and 7.0. Although the experiments did not simulate the physiological conditions in an avian alimentary tract, the data do illustrate that Artemia eggs are very resistant to four known avian hydrolases. These results in conjunction with the in vivo experiments of previous researchers suggest that any bird may be able to disperse large quantities of viable Artemia eggs via the alimentary tract.
10.2307/3224639|Two species of minute beetles, Thinusa maritima (Casey) and Pontomalota luctuosa Casey, belonging in the family Staphylinidae, inhabit the intertidal zone of the ocean beaches bordering upon our west coast states. These insects bear upon the outer distal border of their galea a structure which has been interpreted as sensory in character, although its possible function is problematic. No comparable structure appears to have been described in the literature. This organ takes the form of a delicate fan-shaped membrane traversed from base to outer margin by minute branching fibers. The latter bear rows of fine hairs. This organ is regarded by specialists in this field as possibly a chemoreceptor organ, perhaps assisting the beetles in finding their food materials. On the other hand, it may be designed to receive vibratory stimuli, enabling the insects to adjust themselves to changing conditions in the unusual environment involved in the advance and retreat of the tide with its varying sounds.
10.2307/3224640|A Plasmodium has been isolated from Canada geese trapped in Wisconsin. The parasite grew in White Chinese goslings secured from a commercial hatchery as day-old birds. The infection can be transferred from White Chinese goslings to non-infected goslings of the same breed by intramuscular or intravenous inoculations. The Plasmodium can parasitize domestic turkeys and may pose a future threat to the turkey industry. It can infect wild turkeys also and may affect this population. The species of this parasite has not been determined; it is similar to Plasmodium lophurae, but has not developed in chickens exposed to infected blood.
10.2307/3224641|Specimens of eight species of marine pelecypods, Crassostrea virginica, C. gigas, Mytilus edulis, Modiolus demissus, Ensis directus, Mya arenaria, Mercenaria mercenaria, and Tapes philippinarum, were individually challenged with 150 Himasthla quissetensis cercariae in order to study their susceptibility and reactions. Quantitative recovery rates are given. Metacercariae were found encysted in various tissues of all of the pelecypods except C. virginica and C. gigas. In C. virginica few metacercariae were found in blood vessel lumina. Except in T. philippinarum, when metacercariae were found in tissues, they were enveloped by a non-cellular, parasite-secreted inner cyst wall. In T. philippinarum, only those metacercariae found in the testes were enveloped by such a wall. In addition to the inner wall, an outer wall, comprised of host leucocytes and either myofibers or connective tissue fibers, surrounded encysted metacercariae in most instances. The fibrous constituent of the outer wall appeared to be dependent on the type of fibers available in the immediate proximity, while the leucocytes are believed to be attracted by the inner wall. Encysted metacercariae were found on the gill and mantle surfaces of C. virginica and C. gigas and on the palps of M. edulis. These are believed to be inactivated, and thus prevented from invading the molluscs, by some host-elaborated substance.
10.2307/3224643|An analysis of chert thin sections from the Middle Devonian rocks of New York State has shown both marine and freshwater algae to be present. Three new genera and species are described: Paleooedogonium micrum n. g., n. sp., Paleoclosterium leptum n. g., n. sp., and Paleodidymoprium didymum n. g., n. sp. All three possess similarities to modern freshwater genera. The occurrence of fossil freshwater algae in only a limited number of geographical locations and the statewide presence of marine Hystrichosphaeridia in the rocks of all areas sampled supports the premise that the freshwater algae were floated into the marine waters of the ancient Onondaga sea rather than having changed their environment since Devonian time.
10.2307/3224644|During the period of blooming, 26 April to 24 May 1964, 24 species in Nymphalidae, Pieridae, Lycaenidae, Geometridae, Bombyliidae, Syrphidae, Colletidae, Andremidae, Halictidae, and Apidae visited the flowers.
10.2307/3224645|Tetrahymena vorax strain V
10.2307/3224646| Six species of cyprid ostracods are recorded from the states of California, Nevada, Washington, and Wyoming. New distribution records are reported for Cypridopsis canadensis Ferguson, 1959, Potamocypris smaragdina (Vvra, 1891), and Stenocypris cylindrica major (Baird, 1859). Three new species are described, one each from Washington, Wyoming, and from the California and Nevada sides of Lake Tahoe. 
10.2307/3224313|Quantitative top-to-bottom zooplankton samples were taken in the rooted aquatic zone and the adjacent open water in 11 small Colorado lakes. On the average, the open water contained 86% more copepod individuals, 80% more cladocerans, and 112% more rotifers than the adjacent macrophyte zone. Samples taken with a quantitative plankton tube sampler showed that the water between strands of vegetation contained few species. Average populations for the weed zone and immediately adjacent open water were, respectively: 2.4 and 1.9 species of Copepoda, 4.9 and 3.6 of Cladocera, and 7.7 and 4.4 Rotatoria. Both the macrophyte zone and the open water had, at any one time, one numerically dominant copepod, one cladoceran, and one rotifer. The species of Copepoda, Cladocera, and Rotatoria are classified according to their relative abundance in the weed zone and adjacent open water, and according to their relative vagilities and feeding habits. There are no "true" plankton species restricted to the macrophyte zone. Those taken by the sampler are: (1) plant browsers temporarily swimming, (2) bottom species temporarily swimming, and (3) limnetic species which have invaded the vegetated area in small numbers or which normally inhabit the vegetated area. Except for certain rotifers, it is unusual to collect two species in the same genus at the same time in the plankton of the macrophyte zone. Samples taken from littoral zones devoid of vegetation showed that near-shore populations are usually similar to limnetic populations. The roles of macrophytes are discussed with reference to their elaboration of growth-promoting and growth-inhibiting substances.
10.2307/3224314| An electron microscopic survey at low magnifications has been made of the nephric unit of the opisthonephric kidney of Rana pipiens, in connection with a correlative study of the ultrastructure of cells of the Luck renal adenocarcinoma. The topographical relationships of cells in adjoining regions of the nephron are emphasized. Especial attention is called to the changing nature of the cellular surfaces, at both the apical and basal ends. Similarities to and differences from the structure and arrangement of cellular components in the mammalian nephron, studied by other observers, are noted. These include the relationships of epithelial and endothelial surfaces of the glomerulus, with especial attention to the podocytic cells of the former; the microvillar fringe of the proximal tubule cells, with observations suggesting a possible mechanism for the transport of materials via pincocytotic vesicles; and the localization of elongated mitochondria in the basal regions of distal tubule cells. The nephrostome has also been observed, and some of the similarities of cells of the nephrostomal funnel to those found in the nephron proper are discussed. Some implications of the observations for the functional regionality of the nephron, emphasizing especially resorptive and transport mechanisms, are suggested. 
10.2307/3224315|Physiological observations were made on two aquatic Collembola, Folsomia fimetaria and Isotomurus palustris. Having typical insect cuticle, these Collembola float on water by their non-wetting waxy epicuticle. There is no tracheal system. Normally, the ventral tube functions as a respiratory, as well as a water-taking organ. Water may also be taken by mouth, and dissolved oxygen thus swallowed may supply part of the respiration need. The antennae of Collembola appear to respond to heat, air movement, and "odor" from individuals of the same species. The post-antennal organs appear to respond to barometric pressure changes, heat, and light flashes. Ocelli, if present, are sensitive to light. Mating takes place when the male anal region touches the female genital pore. Reproduction is viviparous in an aquatic environment, with one egg at a time. Newborn larvae can stand on water because of the non-wetting claws but will sink if forced to submerge. Eggs are expelled if gravid females are disturbed; embryonated eggs mature and hatch underwater. Respiration of submerged larvae is cutaneous. The waxy epicuticle develops only above water, during which time respiration shifts from cutaneous to ventral-tube. No evidence of parthenogenesis was observed. Foods and feeding manner are described.
10.2307/3224316|A histochemical study has been made on the effect of Hymenolepis microstoma on the common bile duct of the mouse. The bile duct containing worms is abnormally distended due, in part, to aggregations of lymphocytes in the periductal connective tissue and hyperplasia of glandular tissue. The striated border of the mucosa displays the normal staining pattern following the PAS technique in both uninfected and infected bile ducts where the worm is not in contact with the mucosal epithelium. In areas where the worm is in contact with the epithelium, the striated border stains poorly or not at all with PAS. In addition, the typically columnar cells assume a cuboidal to squamous shape and, in some instances, inflammation of the epithelium is apparent. Succinic dehydrogenase activity and RNA content in those cells in contact with the worm are all but obliterated. Alkaline phosphatase activity is increased substantially in the periductal connective tissue of infected bile ducts.
10.2307/3224317|Brain and gut organs of the opilionid, Leiobunum longipes, were cultured successfully for extended periods, using the culture medium of Martin & Vidler (1962). The successful maintenance of both these organs in culture appeared to depend upon the presence of the other, suggesting an exchange of material between the two masses. The viability of the tissue was determined by several different tests including production of the neurosecretory compound, 5-hydroxytryptamine. Histochemical staining of cultured tissues cut in serial sections was done for a comparison of in vitro tissues with in vivo. Several light microscopic photomicrographs demonstrated the integrity and physiological activity of these cultures.
10.2307/3224318|The complete life cycle of two odoriferous aquatic actinomycetes was observed in slide cultures. Branching of the vegetative mycelium yielded sporogenous hyphae. Frequent intimate contacts were observed between vegetative hyphae produced by the same or by different spores. No "initial cells" were detected. Contrary to previous reports, these aquatic actinomycetes appeared to be true streptomycetes and lacked an isogamous reproductive pattern. Vegetative mycelium developed pigments, sporogenous hyphae and odor under aerobic conditions, but not when grown under an atmosphere of inert gases or in the presence of 300 ppm malonate. Only small amounts of sporogenous hyphae could be produced by washed vegetative mycelium suspended in a balanced salt solution.
10.2307/3224319|This study is concerned with descriptions of several new species of clubionids from various parts of the United States and Canada, and two European species that are apparently becoming well established in the Pacific Northwest. The new species are: Clubiona marna, C. kuratai, Clubionoides madera, C. achuca, C. chisosa. The European species are: Clubiona pallidula Clerck and C. lutescens Westring.
10.2307/3224320|The nauplius and cypris of Loxothylacus panopaei (Gissler, 1884) Boschma, 1928 are described. Knowledge of morphology of the externa is improved with descriptions and/or illustrations of: (1) the layers of the mantle, (2) the atria, and (3) the female pores.
10.2307/3224321|Males and females of the freshwater turtle, Chrysemys picta, weighing 150-200 g and 5-8 inches in shell length, were selected for this investigation. The structure of the pancreas was studied with the aid of routine histological stains. The lobulated pancreas is a long, leaf-shaped, compact, pale-colored gland measuring ca. 9-11 cm in length. The pancreatic duct opens directly to the duodenum close to the anterior end of the pancreas. The pancreas has three regions: the head, the body, and the tail, and it is covered by a uniformly thick connective tissue capsule. The pancreas, structurally, is a dual organ, exocrine and endocrine. The unit structure of the exocrine gland is the alveolus (acinus) composed of pyramidal cells, and the centro-acinar cells. The acinus has a very small duct, the intercalary duct. The islets of Langerhans show three types of cells: alpha, beta, and delta cells. The alpha cells are very few, the delta cells are even fewer. The beta cells appear comparable to those in mammalian islet tissues; however, the islet tissue is not as easily detectable in the turtle as in the other vertebrates. The islet tissue is seen more at the cranial end of the pancreas than in other regions. The duct systems are almost the same as in other vertebrates.
10.2307/3224322|A method for the rapid removal of schistosomes from small mammalian hosts with minimal physiological disturbance is described. Special procedures include the use of beef serum with adjusted glucose level as a perfusate, adjustment and maintenance of the perfusate at a proper pH using 5% CO
10.2307/3224323|Differential blood counts were made from heart or artery blood smears of 601 marine fishes from Puerto Rico, belonging to 121 species of 45 families and 12 orders. The first 100 red corpuscles seen of the erythrocytic series on each slide were counted and listed as either erythroblasts or erythrocytes. Mature erythrocytes were also measured and their mean values obtained in microns for length and width for each fish species. The first 100 white corpuscles seen on each slide were counted and listed under the following categories: 1) Elasmobranchs: hemocytoblasts, monocytes, lymphocytes, thrombocytes, and any of three types of granulocytes (eosinophils, neutrophils, heterophils) ; 2) Teleosts : large and small hemoblasts, macrophages, large and small lymphocytes, thrombocytes, and any of three types of granulocytes (eosinophils, basophils, neutrophils). The mean percentage of each type of white corpuscle present was calculated for each fish species. A number of red corpuscle counts was made with a Neubauer hemocytometer. Photomicrographs were made of typical cell types of both elasmobranchs and teleosts. Basophils were found in five species of teleosts: Synodus intermedius, Holocentrus ascensionis, H. rufus, Caranx bartholomaei, and Dactylopterus volitans. Eosinophils were present in 70 species of fishes, including each individual elasmobranch and 65 of the 116 species of teleosts. Thrombocytes were the type of leucocyte found in the greatest numbers, and small lymphocytes were next. Some fish species had a relatively low percentage of leucocytes to erythrocytes. A large number of unusual "ring cells" was found in the two specimens studied of Diodon holacanthus, the balloonfish. In shape and appearance they resembled the "secretory granulocytes" described by Downey (1909) from the blood of the ganoid fish, Polyodon spathula, although there was no evidence from the Diodon material that they were derived from granulocytes.
10.2307/3224324|Chaetonotus testiculophorus n. sp. is described as a new marine gastrotrich. Adult morphology (midpoint of longest size class, 11 individuals; measurements in micra) : lengths-total 155, pharynx 40, furca 21; widths-head 44, neck 32, body 58. Head single-lobed. Spines simple, originating from imbricated flat ovoid scales. Scales 20-21 in each of 13-15 longitudinal rows. Pharynx with refractile cuticular cap. Hermaphroditic with bilobed seminal bursa posteromedially and paired sperm sacs just anterolateral to the bursa. Life history: egg one-third the length and two-thirds the body width of its parent, laid and attached to a sand grain; does not develop surface projections. Development within egg direct, typical bent body, furca over head position being attained before hatching into juvenile, two-thirds the length of its parent. Habitat: upper 2 cm of intertidal sand, 91-107 cm (3-3.5 ft) above mean low low tide level, Eagle Cove, San Juan Island, Washington. Population survives salinities down to 16% and temperatures up to 30 C, with densities as great as 30 per cc. Significance: thesis of marine origin for Gastrotricha further supported; similar origin for typically freshwater family Chaetonotidae suggested.
10.2307/3224325|A species of terrestrial isopod crustacean of the genus Philoscia was taken on the margin of Biscayne Bay in Miami, Florida, on 9 September 1963. It proved to be a new species and was named P. miamiensis. Some ecological observations were included with the new species description. Armadilloniscus ellipticus was found with the new species, and Miami is now the southernmost record for that species.
10.2307/3224326|Designs are presented for a margin-cutting template and a rectangle-cutting template, which, when used in sequence, effect a rapid and uniform subdivision of the emulsion on autoradiographic plates. Depending on the position and number of cuts made with the aid of the templates, either 4 or 8 free emulsion strips will be provided to cover respectively the 25 x 72 mm or 50 x 74 mm slides bearing tissues destined for autoradiography. The entire operation may be effected in total darkness. The designs of two blind guides are presented which facilitate the loading of commercially available glass and plastic slide racks. The racks may be loaded with autoradiographic slides in total darkness with dispatch and assurance through the use of these stainless steel fabrications. An improvised low-cost assembly is presented for the development and staining of autoradiographic emulsion slides at precisely controlled temperatures. This assembly consists of 1 or 2 insulated baths containing ethylene-propylene glycol and trays, circulation pump with hoses, siphon, fan, compressor with cooling coils and radiator (salvaged from old refrigerator), low temperature thermostat, and anticipation timer. Total cost of materials is under $300.00.
10.2307/3224473|The ultimobranchial bodies originate from the sixth pair of pharyngeal pouches, separate from the pharynx as unifollicular structures and remain as such through nine days of incubation, after which the lumen disappears. Parathyroid rests frequently develop in the ultimobranchial body at ten days of incubation. The secretory activity of the ultimobranchial body is most pronounced during metamorphosis. Disappearance of the lumen, secretory material, and basement membrane following metamorphosis suggest a decline in ultimobranchial function. A holocrine type of secretory activity is suggested by the coagulum and nuclei within the lumen and the disrupted free surface of follicular epithelium. Indications of an endocrine role include a rich vascular supply, secretory products in the lumen, absence of a duct, and integrity of the basement membrane. Nuclear degeneration in the ultimobranchial body is partially the result of histiogenetic processes but is mainly the result of morphogenetic events. On the basis of the periodic acid-Schiff, mercuric bromphenol blue, and Feulgen reactions, there is no indication of a functional similarity between the thyroid gland and the ultimobranchial body. The Sudan black B reaction may suggest a parathyroid-like function of the ultimobranchial body. Functional significance of blood eosinophils in the ultimobranchial body is unknown.
10.2307/3224474|Cryptodifflugia operculata n. sp. is a small shelled rhizopod differing from the type species of the genus, C. oviformis Penard, 1890, chiefly in its manner of encysting with a secreted operculum closing the aperture of the test. Locomotion is by means of finely lobose, hyaline pseudopodia. The transparent, rigid test, which shatters under pressure, was found to consist at least in part of polysaccharide. Nuclear division is by typical mitosis, and simple cell division was the only method of reproduction observed. A definition of the genus Cryptodifflugia consistent with Penard's descriptions and distinguishing it clearly from the genus Difflugiella is offered, and a provisional key to the genus is presented.
10.2307/3224475|A caryophyllaeid cestode, Monobothrium ulmeri n. sp., is described from three species of catostomid fishes. The oligochaete annelid Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri serves as the intermediate host; procercoid development is described and a key to the North American species of Monobothrium is presented.
10.2307/3224476|This study was designed to (a) show what dissemules may be carried by selected Odonata, (b) show where the dissemules may be carried on selected Odonata, (c) relate the frequency of occurrence of microorganisms on the insects to patterns of behavior of the selected Odonata. Thirty-three dragonflies belonging to six species, and 53 damselflies belonging to five species were collected aseptically and washed with sterile soil water extract. Washings of dissected body parts of 10 specimens of Libellula auripennis (Hagen) were placed in separate labeled vials of soil water extract, while fore- and midgut, and hindgut from each L. auripennis were treated in a similar manner. Washings were cultured in a growth chamber, and cultures were examined at two-week intervals for six weeks. Data showing frequency of occurrence for each alga and protozoan is given according to per cent from a total of 50 positive cultures and from 11 insect species collected. Chlorococcum sp. and Chlorella sp. showed the highest per cent occurrence in cultures and from collected insects. Results from washings of external body parts of 10 specimens of L. auripennis indicated that contact between legs and damp soil may effect pickup of algae and Protozoa. Culturing of the gut contents of L. auripennis indicated that viable algae and Protozoa may not be carried internally by this species. This report concludes that the sampled Odonata are significant in pickup and deposition of algae and Protozoa.
10.2307/3224477|The ciliate Woodruffia sporophaga n. sp. (Trichostomatida: Colpodidae) attaches to the sporangia of various species of the water mold Saprolegnia and feeds on the escaping zoospores. Characteristic features of the ciliate include two undulating membranes and an area of fine cilia in the vestibulum. A rod-shaped macronucleus and two micronuclei are present. Division occurs within a temporary cyst membrane and results typically in eight daughters. During each division, a mass of macronuclear substance is segregated inside the elongated nuclear membrane and transferred to the cytoplasm of one of the daughters, in which it is rapidly resorbed.
10.2307/3224478|A new genus and species, Microsentis wardae, of acanthocephala are described from the posterior intestine of the marine fish, Gillichthys mirabilis Cooper, collected near Scammon Lagoon, Baja California, Mexico. From one to nearly 60 worms per fish were found and 93% of 39 fish were infected.
10.2307/3224479|The main findings of this investigation were: in plankton diatom populations volume is probably a better criterion than total numbers for evaluating productivity. Productivity increased as temperatures decreased until ice formation. The ice probably imposed the limiting factor of reduced light. Fluctuations in plankton diatom populations at various depths occurred before ice formation showing that variable currents existed in the lake. Uniform settling of plankton diatom species occurred after ice formation indicating no currents under the ice. There was no oxygen depletion even when 22 inches of ice and 6 inches of snow were present.
10.2307/3224480|The course of cephalic sensory canals of Sisor rabdophorus Hamilton in relation to dermal bones and the position of neuromasts in them have been reported in detail. In general, they follow the normal teleostean pattern, approximating in particular that of siluroids. The following peculiarities were, however, observed: the presence of infrapreopercular ossicles supporting the ventral section of the preopercular canal; the unusually forward extension of the infraorbital canal over the snout; the joining of the preopercular canal with the temporal canal at the sphenotic-pterotic junction rather than in the region of pterotic; and the presence of a neuromast in the temporal canal in the region of the sphenotic. Further, the cephalic sensory canals are characterized by the presence of an extremely narrow lumen, correspondingly small size of the neuromasts, and the absence of cupulae on them. These features can be correlated with the bottom living nature and sluggish habits of this fish.
10.2307/3224481|Three fungi and one lichen have been collected repeatedly from a salt marsh-estuarine environment at Ipswich, Massachusetts. Common hosts for Rhizophidium sphaerocarpum were Vaucheria intermedia and Ulothrix spp. The ubiquitous Pleospora herbarum was collected solely from the sea milkwort, Glaux maritima, while Leptosphaeria orae-maris was prevalent in the marsh grasses, Spartina patens and S. alterniflora var. glabra. The lichen, Lecanora chlarotera, encrusted the leeward surfaces of wood pilings in the marsh supralittoral. Vegetative and reproductive material of this mycological flora was most abundant during the winter and early spring months.
10.2307/3224482|Prosthodendrium (Paralecithodendrium) thapari n. sp. and Achitrema lucknowensis n. sp. from the small intestine of a yellow bat, Nycticeius kuhlii, have been described as new trematodes from India.
10.2307/3224483|Light and electron microscope observations were made on the growth of Lychnis alba pollen tubes in vivo. Pollen tubes were found to gain entrance to the style primarily by penetration into swollen primary walls of epidermal papillae, with subsequent growth into the inter-cellular substance of the stylar tissues. Intracellular penetration by pollen tubes is believed to be physically inhibited by the compactness of cell wall fibrils at the wall-cytoplasmic interfaces. Cytoplasmic decomposition of the style that accompanied pollen tube growth is largely attributed to direct enzyme action initiated by pollen tubes.
10.2307/3224417|Six thermal springs in the Firehole Loop Road region of Yellowstone National Park were examined in detail over an eight-week period during the summer of 1963. All springs studied were characterized by a benthic flora composed of Phormidium bijahensis and five species of Synechococcus. Modifications of the drop count method and the membrane filter technique were utilized to obtain a quantitative expression of the benthos. Selection of springs with long runoffs enabled determination of thermal limits, with 13 new limits being reported. Sequence of invasion by predominant species was found to be the same in all springs examined.
10.2307/3224418|Raillietina (R.) loeweni had a minimal prepatent period of 14 days, and a patent period of 11 to 27 days in the hare and seven to 259 days in the laboratory rabbit. Numbers of cysticercoids given to experimental rabbits and the numbers of tapeworms recovered were directly related. Discharge of proglottids was greatest in afternoons and peaked three to eight days following patency. Proglottids discharged per day decreased as the tapeworm burden increased in Dutch Rabbits, which precludes using proglottid discharge rate to determine cestode burden in this host. Based upon limited data, resistance to reinfection appeared not to be marked following elimination of R. loeweni from an initial infection. Sodium chloride concentration, temperature, and interaction of salt and temperature conditioned evagination of cysticercoids in vitro.
10.2307/3224419|Scenedesmus culture N 56 was able to produce several coenobial types in culture. Seventeen clones were established from the parent strain; individual coenobial types were examined under the microscope, diagrammed, and then isolated. Wall ornamentation was then studied in all these Scenedesmus cultures. Clones were studied in duplicate flasks in standard laboratory media for one month. Variability in distribution of wall ornamentation was noted in all cases; no clone proved to be a "stable" culture. These observations were confirmed in studies of coenobia incubated in sterile vessels in nature.
10.2307/3224420|The distribution pattern of C. sowerbyi may now be extended north in Michigan to about the middle of the state. Published distributional reports for Michigan have been restricted to the extreme southern part of the state. The occurrences in Michigan are unique, not only in that they suggest the commonness of this coelenterate in the state, but also for the fact that records are essentially all from natural habitats. The range of habitats of C. sowerbyi appears to be broad, suggesting a good adaptive potential for this species. This adaptability is certainly aided by the cosmopolitan nutritional proclivities of the animal. The food includes a variety of algae, nematodes, annelids, crustacea, insects, and arachnids. While numerous planktonic organisms contribute to the diet of the polyps of C. sowerbyi, this study helps to make it evident that crawling organisms, and particularly a wide variety of arthropods, contribute substantially, perhaps pre-eminently, to the nourishment of the polyps of this coelenterate.
10.2307/3224421| Electron-microscopic observations on the occurrence of mucoid trichocysts or mucocysts in the hymenostome ciliate Tetrahymena rostrata are reported for the first time. In this cyst-forming species of the genus Tetrahymena there are numerous mucocysts in the cytoplasm in all stages in the life history. Measuring 0.5-2.0  in length and 0.2-0.5  in width, their matrix is quite homogeneous except for a possibly unique central axial structure which is distinctly more electron-dense. At the tips there is an indistinct paracrystalline structure with a periodicity of about 80-90 A. The organelles are compared with what are presumably homologous structures in other ciliates, and their probable role in the physiological life cycle of the species T. rostrata is discussed. 
10.2307/3224422|The cell boundary of the volvocalean unicellular alga, Haematococcus pluvialis, was examined with the electron microscope. The vegetative cell wall, in permanganate preparations, is a membrane-like structure about 320 A thick. The gelatinous matrix or sheath does not represent an integral part of the cell wall structure. It instead occupies the intervening space between the cell wall and the plasma membrane. The origin and development of the gelatinous matrix remains obscure. It may be the product of secretion as suggested by the presence of sheathed mitochondrion-like inclusions within this region. The membrane that surrounds the otherwise typical mitochondrial membranes could have its origin as part of the plasma membrane. An outpocketing of the plasma membrane could conceivably trap a cytoplasmic mitochondrion. Subsequent pinching off of this budlike pocket would then produce these unique inclusions. However, a free and reversible movement of cytoplasm through the tubular cytoplasmic processes that commonly traverse the gelatinous matrix might better account for its variable development under different culture conditions. The possibility that the gelatinous matrix may serve as a buffer against possible adverse environmental conditions prior to the formation of either resting cells or cysts is also considered.
10.2307/3224423|A total of 614 fishes representing 103 species from the northern Gulf of Mexico were examined for infections of trematodes in the family Bucephalidae. Five species of Bucephalus Baer, 1827, were collected. One new species is described and the description of B. cynoscion Hopkins, 1956, and B. gorgon (Linton, 1905) Eckmann, 1932, augmented. New locality records are also given for B. gorgon, B. scorpaenae Manter, 1940, and B. varicus Manter, 1940.
10.2307/3224424|The rosette glands of the isopod crustacean Armadillidium vulgare have been studied histochemically. These tegumental glands open at the tips of the mouth-parts and have been thought to be involved in secretion or hardening of the cuticle. The results indicate that the glands contain very little protein or lipid, but that they are rich in carbohydrate, including acid mucopolysaccharides but not glycogen. These results suggest that the glands secrete lubricating material that aids swallowing.
10.2307/3224675|Contributions of developments in light microscopy, electron microscopy and cytochemistry to our understanding of structure, morphogenesis and function of protozoa are discussed. The techniques are viewed in relation to various protozoan groups. Special attention is given to the importance of the protargol staining technique in the study of morphology and morphogenesis of all protozoa. Emphasis is placed upon the need for a thorough understanding of the organisms based upon light microscopic observations before undertaking studies of their fine structure.
10.2307/3224676| In addition to earlier reports of Athesmia foxi Goldberger & Crane, 1911, the writer has studied well-fixed, stained and mounted specimens of this dicrocoeliine trematode from five different species of monkeys from eastern Colombia, viz., Saimiri sciurea (Linn., 1758), Cebus capucinus (Linn., 1758), C. albifrons (Humboldt, 1912), C. apella (Linn., 1758) and Oedipomidas oedipus (Linn., 1758). The worms vary in length and breadth, not only in different host species but also in different specimens from the same host. Study of internal anatomy likewise indicates that considerable variation exists in essential organs, including male and female genitalia. The writer agrees with Travassos (1944) that a liver fluke from a Cuban bat, Artibeus jamaicensis parvipes, designated A. parkeri (Prez Vigueras, 1942) should be transferred to Travassos' 1942 genus Pseudathesmia, and may possibly be the same as his type species P. paradoxa. Comparison of the Colombian specimens of A. foxi with those from the liver of Malaysian feral rats, Rattus argentiventer Robinson & Kloss, confirms the view of Lee (1965) that the species is present in a new mammalian host in a geographically different area. A. foxi has also been recovered from a crab-eating raccoon, Procyon cancrivorus Cuvier, and a monkey, Chiropotes albinasa Geoffroy & Deville from separate states of Brazil (Teixeira de Freitas, 1962). Comparative life cycle investigations are required before A. heterolecithodes (Braun, 1899) Looss, 1899, with wide geographical and host distribution in birds, is proved to be identical with A. foxi of mammalian hosts, in which case the name A. heterolecithodes would take precedence over A. foxi. 
10.2307/3224677| A neurosecretory substance was demonstrated in the radial nerves of starfish (Asterias forbesi) and was present in all stages of the reproductive cycle studied. Its presence has been correlated with the presence of gamete-shedding substance. The neurosecretory substance was found in the form of 1 -sized granules in three distinct areas of the radial nerve. Some nerves also contained 2 -sized granules which exhibited identical histochemical staining properties as 1 -granules. The neurosecretory substance of the radial nerve subepidermal plexus area was frequently partially, and sometimes completely, absent, especially in the medial portion of the plexus area. When partially absent, the neurosecretory substance was often in the form of diffuse, poorly-stained particles and was frequently accompanied by the appearance of large goblet-shaped cells in the medial portion of the plexus area. Histochemical methods demonstrated the protein or polypeptide nature of the neurosecretory substance, especially the presence of nucleoproteins, as well as the presence of ester sulphate groups. 
10.2307/3224678|Supernatant fluid of Moniezia expansa was prepared by homogenization. Rabbit #17 produced antiserum which showed one precipitin line with the supernatant fluid on Ouchterlony plates. The antigen(s) precipitated at 75% ammonium sulphate saturation showed identity with the crude antigens. Fluorescent antiserum of rabbit #17 localized on the cuticle of the scolex and mature proglottids and on the embryophores of eggs in the gravid proglottids. This indicated that the antigenic material is probably a mixture of antigens. Immunoelectrophoresis of antigens shows three or four reactions. The absence of fluorescent localization on the cuticle of the gravid proglottids has not been resolved.
10.2307/3224679|Two new species of pseudotyrannochthoniine pseudoscorpions are described from western Oregon and northern Utah. These, together with Allochthonius incognitus Schuster, 1966 are placed in the genus Pseudotyrannochthonius, which has heretofore been known only from South America and Australia.
10.2307/3224680|Nineteen species of parasites were obtained from the muskrat, Ondatra zibethicus osoyoosensis (Lord, 1863) Miller, 1912, collected from the marshes along the east side of the Great Salt Lake, Utah. The parasite species consisted of two intestinal protozoa, seven trematode, two cestode, three nematode and four mites. The parasitism of the muskrat in the Bonneville Basin is compared with previous studies in surrounding faunal regions, two in the range of O. z. osoyoosensis and two in muskrat subspecies having adjacent ranges.
10.2307/3224681|Three species of Monstrilla from the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia, Canada, are described and illustrated in detail. Two of these, M. wandelii and M. helgolandica Claus, have not previously been reported from this area, and the male of the former is here described for the first time. The other species, M. spinosa, is new.
10.2307/3224682|During November and December 1964, 92 specimens of Rhigophila dearborni, an antarctic fish belonging to the family Zoarcidae, were captured at McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. The gills of these fish yielded seven specimens of a new tisbid copepod, Neoscutellidium yeatmani.
10.2307/3224683|Fossor angertrudae Honess, 1937 is placed in synonymy with Taenia taxidiensis Skinker, 1935, and T. taxidiensis is transferred to the genus Fossor Honess, 1937 becoming Fossor taxidiensis (Skinker, 1935) n. comb. The genus Fossor is defined to include the specimens described by Skinker (1935) and Rausch (1947).
10.2307/3224684|Electron microscopy of glutaraldehyde-fixed Convoluta roscoffensis reveals that the "striations" previously observed along the inner surfaces of the subepidermal glands are actually microtubules. Because of their position within the protruding gland cells, the microtubules may be important in the adhesion of the animal to the substrate.
10.2307/3224685|With the importation of living materials from Taiwan, Republic of China, the life cycle of Fasciolopsis buski (Lankester, 1857), the giant intestinal fluke of Asia, is currently being maintained in the United States. The snail host, Segmentina hemisphaerula (Benson, 1842) may be cultured with moderate ease and pigs may be employed as definitive hosts. Preliminary susceptibility studies have indicated that most commonly used laboratory animals cannot be infected but the parasite may establish itself temporarily in rabbits or squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus petrinus Thomas, 1927).
10.2307/3224686|Rhythmic pulsation of the paired hepatopancreas is co-ordinated with peristalsis of the midgut in ostracods. Injection of dye and tracer feeding techniques demonstrated that minute particulate materials from the midgut pass alternately into the two lobes of the hepatopancreas when each lobe expands. The mechanical process (excepting the absence of a gastric mill) in freshwater ostracods appears to be similar to the triturition processes of the Malacostraca and suggests a much greater digestive activity in the paired hepatopancreas than has been previously thought.
10.2307/3224687|The growth pattern in Hydra pseudoligactis was studied histologically by mapping out the positions of mitotic cells. Digestive, epithelio-muscular and nonepithelial epidermal cells were analyzed in mass cultured, in individually grown, and in young hydra. In all three cell types, mitotic figures were spread throughout the column above the budding zone. A few mitotic cells were seen in the stalk, but not in the distal parts of tentacles. These mitotic patterns are similar to those reported in other recent studies, and indicate that hydra growth is not as highly localized as has been deduced from experimental studies.
10.2307/3224688|One hundred whiptailed lizards were examined for helminths and five species were recovered, including three of Nematoda and two of Cestoda, one of which was a larval form. Nine lizards were infected with a stomach worm which is described as Thubunaea cnemidophorus n. sp. Data concerning the parasites collected and a discussion of each are presented.
10.2307/3224689|The distribution of neurosecretory cells in the head of the crayfish Faxonella clypeata is unlike that in any other crayfish that has been investigated. The number of neurosecretory cells in the medulla externa of the eyestalk that contained cytoplasmic secretory granules decreased significantly after the crayfish were kept in constant darkness for two weeks as compared with freshly collected specimens, but in crayfish kept on black and on white backgrounds under constant illumination the number of such cells showed no significant change. Cytological aspects of these cells are described. These observations are discussed in relation to those of other investigators.
10.2307/3224690|Collagen, reticulin, and elastin were identified in the term placentae and adnexa of chinchilla, nutria, and baboon, and their location and character noted. Collagen appears to be diminished at term in the endometrium of all three animals. None of these three fibers was identified in the fibrinoid material in the villi of the baboon placenta. Collagen and reticulin are commonly found in equivalent tissues, but elastin is restricted largely to the walls of vascular channels and has fragmentary representation in the myometrium, among trophospongial cells, among subplacental ectodermal cells, and in the labyrinth. Many marked similarities exist among the placentae of these three animals with respect to presence and pattern of fiber distribution, but there are some differences.
10.2307/3224691|The maturation cycle of the secretory cell in the parenchyma of the ultimobranchial body in the adult frog, Rana pipiens, was investigated by radio-autography after the injection of tritiated thymidine. A diurnal rhythm in the uptake of the labeled DNA precursor was noted in both summer and winter glands. A maximum "tritium index" of 1.5% occurred at midnight during the summer; whereas the maximum winter index of 0.23% occurred at 4:00 pm. Various labeled cell types were observed during a 14-day period after injection with labeled thymidine. The sequential phases of cytodifferentiation were determined by the position of the cells and their altered cellular components. After injection of precursor, labeled pairs of cells appeared 8-12 hr later, secretory materials on the third day, and degeneration products on the seventh day. The sequential appearance and disappearance of cellular organelles agrees with the previous electron microscopic interpretation. The presence of a renewal cell system appears to be a mechanism for the maintanance of a secretory parenchyma. Homeostasis may be maintained as the result of a direct relationship between the rate of secretory granule depletion and the degree of mitotic activity.
10.2307/3224692|Lagenophrys callinectes n. sp. (Ciliatea: Peritrichida: Lagenophryidae) is described from the gills of the blue crab (Callinectes sapidus) from Chesapeake Bay, Maryland; Chincoteague Bay, Virginia; Beaufort, North Carolina, and Trenchard's Inlet, South Carolina. This species is unique in the structure of the lips of its lorica aperture, and is the first species of Lagenophrys reported from a marine brachyuran crab. Aspects of its host-commensal relationship, behavior, and reproduction are reported.
10.2307/3224586|Chloroplasts of several species of flowering plants were fixed 5-180 min in 2.5% aqueous KMnO
10.2307/3224587|The histopathological and histochemical effects on the hepatopancreas of the snail Oxytrema siliqua, caused by the larvae of Nanophyetus salmincola, have been studied. The parasite causes damage to the organ by increased pressure, active ingestion of the hepatic tubules, and by the increased burden placed upon the snail in disposing of the waste of the parasite. Glycogen and lipid uptake from the hepatopancreas by the parasite were tested for and found to occur via two routes: active ingestion of hepatic cells by the parasites, and absorption across the body membranes of the parasite. Acid and alkaline phosphatases were found to be in greater quantities in snails infected with N. salmincola when compared to uninfected snails. Alkaline phosphatase was found to be associated with the parasite and is thought to function in the metabolism of glycogen.
10.2307/3224588|When eggs of the pseudophyllidean Diphyllobothrium sebago were tested under conditions simulating those in nature and examined at spaced intervals, hatching occurred. Within 9-20 C and to a depth level of 90 ft the percentage of eggs hatching increased with exposure. The effects of water temperature and depth on the hatching of Diphyllobothrium eggs are discussed.
10.2307/3224589|A new genus and two new species of cyprid freshwater ostracods from the Playa Lakes of eastern New Mexico and western Texas are described.
10.2307/3224590|Recently-hatched oncospheres in the invasive condition, obtained from washed centrifuged stools of infected rats, were prepared as fixed whole mounts on slides, treated with saliva or ribonuclease, then stained with acetic acid-orcein. The general morphology is described by means of a series of photomicrographs from dorsal to ventral levels through the body. The protoplasm of the penetration gland cells, following the dorsal body contour beneath the subcuticular musculature, had an extensive meshwork. The nucleus of each gland cell contained a small nucleolus and moderately evident chromosomes. The region behind the hooks contained the majority of cells, particularly five large embryonic pairs separable into two distinct classes. Class I cells included three pairs with very distinct, thickened chromosomes, arranged as a spireme, an irregular nucleolus, and dense, compact cytoplasm. The class II embryonic cells had the largest nuclei, indistinct chromosomes, but massive nucleoli rich in nucleoprotein.
10.2307/3224591|The amount of suspended carbon present in a culture of Tetrahymena can be measured, with the aid of a colorimeter, before and after the ciliates have fed, and this difference can be regarded as an index of ciliary activity. This can be varied by changing the culture conditions. When transferred from a proteose-peptone medium to distilled water containing carbon 10
10.2307/3224592|Amphipods hypodermically injected with the iron-rich complex ferritin were fed to the planarian Phagocata gracilis gracilis (Haldeman). The Prussian blue staining technique permitted tracing digestion of the ferritin in the cytoplasm and vacuoles of the planarian gastrodermis. Digestion was completed in about 48 hr. Observations suggest pinocytosis as a mechanism of uptake and concentration of the protein liquid prior to digestion.
10.2307/3224593|The fine structure of the fibrillary plate in the central head scale of Fundulus majalis (Walbaum) was determined from thin sections to consist of a central calcified region with hydroxyapatite-like crystals embedded in an amorphous matrix. The upper and lower marginal regions of the plate consist of collagenous fibers in a matrix which directly abuts on layers of cells. These adjacent cells are characterized by an extensive granular endoplasmic reticulum.
10.2307/3224594|Culture 176 from the Paris collection, called Scenedesmus brasiliensis, was studied in a variety of laboratory media over a four-week period. Because the organism is capable of producing large numbers of coenobia with four long corner spines in modified Bristol's and complete media, it is clear that it was misnamed as a S. brasiliensis. Only in soil extract medium were there large percentages of coenobia resembling that species; in the same medium long spines were also produced, especially in young cultures. When NH
10.2307/3224595|The purpose of this study was to investigate some physical and biological parameters affecting the revival of the tardigrade, Macrobiotus areolatus Murray, 1907, from a cryptobiotic state. The animals were dried on filter paper under controlled conditions. Based on per cent survival, optimum recovery conditions were established within experimental ranges of pH 6-8, 5-27 C, and 5-9 mgm/L dissolved oxygen. Studies of revival time over the optimum range indicate significant temperature and oxygen effects, revival time appearing to vary inversely with temperature and dissolved oxygen concentration. The pH effect on revival time is not significant. Preliminary data indicate that nutriton may have an effect on revival time. Well-fed animals revive more rapidly than starved ones. Revival time appears to be directly proportional to the duration of the cryptobiotic state. Possible errors and suggestions for improvement of experimental techniques are cited.
10.2307/3224596|The patterns of development and distribution of collagen, reticulin, and elastin in the placentae and adnexa of the golden hamster, representing day 6 to term, were studied along with non-pregnant and post-partum uteri for comparisons. Collagen becomes widely distributed in the membranes of the gestation sac by mid-term, but diminishes in the endometrium thereafter. The distribution of reticulin follows that of collagen in large measure, and diminishes in the labyrinth in later gestation. Elastin is limited to the myometrium, to walls of umbilical vessels, and to the internal elastic membranes of arteries.
10.2307/3224597|The marine nematode Monhystera filicaudata Allgen, 1929 was isolated from sediment of a Rhode island estuary and maintained in the laboratory in culture. Information is presented which suggests that this nematode feeds primarily on detritus, bacteria, and dinoflagellates. Experiments using the elimination products of the bay scallop, Aequipecten irradians, as food are described. Maturation time of this nematode at 20-25 C required 24-35 days. The total disappearance of the remains of dead nematodes from sub-cultures is noted, and information is presented which suggests they were selectively fed upon by colorless euglenoids also present in the culture medium.
10.2307/3224598| The taxonomic status of the genus Deontostoma Filipjev, 1916 is discussed and the tropis, a structure by which species of Thoracostoma Marion, 1870 may be distinguished from those of Deontostoma, is described. Pseudocella wieseri and T. trachygaster are described as new species and P. panamaense (Allgn, 1947) Platonova, 1962; T. microlobatum Allgn, 1947; D. californicum Steiner & Albin, 1933; D. washingtonense (Murphy, 1965) new comb.; and D. magnificum (Timm, 1951) Platonova, 1962 are redescribed. 
10.2307/3224258| For numerous ciliates formerly considered to be either pleuronematine hymenostomes or arhynchodine thigmotrichs, characteristic patterns have been elucidated in the stomatogenic sequences which attest to the homologous nature of their buccal organelles and their striking developmental similarity. Particularly noteworthy is the presence of a "scutico-field" in all ciliates included in this study. Because of these similarities, and differences in comparison with (other) existing orders of ciliates, a new order, the Scuticociliatida, n. ord., is erected. Three patterns of membranoidogenesis are distinguishable in the stomatogenic sequences which delimit three included suborders: the Pleuronematina Faur-Fremiet; Pseudocohnilembina, n. subord.; and Philasterina, n. subord. Transfer of genera within existing families has been made in order to better reflect ontogenetic similarities. The stomatogenic sequences of the Hymenostomatida, sensu stricto, are compared to those of the Scuticociliatida in order to emphasize fundamental differences between two basically different ontogenetic systems. Homologous relationships are redefined and, as a result, new terminology has had to be introduced. 
10.2307/3224259|Branchial histology and osteology are analyzed in 19 species of darters. There seems to be some correlation between habitat and the number of gill filaments present. Some bones are reduced; others are increased. Many goblet cells and taste buds are present in the branchial epithelium, which is very similar to transitional epithelium between the gill platelets. Differences and similarities between the species investigated are discussed.
10.2307/3224260|Five new species of Gyrodactylus are described: G. colemanensis from Salmo gairdneri Richardson, Coleman National Fish Hatchery, Anderson (Shasto Co.) and Navarro River (Mendocino Co.); G. crysoleucas from Notemigonus crysoleucas (Mitchill), Rooney Pond, 17 miles east of Sacramento (Sacramento Co.) (all) California; G. lacustris from Pimephales promelas Rafinesque, Cottonwood Lake, two miles north of Butte (McHenry Co.), North Dakota; G. perforatus from Clevelandia ios (Jordan & Gilbert), Bodega Lagoon (Sonoma Co.); and G. variabilis from Notemigonus crysoleucas, Rooney Pond, 17 miles east of Sacramento (Sacramento Co.) (both) California. Gyrodactylus hoffmani Wellborn & Rogers, 1967, is recorded from Pimephales promelas, Cottonwood Lake, two miles north of Butte (McHenry Co.), North Dakota. Parasite-host and host-parasite lists, and a key to the North American species of Cyrodactylus are provided.
10.2307/3224261|Two species of ostracods, Cypridopsis vidua and Cypricercus reticulatus, accidentally brought into the laboratory with lake water, propagate rapidly and tend to prevent successful snail culture. The damage to snails by ostracods is caused by physical contact, which irritates the snails and causes them to withdraw into their shells. Inactivation of snails increases the opportunity for attack by ostracods. In addition, apertures of young snails are often partially or completely blocked by eggs of ostracods, which inhibit feeding and locomotion. Snail egg masses are also destroyed when the concentration of ostracods becomes high, or when there is insufficient food for them.
10.2307/3224262| Filamoeba nolandi n. g., n. sp., is a freshwater amoeba with clear, filose, sometimes branching pseudopods produced from a hyaline zone. The actively locomotive amoeba has various shapes and is bipolar; the less active attached form tends to be multipolar, greatly extended, and very irregular in outline. Besides the single nucleus, the principal inclusions are several to many contractile vacuoles. Reproduction is by binary fission, accompanied by mitosis with early disintegration of nucleolus and nuclear membrane. The smooth-walled cysts may be spherical, ovoid, or reniform; the wall contains polysaccharide and lipid material and probably some protein. Excystment is through a hole digested or burst in the wall. Indications of cannibalism are reported. Greatest dimension of extended trophic form up to about 50 ; nucleus 3.4-5.5 ; cyst 8-15 . It is suggested that Filamoeba should be included in the order Amoebida, since in all characteristics except the production of filose pseudopods it resembles the "lobose" amoebae of that order. 
10.2307/3224263|Well-preserved petrified plant fossils including members of the Lepidodendrales, Calamitales, Coenopteridales, and Pteridospermales have recently been discovered in Upper Mississippian sediments of Arkansas. This constitutes the most extensive petrifaction flora now known from the Upper Mississippian of North America and should provide much needed information concerning the internal structure of late Mississippian vascular plants.
10.2307/3224264| Electron microscopical observations on the extracellular structures of the resting cyst of Blepharisma stoltei are reported. The outer cyst wall consists of closely knitted fibrils and has an average thickness of 0.46 . Bacteria have been observed adhering to the outer wall. Pocket-like structures are found randomly on the inside of the outer wall. Between the two cyst walls is found an area of woven fibrils. The inner wall consists of three layers and has an average thickness of 1 . The plug is composed of a homogenous material and is almost conical in structure. A small thin layer of plug material continues around the encysted organism as the innermost layer of the inner wall. The cytochemical nature of the extracellular material is also considered. The structure, function, and origins of these extracellular structures are discussed. 
10.2307/3224265|A quantitative immobilization test for Tetrahymena pyriformis is described in which, after treatment with immune sera, an estimate of ciliary activity is obtained by examining the animals to see whether or not they are able to remove colloidal carbon from solution. The concentration of serum which inhibits 50% of the carbon uptake by untreated cells is taken as the end point. This end point has been shown to be proportional to both the concentration of the antiserum, and the number of animals used. In the latter case the relationship has been found to be linear.
10.2307/3224266| The axoneme of a mature flagellum in a sperm of Polytrichum juniperinum contains a double helix of two 500  ribbons, between the central fibers and the peripheral doublets. This double helix resembles what is found in the axonemes of flatworm sperm, but the presence of two central fibers in the Polytrichum axoneme sets it apart from the axonemes of flatworm sperms. The double helix is bonded to the peripheral doublets and appears late in the maturation of the flagellum. 
10.2307/3224267|Twenty-six species of Tubificidae, 12 Naididae, and 1 Lumbriculidae were found in three regions of Lake Michigan-Green Bay, the southern end of the lake proper, and the harbor at Ludington, Michigan. One new naidid species is described. Methods of identification of some species are discussed and illustrated. The abundance of oligochaetes and distribution of certain species vary with depth and location. Data are presented on the effects of the environment on the distribution of certain species. The presence or absence of some species reflected the quality of the environment; some were prevalent in polluted waters whereas others were restricted or absent. Possible changes in composition and abundance of species are outlined if organic enrichment increases in Lake Michigan.
10.2307/3224268|Microdensitometric determinations revealed nuclei belonging to three or four DNA classes with a doubling of the DNA content from class to class in the livers of breeding specimens of the frog genus Pseudacris. Quantitative cytochemical studies of the nuclear protein indicate that these nuclei behave exactly like polyploid nuclei of other frog species although the range of nuclear sizes within each class was smaller than in the genus Rana. These livers may therefore be regarded as polysomatic tissues even in the absence of chromosome analyses.
10.2307/3224269|The specific DNA values per nucleus have been determined by microdensitometry of Feulgen and gallocyanin chromalum stained hepatocyte and erythrocyte nuclei in 15 species of marine fish. A comparison of Feulgen and gallocyanin data with biochemical estimates of DNA per nuclears allow conversion of the microspectrophotometric data into picograms of DNA per nucleus. Comparisons between modal nuclear size and DNA content of hepatocyte and nucleated erythrocytes indicated that a correlation exists, but less perfect than when similar data is obtained for nuclei showing a wider variation in DNA per nucleus than was included in this series. Some aspects of nuclear size variation are discussed.
10.2307/3224270| Twenty-eight golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus Waterhouse) representing days 6-15 of pregnancy, the postpartum condition, as well as the non-pregnant state, were used to study, following intraperitoneal injection of tritiated thymidine, the pattern of DNA synthesis in the uterus, yolk sac and allantoic placentae, and adnexa, during the course of development and differentiation, by means of autoradiography. Tables and graphs of the mitotic indices obtained demonstrate the varying cell proliferation activity from day to day in six uterine and 11 placental (and adnexa) tissues, and the difference among these several tissues. Uterine tissues have an overall range of mitotic index from a low of 0.26% in the myometrium, to a high of 10.23% in the myometrial fibroblasts. Fetal membranes have an overall range from a low of 1.63% in the visceral yolk sac mesoderm, to a high of 22.23% in the Trger. The labyrinth undergoes a remarkable increase in volume, and irrespective of how much conversion there may be of trophospongium into labyrinth, evidence points to an important participation of interstitial growth within the labyrinth. 
10.2307/3224271|Three species of Vorticella, V. octava, V. aequilata, and V. convallaria, from activated sludge in England are redescribed. The morphology of the healthy organisms and the range of size variation were defined by a study of clonal populations of the species. The morphology of the pellicular striations in V. octava and V. aequilata, as revealed by Klein's silverline method, is described and compared with findings reported from V. microstoma by Finley et al., and V. convallaria by Lowe et al. The significance of studies on pellicular striations in the taxonomy of the genus Vorticella is discussed. It is concluded that silver-impregnated pellicular striations are valuable taxonomic criteria, and that clonal populations of vorticellas should be studied before new species are defined.
10.2307/3224333|Ontogenetic information, properly considered, can play a role in reconstruction of metazoan phylogenies; and it is proposed that such data can also be of value in postulating phylogenetic interrelationships among certain groups within the phylum Protozoa. One must agree at the outset that protozoa have ontogenies. Several other assumptions are employed: that certain present-day forms have gone essentially unchanged for many aeons; that there is positive correspondence between degree of similarity and recency of common ancestry; that the "simple" is commonly ancestral to the "complex." As a source of examples of possible ontogenetic recapitulation of phylogeny, the ciliate protozoa are chosen because of the convenience of the infraciliature in comparative studies of morphogenetic phenomena occurring during ciliate ontogenies (life cycles). Selected specific illustrations involve several groups of the Ciliophora at the subclass or ordinal level: the astomes, the trichostomes, the chonotrichs, the suctorians, the peritrichs, the holotrichs (and spirotrichs), and the hymenostomes (and scuticociliates). Patterns of stomatogenesis may often supply valuable clues in determination of possible phylogenetic interrelationships. Dangers and pitfalls to the use of ontogeny in reconstructing protozoan phylogenies are many (e.g., recognition of homology, selection, polyphyly, parallel and convergent evolution, adaptation to similar environment) and thus extreme caution must be employed; but it is suggested that protozoologists, so warned, might well make worthwhile progress in this field of research.
10.2307/3224334|The taxonomic status of the genus Cateria Gerlach is discussed and a new suborder, Cryptorhagae, established. Cateria styx Gerlach is redescribed on the basis of new topotype-material and a lectotype and paralectotype are designated. The postembryonic life history of Echinoderes bookhouti Higgins and homalorhagid kinorhynchs is compared with that of C. styx. Habroderella orientalis Kirsteuer and Hapaloderes manglaris Kirsteuer are synonymized with Echinoderes caribiensis Kirsteuer. Cateria gerlachi is described as a new species from Waltair, India. The phylogenetic relationships of the kinorhynch taxa are discussed.
10.2307/3224335|Methods of distinguishing small lymphocytes from thrombocytes in the circulating blood of marine fishes are discussed. The literature commonly gives descriptions only of typical mature cells of each type. However, the circulating blood contains juvenile and senile degenerating stages as well, which have quite different structural and staining properties. A series of illustrations is given, showing these other stages commonly found in the circulating blood.
10.2307/3224336|In the present study, the significance of the presence of alkaline and acid phosphatases in the epithelial cells lining the pores and the lateral line canals and also the border of the sensory and supporting cells of the neuromast organs are linked with the permeability processes. The significance of the presence or absence of the phosphatases in various sites of the cells of the neuromast organs are discussed from the functional point of view of the elements composing the sense organs.
10.2307/3224337|White and yellow tissues of virescent corn mutants contain plastids that have abnormal structure. In this regard, the virescent mutants resemble lethals. Abnormalities range from the near absence of internal lamellae, through loosely constructed prolamellar bodies, unusual aggregations of lamellae, and abnormally large grana. The fully-greened tissues of the mutants contained mostly normal plastids and a small number of abnormal plastids that bore a resemblance to plastids in the ungreened tissues. Where abnormally large grana were formed in the ungreened tissues, these persisted through greening in both mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells.
10.2307/3224338|Certain features were found which contribute to the widespread success of Polyarthra vulgaris as a planktonic organism. The integument is modified internally into posterior attachment ledges and anterior hook-like structures to which the welldeveloped longitudinal muscles controlling the paddles are attached. An extracellular cuticle is present on parts of the body wall, but most of its rigidity appears to be provided by an intracellular layer of varying thickness, called the rigid intracellular layer by Koehler (1965). There is continuity between the pseudocoel and the cavity of the paddles, suggesting that they may arise as hollow bladders which become flattened. The lateral antennae, egg thread gland, and musculature are described. An organelle, possibly chemo-tactic in function, and found at the mouth opening is also described. Almost all of the adaptations observed contribute to the skipping motion for which Polyarthra is noted. The usefulness of this motion in escaping from predators is discussed.
10.2307/3224339|The bactericidal and algicidal properties of formalin, mercuric chloride, and Merthiolate were tested using grab riverwater samples and cultures of Scenedesmus bijuga and Cyclotella meneghiniana. Formalin was bactericidal in grab samples at a concentration of 1.0%, and arrested algal growth at a concentration of 0.01% to 0.1%. Mercuric chloride was bactericidal and algicidal at 13-27 mg per liter. Merthiolate arrested algal growth at 1 mg per liter when accompanied by an equal concentration of iodine. Although not bactericidal at concentrations as high as 1 gm per liter, Merthiolate when used in combination with iodine satisfactorily stabilized algal counts in stored samples and was superior to formalin and mercuric chloride in preserving the morphology and color of the algae.
10.2307/3224340|Whole mounts of invasive oncospheres and sectioned tapeworms were stained to show cell differences. Stains included azure B for RNA, toluidine blue for mucopolysaccharides, periodic acid Schiff procedures, methyl green-pyronin, and acetic acid-orcein. The enzymes ribonuclease, hyaluronidase, diastase, and those in saliva were used in combination with above stains. Results-Class I: Nucleus with thick, coiled chromosomes; the compact cytoplasm was rich in RNA, protein, and acid mucopolysaccharides. Developmental features showed cell growth, accumulation of cell products, and future multiplication. Class II: Large nucleus in vesicular interphase condition, indistinct thread-like chromosomes, enlarged chromatin masses along chromosomes and nuclear membrane. Nucleolus was very large and rich in RNA and protein. The cytoplasmic RNA was confined to a narrow perinuclear ring. Metachromasy with toluidine blue was absent. Developmental features included regression of cytoplasm, decrease in nuclear size, clumping of chromatin. Conclusions-Class I embryonic cells are plastin germinative cells with secretory functions and mitotic capacity to form embryonic mesenchyme. Class II represent somatic cells in permanent interphase.
10.2307/3224341|The Aufwuchs populations inhabiting inundated trees in two mainstem Missouri River reservoirs were investigated from April 1964 to January 1966. Periphyton standing crops in Lewis and Clark Lake reached maximum densities in May 1964 and 1965. Standing crop levels were variable during the remainder of the years. Periphyton distribution in deep water of Lake Francis Case (10 m) was stratified due to light extinction. The distribution of the macrofauna, composed primarily of midge larvae, was closely correlated to that of the periphyton. Midges use the inundated trees as pupation and adult eclosion sites.
10.2307/3224434|The family Hadrotarsidae, whose relationship to other spider families has been uncertain, has been found close to the Theridiidae and Symphytognathidae. Evidence for this placement is the structure of the genitalia, the shape of the carapace, and the spinnerets, and the kind of setae on the fourth leg. Hadrotarsus babirussa Thorell, the type species of the genus, is illustrated for the first time.
10.2307/3224435| The placentae and uterus of the golden hamster representing days 6-16 (term) were stained for glycogen with periodic-Schiff and Best's carmine, and checked with diastase. Glycogen is present in consistently great quantities in the Trger, trophospongium, myometrium, uterine glands, and tunica media of blood vessels. Glycogen appears in great quantities in the visceral yolk sac on day 11 and remains as such until term. Glycogen was observed in small quantities in the proximal area of the parietal yolk sac entoderm which adjoins the visceral yolk sac, as well as in the splanchnic mesoderm of the visceral yolk sac, from day 11 to term. Endometrial glycogen concentration decreases progressively in quantity during gestation as the endometrial cells become compressed. There is slightly less glycogen in the interlocular than in the locular regions of the uterus. The residual trophoblast cells in the labyrinth stain for glycogen throughout the remainder of gestation. Glycogen may occasionally be noted here and there in the uterine epithelium. 
10.2307/3224436|A new genus of marine nematode, Sphaerotheristus n. g., is described from East Pakistan. Five species are assigned to it: S. macrostoma (Timm, 1963) n. comb. (type species), S. supoti n. sp., S. bengalensis n. sp., S. pseudodentatus n. sp., and S. sonadiae n. sp.
10.2307/3224437|Descriptions are given for five new species of Hydracarina from Boulder County, Colorado. They are Sperchon longipalpis n. sp., and S. conjugatus n. sp. from gravel of mountain stream beds, and Piona coloradensis n. sp., P. niwotensis n. sp., and Midea alaris n. sp. from the littoral of lakes.
10.2307/3224438|The ultrastructure of mature pyrenoids is described for zoospores and actively growing vegetative cells of Oedogonium cardiacum. In all cases, the matrix of the mature pyrenoid is penetrated by an unusual system of remified cytoplasmic channels which are lined by two membranes that are continuous with the two membranes of the chloroplast envelope. These channels represent invasions of extraplastidial cytoplasm into the chloroplast and pyrenoid matrix. Only two other algal genera, Platymonas and Prasinocladus, are presently known to form pyrenoids in which the matrix is similarly penetrated by channels lined with the invaginated chloroplast envelope. Other ultrastructural differences, however, readily distinguish the pyrenoids of these two genera from the pyrenoids of Oedogonium cardiacum.
10.2307/3224439|Helminths were recovered from 235 (57%) of 412 Panamanian primates. Five species of trematodes, three species of cestodes, 14 species of nematodes, and three species of acanthocephalans were found. Seventeen new host records and 15 new locality records are reported. Spirura tamarini Cosgrove, Nelson & Jones, 1963, is regarded as a synonym of S. guianensis (Ortlepp, 1924). Zonorchis goliath Travassos, 1945, and Echinostoma aphylactum Dietz, 1909, are reported from primates for the first time and Parabronema bonnei (van Thiel, 1925) Diaz-Ungria, 1965, and Controrchis biliophilus Price, 1928, are reported from primates for the third time.
10.2307/3224440|Plasmodia of Didymium nigripes which had grown on a variety of bacteria and yeasts, or on a variety of media, were tested for the ability to fuse with one another. Plasmodia fused in every case. Autoradiography was used to study the mixing of fused plasmodia. The rate of mixing was dependent primarily on the pattern of fusion, but in every case plasmodia 1 cm wide had completely mixed by 90 min after fusion.
10.2307/3224441|The gastric exocrine cells, found in the epithelium lining the first two-fifths of the stomach of the purple sea urchin, have the characteristic fine structure of protein exporting cells. The basal cytoplasm is packed with a highly-developed, rough endoplasmic reticulum and the apical cytoplasm contains membrane-bound secretory granules. The secretory granules are perhaps formed in dilated portions of the Golgi cisternae. The fine structural similarity of this sea urchin cell type to mammalian zymogen cells lends support to the idea that the gastric exocrine cells are the source of sea urchin digestive enzymes.
10.2307/3224444|Historical origins of interstitial investigations are presented; major habitats having close relationships with the psammolittoral are discussed; and certain major discoveries are reviewed.
10.2307/3224445|Suggestions are presented for the clarification and standardization of terminology used in interstitial investigations. Sampling procedures are reviewed and certain techniques discussed. Recommendations concerning the establishment of a standardized terminology and of certain research procedures are presented.
10.2307/3224446|Most work on interstitial microfauna has been done in the intertidal zone. More quantitative information on the subtidal is necessary. Some methods are proposed for sampling the undisturbed sea bottom by either ships or diving. For separation of the vagile interstitial fauna, especially ciliates and flagellates from the sediment, a sample method using seawater-ice is described. The animals are forced out of the sediment due to the high salinity of the melted seawater and the subsequent streaming action.
10.2307/3224447|Concentration of benthic aquatic microfauna can be expressed as number per unit volume of water. The largest concentrations will generally occur where the greatest amount of substrate is available per unit volume of water. High densities of benthic ciliated protozoa might be predicted to occur in particulate substrates, such as marine sand, and filamentous substrates, such as algal mats. This paper is based on quantitative sampling of both types of habitats for ciliated protozoa, including beach sand and diatom detritus mud (particulate), and tidal marsh algal mats filamentous). Correlations between abundance of species and locomotory and morphological adaptations differ in the different habitats. Data on relative and absolute abundance of the ciliates studied in this investigation are used to examine some of the conclusions of earlier workers on ciliate community ecology, the relationship of locomotory type to abundance, and relative diversity and concentration of ciliates in particulate and filamentous habitats. Means whereby coexisting congeners avoid competition are discussed, and the possible role of benthic ciliates in community metabolism and energetics is explored.
10.2307/3224448|The adaptations of sand dwelling Turbellaria may be correlated with the occurrence of the animals in particular parts of the interstitial sand habitat. Highly-elongated forms are characteristic of the intertidal subsurface sand and it is postulated that the elongation is an adaptation to the rise and fall of water in the interstitial spaces and to the presence of air bubbles during low tide. An elongated body would provide traction with the sand grains against the water currents and would also prevent the animals becoming entangled in the surface film of small air bubbles. In contrast to these subsurface sand animals, the otoplanids found in the swash zone are less elongated and are characterized by extreme development of the adhesive glands and by highly developed muscles which give the animal great rapidity of movement. Species found in the smaller-grained subtidal sands are smaller and less specialized. Finally, species found in a unique sand-flat environment near Dennis on Cape Cod are the least specialized of any studied. They live only in the upper few centimeters of the sand and it is suggested they may represent the beginnings of an evolution toward interstitial adaptations.
10.2307/3224449|Morphological variations in the life history of Batillipes mirus are compared with those of B. bullacaudatus n. sp. Appendages and head width grow at a slower rate than trunk dimensions, requiring careful interpretation of their relative lengths as taxonomic criteria. A new juvenile stage with four rather than six toes is reported for B. mirus. The distribution of B. mirus is reviewed. Batillipes mirus and B. bullacaudatus n. sp. are reported from beaches of the York River near Yorktown, Virginia, and Woods Hole, Massachusetts. Additional distribution records are reported for Stygarctus bradypus (Massachusetts, Virginia, North Carolina, and Jamaica), Halechiniscus remanei (Virginia), and Echiniscoides sigismundi (Massachusetts and North Carolina).
10.2307/3224450|By subjecting tissue placed in 2% celloidin to alternating pressure (200250 psi) and vacuum, impregnation of the tissue and concentration of the celloidin are greatly accelerated, so that embedding of tissue can be accomplished in one day.
10.2307/3224813|Momentary treatment with 20% sucrose caused the ciliate Stentor coeruleus to shed the membranellar cilia, which were regenerated in situ, presumably from the original kinetosomes left in place. Body cilia were not affected. In situ outgrowth of new membranellar cilia occurred independently of oral primordium formation and did not require the presence of the macronucleus, which is indispensable for primordium formation and development.
10.2307/3224814|A careful morphological comparison was made between two similar, often confused species of the genus Euplotes: eurystomus and aediculatus. The studies were made on specimens prepared by two different methods: stained with picro-indigo-carmine and impregnated with silver (Chatton-Lwoff, as modified by Corliss, 1953). Living animals were observed with a prototype Francon-Yamamoto differential polarizing interference microscope. The number of lateral dorsal kineties was eight in E. aediculatus and ten in E. eurystomus. The persistomal cavity of E. eurystomus transected the anterior-posterior body axis while that of E. aediculatus nearly paralleled it. The anal cirri were V-shaped in both species, but the distance between the posterior edge of the buccal cavity and the median anal cirrus was greater in E. eurystomus. The macronucleus from the ventral view was "3"-shaped in E. eurystomus, while in E. aediculatus it was a mirror image "C." E. aediculatus had a niche in the right border of the buccal cavity. The right edge of the median lip appeared in living animals of both species as a thin, waving, undulating structure.
10.2307/3224815| A modified and simplified version of the Chatton-Lwoff silver impregnation technique, which allows one to handle a large amount of material in a relatively short time, is described and discussed. Concentrated ciliates are fixed in centrifuge tubes with Champy's fixative, and then washed into DaFano's fixative. Slides are made on a slide warmer set at 40-45 C. A tiny drop of concentrated cells is placed on a warm slide, and a larger drop of liquefied gelatin is added. A warm needle is used to stir and spread the preparation, the thickness of which is regulated by the degree of spreading. The liquefied preparation is solidified by cooling on a moist cold surface, then rinsed with distilled water, and placed on a slide rack within a cold 3% silver nitrate bath. The slides are kept in silver nitrate for -24 hr, and then simultaneously dehydrated and reduced by passage of the slide racks through cold alcohol mixtures (70-80-95-100%) while they are exposed to sunlight or other strong light. The slides are then placed in xylene for 10-15 min, and mounted. The mounted slides are placed on a white pan and exposed, on both sides, to bright light for several hours, to complete reduction of silver. The critical steps of the technique are discussed. 
10.2307/3224816|A study of change in statolith form, size, and number was made, using snails maintained under controlled laboratory conditions. Two types of statoliths, a lamellate and a non-lamellate, were identified. The average number of statoliths per statocyst increased through time, reaching approximately 400 at an age of 120 days. The maximum size of statoliths also increased through time. Crowding experiments indicated that the latter increase was related to snail size rather than snail age. Possible interpretations of statolith change in Pomacea are evaluated.
10.2307/3224817|The discovery that Aurelia developing in media lacking sulfate failed to form statoliths emphasized the need for the accurate identification of the chemical composition of statoliths. Statoliths dissected from Aurelia medusae were studied by X-ray diffraction, X-ray spectrometry, and polarizing microscopy for chemical composition. The results from each method indicated that the statoliths were calcium sulfate dihydrate, CaSO
10.2307/3224818|In the turbellarian Dugesia tigrina (Girard), the cytoplasm of the columnar cells of the gastrodermis contains the enzyme trimetaphosphatase (E.C.3.6.1.2). Enzyme activity rises during digestion of food. Variable amounts of the enzyme are also present in one structural component of the parenchyma. This is the first demonstration of trimetaphosphatase in an invertebrate animal.
10.2307/3224819|Nine species of the genus Bucephaloides and eight of Rhipidocotyle were found in a survey of 103 fish species from the northern Gulf of Mexico. One new species in each of the genera is described and new locality records are given for B. caecorum, B. callicotyle, B. longicirrus, B. longoviferus, B. meqacirrus, B. trichiuri, R. adbaculum, R. anqusticolle, R. longleyi, and R. nagatyi. New host records are reported for R. adbaculum and R. anqusticolle.
10.2307/3224820|Collections of Daphnia dubia were made with pump and net through a fixed intake at 3 m depth, each night between 2100 and 2400 hr, in Harveys Lake, Pennsylvania, from 27 June through 7 August 1966. No correlation existed between upward movements of daphnids and moonlight, but a significant correlation was noted between the number of daphnids caught at 3 m from 2100 to 2400 hr and the number of hours of unclouded sunshine during the previous diel photoperiod; the more hours of sunshine the smaller the number of daphnids taken.
10.2307/3224821|During the austral summers of 1964-65 and 1965-66, blood smears were prepared from 160 vertebrates (48 birds of five species, 111 fishes of five species, and one mammal) collected in the vicinity of McMurdo Sound and Hallett Station, Antarctica. The smears were subsequently examined for haematozoa. All birds and the mammal proved negative. Three fishes of three species, Trematomus bernacchii, T. hansoni, and T. loennbergi ("Antarctic cods"), each harbored a hemogregarine that is described but not designated a new species. A monoflagellate organism with possible kinetoplastid affinities, found on smears from one Rhigophilia dearborni ("Antarctic eel pout"), is also described; because of its unique characteristics, this organism cannot be placed in any existing genus. Ecological considerations dealing with the apparent relationships between haematozoa and antarctic vertebrates are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3224822|Neutral formalin-fixed sections of the mantle from the quahog clam Mercenaria mercenaria were subjected to a variety of histochemical reactions for mucosubstances. The results of these reactions on the first, or outer, fold indicate that a sulfated connective tissue glycosaminoglycan is secreted beneath the outer epithelium in the area where most of the new shell is deposited. The mucus is strongly alcianophilic at pH 1.0 and 2.5, and the alcianophilia persists when the tissues are stained with alcian blue in concentrations of up to 0.6 m magnesium chloride. The material also reacts strongly with aldehyde fuchsin and high iron diamine when these reagents are followed by alcian blue. Interestingly, the mucus is also periodic acid-Schiff positive, which is unusual for sulfated connective tissue mucosubstances. Testicular hyaluronidase has no effect on the staining characteristics of the mucus. Because of the localization of the mucus in the shell-forming area of the mantle, and positive von Kossa reactions for calcium, it is suggested that this material may play some role in shell deposition.
10.2307/3224824|A new cyclopoid copepod, Cyclops (Apocyclops) spartinus n. sp., from the Spartina patens salt marshes of New Jersey is described. The species is contrasted with the closely allied C. dimorphus, C. panamensis, and Apocyclops japonensis and as far as possible, with C. dengizicus, C. procerus, and A. borneoensis. A threesegmented second antenna is noted for the first time for C. dimorphus, C. panamensis, and C. spartinus. Previously only the genus Halicyclops had been shown to have this character, all other Cyclopidae having four-segmented second antennae. The manner in which this character originates in these species of Cyclops is different from the manner in which it originates in Halicyclops. It is suggested that these species belong in a separate genus, but that C. dengizicus, C. procerus, A. borneoensis, A. royi, and Metacyclops species should be surveyed for this and other characters.
10.2307/3224825|Two algae, Tabellaria fenestrata var. geniculata A. Cleve, a diatom and Coelastrum reticulatum var. polychordon Korschik, a green alga, are described from Lake Huron and recorded for the first time for the United States. Their distribution in Lake Huron is related to known current circulation patterns and water masses of the lake. Charts indicate their distribution for three synoptic surveys.
10.2307/3224211|Neurosecretory material appears in larvae at approximately 40 hr of age with a gradual increase in amount to 120 hr. At 120 hr neurosecretory granules appear in the axons and remain in both axons and cells throughout the larval development. Neurosecretory granules are observed in cells and axons of adult males from time of emergence to 96 hr of age. Changes occur in nuclear and cellular diameter which may be a result of aging. Females receiving no blood meal show neurosecretory granules present in cells and axons from the point of emergence to 120 hr. Females receiving one or multiple blood meals show neurosecretory granules in axons and cells prior to and immediately after a blood meal. There is a slight decrease in the density of granules in the cells one hour after a blood meal. There are some differences in nuclear and cellular diameter which may indicate physiological activity in the cell, but the cells and axons are continually filled with a substance which is stainable by the aldehyde fuchsin method. Only aldehyde fuchsin positive cells in the pars intercerebralis were considered.
10.2307/3224213|Techniques have been developed for viewing selected areas of polished and etched sections of skeletal materials by light microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and scanning electron microscopy. An ultrastructural analysis of the nacreous and prismatic layers of the gastropod Cittarium pica (L.) is presented to illustrate these techniques. Applications of the selected area techniques to the study of disaggregated skeletal particles, such as those found in fine-grained carbonate sediments, are suggested. The results demonstrate the usefulness of the scanning electron microscope in coordinating and accelerating ultrastructural research and indicate that it will be a most valuable tool in future submicroscopic skeletal investigations.
10.2307/3224216| The shell ultrastructure of the gastropod Cittarium pica (L.) (Recent; Bimini, Bahamas) has been studied by means of correlated light and scanning electron microscopy of growth surfaces, fracture surfaces, and polished and etched sections. Four distinct shell layers occur. The unnamed distalmost layer appears to consist of a mixture of two different polymorphs of calcium carbonate, one orthorhombic and the other hexagonal in symmetry. Solution effects are noted on the surface of the distal layer at the contact with the prismatic layer. On the growth surface the prismatic layer consists of longitudinally laminated, pointed blades which grow vertically in the proximal direction. The crystals of the nacreous layer are deposited in crystal stacks oriented perpendicular to the growth surface. At depth the nacreous crystals expand laterally and merge evenly with crystals of neighboring stacks to form the layers which characterize the "brick wall" construction of mother-of-pearl. The proximal layer consists of prisms which grow at an oblique angle (approximately 45) to the growth surface and incline toward the aperture. Existing hypotheses explaining molluscan calcification emphasize the horizontal aspects of organic matrix deposition and crystal growth. These models do not explain satisfactorily the vertical growth features observed in this study by scanning electron microscopy. 
10.2307/3224217|The laboratory study of culture populations of Allogromia laticollaris, Spiroloculina hyalina, Cornuspira lajollaensis, and Discorinopsis aguayoi indicates that the variation potential of each is appreciably greater than the geologically oriented taxonomy of the order generally recognizes it to be. The biologist, though, in no position to discredit species and genera peremptorily on the basis of laboratory studies of living populations alone, must first carefully examine the stratigraphic record of each species he studies in order to see what phylogenetic evidence for the taxon's validity might lie buried in the rocks and must also examine large natural populations throughout as much of their geographical range as possible to determine therein the incidence of each suspect variant. Even in the absence of this essential spatial "breadth" and temporal "depth," however, his laboratory studies of variation potentials can still administer occasional disciplinary jolts that might evoke further analogical reasoning and the reexamination of taxonomic decisions concerning uniparental species of foraminifera.
10.2307/3224218|Ten aquatic beetles (Tropisternis lateralis) were used to obtain a series of external washings and gut washings which were cultured over a seven-week period and examined for the presence of algae and protozoa. Two to seven times more genera of algae and protozoa were found to be transported internally than externally. Algae and protozoa carried in the gut of a migrating beetle would be much less affected by environmental conditions (i.e., desiccation, high temperatures, and radiation) which may severely limit the viability of algae and protozoa transported externally on the insect's body. This research establishes that T. lateralis is an important dispersal agent in the transport of algae and protozoa.
10.2307/3224219| Immature hexacanths with oncoblasts containing hooks in early shank formation (defined as early Stage II in a previous paper) are described with diagrams and photomicrographs. Living specimens and acetic acid-orcein stained whole mounts were examined. Three envelopes were evident around the embryo: 1) shell; 2) an outer subshell envelope with two polar nuclei; and 3) an inner granular envelope embryophore) with three macromere nuclei. The embryo had marked bilateral and dorsal-ventral symmetry shown by pairing of most cells. The six oncoblasts each contained a specifically different hook blade. The somatic cell pattern included axial cells along the anterior-posterior line and cortical cells near the oncoblasts. Two flask-shaped giant cells (A, A), prominent in the posterior dorsal cortex, contained a protoplasmic meshwork. In the posterior quadrants two pairs of germinative or embryonic stem cells, divided once to form daughter embryonic cells. Thus, during Stage II five pairs of large embryonic cells were present, divisible into two morphological classes. The lineage and continuity of cells can be traced from this immature stage through the invasive, to the reorganizing oncosphere. The numerous somatic cells had somewhat fixed positions, did not divide during this period, and did not degenerate until after hooks were completed in the mature (Stage IV) oncosphere. 
10.2307/3224220|Analysis of high speed 16 mm cinephotomicrographs of the quadriflagellate Polytomella agilis and of polystyrene spheres in the medium shows that: 1) Usually the two flagella on each side of the anterior end of P. agilis beat synchronously in a latero-posterior cilia-type beat; 2) Unlike typical cilia which have an effective stroke duration shorter than the return stroke, P. agilis flagella have a slower effective stroke occupying 70-90% of the total cycle; 3) By applying Stokes' law to the action of the flagella on polystyrene spheres in the medium, the beating forces are estimated to be about 1.2 x 10
10.2307/3224221|Cercaria gorgonocephala is redescribed and its range extended from Lake Erie to the Allsea River, Oregon, where Oxytrema silicula (Gould), serves as host. The flame cell formula is 2 [(1 + 1 + 1 + 1) + (1 + 1 + 1 + 1)] = 16. Comparison of this species with other cercariae indicates that it is a member of the family Psilostomidae and supports the view that aggregation is a secondary adaptation without phylogenetic significance.
10.2307/3224222|The tegument of the digenetic trematode Megalodiscus temperatus is devoid of mitochondria. Vesicles in the tegument contain periodic acid thiocarbohydrazide-positive material (PATCO-positive). A similar reaction is found in the Golgi area of the subtegumental cells. No ferritin is taken up by the tegument of the vesicles even after prolonged periods of exposure to the colloid (3 hr). An enzyme capable of hydrolyzing several nucleosidepolyphosphates is associated with those vesicles aligned at the surface of the tegument. A similarly acting enzyme is found at the plasma membrane of the subtegumental cells. The possible significance of these enzymes is discussed.
10.2307/3224223|The isolation of amoebae from soil and meltwater ponds from several locations on Ross Island and the nearby exposed mainland of Antarctica revealed a variety of non-testate amoeboid forms. Three families of amoeba were represented in the collection: Chaidae, Mayorellidae, and Thecamoebidae. These families included six genera and eight species.
10.2307/3224224|An electron microscopical study of two representative species of the peritrich family Scyphidiidae, Scyphidia ubiquita and S. inclinata n. sp., is presented. Special attention has been paid to the structure of the holdfast organelle of these ectoparasitic ciliates, the scopula. In both species, the scopular disc is a very prominent structure. Its adhesive surface (=the scopula proper) is covered by a pellicle which is highly modified, if compared with the rest of the body, and has quite flat pellicular pores. In S. ubiquita the scopular kinetosomes are rather anomalous in that they are of a much shorter shape than the rest of the somatic and buccal kinetosomes; and scopular cilia are not at all developed. The scopular surface secretes a substance for attachment of the ciliate to the surface of its host. In S. inclinata the scopular kinetosomes are of a size conforming to the kinetosomes of the rest of the body, and they give rise to long scopular cilia of typical ultrastructure. These cilia are firmly wedged among the microvilli of the surface of the host's body, assuring firm attachment of the ciliate. The structural peculiarities described for the two species may be regarded as genuine adaptations to the ectoparasitic way of life.
10.2307/3224659|Born in a northern Illinois village of teacher parents, moved at 3 1/2 years to the home farm near Dixon which became my home until marriage. Educated in country schools, in NISNS three years, University of Illinois, Urbana six years, shorter periods at Johns Hopkins and Cambridge (England) Universities. Career at Kansas State University, Manhattan, as Zoologists, and Parasitologist of Agricultural Experiment Station. Taught elementary and advanced zoology and parasitology, 1913-30; afterward only parasitology. Became Dean of Graduate School. Had graduate research assistants. Research.-Confirmed relationship of house fly to life cycle of chicken tapeworms. With an advanced student, determined which groups of roundworm larvae migrate to lungs on way to throat and intestine. In 1921, joined Dr. W. W. Cort's Rockefeller International Health Board Team including D. L. Augustine to Trinidad, West Indies for hookworm control. With the resident Rockefeller Hookworm Control Team, Dr. G. C. Payne an wife Dr. Florence K. Payne, much was accomplished in one summer. The sieves and funnels of the Baermann discovery in 1917, modified somewhat and used for the first time in the western hemisphere brought to light surprising behavior patterns in soil of the New World hookworm larvae of Necator americanus Stiles. With this knowledge and other discoveries which followed, sound progress was made for the control of hookworm and the return of the ill to health and work. Healthy Chickens Raised in Confinement for Experimental Parasitology.-The ease of obtaining fowl Ascaridia and their fertile eggs for culturing, and the omnivorous feeding habit of the fowl, basically similar to that of man and most domestic animals, led our research group to raise consecutive generations of chickens in confinement. Fully described in the text, the effort succeeded. Several hundred chicks were raised to maturity without any leg weakness; 15 chickens from one lot remained in the pens three years in healthy condition. The successful raising of the chickens in confinement was attributed to the supply of sunshine through the open south windows and steam radiator heat when needed, to supplements of green feed and milk to a cereal basal ration and to free run of the pen with litter and feed trough. The results first published in 1923 preceded all other known successes of this kind. All oral and published results of experiments carried messages of experimental and control groups being raised in confinement until the fact was widespread. Effects of Ascaridia on Chickens and Discovery of Age Resistance.-Our Research Group, by the experimental and control groups of similar chickens (except parasitism by feeding Ascaridia eggs), found marked effects of the Ascaridia on one-month-old chickens and some mortality; the controls remained normal. When the same numbers of Ascaridia eggs were fed to chickens three months old the effects were minimal and no chickens died. The control group remained normal. After repetitions of the tests, the results showed that young chickens are very susceptible to the growth of Ascaridia, but that those three months old were quite resistant to the development of worm larvae in their intestines. Such a growth-inhibiting factor will be treated later. In an investigation of age resistance, it was found that young Ascaridia in five-day chickens made a growth of over 5 mm in the first ten days, while the hatched parasites in chickens over 100 days old were not able to make a growth of over one-tenth of a millimeter during the first ten days. Vitamins as Factors in Resistance of Chickens to Ascaridia.-Having knowledge of the susceptibility of chickens one month old and of the resistance of three-month-old chickens to the growth of Ascaridia, experiments of a nutritional character on factors affecting resistance to Ascaridia showed that parasitized chicks on a diet lacking vitamin B had more worms and signigficantly longer ones than the worms in the +B (adequate) diet groups of chicks, indicating that the diet deficient in vitamin B, but adequate in all other ways, lowered the resistance of chickens to the growth of their parasites Ascaridia perspicillum. Similarly obtained and parasitized groups of chickens in five tests showed that the groups of chicks whose diet was deficient in vitamin A had significantly more Ascaridia and larger ones than did those groups of chicks whose diet contained this vitamin in an adequate amount. Similar tests with absence and presence of vitamin D showed that resistance of chickens to Ascaridia was not affected by absence of vitamin D. Presence of the vitamin, however, made the chickens more resistant to the effects of the parasites. The announcements from our laboratory that deficiencies of vitamin B (complex) and Fat-Soluble A lowered the resistance of chickens to ascarid parasitism, alerted the feed companies and dieticians to the importance of these vitamins in animal and human health. New Method of Collecting Intestinal Worms.-Using a combination of bloodless sacrificing of a chicken, rapid removal of small intestine, and flushing out contents with hot water faucet into glass jar containing chicken's aluminum leg band number avoids the troublesome mucus; jar put aside for worms to die uncoiled. Then preserved in weak formol. Worm length determined by aid of pencil and camera lucida magnified ten times, latter measured by milled wheel which reduces line length ten times. Records made in millimeters. The Food of Ascaridia.-Studying the food of the Ascaridia, parasitized chickens fed normally were compared with those nourished only with injections of 25% glucose in Locke's solution at 8 hr intervals. The results from over 200 chickens showed that the worms from the normally fed chickens grew markedly better than did worms in the chickens nourished only by muscular injections; the latter appeared to show no growth from the glucose injections. Young Ascaridia placed in the body cavity of chickens were unable to nourish themselves. The results showed that food of the nematode Ascaridia lineata consists mostly of host ingesta. An Inhibitory Growth Factor.-On making microscopic studies of the walls of the small intestine where the young Ascaridia live, it was found that as the chick gains in age the numbers of goblet cells per area increase. The same phenomenon occurs in rats. By growing young Ascaridia in artificial culture media into which autoclaved mucus from the duodenal goblet cells from resistant chickens was introduced, evidence was obtained which indicated that the mucus contained an inhibitory factor against growth of the young Ascaridia lineata (Schneider). (A discovery at the time.) Graduate assistants.-With the above outline of my educational life and samples of my researches, I will bring the Abstract to a close. I invite your attention to the careers of my graduate assistants as stated in the second portion of the Bibliography. All made valuable contributions to knowledge; two participated in raising the first two generations of chickens in confinement. After the public witnessed the preparation of vitamin D
10.2307/3224660|Numerous specimens of Cardiofilaria inornata (Anderson, 1956) from the body cavity of woodcock, Philohela minor (Gmelin), from Ontario are described. This filarioid is also reported for the first time from the body cavity of Hylocichla ustulata, Turdus migratorius, Asio wilsonianus, Accipiter velox, Circus hudsonius, Corvus corax, and Seiurus aurocapillus from Ontario. The genera of Cardiofilaria (= Pseudaproctella), Splendidofilaria (= Ornithofilaria, = Ularofilaria, = Lophortofilaria), Chandlerella (= Vagrifilaria, = Parachandlerella, = Parornithofilaria, = Skrjabinocta), and Aproctella (= Carinema), the commonest genera of Onchocercidae in birds, are reviewed and redefined. Splendidofilaria flexivaginalis Jones, 1961 and Vagrifilaria longicaudata Sonin, 1966 are transferred as new combinations to Chandlerella. Cardiofilaria campanae (Chabaud & Golvan, 1956) n. comb., formerly regarded as a synonym of C. inornata, is reinstated. Aproctella stoddardi is reported for the first time from Dendroica coronata and Hylocichla fuscescens. It is pointed out that almost half the species of Splendidofilaria and Chandlerella are found in the heart of the host whereas the remaining species of the former genus occur subcutaneously and of the latter genus interperitoneally. Cardiofilaria and Aproctella occur mainly in the body cavity. It is suggested that the apparent lack of host specificity of many species is related to vectors which are not highly selective in their feeding habits.
10.2307/3224661|Distomum areolatum Rudolphi of Linton, 1900, is redescribed and assigned to the genus Lepocreadium Stossich, 1904.
10.2307/3224662|One polyadenous xiphidiocercaria species from the planorbid snail, Gyraulus parvus (Say), and one virgulate xiphidiocercaria from the prosobranch snail, Anaplocamus dilatatus (Conrad), are described and distinguished from closely related species. The former species is named Cercaria ackerti n. sp.; the latter, Cercaria halli n. sp.
10.2307/3224663|Natural abomasal helminthic infections were collected from 50 lambs over a period of 15 months. These lambs were native to southern Wisconsin and had been raised under a variety of circumstances. Of a total of 57,660 parasites recovered, specific identifications included Haemonchus contortus, Trichostrongylus axei, Ostertagia circumcincta, and O. trifurcata, and the populations were arranged according to their developmental stages. The characteristic feature of these natural helminthiases was the interaction of the developmental stages. No infective 3rd stage larvae were present; the lambs had been removed from their natural habitat 1-3 days prior to necropsy. Sexually mature adults predominated, and their presence appeared inhibitory to 4th stage parasites. Experimental reproductions of natural parasitemias were attempted, using Haemonchus. Infective larvae in varying numbers were given to lambs at different intervals. The infections thus produced were most similar to those observed under natural conditions when the lambs were given 30 daily administrations of infective larvae. When mature Haemonchus were present in the test lambs, no, or very few, younger parasites developed from any quantity of larvae on further exposure.
10.2307/3224664| A comparative study of the development of axenically-reared infective larvae of Nematospiroides dubius was made in germfree and conventional mice. The rate of development was similar in both types of animals. The adult worms obtained were relatively smaller than normal; this condition was attributable to the semisynthetic diet used. The infection persisted for about four to five months in the germfree and conventional control mice. Sequencial passage of the infection was successfully completed through three groups of germfree mice; the free-living generation interpolated between each passage was reared in axenic culture. Although eggs embryonated normally and hatched in germfree feces, larvae did not develop to the third stage; most died while first rhabditiform. Many developed malformations of the head and tail, and abnormal swellings and protrusions of the body wall. The most common derangement was a profound accumulation of lipid in the body wall, followed by fatty degenaration of the entire organism. Similar abnormal development accurred in chick embryo-liver concentrate (CEE-LC) medium containing germfree feces. However, eggs separated from germfree feces by salt flotation developed normally to the infective third stage in CEE-LC medium. Normal development of larvae occurred in germfree feces cultured only when they were deliberately contaminated with living bacteria, either through the addition of feces from conventional mice, or of non-sterile water. These results suggest a factor is present in germfree feces that not only inhibits development of larvae, but also induces abnormal differentiation. Washing germfree feces in water did not remove the inhibitor, but it was nullified in some way by the addition of living bacteria, possibly by metabolic degradation. Axenically-reared filariform larvae stored at approximately 4 C survived for 2 years, and a small percentage retained their capacity to infect a host. The results indicate that N. dubius infection in the germfree mouse may be exploited as a valuable experimental tool in studies on the host-parasite relationship. 
10.2307/3224665|Although the crab, Eriocheir japonicus, is the principal host for Paragonimus westermani on Taiwan, the parasite was found in four species. Random samplings of E. japonicus from different parts of Taiwan indicated low overall metacercarial infections with the majority of positive sites being in the northern part of the island. Monthly collections in a highly endemic area, however, showed rates of infection to range from 30 to 83% with a tendency toward higher infections in the fall and winter months, the time at which these crabs are consumed by man. In several collections, 100% of crabs were infected. Metacercariae per host ranged from 4.2 parasites in summer months to 8.6 in the winter. Cysts of P. westermani apparently accumulate in the crab until time of death, with as many as 1,043 cysts recorded from one host.
10.2307/3224666|Egg shell formation for Parastrigea mexicanus is described. Eleven histochemical tests were used to elucidate the process and to characterize the oogenotop. The egg is formed in the ootype (a region of high secretory activity) ; an oocyte and 12-17 vitelline cells are enclosed by a coalescence of vitelline shell globules. The vitelline cells also contribute copious amounts of glycogen and RNA. There was no direct histochemical evidence for Mehlis or uterine gland function; however, secretory functions were inferred from morphology and histochemical reactions. The basic mechanism of egg shell formation in P. mexicanus closely follows that of Fasciola, but it differs in some regards from the process described for the latter trematode.
10.2307/3224667|No satisfactory method is known for the chemical control of the eggs and larvae of nematode parasites of animals in the soil. On the whole, the soil-inhabiting larvae of these nematodes are more resistant to chemicals than are free-living or plantparasitic nematodes, and their eggs are extremely resistant. We have no chemical treatment which can be applied to pastures to rid them of their nematodes. We have no really satisfactory, cheap, safe, and efficient chemical which can be applied to bare soil, although some compounds such as sodium borate can be used on small areas. Good sanitation and management of animals appear to be more promising than chemical treatment of soil to control their nematode parasites.
10.2307/3224668|Levo-tetramisole given to turkeys by capsule at 30 mg/kg of body weight was completely effective against adult and immature Ascaridia dissimilis, 98% effective against adult Heterakis gallinarum, and 89% effective against adult Capillaria obsignata. When given at 0.05% and 0.1% of the feed for one day it was completely effective against adult Ascaridia, effective against Heterakis (0.05%-84 and 91%, 0.1%-83%), less effective against immature Ascaridia (0.05%-61 and 91%, 0.1% -46%), and relatively ineffective against adult Capillaria (0.05%-0 and 23%, 0.1% -41%). In two of three trials, feed intake by medicated birds was lower than by the controls, particularly at the 0.1% level. This may account, in part, for the decreased efficacy with this regimen. Parbendazole given by capsule at 30 mg/kg was effective against Heterakis (97%), but ineffective against adult and immature Ascaridia and adult Capillaria (40, 14, and 27%, respectively). When this drug was given in feed for one day at levels of 0.05 and 0.1%, it was generally more effective than when given by capsule. Feed intake was not affected by the drug. Piperazine citrate was 100% effective against adult Ascaridia when given at a level of 0.4% (base) in feed for two days, but only 48% effective at the 0.1% level. With both regimens it was moderately effective against adult Capillaria, but ineffective against adult Heterakis. Feed intake was not affected by the drug.
10.2307/3224669| A new combination of parameters used in anticoccidial evaluation has been combined in a graphic representation to separate coccidiostatic from coccidiocidal drug activity. The procedure involves plotting graphically daily oocyst counts and daily lesion scores while birds are on medication, during the period following artificial inoculation, and during a period following drug withdrawal 10 days postinfection. Coccidiostatic activity is indicated by peaks in lesion scores and oocyst production following drug withdrawal. Coccidiocidal activity is indicated by absence of peaks during the withdrawal period combined with suppression of oocysts and lesion scores compared to non-medicated controls during the primary infection. In action against Eimeria tenella drugs were classified as follows: "strongly coccidiostatic"-buquinolate, clopidol, decoquinate, methyl benzoquate, and anticoccidial "C"; "coccidiocidal"-chlorotetracycline, oxytetracycline, sulfachloropyrazine, sulfadimethoxine, sulfamethazine, sulfaquinoxaline, Tri-sulfa-lyte, and tylosin; both coccidiostatic and coccidiocidal-amprolium plus ethopabate, anticoccidial "A," monensin, nicarbazin, Novastat, Polystat, Rofenaid Unistat, Whitsyn-S, and zoalene. 
10.2307/3224670|Average efficacy of Maretin as an oral drench at 50 mg/kg body weight was 83.9% against eight genera of nematodes in calves, but as a bolus was 95.9%. Baymix as a feed additive at 2 mg/kg body weight daily for six days had an average efficacy of 79%. It was from 90% to 100% efficacious against Haemonchus, Ostertagia, Cooperia, Nematodirus, and Bunostomum. No pathological changes ascribable to the anthelmintics were seen.
10.2307/3224492|A medium-sized amoeba collected from a lake in Alabama and isolated into clonal culture is identified with Amoeba limax Dujardin, 1841, as interpreted by previous workers. On the basis of locomotive behavior and form and mitotic pattern it is placed into the genus Hartmannella. Chatton's term "mesomitosis" is here adopted for the mitotic pattern characteristic of the genus Hartmannella and several other genera of amoebae.
10.2307/3224493|These two minute freshwater operculates are known only from Phantom Lake Spring near Toyahvale and Balmorhea, and at Balmorhea, Reeves Co., Texas. They are present there in great abundance. Data are given on the habitat, sex ratios, feeding habits, and morphology of the most abundant one, Cochliopa texana.
10.2307/3224494|Histological studies carried out on specimens of the cichlid fishes T. leucosticta, T. nigra, and T. zillii collected in the East African Rift Valley crater lake, Lake Naivasha reveal that various stages of sexual maturity are encountered at all times of the year. Spermatogenesis which appears identical in the three species as well as in the West African species, T. macrocephala, is described in detail. A method for estimating the testicular maturity from the mean lobular estimation is proposed particularly for those fishes that are continuous breeders. The interstitial tissue in Tilapia is localized in two places, peripherally and in the typical higher vertebrate interlobular position. The latter appears to have a cycle of proliferation and breakdown reaching a peak at just before the maximum spermatozoan density. There is a close correlation between the activity of the peripheral interstitium and the spermatogenetic activity and it is suggested that the peripheral interstitium exerts a spermatokinetic effect on post-spermatogonial proliferation.
10.2307/3224495|Evidence obtained from dissection and histological preparations reveals that eight distinct types of silk glands occur in the orb-weaving spider Araneus sericatus Clerck. These include the aggregate, cylindrical, and pyriform glands, two types of aciniform glands, and three different kinds of ampullate glands. An elongated projection of cells into the ductal lumen of each cylindrical gland and nodules surrounding the ducts of the aggregate glands are described.
10.2307/3224496|Three new ulotrichalean algae, Raphidonemopsis sessilis n. g., and n. sp., Gloeotilopsis sterilis n. sp., and Hormidium marinum n. sp., and a new colonial alga, Dictyosphaerium incipiens n. sp., all isolated from soil, are described. Some physiological characteristics of the ulotrichalean isolates are presented as supplementary attributes to aid in their identification.
10.2307/3224497|Hyostrongylus rubidus was cultivated in vitro from artificially exsheathed third-stage larvae to egg-laying or sperm-containing adults. Fourth stage larvae were detected at 16 days' and adults at 26 days' cultivation. A small number of the eggs produced in vitro underwent one to five cleavages before development ceased. Adults produced in vitro were smaller than adults in vivo. Fertile eggs produced in vivo hatched when inoculated into Ap medium but maximum development was to second stage larvae. Infertile eggs were produced in vitro by female H. rubidus which had not been exposed to adult males.
10.2307/3224498|A simple procedure was devised for obtaining large numbers of Echinostoma revolutum eggs from adult worms. After seven days at 37 C in tapwater 31.8% of the eggs were fully embryonated and 38.7% hatched. Development and hatching at 30 C and room temperature (20-24 C) were in agreement with previous studies on E. revolutum and Fasciola hepatica eggs maintained similarly. Since 28.9% of the eggs at 37 C, 8.9% at 30 C, and 52% at room temperature hatched in the dark, factors involved in the hatching of E. revolutum eggs are still operative in the absence of light.
10.2307/3224499| Eimeria umis n. sp. is described from the gallbladder of the lizard Uma notata. The oocyst is nearly cylindrical with rounded ends, median size 33.5 x 18 , length/breadth index 1.86, no micropyle, no micropylar cap, no polar granule, no residuum. Sporocysts (4) are subspherical, median size 9.5 x 9 , length/breadth index 1.05, no micropyle, no Stieda body; each contains two sporozoites and a central granular residuum 3.5  diameter. Sporozoites have median size of 7.5 x 2.5 . Endogenous stages are in gallbladder epithelial cells; two schizogonic cycles, one of 16 cells, and one of 32 cells; merozoites infect other gallbladder cells; microgametogenesis, 128 microgametes per microgametocyte; macrogametogenesis; fertilization; oocystogenesis. Oocysts complete sporulation in lumen of gallbladder, rupture and release sporozoites there; sporozoites then infect other gallbladder cells. E. umis is compared to other lacertilian gallbladder-infecting coccidians which it resembles. Role of repeated cycling in the gallbladder and mode of penetration of trophozoite into the host cell are discussed. 
10.2307/3224500| A tardigrade, Hypsibius myrops du Bois-Reymond Marcus, 1944, was cultured for several months using Panagrellus redivivus (L) as the prey species on which it fed. Moist sphagnum was found to be suitable inert support for use in culture dishes. On such a substrate the tardigrades fed on several plant nematodes: Meloidogyne incognita (Kofoid & White), Ditylenchus dipsaci (Khn), and P. redivivus. Some of the biology of the tardigrade is presented and its role as a possible biological control agent of plant nematode disease is discussed. 
10.2307/3224501|Phagocata crenophila n. sp. is described from springs and spring-fed streams in Utah. Comparisons to similar species are made, and a key to the North American species and subspecies of the genus Phagocata is proposed.
10.2307/3224502| Musellifer sublitoralis n. g., n. sp. is described as a marine gastrotrich. Diagnosis of the family Chaetonotidae Zelinka, 1889 is emended to include this new genus. Diagnosis of the genus Musellifer: Chaetonotidae with head drawn out into a muzzle; caudal furca elongate, having neither joints nor annulations; muzzle surrounded by a ciliary band; cuticle thickened into scales; oral opening terminal. The type species is characterized by subcircular dorsal scales, each bearing a short anterior keel fitted with a posteriorly directed seta, and by the persistence of scales to the furcal tips. Holotype metrics (measurements in m): lengths-total 330, muzzle 14, pharynx 63, intestine 123, furca 101; widths-head 33.5, neck 28, trunk 50. Habitat: epibenthic mud, 10-12 m depth, Echo Bay, Seucia Island, San Juan Archipelago, Washington. 
10.2307/3224503| Nyctotherus dilleri n. sp., a spirotrich ciliate from the cichlid fish Cichlasoma fenestratum of Rio Jaltepec, Veracruz, Mxico, is described. Average body size is 225.0 x 109.8 , and the macronucleus measures 66.6 x 17.2 . The cytostome at the posterior end of the peristome is formed partially by a recurved continuation band of the peristomal adoral zone of membranelles, which flares out as a membrane to form the true mouth. The right side of the ovoid cytostome is made up by the posterior termination of the undulating membrane. The supposition that the nyctotheran contractile vacuole is emptied by the cytoproct instead of via a contractile vacuole pore is contradicted by observations on the present species. In N. dilleri the contractile vacuole empties through a ventrally located pellicular pore, though the vacuole is partially surrounded by branches of the invaginated cytoproct. The macronucleus is distinctly different from that of most members of Nyctotherus and Nyctotheroides, but similar in shape to that of the other two related endosymbiotic nyctotherans of fishes. It is axially curved and lies across the cell at the level of the buccal overture in the form of a concave-convex cone. Reminescent of a boomerang, the macronucleus is accompanied by an ellipsoid micronucleus (8 x 4 ); both nuclei are encased in a karyophore. 
10.2307/3224701|Detailed descriptions of the karyotypes of 47 species in the tribes Sciomyzini and Tetanocerini demonstrate that different genera of Sciomyzidae are evolving karyologically at different rates. All have 2n = 12 chromosomes, except two species of Pteromicra (2n = 10) and Sepedon spinipes americana (2n = 11 in
10.2307/3224702|A general description of larvae of the water mite genus Eylais is presented. Larval descriptions and life cycles of three species parasitizing aquatic Hemiptera are also included. Eylais infundibuliera Koenike and E. discreta Koenike parasitize several species of Corixidae and E. belostomatis n. sp. parasitizes Belostoma flumineum Say.
10.2307/3224703|Specimens of a new trematode, Psilotornus audacirrus n. g., n. sp., were recovered from the cecum and intestine of a single, adult wild turkey, Meleagris gallopavo sylvestris Vieillot, taken from Clarke County (Choctaw Bluff), Alabama, in March 1965. The general features of the fluke necessitate its being placed in the family Psilostomatidae Odhner, 1913, and the absence of the pharynx suggests its assignment to the subfamily Apopharynginae Yamaguti, 1958. In the new form the acetabulum is behind the middle of the body, there is a prominent kink-like loop in the right cecum immediately following the bifurcation and there is an almost continuous band of vitelline follicles, just internal to the subcuticular tissue, extending from the level of the bifurcation to near the caudal extremity. The diagnosis of the subfamily Apopharynginae is modified to accommodate the new genus.
10.2307/3224704|The nymphal labial gland of damselflies, previously assumed to be absent, is here first described in species of the family Lestidae. The labial gland also is present in rudimentary form in some species of the Coenagrionidae. The only cytological change associated with feeding was a budding-off of distal portions of the basophilic cytoplasm of the salivary cells. Other possible secretion products are an acidophilic material in the lumen of the gland and an acid mucopolysaccharide. The labial duct is present in all nymphs of all species of Odonata studied, whether a gland is present or not. The lestid nymphal gland hypertrophies and degenerates by autolysis, without phagocytic action, during the final instar. The adult gland differentiates from the neck cells of the salivary duct.
10.2307/3224705|Three males of the cladoceran Alona bicolor confirm the previous conclusion that this species is more closely related to A. rustica than to A. costata, even though the three species together form a compact species group. Alona bicolor was collected chiefly in clear, softwater lakes in the vicinity of clean granite boulders along steep, wind-exposed shores. Here the species was commonly associated with either or both the other two species, indicating that all three species in New England can share the same macro-ecospace. This contrasts markedly with the situation in Europe, where A. rustica and A. costata are almost completely allopatric. A. bicolor is not known to occur outside New England.
10.2307/3224706|Cinematography and ultrastructural studies were made on the cyclic function of the water expulsion vesicle ("contractile vacuole") and its related structures in Tetrahymena pyriformis. The water expulsion vesicle of Tetrahymena has several main collecting tubules which are repeatedly used from one cycle to the next. During the early part of evacuation, water in the vesicle flows back into the main collecting tubules forming recognizable ampullae. The vesicle then moves toward one of the two outlet pores, and a system of microtubules which anchor the vesicle to the pore helps exert radial tension on the outlet pore membrane. Rupture of this membrane results in both rapid evacuation of the vesicle and its invagination and collapse. No evidence was found for active contraction of the vesicle or its membranes.
10.2307/3224707| Vexillifera bacillipedes n. sp. is a small, freshwater amoeba, 8-24  long in locomotion, which produces, from an anterior hyaline zone, long slender pseudopods varying in shape from acanthopodial to bacilliform. In locomotion the amoeba is usually longer than broad. It assumes a very transitory, radiate floating form. Nuclear division is of the common mesomitotic type, although details of the very small mitotic spindle are not clear. No cysts are formed in culture on non-nutrient agar with Aerobacter aerogenes as the food organism. 
10.2307/3224708|Ultrastructural observations were made on serially-sectioned, non-dividing and dividing stages of Crithidia fasciculata. A prokinetosome, small in size, was found in the vicinity of the flagellum-bearing kinetosome and appears to give rise to the new flagellum in division. Two new prokinetosomes develop early in the division cycle and one is distributed to each daughter cell at division. The kinetosome and prokinetosome relationship is described and compared with other trypanosomatids.
10.2307/3224709|The fine structure and the cytochemical distribution of acid phosphatase and aryl sulfatase in the intermediate cell layer of cysticercoids of Hymenolepis diminuta are reported. The cells comprising this layer are of two types in the developing cysticercoid and of a single type in the mature cysticercoid. In the former stage, one cell type appears to be responsible for the elaboration of the peripheral layer with its radiating fibers (= "hairy processes"). The second type appears to be involved in the formation of the circular fibers and, in part, the fibers of the intermediate layer. The latter type cell displays acid phosphatase and aryl sulfatase activity. Much of the activity is cytoplasmic in distribution and possibly is responsible for the ultimate degeneration of the cell.
10.2307/3224710|The results of a variety of histochemical reactions on mucosubstances in neutral formalin-fixed tissues indicate that in the second fold of the mantle edge there are two mucous cell types, one secreting a sulfated acid mucopolysaccharide or glycosaminoglycan and the other forming a neutral mucosubstance. The neutral mucosubstance was PAS-positive prior to and following diastase digestion. It also exhibited a positive PAS reaction following staining with alcian blue at pH 2.5, both prior to and following hyaluronidase digestion. For the most part, the glycosaminoglycan stained intensely with alcian blue at pH 2.5 and somewhat less intensely at pH 1.0. Portions of the material retained alcianophilia in solutions of magnesium chloride up to 1.0 molar, and after testicular hyaluronidase digestion. The material also reacted strongly with iron diamine and aldehyde fuchsin when these reagents were followed by alcian blue. Methylation extinguished alcianophilia in the acid mucosubstance, but it was partially restored following saponification.
10.2307/3224711|Examination of 1,474 blacknose dace, Rhinichthys atratulus meleagris Agassiz, from three stations in the upper 3.1 miles of Doe Run, Meade County, Kentucky, yielded data on two different parasites. The integuments of western blacknose dace were infested with Neascus sp., an ectoparasitic metacercaria, while Rhabdochona sp., a parasitic nematode, was distributed throughout the stomach and intestine. No direct harmful effects from the two parasites were observed.
10.2307/3224712|This is a preliminary report and outline of the forms to be included in a comprehensive study of various spores and pollen grains from Carboniferous fructifications. A large number of reproductive structures containing spores and pollen, representative of lycopods, articulates, various ferns and fern-like plants, and early seed plants including seed ferns, cordaites, and a possible representative of the Cycadales, are available from North American petrifactions and compressions. Numerous contributions have appeared elucidating the basic structural features of these fertile parts. In comparison, however, the pollen and spores which these reproductive structures contain have received relatively little attention. The scanning electron microscope provides an ideal instrument that can be used to supplement the gross features as seen with the compound light microscope, and to determine the sublight microscopic features of these grains. Furthermore, the scanning electron microscope provides important new information of several types.
10.2307/3224239|The available literature reveals 54 species presently in the nematode genus Rhabdochona (Spiruridea: Rhabdochonidae). Thirteen of these species have filamented eggs. Rhabdochona beatriceinsleyae n. sp. collected from the zoarcid, Rhigophila dearborni DeWitt, 1962, at McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, also has filamented eggs. R. glyptothoracis, R. cotti, R. kashmirensis and R. longicauda are the closest related of the species with filamented eggs to the described new species. Of these species only R. longicauda has prominent pseudolabia similar to R. beatriceinsleyae. Also body dimensions and their ratios clearly separate the new species from closely related forms. The number of pairs of caudal papillae, 11 in R. beatriceinsleyae, is less than in the four closely related species, 14-19. The length of eggs in R. beatriceinsleyae (0.043 to 0.049) is greater than in R. cotti (0.032 to 0.033), R. glyptothoracis (0.025 to 0.030), R. kashmirensis (0.030 to 0.032) and R. longicauda (0.040). In addition the eggs of R. beatriceinsleyae have 2-4 polar filaments in contrast to single filaments (R. cotti and R. kashmirensis) and clusters of filaments (R. glyptothoracis and R. longicauda).
10.2307/3224240|The family Opistocystidae is reviewed, and five species are proposed for the one genus. Opistocysta tribranchiata from Mississippi and Louisiana is described. O. flagellum, the original species, is designated species inquirenda because the description is not adequate to distinguish it. O. corderoi and O. serrata are proposed as new names necessitated by new combinations. The distribution of the five species is given and their ecology and morphology is discussed.
10.2307/3224241|A sphaeriid clam, Sphaerium occidentale, a frequent inhabitant of temporary woodland ponds, was examined in the laboratory to learn its tolerances to 15 C, room temperature (average of 22 C) and 30 C at relative humidities (RH) of 94%, 77%, 33% and 0%. It lost weight (from soft parts and fluids) rapidly at 30 C and at low humidities. At room temperature it survived for more than 5 days in 94% and 77% RH, losing less than 10% of body weight. At 33% and 0% RH, 30% and 50% of body weight, respectively, was lost over this same period. A maximum of 34.2% loss of weight was sustained without death; however, some succumbed upon loss of 12%. Laboratory tolerances exhibited by S. occidentale compared with observed physical conditions of the natural habitat suggest that these conditions seldom exceed what the undisturbed sphaeriid can withstand. Limited observations were made which suggest that this species may enter a condition of aestivation in low humidities.
10.2307/3224242|Three species of gasterostome metacercariae, Bucephalopsis hexaglandulata sp. n., B. oxygasteri sp. n., and B. multiglandulata sp. n. are described from fresh-water fishes of India. The first two parasites were found in Oxygaster bacaila and the third in Nangra viridescens.
10.2307/3224243|Peloscolex dukei n. sp. from the Beaufort Shelf, North Carolina, and Peloscolex aculeatus n. sp. (Oligochaeta, Tubificidae) from about 200 km South of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, near the junction of the continental slope and abyssal rise, are described and their relationships within the genus discussed. P. aculeatus is the first oligochaete discovered off the continental shelf. The definition of Peloscolex and its relationship with Tubifex are re-examined.
10.2307/3224244| Twelve species of Tardigrada are now known from Costa Rica, representing two classes (Eutardigrada and Heterotardigrada), two orders (Diplotardigrada and Echiniscida), three families (Macrobiotidae, Milnesiidae, and Echiniscidae), and four genera (Hypsibius, Macrobiotus, Milnesium, and Echiniscus). Echiniscus arctomys was collected from mosses on the Cerro de la Muerte, Echiniscus bigranulatus from lichens on the Cerro de la Muerte, and Echiniscus crassispinosus from lichens on the Talamanca Mountains near El Empalme and Santa Maria. Hypsibius (Diphascon) scoticus was collected from mosses in the Cloud Forest on Cerro de la Muerte, Hypsibius (Hypsibius) convergens from lichens on the Cerro de la Muerte, and Hypsibius (Isohypsibius) sattleri from moss in the Tropical Dry Forest in Guanacaste Provence. Macrobiotus areolatus was collected in moss from Guanacaste Provence. Macrobiotus harmsworthi was found in lichen from Guanacaste Provence and Volcn Iraz and in moss from the Tropical Rain Forest of the Osa Peninsula. Macrobiotus intermedius came from moss from Monteverde in Puntarenas Provence and moss from the Montane Rain Forest near San Vito de Java, in lichen from Guanacaste Provence and from Volcn Iraz. Macrobiotus occidentalis was collected in lichens and moss from Guanacaste Provence and in moss from the Tropical Rain Forest of the Osa Peninsula, and from the Paramo of Cerro de la Muerte. Macrobiotus richtersi came from moss from Monteverde, from the Osa Peninsula in liverworts and lichens, and from Cocos Island. Milnesium tardigradum was collected in moss and lichen from Guanacaste Provence, in lichens from Cerro de la Muerte, and from Cocos Island. 
10.2307/3224245|Histochemical techniques were used to determine the intracellular distribution of some enzymes in Euplotes eurystomus (Ciliata, Hypotrichida). Cytoplasmic granules were the sites of activity of the phosphomonoesterases, lipase, monoamine oxidase, and cytochrome oxidase. Additional phosphomonoesterase activity occurred in the food vacuoles. Weak monoamine oxidase activity occurred in the kinetosomes. The cytoplasm showed strong glucose-6-phosphatase activity. The micronucleus, macronucleus, and the cytoplasm showed 5nucleotidase activity. No evidence was found of tyrosinase activity.
10.2307/3224246|Mature and immature female crayfish, Procambarus simulans, were exposed to varying photoperiods (number of hours of light in a 24-hour period). Increase of photoperiod induced a more rapid cycling of maturation and resorption of oocytes in both mature and immature animals. Decrease of photoperiod tended to stabilize the ovary in a mature condition. Histological examination of ovarian sections and determination of ovarian weight revealed three definite stages in the ovarian maturation process: cyclic oocyte formation, maturation, and destruction. At different periods of the ovarian cycle, varying amounts of neurosecretory material were located in the neurosecretory cells of the supraesophageal ganglia and eyestalk. Microtomical sections showed four basic types of neurosecretory cells. Correlation of the cell types with the ovarian cycle indicated cell type one of the medulla terminalis x-organ of the eyestalk produced an inhibitor that restricted the proliferation of new oocytes until the mature ones had been ovulated or resorbed. Cell type three apparently produced a secretory material that hastened ovulation or resorption of yolk. The localization of the production sites of these two substances, the inhibitor of new oocytes and the accelerator of ovulation, supports the ideas of endocrine control proposed by previous researchers.
10.2307/3224247|The digestive anatomy of two cohabiting species, Dorosoma cepedianum (LeSueur) and D. petenense (Gunther), is described and a comparative functional morphological analysis is presented. The digestive systems of both species are adapted for microphagous habits. The pharynx is modified for the removal of microscopic particles and organisms from the water. It is hypothesized that the pharyngeal organs accumulate and consolidate food particles before they are released into the esophagus. The gizzard may be a secretory organ, as well as a mechanical organ that apparently functions in the rapid mixing of ingested food particles. The striking differences in gross morphologic features and length of the intestines are difficult to reconcile, the intestine of D. cepedianum having additional segments and being considerably longer in relation to body length. Available evidence suggests that the intestinal caeca may function in lipid absorption.
10.2307/3224248|Three systems of the veronicellid slug, Veronicella ameghini (Gastropoda, Pulmonata, Stylommatophora) were examined using gross dissection and serial sections. These three, excretory, digestive, and central nervous systems, are essentially similar to the corresponding systems described in other veronicellids. Some interesting irregularities were found, however, in the reproductive system. The hermaphroditic duct changes from a smooth-walled tube into a heavily ciliated, rugose one at the carrefour. When the vas deferens is free in the body cavity, it is lined with cilia; when it is in the body wall, cilia are absent. Unlike the normal unobstructed lumen of the verge, that of Veronicella ameghini is partially occluded by a network of cuboidal epithelium. The tissues of the digitiform glands are not uniform in this slug; one tubule possesses smaller glandular cells and contains a red, cellular secretion in contrast to the yellow, non-cellular secretion found in the other tubules.
10.2307/3224249|Two new species of Harpacticoida (Crustacea, Copepoda), Danielssenia minuta and Stenhelia (D.) bermudensis, are described from the meiobenthos of Bermuda. D. minuta occupies an intermediate position between the Typica and Sibirica groups of Danielssenia combining some characteristics of each group. It is most closely related to D. spinipes Wells 1967 in both size and body shape. Significant differences in the setal formula, ornamentation of P
10.2307/3224250|The cytology of a supposed "colorless green alga" Saprochaete saccharophila Coker and Shanor was studied using light and electron microscopes, X-ray diffraction, microchemical tests (I
10.2307/3224251|Filaria taxideae n. sp. is described from the subcutaneous tissue of the ventral side of badgers, Taxidea taxus taxus (Schreber, 1778), from Albany County, Wyoming, and is also identified from Taxidea taxus and Mephitis mephitis from Kansas. The species differs from the other members of the genus by the presence of an inflation of the cervical cuticle and a distinct, mushroom-shaped structure at the anterior end of the muscular esophagus. First-stage larvae are described from specimens obtained from cutaneous lesions.
10.2307/3224252| Oocysts of Eimeria ivensae sp. n. were present in a fecal sample from a mule deer, Odocoileus hemionus hemionus from Montana. The oocysts were 30 to 37  by 18 to 22  (mean 32.5 by 21.0 ). A micropyle and polar granule were present, but an oocyst residuum was absent. The sporocysts were 14 to 18  by 6 to 9 . A sporocyst residuum was present. 
10.2307/3224253|Sodium hypochlorite (obtainable commercially as Clorox or other products) is useful for removal of soft tissues of copepods or other invertebrate forms prior to laboratory identification. Formalin preserved specimens may be directly placed in about a 5% solution for 1 to 3 minutes followed by a distilled water rinse and then staining and mounting.
10.2307/3224254|Cercariae of Cotylurus lutzi penetrated the body surface of the annelid, Chaetogaster limnaei but did not encyst.
10.2307/3224609| Histochemical data on uterine glycogen were obtained from 17 golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) ranging in body weight from 100 to 200 grams, 5 of which animals represented days of gestation 1 to 5, and the remaining 12 in lactation represented days 1 to 10, 12, and 14. Pregnancy uteri were dated from the end of the period of coitus repeatedly observed for each female. Lactation uteri were dated from time of termination of parturition to time of sacrifice. At sacrifice, uteri were promptly removed and fixed for 8 hours at 0 to 5 C in Carnoy's fluid, then washed in 95% alcohol and stored in 80% alcohol. Dehydration by the alcohol series was followed by clearing in xylene, infiltrating under vacuum and embedding in paraffin (56-58 C), Sections cut at 8 microns, both longitudinal and transverse, and used as controls, were subjected to a 1% malt diastase digestion for 30 minutes at 37 C. These and adjacent sections not treated with diastase, were stained with periodic acid-Schiff (PAS). Comparisons were made of diastase treated and untreated sections under both low power and oil immersion. The amounts of glycogen, both granular and diffuse, were visually assessed and assigned values relating the amounts to stain intensity. The outer longitudinal myometrium of golden hamster pregnancy uteri generally contained more glycogen than the inner circular myometrium. The glycogen content increased in the longitudinal layer as gestation proceeded, whereas no such increase was noted in the circular myometrium. These two layers in the lactation uteri contained equal amounts of glycogen on the same days, but the presence of glycogen was very inconsistent. Granular glycogen in the endometrium occurred only during gestation and solely on the fifth day, on which it was restricted to the locular level of the uterus in very dense deposits. The uterine epithelium contained granular glycogen in small amounts on some days of gestation, but none during lactation. The associated basement membrane never contained granular glycogen, but diffuse glycogen was present inconsistently. In the pregnancy uteri, the border of the uterine epithelium generally had patches of glycogen granules in varying amounts on different days. In contrast, only 3 of the 12 lactation uteri presented granules in the epithelial border. Seldom did glycogen occur in the uterine lumen, and then only in patches. The epithelium and lumen of the glands contained small amounts of granular glycogen on some days of pregnancy, whereas with one exception, neither of these areas in the lactation uteri had granules. Diffuse glycogen in varying amounts commonly occurred in the basement membrane of the glandular epithelium. The tunic of the veins contained more granular glycogen than the tunica media of the arteries during early pregnancy, whereas only diffuse glycogen in the lactation uteri was noted, and then in equal amounts on the same days in the two tissues. 
10.2307/3224610| Histochemical data on uterine glycogen were obtained from 17 golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Four of these ranged in weight from 100-200 grams and represented the proestrus, estrus, metestrus, and diestrus uterus. Twelve were non-lactating animals ranging in weight from 100-200 grams and represented postpartum days 1 through 10, 12, and 14. Included also was one sexually immature non-cycling animal (age 36 (lays, weight 52, grams). The stage of estrus was identified by stained vaginal smears and the non-lactating condition was assured by prompt destruction of all newborn. At timed intervals of sacrifice, uteri were quickly removed and fixed for 8 hours in Carnoy's fluid at 0 C. Following alcohol dehydration and embedding in paraffin (56-58 C), longitudinal sections were cut at 10 microns. Mounted. and deparaffinized sections were treated with 0.5% aqueous periodic acid (pH 3.0), and stained with Schiff's leucofuchsin. As digestion controls, adjacent sections of tissue were incubated for 30 minutes in a solution of 1% malt diastase in phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) at 37 C to remove glycogen before applying the periodic acid-leucofuchsin procedure. Non-digest sections (without diastase) were kept in phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) at 37 C for 30 minutes. The quantities of glycogen as identified by a positive reaction to PAS and concomitant removal by diastase, were assessed visually under oil immersion and assigned values on an arbitrary scale. The total glycogen content of the hamster uterus was low in both metestrus and diestrus, slightly higher in proestrus, and maximal in the estrus uterus. The glycogen content in every phase of the cycle exceeded that found in the immature hamster uterus. In proestrus, glycogen was present in th outer myometrium and blood vessel tunic in moderate amounts and, in minimal amounts in the inner myometrium, endometrial glands, and uterine lumen. The uterine epithelium stained lightly for diffuse glycogen at this time. 
10.2307/3224611|The gills of the crayfish Pacifastacus leniusculus, were examined with techniques of light and electron microscopy. The gross anatomic and histologic structure of these gills are the same as that reported for other crayfish species. Gill filaments (hollow projections off the main stalk) have a hypodermis of pear-shaped cells with flattened processes (cytoplasmic sheets) which are closely apposed to the cuticle. Both the pear-shaped cells and their cytoplasmic sheets are well supplied with mitochondria and numerous infoldings, while the outer membrane of the cytoplasmic sheet bears microvilli. The density of cuticle, concentration of mitochondria, and areas of ion permeability all suggest that the pear-shaped hypodermal cells of the filaments of the gill base and mid-section are responsible for active ion transport. Chloride localization at the fine level with silver acetate indicates that the outer membranes of the pear-shaped cells and their cytoplasmic sheets bear the chloride pump.
10.2307/3224612|The sponges, Halichondria bowerbanki Burton, Microciona prolifera (Ellis and Solander), Haliclona permollis (Bowerbank), and Craniella gravida (Hyatt), held the siphonostomous cyclopoid Cryptopontius gracilis Wilson, which was found to be histophagic and is redescribed. The first two species of these sponges also yielded the histophagic, siphonostomous cyclopoid, Asterocheres jeanyeatmanae n. sp. and the scavenger and algae-feeding harpacticoids, Tisbe furcata (Baird), Harpacticus gracilis Claus, Paralaophonte congenera (Sars), Dactylopodia tisboides (Claus), Amphiascopsis cinctus (Claus), Amphiascus parvus Sars, and Paralaophonte brevirostris (Claus). The last five of these species of harpacticoids are not previously reported for this area and the last three of these are partially redescribed.
10.2307/3224613|Batillipes pennaki Marcus, 1946, B. mirus Richters, 1909, B. bullacaudatus McGinty & Higgins, 1968, B. dicrocercus n. sp., and Stygarctus granulatus n. sp. are described from studies at Crane's Beach, Penzance Point, Woods Hole, Massachusetts, USA. B. dicrocercus differs from its congeners by its forked caudal appendage and prominent fourth lateral body projections. S. granulatus differs from S. bradypus Schulz, 1951 (the only previously described species in in this genus) by possessing two pairs of posterior projections from the head plate, scattered refractile bodies on the dorsal plates particularly, no bifurcate process on body plate II, presence of cuticular thickenings between body plates I & II and II & III, anterior clavae (or cephalic papillae) of comparable dimension and shape to the lateral clavae, and cuticular plates surrounding and nearly enclosing the anal region.
10.2307/3224615|Low concentrations of propylene phenoxetol (0.15%) in sea water will narcotize benthic invertebrates of several phyla quickly and with a minimum of morphological damage.
10.2307/3224616|Fifty-seven calves about 2 to 3 months old were used in four experiments, in each of which each calf was given 50,000 Eimeria bovis oocysts by means of a nippled flask. In three experiments, 2 groups each of 3 or 4 calves were treated with 25 and 5 mg/kg of a thiamine metabolic antagonist (Amprolium) respectively, and one group was not treated. In the fourth experiment, an additional group of calves was treated with 1 mg/kg of amprolium. The amprolium was given once daily in the morning grain feeding for 21 days beginning on the day before inoculation. In three of the experiments, 1 or 2 calves in each group were killed 14 to 19 days after inoculation to determine the effect of amprolium upon the endogenous stages of E. bovis. In the calves treated at 25 mg/kg and at 5 mg/kg, little or no clinical signs of coccidiosis were observed and only a few or no oocysts were discharged. The oocyst discharge occurred 4 to 7 days later than normal in the calves treated at 25 mg/kg. Treatment at 1 mg/kg was not effective. Coccidia were found in the tissues in calves killed 14 to 19 days after inoculation. Sixty-four of 81 schizonts found in calves treated at 25 mg/kg appeared to be retarded in development. Only 7 of 30 schizonts seen in the calves treated at 5 mg/kg and killed 14 to 19 days after inoculation showed such a retardation. These retarded schizonts were about the size and stage of development normally occurring in calves killed 8 to 10 days after inoculation. In the calves treated at 25 mg/kg, most of the host cells harboring retarded schizonts were excessively hypertrophied and some showed vacuolization. Evidence of degeneration of the schizonts was seen in these treated calves, especially those killed 19 days after inoculation. Under the conditions of these experiments, amprolium evidently affected the first-generation schizonts, causing many of them to be retarded in development or to fail to develop beyond the early stages.
10.2307/3224617|A staining technique is described that is sensitive enough to detect small amounts of neurosecretory material in the axons of the medial neurosecretory cells. The technique employs paraldeyhde-fuchsin extracted with chloroform according to the method of Rosa (1953), and the counterstain of Halmi (1953) which consists of a mixture of light green yellowish, orange G, and chromotrope 2R. Comparative tests showed that this technique was more reliable for tracing neurosecretory axons than procedures that specified the Gomori (1950) or Gabe (1953) method of paraldehyde-fuchsin preparation. Basic fuchsin dyes from two different sources were compared with all three methods of preparation.
10.2307/3224618|Infective Haemonchus contortus cayugensis larvae were stimulated to exsheath and then killed. Rates of exsheathment were higher when the larvae were killed with heat as compared with Lugol's iodine. Heat ruptured the second stage cuticle in the weakened area of the refractile ring forcibly expelling the larvae. Lugol's gave less distortion of the rate of exsheathment only when the percent exsheathment was determined soon after treatment. The apparent exsheathment rate increased with time as the weakened cuticle was ruptured or dissolved.
10.2307/3224619|The trunk skeletomusculature of Rhincalamus cornatus Dana consists of metasomal, urosomal, and limb muscles. The free endosternites and apodemes are endoskeletal structures and serve for muscle attachment. There are two successive endosternites in the cephalon, which serve for the attachment of ventral extrinsic muscles associated with the antennae, mandibles, maxillules, maxillae, and maxillipeds. The major apodemes are postmaxillulary and maxillary to which dorsal and ventral longitudinal muscles attach, and the apodemes associated with the couplers connecting the coxopodites of the pereiopods. Fan-shaped muscles attach to the latter. There are three pairs of dorsal longitudinal muscles and one ventral pair in the metasome. A pair each of dorsal and ventral longitudinal muscles are present in the urosome. The heart is characterized by anterior pericardial muscles, aortic valve muscles, and dorsal pericardial muscles. Ventral extrinsic muscles are not associated with the pereiopods. Dorsal extrinsic muscles are associated with the pereiopods, maxillipeds, maxillae, mandibles and antennae. All dorsal extrinsic muscles originate from the dorsolateral body wall and insert within the appendages where they divide into anterior and posterior groups. Ventral extrinsic muscles associated with the feeding appendages originated fom the ventral cephalic tendon of either the anterior or posterior endosternite. Four pairs of dorsal extrinsic muscles originate from the dorsolateral body wall and course toward the antennules where they insert.
10.2307/3224620|Two groups of ten polyurethane substrates of different sizes ranging from 45 mm
10.2307/3224621|Histologic observations on the intestine of Echinostoma revolutum and its ingesta suggested that worms from the chick gut fed primarily on host mucosal cells and only incidentally on blood whereas chorioallantoic-echinostomes fed primarily on blood. The continuous gastrodermis of worms consisted of columnar, transitional and squamous cells in guts containing food, and predominantly columnar cells where food was absent, suggesting functional differences of gastrodermal cells associated with host ingesta.
10.2307/3224622|Ostracoda prepared by freeze-dry sublimation and examined in the scanning electron microscope (SEM) can supply a wealth of information on fine morphology of soft parts only marginally available by use of the light microscope. Either live or preserved material may be used. Specimens to be studied are narcotized to prevent valve closure, fixed, dissected, mounted on aluminum planchets or SEM specimen stubs, freeze-dried, metal coated, and examined in the SEM. Because the SEM images only detail on the upper surface of the specimen, the technique does not replace, but only supplements transmitted light microscopy. The techniques described are applicable to study of other small arthropods, kinorhynchs, rotifers, and other micro-invertebrates.
10.2307/3224623|Geocentrophora cavernicola n. sp. is described from caves in Kentucky and West Virginia. It is blind, white, has large auricles, and very numerous testicular follicles. Comparisons to other species in the family Prorhynchidae are made.
10.2307/3224624| The known species of Ergasilus which occur in North America were studied. The species recognized as valid are E. arthrosis Roberts, 1969; E. auritus Markevich, 1940; E. caeruleus Wilson, 1911; E. celestis Mueller, 1936; E. centrarchidarum Wright, 1882; E. cerastes Roberts, 1969; E. chautauquaensis Fellows, 1887; E. cotti Kellicott, 1892; E. cyprinaceus Rogers, 1969; E. elongatus Wilson, 1916; E. funduli Kryer, 1863; E. labracis Kryer, 1863; E. lanceolatus Wilson, 1916; E. lizae Kryer, 1863; E. luciopercarum Henderson, 1926; E. manicatus Wilson, 1911; E. megaceros Wilson, 1916; E. mugilis (?) Vogt, 1877; E. nerkae Roberts, 1963; E. tenax Roberts, 1965; E. turgidus Fraser, 1920; and E. versicolor Wilson, 1911. Species reduced to synonymy are E. osburni Tidd and Bangham, 1945 (with E. celestis); E. nigritus Wilson, 1916 (with E. centrarchidarum); E. confusus Bere, 1931 (with E. luciopercarum); and E. skrjabini Mueller, 1936 (with E. luciopercarum). A key to the species in the genus based on characteristics of the adult females is presented. A generic diagnosis, specific diagnoses, and some comments relative to each species are included. 
10.2307/3224371|Larval descriptions and life cycles of 15 species of Eylais parasitizing aquatic Coleoptera are presented. Fourteen of these species are described as new: E. conformis, rectisulcus, mitchelli, hydraenae, ovaliporus, major, glandulosa, helophori, brevifurca, coptotomi, peltodytis, parviporus, vernalis, harmani. The following host-parasite associations are established: Dytiscidae-E. rectisulcus, mitchelli, coptotomi, vernalis, and harmani; Haliplidae-E. peltodytis, and parviporus; Hydrophilidae-E. ocaliporus, major, glandulosa, helophori, and falcata; Hydraenidae-E. hydraenae; Dytiscidae and Haliplidae-E. brevifurea; Dytiscidae and Hydrophilidae-E. conformis.
10.2307/3224372|The study of Cresylechtviolett-stained sections of the brains of twelve primates with the phase contrast microscope provided a means for the selective demonstration of many cellular structures that could not be resolved with the same degree of detail which was possible when bright field microscopy was used, or when phase contrast microscopy was employed to examine unstained material. Included in this study were the brains of the following: Tupaia glis, Galago demidovii, Galago crassicaudatus, Lemur fulvus, Microcebus murinus, Callithrix jacchus, Ateles ater, Cercopithecus ascanius, Papio doguera, Pan troglodytes, Gorilla gorilla, and Homo sapiens. The detail of phase contrast image was greatly enhanced, so that cytoplasmic and nuclear structures of the perikaryon could be demonstrated to better advantage. Sections of the gastrointestional tract stained with hematoxylin and cosin revealed more detail of the autonomic plexuses. Due to optical path differences between the mesenchymal elements and the surrounding pale staining neuropil the microangioarchitecture can be sharply visualized and studied in great detail, especially in the cortex of the cerebellum. Viral inclusion bodies in certain nerve cells can be demonstrated to a much better degree than with conventional staining methods using bright field microscopy.
10.2307/3224374| Amoeboid flagellates identified as Mastigamoeba aspera Schulze 1875, heretofore considered a freshwater species, were collected from tidal pools with a salinity approaching 30 on a cove of the Damariscotta River. These flagellates bore the adherent bacterium-like rods characteristic of both M. aspera and Dinamoeba mirabilis. Because culture attempts were not successful, the questions of the nature of the rods and the possible identity of M. aspera and D. mirabilis could not be settled. However, this finding adds to the growing list of Protozoa found in both fresh and salt water. 
10.2307/3224375|Extensive damage was caused to the brain of a striped dolphin, Lagenorhynchus obliquidens Gill, by a parasitic nematode, probably belonging to the genus Contracaecum, and its eggs.
10.2307/3224376|Population densities and horizontal dispersion of limnetic crustaceans are compared in four mountain lakes in northeast Idaho. Samples were based on vertical plankton hauls using four different field methods of collection together with various sample sizes. Mean total crustacean estimates were used to compare population densities. Fisher's coefficient of dispersion (
10.2307/3224377| Two new species of dicyemids are reported from Benthoctopus magellanicus Robson, 1930 collected in subantarctic waters south of the Falkland Islands. Dicyemennea littlei sp. n. has a typical cell number of 23 and is described from nematogens and vermiform embryos. Nematogens are long and thin with an arrowhead-shaped calotte. The axial cell characteristically contains numerous small nuclei. The lengths of the longest individuals range from 3000 to 5000 . Vermiform embryos lack an anterior abortive axial cell and are over 300  in length at eclosion. Dicyema benthoctopi sp. n. has a variable cell count, generally 20 to 22. Nematogens and rhombogens are characterized by a small, bulbous to disk-shaped calotte, and by the inclusion of relatively large granular masses within swollen parapolar, diapolar, and uropolar cells. The largest individuals of this species seldom exceed 1500  in length. Vermiform embryos measure 80 to 90  at eclosion. Infusoriform larvae were not seen. 
10.2307/3224378|The morphogenesis of the cysticercoid of Hymenolepis microstoma in Tribolium confusum was re-examined. When compared with H. diminuta and H. nana differences were observed in the degree of scolex differentiation at the time of invagination, in orientation of the scolex after invagination, and in the fate of the anterior canal. Occlusion of the anterior canal in older cysticercoids of H. microstoma is indicated by the accumulation of calcareous concretion within the young worm and by means of excystation.
10.2307/3224379|Mitotic figures from the digestive gland of the chiton, Katherina tunicata (Wood), were examined after treatment with colchicine and preparation by a modified hypotonic air-dry technique. The diploid chromosome number is 12. The tentative karyotype is pairs 1 and 2 long M (centromeres medium), pair 3 medium length m (centromeres in the median region), pair 4 medium length M, pair 5 medium length T (centromeres terminal), and pair 6 small T.
10.2307/3224380|Natural infections of the trematode, Brachylecithum mosquensis (Skrjabin and Isaitschikoff), were isolated in the Missoula, Montana, vicinity from the robin, Turdus migratorius, the land snail, Allogona ptychophora and the carpenter ants, Camponotus herculeanus and C. pennsylvanicus modoc. Brachylecithum mosquensis was experimentally cycled through the above mentioned hosts to a third generation in the laboratory. Four additional avian species: Agelaius phoeniceus, Sturnus vulgaris, Hylocichla ustulata and Passer domesticus and the carpenter ant Camponotus vicinus, served as experimental hosts. In vitro hatching of B. mosquensis eggs, development of the intramolluscan stages and slimeball release, development and in vitro excystment of the metacercarial stage, development of the fluke in the definitive host and the structure of the larval stages are described. The division of dicrocoeliids on the basis of cercarial structure and pattern of life cycle into two groups is reconfirmed. Dicrocoeliids show more host-specificity at the arthropod stage of metacercarial formation than at the intramolluscan stage of cercarial formation. The adult stage appears to be the least host-specific. Land snails such as A. ptychophora, because of their wide distribution, focal abundance, large size and relatively long life span are favored hosts of dicrocoeliid flukes and form the focal points of transmission. The utilization of carpenter ants as second intermediate hosts represents the second association of a hymenopteran in the life cycle of a trematode.
10.2307/3224381|The mesocercaria of Alaria mustelae Bosma, 1931 (Trematoda: Diplostomatidae) is redescribed and a key to North American Alaria mesocercariae is given.
10.2307/3224382|Mesocercariae of the diplostomatid trematodes, Alaria muslelae Bosma 1931, A. marcianae (La Rue 1917) and A. arisaemoides Augustine & Uribe 1927, are encapsulated by host connective tissue in leopard frogs, Rana pipiens, although a marked cellular response is not seen. There is a distinct difference grossly and histologically among the three species in encapsulation. A. marcianae mesocercariae are essentially encapsulated in masses, whereas those of A. arisaemoides and A. mustelae are singly encapsulated, with the capsules being more distinct with the latter species. In A. mustelae and A. arisaemoides an amorphous mucosubstance (PAS-positive, diastase-resistant; Alcian Blue positive; negative for proteins), presumably of host origin, surrounds each larva.
10.2307/3224383|Branches and leaves of the epiphytic bromeliad Tillandsia usneoides L. were examined with a scanning electron microscope. Comparisons were made between untreated and gold or aluminum coated material. Metal coated specimens were found preferable for observations. Several details of the ultrastructural anatomy of the peltate waterabsorptive scales previously unreported upon are described. Observational evidence supports the hypothesis that water absorption is largely imbibitional in nature.
10.2307/3224384|Two algal soil crusts from South Victoria Land, Antarctica were chosen for study with the scanning electron microscope, and a comparison study was made with the light transmission microscope. Soils were investigated microscopically without treatment, and following incubation in moist chambers and in dilution cultures. By scanning electron microscopy, algae were readily discerned in association with soil particles as flowing and entwined masses which bound soil particles together, but individual species were usually not readily identified within community associations. Structure of trichomes was obscured by sheath material, but some naked trichomes were observed. The algal crust components were primarily closely related oscillatorioid blue-green algae: Schizothrix calcicola (Ag.) Gom., S. arenaria (Berk.) Gom., and S. rubella Gom. Globose colonies of Nostoc commune Vauch, were observed by both scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy. A rarely encountered form of N. commune was observed as Hydrocoryne spongiosa Schw. The only green alga present was Chlorella vulgaris Beij. It was concluded that the scanning electron microscope is a new and valuable tool in the investigation of microbial associations of a soil algal community, but the light transmission microscope is still useful for routine identification of the soil algal components.
10.2307/3224385|Bile ducts of mice infected with Hymenolepis microstoma were examined microscopically 4, 8, 12 and 16 days after infection. Changes in the bile duct progressed from slight cosinophilic infiltration at 4 days through distension of the duct, marked polymorphonuclear infiltration, proliferation of the mucosa, increase in goblet cells and fibrosis by 16 days. The pancreas showed inflammation and fibrosis.
10.2307/3224386|Hyaline substances, capsules and matrices, of lymphocystis tumors in the Atlantic croaker, Micropogon undulatus (Linnaeus), and the sand seatrout, Cynoscion arenarius (Ginsburg), are PAS positive both before and after digestion with diastase. These substances are strongly alcianophilic at pH values of 1.0 and 2.5, but less reactive at pH 0.4. They are metachromatic when reacted with toluidine blue and are intensely stained following the aldehyde fuchsin and aldehyde fuchsin-alcian blue methods. These data suggest that the hyaline substances are richly composed of acid mucopolysaccharides that contain functional sulfate groups.
10.2307/3224387|Torodrilus lowryi n. gen., n. sp. (Oligochaeta, Tubificidae) from an Antarctic marine environment (Arthur Harbour, Anvers Island) is characterized by modified genital setae,on the ninth and eleventh segments, glands associated with the spermathecal setae, a thick-walled atrial muscle coat, a prostate gland without a distinct duct, and few coelomocytes. The germs is probably most nearly related to Monopylephorus (Rhyacodrilinae).
10.2307/3224388|The adult, nymph, and larva of the water mite, Hygrobates neooctoporus (Acarina), are described, and illustrations and measurements are given of easily observed structures.
10.2307/3224389|The regular occurrence of a sperm guide in the adhesive layer, the constant alignment of the sperm guide with the micropylar canal, and the presence of sperm guides and adhesive layers on eggs dissected from nymphal stages indicate that in the Ephemeroptera the adhesive layer must be deposited by the follicle cells after these same cells have laid down the chorion. This adhesive layer deposition is thus completed prior to fertilization.
10.2307/3224390|Oncospheral hooks of the cestode, Hymenolepis nana, are usually (81% of the time) oriented longitudinally with respect to the polar axis of the embryophore, while the hooks of H. microstoma, the mouse bile-duct tapeworm, are usually (92% of the time) oriented at right angles to the polar axis. Since the eggs of these two tapeworms are otherwise rather similar, the difference in hook orientation may be useful in diagnosis and experiment.
10.2307/3224391|Numerous amastigote stages of a Trypanosoma cruzi-like parasite were observed in the cardiac muscle of a slow loris (Nycticebus coucang Boddaert, 1785) which presumably died from the infection seven weeks after importation into the United States. This new host record lends support to the belief that Trypanosoma cruzi-like parasites may occur in some of the nonhuman primates of Malaysia.
10.2307/3224392|Reproductive anatomy of the marine tardigrades Batillipes mirus, B. pennaki, and Stygarctus granulatus is described. A similar gonoporal dimorphism exists in both genera. The male gonopore, just anterior to the anus, is a circular opening and in S. granulatus is encircled by a tubular collar. A rosette of six small plates surrounds a more anterior gonopore in females. Annex glands, found only in female S. granulatus, consist of a pair of lateral bulbs connected by convoluting tubules to separate pores year the gonopore. The possible significance of gonopore dimorphism in the study of heterotardigrade relationships is discussed.
10.2307/3224393|Cuticular structure in Echiniscus viridis Murray, 1910 (Tardigrada) was studied with both scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The cuticles of dorsal and ventral surfaces were found to be quite different in structure. The dorsal cuticle is composed of two distinct laminae, each of which is provided with channels of the insect pore-canal type. The ventral cuticle consists of a striated layer, an electron transparent layer traversed by dense rods, and a basal fiber layer. This organization is similar to that of certain nematodes. On this basis a phylogenetic affinity of tardigrades for nematodes was supported. Cuticular punctations observed with the light microscope were explained on the basis of fine structure.
10.2307/3224394|Craspedacusta sowerbyi, the sole species of freshwater "jellyfish" was collected from Burt Lake, Michigan in August, 1969. This collection of three newly released medusae represents a range extension approximately 105 miles north of previously published state occurrences. Physico-chemical, biological and limnological characteristics of the lake and collection area are discussed.
10.2307/3224395|A comparative descriptive study was made of oral replacement in the ciliate protozoon Tetrahymena vorax, employing principally the Chatton-Lwoff silver technique (specimens then studied with light microscopy) and scanning electron microscopy. Oral replacement occurs during the now well-known natural process of microstome-macrostome transformation and can be induced under controlled conditions in T. vorax. Cortical movements in the oral area, timing of appearance of ciliation of the buccal organelles, and organization of the oral ribs and the infraciliary bases of the undulating membrane and the adoral zone of membranelles were analyzed. This is the first time that stomatogenesis has been investigated from the dual approach of light and scanning electron microscopy.
10.2307/3224354|Eight species of Plagiochiidae are listed from Panama, and one of these is also reported from Colombia. The species reported are: Parallopharynx arctus and Parahaplometroides basiliscae from lizards; Styphlodora horrida and Ochetosoma ellipticum from snakes; Telorchis corti, T. pseudoaculeatus, and Cheloniotrema tropicum from turtles; and Philandrophilus magnacirrus n. g., n. sp. from a marsupial. Four of these reports represent new geographic records. The genus Parallopharynx Caballero, 1946, is reviewed, and P. jonesi Ubelaker, 1965, is considered to be a valid species while P. gonzalesi Brenes, Arroyo, and Montero Gei, 1960, is regarded as a synonym of P. arctus Caballero, 1946.
10.2307/3224355|The ultimobranchial bodies of 197 golden hamsters, Cricetus auratus Waterhouse, were examined histologically and histochemically from the eleventh to the sixteenth day of development. During the "metamorphic period" of the embryonic hamster, the ultimobranchial lumina were filled with an acidophilic coagulum containing large amounts of PAS-positive, nonglycogen carbohydrates and proteins. The composition of the contents of the ultimobranchial lumina changed abruptly after the metamorphic period and consisted of significant amounts of glycogen and decreased amounts of protein and nonglycogen carbohydrates. Three periods of morphogenetic degenerations, which facilitate movements and changes in shape of these bodies, occurred during ontogeny. On the basis of the faint response of "X" cell nuclei to the Feulgen procedure for DNA, it was suggested that these cells undergo deheterochromatization before they are transformed into thyroid follicle cells. This hypothesis is further supported by the decreased amounts of protein and lipid and increased amounts of RNA in the nuclei of the "X" cells. Evidence was presented that the pituitary thyroid stimulating hormone may play a role in the deheterochromatization of some ultimobranchial cells which then become "X" cells.
10.2307/3224356|Examination of ultra-thin sections of osmium-fixed samples from 3-, 8- and 14-day cultures of Actinoplanes philippinensis (Actinoplanaceae) revealed interesting cell wall and cytoplasmic membrane features. Wall sections of most of the hyphae were 3-layered, while some hyphal sections had additional layering, as well as modifications which may be related to aging. In some, a cross-wall triangle similar to that found in Streptomyces, was apparent at the juncture of the septum with the wall. An extensive intracytoplasmic membrane system was present including laminated whorls filling the hyphal lumen in cells from a 14-day culture and a body consisting of closely packed membranes in conjunction with developing septa.
10.2307/3224357|The technique of radioautography was employed to localize the areas of concentration resulting from injections into Leiobunum longipes (Arachnida) of tritiated forms of 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxytryptophan. The presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the gut and nervous tissues of this arachnid was verified. Chromatographic separation and scintillation counting were the techniques used for this verification. Possible explanations and their significance are discussed for the uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine by the gut and endosternite. The radioactive labelling in these tissues may represent sites of secretion, binding for storage or detoxification, or nerve endings for impulse transmission. The labelling in the endosternite may signify centers of 5-hydroxytryptamine synthesis, or more probable, may represent binding with lipid stores which could regulate the amount of amine in the circulation.
10.2307/3224358|The intestinal fluke, Choledocystus pennsylvaniensis (Cheng 1961) Byrd and Maples 1963 (Macroderoididae) produces mother and daughter sporocysts in Physa gyrina Say. The daughter sporocysts give rise to gymnocephalous-type cercariae (devoid of a stylet and with a dorso-ventral finfold on the tail) which transform into unencysted metacercariae in the skin of tadpoles of the definitive host, Hyla crucifer Weid. Evidently the metacercariae live beneath the epidermis in the skin of the tadpole, and they gain access to the host's intestine when the frog ingests the sloughed epithelial layer at or following metamorphosis. Evidence from the life history supports Byrd and Maples' (1963) contention that the data presented by Cheng (1961a, 1961b) referred to a species of fluke other than C. pennsylvaniensis (= Glypthelmins p.). Further the data presented herein suggest the species be retained in the genus Choledocystus (rather than Glypthelmins as contended by Martin, 1969) and that the genus be assigned to the family Macroderoididae McMullen 1937.
10.2307/3224359|A technique is described for differentiating viable and nonviable nematode eggs. Acridine orange stain was used and some eggs took up stain, but others did not. Differences in permeability to acridine orange appeared to be related to the presence or absence of an inner shell membrane which is produced only when the egg is fertilized. The chorionic membranes appeared to be completely permeable. The proportion of eggs permeable to the stain was higher in eggs dissected from worms than in eggs laid by worms in vitro. Eggs taking the stain had a greater mean size and variance than those that did not. Eggs resisting the stain collected from in vitro maintained worms had a smaller mean size and variance than did those taken from the uterus. Thus, the best method of obtaining eggs for measuring would be to maintain the females in vitro while the eggs are released and then measure only those eggs that were impenetrable to acridine orange.
10.2307/3224360|Cylindroniscus vallesensis sp. nov. (Isopoda, Oniscoidea, Trichoniscidae) is described from Mexico, and the genus is reviewed. The animals are small, blind, somewhat cylindrical in shape and are generally found in caves, in humus or in dense leaf litter. They are characterized by a dense outgrowth of setae on the dorso-distal margin of peraeopod VII of the female. They are in the First Division (Tribe) of the Trichoniscinae.
10.2307/3224361| Fifty per cent of Leuroglossus stilbius collected in midwaters off the coasts of southern California and Mexico were found to have the trematode, Aponurus californicus n. sp., in their stomachs. The trematode (Hemiuridae) is about 1 mm long, seminal vesicle 117  long, testes diagonal, cirrus sac elongated, genital atrium lacking, acetabulum 138 x 170 , uterus voluminous, and eggs 25 x 50 . Host fish range in depth to about 1300 meters, and they migrate towards the surface each night. The largest fish appear not to migrate vertically so extensively as the smaller ones. Fish eggs hatch in surface waters. Intermediate hosts with larval Aponurus have not been found although numerous copepods, shrimps, coelenterates, bottom-dwelling clams and other invertebrates have been examined. In the smallest trematodes the male organs were well developed, with sperm, before the ovary could be detected. 
10.2307/3224362|When females Aedes sollicitans (Insecta; Diptera) were fed on sugar, paraldehyde-fuchsin (PF) stainable neurosecretory material from the medial neurosecretory cells (MNC) of the protocerebrum accumulated in the corpus cardiacum. In blood-fed animals, PF material rapidly disappeared from the cardiacum but depletion could only be detected after the perikarya of the MNC were removed. Cardiaca of operated sugar-fed animals were also depleted of stainable material but at a much slower rate. Thus blood-feeding acts as a stimulus causing the rapid depletion of PF material from the cardiacum.
10.2307/3224363|The uptake and storage of two chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides, aldrin and dieldrin, in freshwater ostracods (Chlamydotheca arcuata (Sars)) was studied using autoradiographic technique. Although aldrin and dieldrin uptake occurred over a wide body surface area, absorption was primarily through the body integument and the gut; lesser amounts of either insecticide were taken up through appendages. The shell absorbed or adsorbed only small quantities. The storage of these insecticides was largely in body lipids.
10.2307/3224364|The "pelvic fin modification" which develops in breeding sea catfish, Arius felis (Osteichthyes, Ariidae) was examined histologically. This structure, covered by non-keratinized squamous epithelium, was composed mostly of collagen fibers. These fibers were thicker and more closely-packed near the tip of the modification than the base, which consisted mostly of adipose tissue.
10.2307/3224365|Previous accounts of members of the coelenterate order Actinulida are all from European waters. We have collected what appears to be Halammohydra schulzei Remane from sand in 4-5 meters of water near Menemsha Harbor, Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. Size, number of tentacles and histological details all agree with previous descriptions of this species.
10.2307/3224366|Rat serum was fractionated on Sephadex G-200 and antisera produced to the three serum fractions separated by this method. The antisera were injected into young male albino rats at eight days after treatment with busulfan (Myleran). Cytological studies of the bone marrow and peripheral blood were made at intervals following antiserum injection. Two patterns of cytological response occureed in the rats, depending on the antiserum with which the animals were treated. First, the initial depression of the late granulocyte population observe at four days after injection of all antisera was maintained only in those animals treated with antiserum to the high molecular weight fraction or low molecular weight fraction. Secondly, the recovery of the late granulocyte population in animals receiving the antiserum to the intermediate fraction or to bovine albumin, started soon after the period of initial depression and was progressive. It appears that an "anti-maturation factor" was present in antiserum to peak I and peak III, although these fractions are quite dissimilar. It is postulated that a low molecular weight "maturation factor" is present in peak III and is carried through the circulation bound to a macroglobulin carrier found in peak I. Antiserum to peak I destroys, or inactivates, the carrier-factor complex, while antiserum to peak III acts upon the factor itself. Both antisera would have similar effects on the late granulocyte level although their biological mode of action is quite different.
10.2307/3224367|A local population of Carchesium, from a polysaprobic freshwater habitat, possessed taxonomic characteristics of Carchesium polypinum (Linnaeus 1758) (Peritrichia; Protozoa) except for its buccal structure. The buccal structure, as revealed in protargol silver preparations, was constant within the presently described population but different from that in protargol stained animals from Europe. The adoral polykinety (= PO) continued as PO1 and terminated at the base of the cytostome. PO2 began at the infundibulum and terminated above the cytostome between the juncture of PO1 and PO3. PO3 was 2 kinetosomes in width, with the inner kinetosomal row ending with PO2; the outer row joined PO1 and formed a structure 4 kinetosomes wide, ending at the cytostome. Lom's (1964) study revealed PO1 ending at the juncture of P02 and P03, and P03 consisted of 3 kinetosomal rows which joined P02 and terminated at the cytostome. Further work must be done to establish the constancy of buccal structure within this and other peritrich species and to establish the reliability of buccal organization as a diagnostic characteristic. Morphotype parameters apparently vary as our techniques for resolution of detailed microstructure improve.
10.2307/3224368|A modified method of Bodian protargol silver staining was applied to a peritrich, Carchesium polypinum (Ciliata, Peritrichia, Peritrichida, Sessilina). Several of these specimens were examined directly by transmission electron microscopy in order to determine the selectivity of the protargol stain. In this method gold toning was mandatory for a satisfactory preparation. Stain deposition was highly selective with kinetosomes, cilia, nuclear material, and myonemes having a definite affinity. Striae of the somatic cell appearing under light optics were non-staining epiplasmic peaks, while alveoli surrounding these peaks contained the infundibular myoneme. Infundibular reticulated fiber, the outer fibers in the stalk, and the peripheral regions surrounding food vacuoles had an affinity for protargol at the electron microscope level of resolution, but were not visible with the light microscope. A discussion of protargol selectivity is also presented.
10.2307/3224555|Morphology of the siliceous valves of diatoms has been and continues to be important in identification and classification. Organic material and cell contents obscure the valve structure. A simplified method of cleaning diatom frustules of organic matter is presented, utilizing sulphuric acid, potassium permanganate, and oxalic acid. No boiling is required. For light microscopy, a cleaned sample is first mounted on a cover slip, rather than directly on a microscope slide, to decrease waste. The cover slip is then mounted permanently on a microscope slide with a medium of high refractive index. Cleaned samples may also be mounted on coated grids for transmission electron microscopy or stubs for scanning electron microscopy.
10.2307/3224556|A male strain of Volvox carteri contained bacteria in the cytoplasm of somatic cells, gonidia, and sperm. They were not observed in nuclei, chloroplasts, or mitochondria.
10.2307/3224557|The cestode Mesocestoides lineatus (Goeze 1782) is reported for the first time from Alaska, where it is a common parasite of canids and mustelids. Morphological characteristics of M. lineatus and M. kirbyi Chandler 1944, are compared, based upon specimens reared from larvae obtained from shrews, Sorex pribilofensis Merriam, and in a red-backed vole, Clethrionomys rutilus Pallas, respectively. The taxonomic characters of M. carnivoricolus Grundmann 1956, and M. jonesi Ciordia 1955, fall within the limits of morphological variation defined for M. lineatus. This is paper No. XLVIII in the series "Studies on the Helminth Fauna of Alaska."
10.2307/3224558|The infraciliature of Gastrostyla steinii (Ciliophora, Hypotrichida) has been revealed utilizing special protargol staining procedures. A variety of fibrous structures extends from each of the ventral cirri and a separate array of fibers is associated with the adoral zone of membranelles. The patterns these fibers display are in many ways similar to those shown for other hypotrich ciliates, particularly those containing marginal rows of cirri. Some consideration of function for these infraciliary components is presented. The strain of G. steinii studied has some plasticity in the arrangement and number of ventral cirri. This phenomenon is discussed in terms of cirral polymorphism of other hypotrichs and some hypothetical considerations specifically for G. steinii.
10.2307/3224559|Intracellular spheroid bodies are described for the first time in the "migratory" larva of Trichinella spiralis.
10.2307/3224560|A specialized dermal gland, on each side of the posterior opisthosoma of the house-dust mite, Dermatophagoides farinae Hughes, 1961 (Acarina: Acaridei) was studied with transmission and scanning electron microscopes. The gland is a single cell with a cuticle-lined lumen. The duct of the gland leads to a semilunar-shaped, cuticular flap. The gland, duct, orifice and cover are shed. Prior to ecdysis, new structures are formed from an undifferentiated hypodermal cell in the pharate adult.
10.2307/3224561|Gammarus minus Say occurs in cool waters of eastern United States south of Wisconsin glaciation and north of the Mississippi Embayment. Many populations are found north of Kansan-Illinoian glaciation limits in western Illinois and adjacent Missouri; these are termed post-Kansan. There are many Ozarkian populations in Arkansas, Missouri, and probably northeastern Oklahoma. A unique type, described as a new subspecies G. m. pinicollis, occurs in at least the Pine Hills region of Union County, Illinois, part of the so-called Illinois Ozarks. West of Indiana, Kentucky and Tennessee no calceoli occur, dorso-lateral armature of the uronites is marked, and endopod-exopod ratios exceed 0.67 commonly. The abdominal side plates are similar throughout the range of this polytypic species, and they and the seventh pereopod are useful taxonomic structures.
10.2307/3224562| Flagellar mastigoneme, ultrastructure of several brown algae (Compsonema nummuloides, Giffordia oviger, Hecatonema variabile, Leptonematella fasciculata, Myrionema primarium and Ralfsia verrucosa) and one chrysophyte (Giraudyopsis sp.) was examined following negative staining with uranyl acetate. The brown algal mastigonemes, depending upon the species, are 0.7 to 1.45  long and 130 to 170 A in diameter. The mastigoneme tip is terminated by 1 or, more commonly, 2 filaments about 35 A in diameter. The short proximal section of the mastigoneme is non-tubular and the longer distal section is tubular. No lateral hairs occur on the cylindrical shaft. In Leptonematella and Ralfsia the shaft has an expanded hollow base. Giraudyopsis mastigonemes are generally similar to those of the brown algae (0.7  long, 110 A diameter) with a non-tubular proximal section, tubular distal section and three terminal filaments. 
10.2307/3224563|Two new species of Alonella (Cladocera, Chydoridae) are described from several different localities of the Pearl River drainage, Mississippi. Alonella fitzpatricki sp. n. is assigned to the subgenus Paralonella. The habitat study shows that this species prefers permanent, running water. The holotype is deposited in the United States National Museum, Division of Crustacea as Catalog No. 134093 and one paratype as No. 134094. Alonella leei sp. n. is assigned to the subgenus Alonella. The habitat study shows this species prefers permanent larger water bodies. The holotype is deposited in the USNM as Catalog No. 134095 and one paratype as No. 134096.
10.2307/3224564|Oesophagostomum quadrispinulatum and possibly other Oesophagostomum species (Nematoda) were cultivated in vitro from artificially exsheathed third-stage larvae to adults containing spermatogonia or eggs. Medium Ap, a modification of medium Ae, in which host-homologous serum was substituted for calf serum, was most successful in producing fourth and fifth stages. Of three gas mixtures applied to the CO
10.2307/3224894| The taxonomy of the piroplasms is reviewed and the importance of recent electron microscope studies in revealing their true position is stressed. The class Piroplasmasida Levine, 1961 is recognized as belonging to the subphylum Apicomplexa Levine, 1970. So far as is known, its members have an apical complex like that of the coccidia, malaria parasites, toxoplasmatids and related protozoa, but it is considerably reduced. The class contains a single order Piroplasmorida Wenyon, 1926. This order is divided into three families, Babesiidae Poche, 1913 (with rhoptries, a polar ring and subpellicular tubules in its apical complex; occurring in warm-blooded vertebrates), Theileriidae du Toit, 1918 (with only rhoptries in its apical complex; occurring in warm-blooded vertebrates), and Dactylosomatidae Jakowska & Nigrelli, 1955 (occurring in cold-blooded vertebrates). The family Babesiidae contains the genera Babesia Starcovici, 1893 (with 71 species), Entopolypoides Mayer, 1933 (with one species) and Echinozoon Garnham, 1951 (with one species). The family Theileriidae contains the genera Theileria Bettencourt, Frana & Borges, 1907 (with 26 species) and Haematoxenus Uilenberg, 1964 (with one species). The family Dactylosomatidae contains the genera Dactylosoma Labb, 1894 (with seven species), Haemohormidium Henry, 1910 (with nine species), and Sauroplasma du Toit, 1938 (with one species). All accepted species and synonyms are tabulated. The idea that piroplasms are strongly host-specific is no longer valid, and extreme caution should be used in giving new names to piroplasms merely because they are found in new hosts. In the present work, the following taxonomic-nomenclatural innovations are introduced: Babesia colesi n. sp., Theileria tarandi n. sp.; Babesia eliomysi (Galli-Valerio, 1930) nov. comb., B. epsteini (Zasukhin, 1947) nov. comb., B. garnhami (Heisch, 1952) nov. comb., B. lemniscomysi (Rousselot, 1949) nov. comb., B. merionis (Rousselot, 1953) nov. comb., B. musculi (Muratov, 1966) nov. comb., B. perroncitoi (Cerruti, 1939) nov. comb., B. taterillae (Rousselot, 1953) nov. comb., Haemohormidium clariae (Haiba, 1962) nov. comb., H. guglielmi (Carpano, 1939) nov. comb., H. ophicephali (Misra, Haldar & Chakravarty, 1969) nov. comb., Theileria herpestis (Haiba, 1958) nov. comb., T. strepsicerosi (Neitz & de Lange, 1956) nov. comb., T. sylvicaprae (Neitz & Thomas, 1948) nov. comb., and T. taurotragi (Martin & Brocklesby, 1960) nov. comb. 
10.2307/3224895|The so-called limbations of spionid capillary setae are sheaths surrounding the setal shaft. These sheaths are described for several species of the Spionidae and are compared with those of the Sabellidae (Sabella microphthalma) and the Lumbrineridae (Lumbrineris fragilis). The present study suggests that the nature of these sheaths is a familial rather than generic or specific character. It is also demonstrated that certain spionid species possess a secondary or internal hood on the taxonomically important hooded hooks. This internal hood is a result of an invagination of the external hood in at least one species (Dispio uncinata).
10.2307/3224896| Free-living amoebae were collected from low salinity sea water (16, or less) sampled during spring, fall, and winter. Water samples from the Tred Avon River, upper Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, had eight genera of marine amoebae, i.e., Mayorella, Vexillifera, Hyalodiscus, Vannella, Thecamoeba, Cochliopodium, Rugipes, and Trichamoeba. Other small limax amoebae, possibly belonging to the genus Hartmannella or Vahlkampfia, were not identified. The isolation and identification of aquatic amoebae from low salinity sea water showed that specific diagnostic features of some marine amoebae are preserved in both estuarine and oceanic sea-water habitats. The cultivation of amoebae from Chesapeake Bay sea water provided essential background information for recognizing and identifying free-living amoebae which could contaminate cultures of tissue or body fluid from diseased marine shellfish, or occur as facultative parasites in marine hosts. 
10.2307/3224897|Six samples of Asellus tomalensis were collected from an intermittent pond in northwestern Oregon to determine seasonal changes in reproduction, sex ratio, and size. Individuals were maintained alive in the laboratory to observe mating behavior and incubation. The mating behavior and development of the marsupium of A. tomalensis are similar to those described for other species of asellid isopods. A. tomalensis produces only one generation a year, and the breeding season is in the spring. The number of eggs or larvae in the marsupium ranges from 12 to 58 and increases as the size of the female increases. The average number of larvae from 15 females was only 86% of the number of eggs carried by 14 females. The average incubation time for 14 broods of A. tomalensis was 31 days at 15 C, a longer incubation period than for other species of Asellus. Sex ratio varies with the size of the animals and between samples, but in general females outnumber males, though more of the larger animals are males.
10.2307/3224898|The internal anatomy and histology of the adult female of the copepod Pseudocharopinus dentatus (Wilson) are described from whole-mount and sectioned material. The histology of the attachment organ of a lernaeopodid is reported for the first time. Differences in the anatomy and histology of the glands and reproductive system of P. dentatus are apparent when compared with other species of the family.
10.2307/3224899|The effects on protozoan communities of periodic harvesting was studied with protozoa colonizing polyurethane substrates in the epilimnion of Douglas Lake, Michigan. Harvesting the substrates by squeezing almost always resulted in an increase in the number of species present when previously harvested substrates were compared with previously unharvested substrates. Thus the perturbation associated with harvesting increased the number of colonizing species.
10.2307/3224900|An examination of fecal samples from South African baboons of the species Papio cynocephalus (Linnaeus, 1766) Erxleben, 1777, revealed the presence of one ciliate, Balantidium coli (46%) and six species of amoebae, in addition to a number of amoebae of uncertain status. Entamoeba coli (37%) was the most common amoeba, followed by Iodamoeba buetschlii (22%), Entamoeba chattoni (15%), E. hartmanni (11%), and Endolimax nana (11%). Entamoeba histolytica occurred in 3% of hosts. One cestode, Bertiella (3%), and four genera of nematodes were recorded, with Trichuris (22%) being the most common.
10.2307/3224901|A closed circuit TV monitor has been employed to relieve investigators from constant vigilance of tissue cultures being studied by cinephotomicrographic techniques. The TV camera is focused through the reflected light lens system under the stage of the inverted microscope. The desired temperature in the Rose tissue culture chamber on the microscope stage is maintained by means of two 20 watt, 28 volt button heaters connected in parallel to a variable voltage transformer.
10.2307/3224902|The cryptogonimid trematode Neochasmus sogandaresi n. sp. is described from the intestine and pyloric caeca of a single specimen of the striped bass Morone saxatilis (Walbaum, 1792) from the West Pascagoula River in Mississippi. The species is 1.3-1.7 mm long and has 31-37 oral spines, a sucker width ratio of 1: 0.451: 0.54, a forebody 13-18% of the body length, and an elongated muscular pad. It is compared with the five other species in the genus.
10.2307/3224903|An instrument which employs a circular cutting blade is described. Increased accuracy and cutting efficiency make it superior to the conventional straight-bladed scalpel for cephalic sectioning of nematodes.
10.2307/3224904|Fresh-water Ectoprocta may be grown in the laboratory in uncovered petri dishes inverted and suspended in a small aquarium. Fecal pellets and debris fall away from the colonies, leaving the ectocysts nearly transparent. The microscopes. Water circulated in from a large stable aquarium reservoir supplies suspended organic material for food.
10.2307/3224905|Hosts and distribution records of Corynosoma bullosum (Linstow, 1892) Meyer, 1932 are reviewed. The occurrence of this species of Acanthocephala in the Northern elephant seal in California waters is recorded. The possibility that the northern and southern populations represent relic populations is suggested.
10.2307/3224906|Algae and protozoa of six different genera were cultured from external washings of specimens of one species of cabbage butterfly. Algae were found in the largest number, with two genera of blue-greens, two genera of greens, and one genus of diatoms represented; specimens of only one genus of protozoa were found. The results suggest this particular species of butterfly is not as important a carrier of algae and protozoa as a number of different insects that have been examined by other investigators.
10.2307/3225022|Thecamoeba sphaeronucleolus and T. striata were isolated from fresh water; T. hilla, T. orbis, and a strain described as Platyamoeba mainensis n. sp., from salt-water habitats on the Maine coast. Smaller amoebae were used along with bacteria as food organisms for both fresh-water species. The mitotic patterns of T. sphaeronucleolus, T. striata, and T. hilla are similar to each other. The mitotic pattern of T. orbis differs from that of other species of Thecamoeba but resembles that of fresh-water species of Platyamoeba and many other free-living amoebae. The division pattern of P. mainensis appears intermediate between those of fresh-water species of platyamoeba and the three larger species of Thecamoeba investigated. The salt-water Thecamoebidae show a high degree of euryhalinity.
10.2307/3225023|Larval development through metamorphosis and post-larval growth through attainment of the adult shell are described for the opisthobranch gastropod Acteocina canaliculata (Say). The ovoid egg mass, containing 200-700 single ova, is anchored to the substrate by a thin mucous strand. The diameter of uncleaved ova averages 91.5 micra. Hatching occurs in four to six days at 18-20 C. The planktotrophic larvae were reared in the laboratory and fed unialgal cultures of Isochrysis galbana or Monochrysis lutheri. Larval growth includes changes in size and shape of the veliger as well as the appearance of anatomical structures such as the foot, enlarged mantle cavity, and adult heart. Unfed larvae increase in size significantly but are unable to complete metamorphosis. Metamorphosis occurs in the absence of normal substrate. The process leading to the assumption of the adult shell form (heterostrophy) is described and discussed.
10.2307/3225024|Description of the new species Orthosphaeridium vibrissiferum from the Middle Ordovician Bromide Formation of Oklahoma, and O. chondrododora from the Upper Ordovician Eden Formation of Indiana extends both the geologic and geographic range of this acritarch genus. Surface features of the vesicle wall of these representatives of the early Paleozoic microplankton are shown by both light and scanning electron microscopy. Species of this genus known to date show evolutionary trends towards decreased vesicle ornamentation, increased number of major processes, and decrease in vesicle inflation. All species have the flattened to pillow-shaped vesicle, elongate hollow processes that are plugged proximally, and the characteristic median splitting form of excystment.
10.2307/3225025|Renicola cerithidicola n. sp. develops in the marine or brackish water snail, Cerithidea californica Haldeman. Its cercaria resembles those of R. thaidus Stunkard, 1964 and R. roscovita (Stunkard, 1932) Werding, 1969 but lacks a stylet. Encystment occurs in the gills of the killifish Fundulus parvipinnis parvipinnis. The feeding of metacercariae to the sea gull Larus californicus resulted in the establishment of young worms in the kidneys. Cercaria buchanani Martin & Gregory, 1951 is similar to metacercariae found in the livers of F. parvipinnis parvipinnis and the mudsucker fish Gillichthys mirabilis. Infections of young worms were established in the kidneys of Larus californicus. Cercaria buchanani is placed in the genus Renicola.
10.2307/3225026| Diatom floras preserved in 20 sample levels of a 7 m core from Devils Lake, North Dakota, have a very restricted assemblage of only 47 total species. Dominance at different sample levels shifts among Cyclotella striata (Ktz.) Grun., Stephanodiscus astraea var. minutula (Ktz.) Grun., S. niagarae var. magnifica Fricke, and Diatoma tenue Ag. Minor elements of the floras consist mostly of species previously reported from hard-water and saline habitats, although some species characteristic of large, oligotrophic lakes are present. On the basis of the composition and diversity of the diatom flora at the levels investigated, it appears that Devils Lake has undergone at least seven appreciable changes in water balance during the time interval recorded by the core. 
10.2307/3225027|Two new species of harpacticoid copepods, Ectinosoma virginensis n. sp. and Amphiascus dentiformis n. sp., and the previously unknown male of another, Paralaophonte spinicauda Vervoort, 1964, are described from the meiobenthos of St. Thomas, U. S. Virgin Islands. E. virginensis superficially resembles E. breviarticulatum Lang, 1965, but differs significantly in mouth-part setation, body ornamentation, and female P
10.2307/3225028| Growth rates of the siliceous skeletal spicules of the fresh-water sponge Ephydatia muelleri (Lieberkhn) were studied at several temperatures and silicate concentrations. The sponges were grown from their asexual reproductive bodies, gemmules, in a perfusion chamber enabling spicules in living cells to be measured with an ocular micrometer. Hourly measurements of individual spicules were checked against average values of many spicules grown for several days. An equation for total growth time based on spicule length was developed and used to calculate the rate of silica deposition. The rate of growth in spicule length decreased with increasing spicule length. The rate increased with increasing temperature but decreased with increasing silicic acid concentration. On the other hand, the rate of silica deposition increased with both increasing temperature and silicic acid concentration. In the early stages of spicule growth, deposition is proportional to the available spicule surface. 
10.2307/3225029|A new species of naid oligochaete, Dero (Allodero) floridana n. sp., is described. It was collected from the ureters of a Florida toad, Bufo terrestris, and brings to five the number of species in the subgenus Allodero. It is the second species in the North American fauna of this unusual annelid group symbiotic in amphibians.
10.2307/3225030|Honeycomb colonies of Plumatella casmiana Oka are reported from Colorado. This is only the second species of fresh-water ectoproct known to form such colonies (the other being Plumatella fungosa). Peculiar adherent qualities of the zooecia are emphasized. Numerous leptoblasts, unique to P. casmiana, were the only statoblasts associated with these unusual colonies.
10.2307/3225031|A stable thelyotokous population of nematodes isolated from the nephridia of the oligochaete Lumbricus rubellus was identified as Rhabditis anomala Hertwig, 1922. Reproduction was found to be by mitotic parthenogenesis, and pseudogamy and spermatozoa were produced within the female. R. anomala was found with Rhabditis pellio, a dioecious species, in the nephridia of L. terrestris. R. anomala has 20 chromosomes and could be a triploid derived from a diploid species such as R. pellio or R. maupasi, each with 14 chromosomes. Hermaphroditism may be a function of the X : autosomal ratio. Some investigators, assuming that only R. maupasi occurs in lumbricids, concluded that the species could reproduce sexually or parthenogenetically. This conclusion must be re-evaluated in view of the knowledge of a thelyotokous species infecting the same host oligochaete.
10.2307/3225032|The presence of a factor controlling the maturation of granulocytes in the bone marrow of normal albino rats was demonstrated with an "anti-maturation factor" against the low molecular weight component of rat serum separated on Sephadex G-200. A significant decrease in the mature granulocyte level in bone marrow following treatment with the anti-low molecular weight fraction with no evidence of peripheral neutrophilia or cytotoxicity was seen. Correlation of this fact with a subsequent depression of peripheral granulocyte levels indicated that the reduced availability of mature granulocytes in the bone marrow was due to a block in the maturation process produced by treatment with an anti-maturation factor. A depression of intermediate granulocytes followed the decrease in mature granulocytes in the bone marrow, suggesting a feedback inhibition of previous maturation steps.
10.2307/3225033|After establishing the particular need for deposition of type-specimens for the ten recognized species of the important hymenostome ciliate genus Tetrahymena, description of such material is presented. Care has been taken to follow both the spirit and the letter of the law of the pertinent provisions of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. The situation is especially complex for members of this genus because of its very long and often confused taxonomic-nomenclatural history. Making available well preserved type material, now possible for many soft-bodied protozoa since the advent of methods of silver impregnation, should contribute measurably to the future nomenclatural stability of ciliates in the Tetrahymena group. No holotype material exists for the ten species treated in the present paper. Lectotypes have now been deposited for three: T. chironomi, T. paravorax, and T. setifera. Neotypes, with some reluctance (but no alternatives exist), have been deposited for the remaining seven: T. corlissi, T. limacis, T. pyriformis (type-species of the genus), T. patula, T. rostrata, T. stegomyiae, and T. vorax. Discussion of each species and its type material is arranged according to the three infrageneric complexes currently recognized: the pyriformis complex, the rostrata complex, and the patula complex.
10.2307/3225034|In the first report of helminths from starlings in southeastern Kansas, three species of cestodes, two species of acanthocephala, and one species of nematode were found. The most common helminth found in 128 host specimens was the acanthocephalan Prosthorhynchus formosus.
10.2307/3225186| Nematocysts in known scyphistomae of Aurelia aurita, Chrysaora quinquecirrha, and Cyanea capillata were examined to determine possible specific differences in cnidome or in morphology of a given nematocyst type. Two categories of nematocysts were common to the three species, atrichous isorhizas and microbasic heterotrichous euryteles. The isorhizas were of one type in Chrysaora ("a" atrichs), two types in both Aurelia ("a" atrichs and polyspiras) and Cyanea ("a" atrichs and "" atrichs). The newly designated "" atrichs, varying from ellipsoidal to pyriform to reniform in outline, were smaller (5.3-8.8 x 2.0-3.0 ) than the oviform polyspiras of Aurelia (8.8-12.9 x 4.45.9 ). The "a" atrichs and microbasic euryteles of the three species were similar in shape. Both tended to be largest in Cyanea and smallest in Aurelia, but an overlap in size was observed. A third nematocyst category, holotrichous haplonemes, were found in occasional specimens of Chrysaora, evidently appearing in advance of strobilation. The utility and limitations of the nematocysts in distinguishing scyphistomae of the three species are discussed. 
10.2307/3225187|The nucleus of the Crassostrea virginica spermatozoon is invaginated antero-posteriorly enclosing a mass consisting of many small vesicles, the axial body. A centrally located filament extends through the axial body from its base to the apex of the acrosome. The acrosome is enclosed by its own membrane, and it caps the axial body while somewhat depressing the anterior rim of the nucleus. A small subnuclear fossa, in the center of the distal surface of the nucleus, is enclosed within the two membranes of the nuclear envelope. A proximal, transverse centriole and a distal, longitudinal centriole are located in the center of the middle piece surrounded laterally by four mitochondria. A centriolar satellite often is found between the proximal centriole and the subnuclear fossa. The flagellum, continuous with the distal centriole, contains the characteristic 9 + 2 configuration of microtubules. The diameter of the end piece, smaller than that of the body of the flagellum, has a cylindrical bundle of nine single microtubules uniformly spaced around a center pair.
10.2307/3225188|The scanning electron microscope has been used to reveal the differentiated surface structure of a number of ciliated protozoa. The matter of redefinition for several organelle systems is discussed in view of the complexity of their differentiated states. Among those ciliates examined are included the genera Coleps, Dileptus, Didinium, Colpoda, Tetrahymena, Paramecium, Frontonia, Lembadion, Conchophthirus, Nyctotherus, Condylostoma, Blepharisma, Stentor, Euplotes, and Uronychia.
10.2307/3225189|A study involving the transmission and scanning electron microscopes has revealed that the hairs located on the tip of the ligula in the mouth parts of the mosquito Culliseta inornata do not contain nerve fibers. Further use of refined experimental techniques have confirmed the morphological evidence that the ligular hairs are not chemosensory and do not elicit any behavioral response in and of themselves. It has been shown that a film of water or sucrose solution applied to the surface of the ligula results in the swelling and expansion of the tip of the organ to 76.65 per cent over its original size. This rapid expansion of the ligula may be greatly enhanced by the internal morphology of the lumen surrounded by the epidermal cells in the body of the ligula. This swelling of the ligula may be a physical process resulting from the stretching of its convoluted surface. Previous results reported by Owen, suggesting that the hairs on the tip of the ligula were sensory, probably came about as a result of the small sensilla trichodea in the inner surface of the labella coming in contact with the surface of the ligula which was coated with a test solution. It has been demonstrated that the sensilla trichodea of the inner surface of the labella are typical chemosensory hairs containing a number of nerve fibers.
10.2307/3225190| Analysis of cinemicrographic sequences involving Trichomitopsis termopsidis revealed an undulatory motion of the costa. The costal activity causes radical changes in shape of the organism, which seems to rotate through an angle of 45. This rotation differs from that resulting from the activity of the undulating membrane, which does not cause changes in shape of the trichomonad. 
10.2307/3225191|Initially, it was demonstrated that oviposition in laboratory cultures of Sinella curviseta stopped in response to an environmental factor. After cultures (at the density utilized) reached about 12 days of age, oviposition did not occur. Egg cannibalism, which was found to be slight, was excluded as the explanation for the absence of eggs in cultures. It was shown that in inhibiting environments males deposited spermatophores and females picked them up but failed to deposit the expected eggs. The source of inhibitor was either bacteria, yeast (provided as collembolan food), or other fungi that contaminate cultures. Inhibitor was transferred to clean chambers in water extracts, in particulate matter, and via air currents from inhibited cultures. A condensate of the volatile components in inhibited cultures was collected which, when applied to clean chambers, produced inhibition. This condensate was found by gas-liquid chromatography to contain three organic compounds which were identified by mass spectrometry as ethyl alcohol, acetone, and methyl alcohol. These compounds are probable products of yeast metabolism. When applied to clean chambers in the concentrations determined for the active condensate, these substances individually and in all combinations, failed to produce inhibition. It is probable that a compound that is effective in minute quantities and consequently remains undetected, produced oviposition inhibition. This inhibition also occured in Sinella coeca and may affect various other laboratory-reared arthropods that are supplied yeast in their diet.
10.2307/3225192| Tetrameres (G.) robusta n. sp. is described from the hawk Accipiter trivirgatus formosae from Taiwan. It is most similar to Tetrameres quiscali (Barus, 1966) n. comb., from a passeriform bird in Cuba, but differs in the distribution of postanal papillae, in the absense of preanal papillae, and in having a left spicule more than four times as long. Also reported and briefly discussed are: Tetrameres coloradensis Schmidt, 1962, from Capella g. gallinago in Taiwan; T. fissispina (Diesing, 1861) Travassos, 1914, from ducks in Taiwan; Microtetrameres oriolus oriolus Petrov & Tschertkova, 1950, from hornbills in Palawan; M. inermis (Linstow, 1879) Travassos, 1914, from many species of passeriformes in Taiwan and Palawan; Geopetitia chabaudi Rasheed, 1960, from Rhyacornis fuliginosus affinis in Taiwan; Contracaecum microcephalum (Rud., 1809) Bavlis, 1920, from Nycticorax n. nycticorax in Taiwan; C. himeu Yamaguti, 1941, in Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis in Taiwan; Porrocaecum angusticolle (Molin, 1860) Baylis & Daubney, 1920, from hawks in Taiwan; P. reticulatum (Linstow, 1899) Baylis & Daubney, 1920, from Egretta spp. in Taiwan; P. wui Hs, 1933, from Corvus macrorhynchus colonorum in Taiwan; P. spirale (Rud., 1795) Baylis, 1920, from Strix aluco yamadae in Taiwan; and P. depressum (Zeder, 1800) Baylis, 1920, from Otus bakkamoena glabripes in Taiwan. 
10.2307/3225193|The internal and external morphology of the proboscis hooks of Macracanthorhynchus hirudinaceus has been studied using both the light microscope and the scanning electron microscope. Light microscope sections reveal a PAS-Alcian positive substance within a central lumen of the non-staining hook material. Using an Epon-infiltration technique which reduces distortion due to dehydration, we have observed that the hooks are characteristically panduriform at the base to almost circular at the extreme tip. On the outer margin of the hook is a tube-like opening that leads into a groove. Two other species of acanthocephala were examined and compared with M. hirudinaceus.
10.2307/3225194|Seven new species of Eimeria are described from Japanese lizards. Four are apparently intestinal residents, the oocysts being recovered from gut contents: Eimeria michikoa n. sp., from Gekko japonicus; E. telfordi n. sp., from Gehyra mutilata; E. rountreei n. sp., from Takydromus tachydromoides; E. sami, from Eumeces oshimensis. Three other species are inhabitants of the epithelium of the gall bladder and bile ducts of their respective hosts: E japonicis n. sp., from Gekko japonicus; E. pellopleuris n. sp., from Lygosoma pellopleurum; E. japaluris n. sp., from Japalura polygonata. There is no oocystic residuum, no polar body, no micropyle, nor Stieda body on sporocyst for any of these species.
10.2307/3225195|As the result of accumulation of new data, generally resulting from application of new techniques, and appearance of new ideas concerning ciliate systematics in general, taxonomic revisions have often been necessitated at various levels within the subohylum. In the present case, greater and more precise knowledge about hymenostome holotrichs than was possible in the past has demanded revision of the tetrahymenine family Tetrahymenidae, rapidly becoming too heterogeneous. The part of the revision specifically treated here includes the establishment and characterization of the Glaucomidae n. fam.; of Epenardia n. g., with type-species E. myriophylli (Penard, 1922) n. comb.; and of Glaucoma dragescui n. sp., new member of Glaucoma, type-genus of the new family. The new family Glaucomidae is described as containing four bonafide genera (Glaucoma, the new genus Epenardia, and the taxonomically controversial Espejoia and Turaniella) and four genera of less certain status (Dichilum, Monochilum, Physalophrya, and Pinchatia). The genus Glaucoma, in revision, is reduced to eight "good" species: the type-species, G. scintillans; the new species, G. dragescui; and G. avellana, G. chattoni, G. frontata, G. intermedia, G. kirki, and G. macrostoma.
10.2307/3225196| Paraffin ribbons can be stored safely and indefinitely in modified cake boxes (8 x 8 x ") with transparent windows. The placing of ribbons on strips of paper facilitates subsequent removal of sections from anywhere in a series. The method of storage is especially valuable when it is impossible to section and mount simultaneously. 
10.2307/3225197|Actinophrys sol feeds both solitarily and cooperatively on gastrotrichs, especially Chaetonotus vulgaris. The gastrotrich adheres to axopods, is pulled toward the heliozoon by their contractions, is enclosed by bending of adjacent axopods and by a protoplasmic collar which flows over the "belt" of axopods, all within 15 minutes after capture. One gastrotrich nearly escaped the enclosing collar, but was then engulfed, headfirst, within another 20 minutes. It was dead within one hour after capture. A pair of Actinophrys simultaneously engulfed a gastrotrich in a single fused- and shared-gastriole. Digestion of this gastrotrich was complete within six hours; the residue was voided from the gastriole, and the two Actinophrys separated.
10.2307/3225198|A method using acrylamide gel as an embedding material for fish eggs is described. Using this new procedure eggs retain their normal morphology, thus eliminating the gross morphological distortions encountered using standard histological methods.
10.2307/3225199|The archiannelid Troglochaetus beranecki is reported from the interstitial water of gravel substrates in Colorado mountain streams. It was previously known only from central Europe. Evidence is presented to show that it is an archaic species with very slow geographical spread.
10.2307/3225200|Screw dislocations are considered important mechanisms in the orderly development of nacre in pearl oysters. Scanning electron microscopy makes possible a systematic study of types of such dislocations. Their detection is easiest in pelecypod specimens having euhedral crystals, as indicated in the present study of the Atlantic pearl oyster Pinctada radiata Leach.
10.2307/3225201|Trichodrilus allegheniensis n. sp., from Round Mountain Cave, Franklin County, Tennessee, is characterized by an elongate, proboscis-like prostomium, long tubular atria, and two pairs of spermathecae. It is suggested that other undescribed species of this genus may exist in North America.
10.2307/3225454| Scanning electron micrographs of the tegument of three species of Hymenolepis have revealed polymorphic microtriches. In H. diminuta ontogenetic allometric growth results in mature/early gravid segments having two distinct populations of posteriorly-oriented microtriches: one short (ca. 1), tubular, with conical tips; another long (ca. 5), flattened, with spatulate tips. H. nana's microtriches are polymorphic and primarily oriented at right angles to its tegument. In H. microstoma microtrichial dimorphism is apparent in the neck and immature strobilar region. The large microtriches in the neck region of this species point in many directions, but most assume a posterior orientation as the segments mature. All three species exhibit a decreased microtrichial density down the length of the strobila and morphological changes in the tegumental surface of the gravid segments. Such changes involve surface sculpturing in the anterior two-thirds of the segment accompanied by loss of all microtriches and erosion of folds in the posterior third. Relatively small (ca. 3x) increase in surface tegumental area due to the microtriches suggests that they do not play an important role in nutrient absorption. The larger microtriches may play a locomotory role in site-selection and intra-luminal migrations of these worms. 
10.2307/3225455|High speed photography and frame by frame analysis have been used to elucidate the nature of the flagellar beat in three monoflagellates and one diflagellate (Chilomonas). The flagellar beat in the four organisms is base to tip. The flagellar beat in Trachelomonas is a continuous helical counter-clockwise beat with the flagellum anterior to the body of the organism for part of its length and wrapped around or trailing alongside the body for the rest of its length. The forward component is obtained by the backward movement of helical waves along the flagellum as it spirals around the body. Rotation is caused by the spiral helical beat both in front of and also alongside the body. The flagella of Menoidium cultellus and Rhabdomonas spiralis are held at right angles to the long axis of the body. The flagellum of Menoidium cultellus contains one or two traveling circular helical waves of small diameter. The flagellum of Rhabdomonas spiralis contains one large, flat, circular ("pinwheel") helical wave. These helical waves, at right angles to the body, produce rotation and gyration of the body, but cannot produce a forward component to cause locomotion directly. Locomotion results from the rotation and gyration of the body, as described by Lowndes. The two flagella of Chilomonas paramecium project from under the body in a latero-posterior direction with a counter-clockwise helical beat during forward motion. The forward component is produced by the sum of the backward thrust of the two flagella. There is bodily rotation (usually left to right) during very rapid swimming.
10.2307/3225456|The distribution of algae was studied in six thermal springs of western Montana: Alhambra (north), 54.4 C; Alhambra (south) 48.0 C; Boulder, 61.3 C; Jackson, 61.5 C; Lolo, 46.0 C; Pipestone, 59.5 C; and Sleeping Child, 52.0 C. The blue-green algae (Myxophyceae) were the only algae near the sources of the streams. The mean maximum temperature endured by the diatoms (Bacillariophyceae) was 43.2 C; by the green algae (Chlorophyceae), 40.9 C. Presence lists of the algae along a temperature gradient indicate the order in which the algae appeared in the stream as the water cooled. The per cent volumes for the major and intermediate species were plotted along the temperature gradient to show the interactions among the populations of the continuum. The streams containing the greatest variations of habitats resulted in more erratic curves of several modes among the major populations and scattered occurrences among the intermediate species. Variations in types of habitats downstream promoted the relocation of translocated algal masses until overwhelmed by the previously established populations. Five new taxa are described: Chamaesiphon prescotti n. sp.; Pseudanabaena oblonga n. sp.; Synechococcus lividus Copeland var. nanum n. var; Oscillatoria geminata Copeland var. fragilis forma breve n. forma; Oscillatoria geminata Copeland var. tenella forma minor n. forma.
10.2307/3225457|The arterial system of Biomphalaria glabrata is described as reconstructed from serial sections of snails infected for several months with Schistosoma mansoni. Infection with S. mansoni does not materially alter the course of arterial branches, as recently described by Basch in uninfected snails. However, infection induces hypertrophy of arterial walls, thus permitting morphological recognition of the vascular pattern. A muscular structure was observed which apparently regulates the flow of hemolymph in the renal artery. The histological structure of the buccal bulb is described. The muscle fibers of the arterial system, including the renal valve and buccal bulb, are of a type of muscle that is intermediate between smooth and cardiac muscle.
10.2307/3225458|This paper describes the intracellular origin of flagellar hairs in the xanthophycean alga Pseudobumilleriopsis pyrenoidosa. The details of hair production and attachment are discussed and compared with similar events which occur in other algae and in fungi.
10.2307/3225459|When living protozoa are illuminated with an oblique beam of light from one sector of the microscope condenser, surface details, and also internal details, appear to have a three-dimensional quality as a result of being illuminated on one side and shaded on the opposite side. Internal organelles with refractive indices differing from the refractive index of the cytoplasmic matrix are revealed clearly as concavities or convexities in the plane of focus. Methods of achieving oblique illumination are described, and photomicrographs of protozoa illustrate some of the possibilities of the technique.
10.2307/3225460|Specimens of adult Euplana gracilis (Girard, 1850) were collected from the Tred Avon River at Oxford, Maryland, and held in the laboratory where they deposited fertile eggs sporadically for several months. The eggs hatched into juveniles resembling the adult form one week after oviposition when held in sea water at 15% at a temperature of 21 C. The chromosome number of E. gracilis was determined to be 2n = 18.
10.2307/3225461|One hundred and fifty-five unionid bivalves from 16 species and 17 localities in Illinois were examined for ciliated protozoa. Although several species were occasionally found, the arhynchodine thigmotrich Conchophthirus curtus was identified in 55% of the mussels examined comprising 81.5% of the unionid species. C. curtus infected mussels in virtually every waterway sampled. Heterocinetopsis unionidarum, a rhynehodine thigmotrich, heavily infected mussels at one locality although it was found nowhere else. The results of our survey are compared with those of others. Host-specificity, host-suitability, and the nature of symbiosis are discussed.
10.2307/3225463|Transmission electron microscopy shows the controversial reticulations of the spores of B. gracilis not to be homologous with ridges of truly reticulated myxomycete spores.
10.2307/3225464|Radiography was used as a technique to determine the degree of infection by the cysticercoid of Raillietina cesticillus in populations of the confused flour beetle Tribolium confusum. Radiographs of infected beetles, examined under a dissecting microscope, showed cysticercoids as clearly defined oval bodies in the abdominal and thoracic regions. Calcareous corpuscles in the cysticercoids absorbed radiation, which enhanced differentiation of the cysticercoids from the surrounding soft tissues of the beetles. In beetles with multiple infections, cysticercoids commonly were superimposed, restricting the technique to a semi-quantitative one, lacking the overall accuracy of the dissection technique.
10.2307/3225465|In experimentally infected male albino rats, aberrant pre-adults of Trichinella spiralis are reported for the first time outside of the gastrointestinal tract.
10.2307/3225466|Eulimnadia diversa (Crustacea, Conchostraca) was collected during the summers and autumns of 1966 through 1968 from temporary pools at two sites in southeastern Louisiana. Only females were collected. The mean shell length was 4.6 mm, and the mean depth was 2.9 mm. Two-thirds of the specimens examined had two growth lines, and the majority had 12-14 caudal spines on the telson. The number of such spines frequently differed on either side of the telson. In the majority of those specimens with the same number of caudal spines on each side of the telson, the forked telson filament was located between spines 3 and 4. Most specimens possessed 17 pairs of phyllopods. Attempts to culture Eulimnadia were moderately successful. The laboratory life cycle lasted about one month from egg-laying to death.
10.2307/3225467|A chambered counting cell has been designed which is considered superior to other methods for counting zooplankton material. The Bogorov counting tray, practically unknown in North America, is also described. These counting apparatuses are particularly appropriate for enumeration of planktonic micro-Crustacea.
10.2307/3224852|Porocephalida (Pentastomida) may encapsulate as nymphs in mammals or live as free tissue nymphs in reptiles without producing pathological responses. In both classes of hosts, however, visceral larva migrans effects may be produced by the migration of primary larvae. Hosts may become presensitized by an initial infection and a mononuclear cell response may be elicited by following infections, thus causing abscessing and ultimate granulomas. In rodent hosts, heavy infections may cause death by overwhelming or mutilating of host tissues and organs.
10.2307/3224853| Protargol and Chatton-Lwoff silver techniques were used to study laboratory-propagated populations of the peritrich ciliates Vorticella microstoma, V. convallaria, and Telotrochidium henneguyi. Attention was given to: the number of pellicular striations which encircle the body; the arrangement and replication of kinetosomes in the aborally located ciliated wreath and scopular ring; differentiation of the scopular ring during binary fission; redifferentiation of the stalk. V. microstoma was characterized by 43-46 pellicular striations (silverlines), V. convallaria by 106  5, T. henneguyi by 50-56. Ten to twelve silverlines were found in the zone between the ciliated girdle and scopula ring of V. microstoma, 19-22 in V. convallaria, 7-9 in T. henneguyi. Kinetosomes seem to form the "line" described beneath the ciliated wreath by Noland & Finley; three rows of such kinetosomes characterized the line in mature stalked (sessile) V. microstoma but six rows characterized that species' telotroch; in V. convallaria the numbers were two rows in the sessile organism and six rows in the telotroch; in mature T. henneguyi six rows of kinetosomes were found. The silver techniques revealed evidence which confirms the well-known view that kinetosomes play a key role in the formation of the vorticellid stalk. In addition, our findings strongly suggest that the stalk spasmoneme originates from two argentophilic particles located in the scopula region. The findings reported here should be useful for taxonomists who work only with light microscopes and they may also provide guide lines for transmission and scanning electron microscopy of peritrichs. 
10.2307/3224854| Lipofuscin pigment bodies in the cardiac endothelium of the Gulf toadfish measure up to 2.0  in diameter. Their histochemical staining characteristics and ultrastructure differ slightly from those of mammalian lipofuscin. Further, glycolipids are present in toadfish lipofuscin. The pigment is closely associated with the elaborately developed smooth endoplasmic reticulum. A possible method of origin of the pigment is discussed. 
10.2307/3224855|Sensory structures of ticks have been studied with the scanning electron microscope. Postulations of certain functions of the sensilla have been made with inferences from the literature. The species examined are: Amblyomma americanum, Argas persicus, Boophilus annulatus, Dermacentor andersoni, D. variabilis, Haemaphysalis leporispalustris, Ixodes kingi, and I. ricinus.
10.2307/3224856|The secretory bodies observed in the tegument of Haematoloechus medioplexus were examined for nucleoside phosphatase activity and for the presence of macromolecular diglycols. Reaction products resulting from the hydrolysis of ADP and ATP were found in the Golgi cisternae of the perinuclear cytoplasm and in the homogeneous portion of the secretory bodies. The same organelles were reactive after the test for macromolecular diglycols by the periodic acid-chromic acid-silver methenamine technique. It is hypothesized, from these observations, that the secretory bodies originate from the Golgi complex in the perinuclear cytoplasm and pass into the distal cytoplasm (tegument). The presence of sensory bulbs in the distal cytoplasm (tegument) and junctional complexes associated with the perinuclear cytoplasm are noted for the first time in this organism.
10.2307/3224857|Histochemical methods for non-specific esterases, cholinesterases, and acid phosphatase have been applied to the cercariae of the digenetic trematodes Himasthla quissetensis and Zoogonus lasius. Structures containing these enzymes show positive reactions to the appropriate method and are selectively visualized in simple whole mount preparations. Reactions for non-specific esterases occur in the nervous, alimentary, and excretory systems, and in cells in the acetabulum and mesenchyme. Cholinesterases are found throughout the nervous system, and are selectively inhibited by 10
10.2307/3224859|Twenty species of nematodes are reported from reptiles from Palawan, Luzon, and Mindanao, Philippines. All are new locality records and many are new host records. Skrjabinodon dossae (Caballero, 1968) n. comb., S. ovocaudatus (Caballero, 1968) n. comb., Kalicephalus megacephalus Schad, 1962, and Herpetostrongylus pythonis Baylis, 1931, are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3224860| Hymenolepis peromysci n. sp. is described from the brush mouse Peromyscus boylii and also reported from the deer mouse P. maniculatus. Both host species were captured near Fresno, California. The new cestode can be distinguished from related species by the number of rostellar hooks (18-19) and their size (14.5-16.6 ) and shape, and in addition, by dimensions of the egg (72 by 60 ). Natural intermediate hosts found for H. peromysci n. sp. and for H. citelli were tenebrionid beetles. 
10.2307/3224862| A method of the combination of three well established techniques for preparing small crustaceans for study of their internal structures is described. The techniques are: the glutaraldehyde fixation and bulk staining of whole specimens; the embedding of the specimens in plastic according to the procedures for electron microscopy; and the sectioning of them at 0.5 to 5.0 . 
10.2307/3224863|An inexpensive and easily prepared medium for mounting diatoms is described.
10.2307/3225404| In a species of Echinoderes (close to E. dujardini Claparde) found intertidally on San Juan Island, Washington, development within the egg envelope leads directly to a juvenile with 11 of the 13 segments characteristic of adult kinorhynchs. There is definitely no distinctive larval stage to which segments are added gradually, as has been claimed. The eggs of Echinoderes are ea. 75 by 65  or 80 by 70 ; the envelope is transparent and about 1  thick. The earliest worm-like stage shows no external evidence of segmentation or elaboration of spines. By the time segments can be recognized, the design of the head is well established and scalids have begun to appear. At hatching, the juvenile kinorhynch straightens its body and protrudes its head, thereby tearing open the envelope. It has a trunk length of ca. 115 or 120 , and is provided with a long posterior terminal spine, long dorsal spines on segments 10 and 11, long lateral spines on segment 10, and shorter lateral spines on segment 7. 
10.2307/3225405|Cytological and cytochemical examination of pulmonate gastropod central nervous systems indicates the presence of multiple DNA classes representing minimally 2 C through 32 C. Higher classes are certainly present, but were not measurable with the system used. In pulmonates and the squid, giant neurons predominated in the central nervous system ganglia, but some conventional neurons were present. Only conventional neurons were found in ganglia of the prosobranch Littorina. In the pulmonate Triodopsis divesta, polyploid DNA classes were found in both giant and conventional neurons. Giant neuron nuclei contained more condensed chromatin, a lower nucleoplasm to chromatin ratio, and multiple nucleoli. With increasing DNA class, nuclear size increased in this group while such an increase was not evident in conventional neurons possessing a single nucleolus, more dispersed chromatin and a higher nucleoplasm to chromatin ratio. Other cytochemical evidence suggests that considerable portions of redundant chromosome sets in giant neuron nuclei are inactive, and that the condition encountered in these cells may represent a form of specialization directed toward increased production of cell-specific materials.
10.2307/3225406|Morphogenesis in excysting didinia as described here involves a number of processes: The multiplication of kinetosomes and the elaboration of cilia; the reorganization of the cytoskeletal system including the ribbons and bundles of microtubules; and the production of the cortical fibrous layers and fibrous ring of the proboscis. The morphogenesis of the proboscis parallels the development of the anterior girdle kinetosomes and the elaboration of the cytoskeletal system. The fine structure of the excystment vacuole and contractile vacuole is described. Finally, structural changes in the mitochondria, macronucleus, autophagic vesicles, and inclusions are noted.
10.2307/3225407|Knobs projecting from membranes were never demonstrable by electron microscopy of negatively stained mitochondrial fractions isolated from a respiratory-deficient strain (cytoplasmic petite) of baker's yeast grown into stationary phase. Knobs projecting from some membranes were always demonstrable by electron microscopy of negatively stained mitochondrial fractions isolated from a respiratory-competent strain (grande) of baker's yeast grown into stationary phase, provided grande mitochondrial fractions were aged or osmotically shocked. Electron microscopy of sectioned petite cells showed there were fewer cristae per mitochondrion, fewer mitochondria per cell, and decreased total cristal area per cell.
10.2307/3225408|Myofibrils from Drosophila melanogaster fibrillar flight muscles can be isolated by differential centrifugation for phase-contrast and electron microscopic studies. These isolated myofibrils retain the capacity to shorten in 20 mM CaCl
10.2307/3225409|A new statistical method is described to measure lung alveoli as they appear in histological section and to project a distribution of their actual sizes from those sample measurements. The mathematical concepts involved are explained. There is discussed, as well, a procedure for the improved fixation of the lungs of small animals, particularly those of fetal dimensions. Differential degrees of alveolar expansion in guinea pig fetuses subjected to different types of intrauterine stress were used to illustrate the use of this measuring and sampling technique. How these specimens were obtained is discussed. The mensuration technique appears to be highly sensitive to small differences in the size of randomly distributed spheroids in histological tissue sections. The method may well be applicable to other cases where function alters morphology in populations of spherical (or nearly spherical) structures which are randomly distributed in other kinds of tissues used in experimental studies.
10.2307/3225410|Infectivity and development of L. constantiae metacercariae X-irradiated at 500 to 20,000 r were studied in the bursa of Fabricius of the chick and on the chorioallantois. X-irradiation significantly affected infectivity in the chick and on the chorioallantois. Control flukes and those irradiated up to 2,000 r were ovigerous. Egg development was suppressed at 3,000 r and postmetacercarial development did not occur at 5,000 to 20,000 r. Radiation did not affect pairing or clustering of worms in the bursa or on the chorioallantois.
10.2307/3225411| Nematocysts were examined in six specimens of the rare scyphomedusa Rhopilema verrilli. Three categories of nematocysts were identified: Atrichous isorhizas of the small (5.3-6.9 x 3.3-4.5 ) "a" atrich variety, holotrichous haplonemes (6.9-8.9 x 5.4-7.4 ), and microbasic heterotrichous euryteles (7.6-10.1 x 5.0-7.1 ). In possessing holotrichs, R. verrilli differs from the closely related medusa Rhizostoma pulmo. No sting was detectable following contact with medusae of R. verrilli, and the species is regarded as nonvenomous to man. 
10.2307/3225412|A new species of chernetid pseudoscorpion designated as Dinocheirus horricus n. sp. is described from Michigan. Individuals were collected in old hay and straw from two widely separated localities.
10.2307/3225413|The International Collection of Ciliate Type-Specimens, established in 1963 and now housed in the Smithsonian Institution (United States National Museum), has been growing steadily, containing some 180 type-specimens, representing 105 species, as of 1 January 1972. Many additional preparations, most of them containing ciliates impregnated with silver according to one of several methods, are expected on completion of certain major taxonomic treatises now in preparation in different parts of the world. Guidelines for preparation and mailing of type material are offered in some detail because of the importance of having such slides in an international repository rather than in personal private collections. A brief discussion of the type concept is included. A major feature of the present paper is an extensive table supplying data on all species of ciliate Protozoa now represented in the Smithsonian collection.
10.2307/3225415|In spite of its low cost, little interest has been shown by cytologists in the He-Ne laser because of its low power. A microbeam using such a laser and some observations made after its use on a plant cell are described.
10.2307/3225416|A technique for using egg albumen as a mounting medium was modified and employed to study the internal morpology of mites, viz., Cheyletiella sp.
10.2307/3225417|Branchinecta dissimilis n. sp., a new species of Anostraca (Crustacea, Phyllopoda) is described, with an evaluation of specific characters in the genus.
10.2307/3224873|Ancestraulae were examined and body wall morphogenesis was studied by scanning electron microscopy in 25 species of Smittinidae with imperforate frontals. Both lateral and transverse body walls were found to develop as folds in the two-layered basal wall. Formation of apertures, frontals, and frontal budding were observed.
10.2307/3224874|Descriptions are provided and affinities discussed for three new species of Pachychitra Chamberlin (P. grandis n. sp., P. mexicana n. sp., and P. similis n. sp.), and one each of Paravachonium Beier (P. superbum n. sp.), Leucohya Chamberlin (L. magnifica n. sp.), and Mexobisium n. g., with type-species M. paradoxum n. sp. The status of the families Vachoniidae Chamberlin and Gymnobisiidae Beier is clarified.
10.2307/3224875|The physiomorphological effects of several categories of defined abrupt temperature increases on diatoms were evalulated. Temperature increases which could result from entrainment through cooling lines of steam electric generating facilities and downstream additions of thermal effluents were simulated. In addition to established criteria such as standard microscopical surveys on cell morphology and effects on population growth, a new approach involving total cellular fluorescent patterns was developed and initially tested in the measurement of cellular alterations following stress. The changes in cellular fluorescent patterns prior to and following severe internal cellular destruction of diatoms are discussed, and ecological and physiological implications are indicated.
10.2307/3224876|This paper reports direct confirmation of the myelopoiesis-stimulation effect of a protein "factor" (MW 30,000-90,000) isolated from the serum of myelo-depleted albino rats. The inhibitory effect of antiserum to this factor on granulopoiesis in bone marrow of normal rats has previously been demonstrated by the authors. When the low molecular weight protein fraction of rat serum isolated on Sephadex G-200 was injected into normal albino rats, an initial rise in the promyelocyte and myelocyte level was observed, closely followed by a rise in numbers of metamyelocytes and "band" forms. During the first 16 days after injection of the factor, mature granulocyte numbers were substantially depressed. Total and differential peripheral blood counts revealed a significant increase in total cellularity, which was largely accounted for by high numbers of lymphocytes with a much smaller increase in granulocytes. Injection of the factor into normal rats produced a significant increase in the uptake of H
10.2307/3224877|Specimens of the entocommensal ciliate Plagiopyliella pacifica Poljansky, 1951 were collected from an echinoid host, Strongylocentrotus pallidus, at Friday Harbor, Washington. Ciliates were examined alive and after Chatton-Lwoff and protargol silver impregnation, hematoxylin, and Feulgen staining. A detailed morphometric characterization and demic analysis are presented. The organism's infraciliary and nuclear anatomy are redescribed. Zoogeography, bathymetric distribution, behavior, and host-specificity of this ciliate are discussed. Its buccal morphology, the somatic infraciliature, particularly the absence of the "striated band," and morphogenetic observations exclude Plagiophyliella pacifica from the trichostome family Plagiopylidae. The genus is assigned to the Thyrophylacidae within the suborder Philasterina of the order Hymenostomatida sensu lato.
10.2307/3224878|Electron microscopic techniques were employed to investigate the fine structure and function of the intestinal system of the oxyurid Leidynema appendiculata. The intestine is bounded at its lumenal aspect by a microvillous border and at its pseudocoelomic aspect by a filamentous basal lamina. The ultrastructural architecture of the caecum suggests that it is a specialized region concerned primarily with secretory activity. The cells of this structure contain a pervasive system of endoplasmic reticulum, multiple Golgi complexes, enlarged nuclei, pleomorphic mitochondria, lysosome-like granules, lipid droplets, and alpha glycogen deposits. The anterior intestine possesses both secretory and storage capabilities. Two patterns of cellular discharge are apparent in this region. Progressing from the caecum and anterior intestine to the middle and posterior intestinal regions, there exists a gradual alteration in fine structure which indicates a concomitant gradation in function. The latter areas appear to possess previously undescribed structures which appear to be accessory elements of support. Nuclear inclusions, which also have not been reported in nematodes, exist within the posterior intestinal cells. The results of the present study suggest a possible mechanism of food utilization.
10.2307/3224879|The scanning electron microscope reveals greater structural details of respiratory apparatus of ticks than previously has been understood or possible. A brief history of observations is given. Then, following Hinton's delineation of the aeropyles in the stigmatal or spiracular plate of Boophilus microplus, the SEM micrographs are used to elucidate the respiratory features of two soft ticks, Argas persicus and Otobius megnini. Descriptions and micrographs of the hard ticks include: Dermacentor andersoni, D. variabilis, Haemaphysalis leporispalustris, Ixodes kingi, I. ricinus, I. ochotonae, Amblyomma americanum, and A. cajenennse. Cut-away sections of spiracles in D. andersoni and D. variabilis observed by SEM particularly reveal aeropyles opening into primary atrial chambers with interatrial ostia and elongated, fenestrated secondary atrial chambers which connect with the tracheae.
10.2307/3224880|Mountain Lake is situated at an altitude of about 1,180 m above sea level. It is the only natural lake in Virginia and the largest (natural) in the entire unglaciated part of the Appalachians. Its water was slightly acidic, pH ranging between 5.9 and 7.2. Ammonium, nitrites, nitrates, phosphates, dissolved silica, chlorides, sulfates, and ferrous iron occurred in very low concentrations in the water. Dissolved oxygen curves for the summer were orthograde, and the hypolimnetic oxygen never fell below 8.0 ppm. Areal oxygen deficit calculated for 163 days and 85 days were respectively 0.0019 and 0.0029 mg/m
10.2307/3224881|Fifty-one species representing 21 genera of Myxomycetes commonly collected in central Illinois were examined with the scanning electron microscope. All orders of the Myxomycetes are represented. This study provides new information on the characteristics of the spores, sporophores, and accessory structures such as capillitia and calcium deposits. Significantly, the scanning electron microscope, with its increased resolution over a large focal depth, provides a pictorial record of these taxonomically important characteristics.
10.2307/3224882|Freeze-etch preparations of the foliose lichen Parmelia caperata (L.) Ach. indicate that the technique can be applied advantageously to ultrastructural studies of the lichen association. The preservation of fine structure confirms in most respects the image observed after chemical fixation. The ultrastructural image presented by freeze-etching is superior in many cases to that produced by chemical fixation. Convolutions in the fungal plasmalemma and stacking of the thylakoids in the algal chooroplast, comparable to the grana of higher plants, were demonstrated. Freeze-etching revealed the crystals of lichen substances and invaginations in the phycobiont plasmalemma. details normally not observed in sectioned material. The freeze-etch technique presents an independent physical method for elucidating lichen ultrastructure and should be coupled with conventional chemical fixation techniques for further investigations of the lichen association.
10.2307/3224883|The male and larviform female of Podapolipoides porteri n. sp. is described from grasshoppers collected in El Salto Falls, Mexico and Managua, Nicaragua. A key to males and larviform females of Podapolipoides is provided. Redescribed is Podapolipoides madagascariensis (Naudo, 1967) n. comb.
10.2307/3224884|A study of the growth and development of parthenogenetic eggs of Ceriodaphnia reticulata was made with the aid of photomicrographs. Eggs were extracted from the females and placed in filtered pond water. Morphological changes were observed and recorded at 2-hr intervals. Characteristic features for each stage of development are described. At 24 C and under a 12-hr light-dark cycle, Ceriodaphnia embryos matured to free-swimming organisms in approximately 38 hr. During development, growth in body length was found to be continuous. Periods of more rapid growth appeared to be associated with the absorption of yolk spheres. The body length approximately doubled over a 28-hr period.
10.2307/3224885|Levinseniella (Monarrhenos) capitanea n. sp. is described from metacercariae on the hepatopancreas and gonads of Callinectes sapidus Rathbun from Louisiana and Mississippi. It can be distinguished from all other members of the genus by possessing 11-21 atrial pockets and an acetabulum larger than the oral sucker, not possessing a pharynx nor well-developed ceca, and being 1.9-3.6 mm in length. Heardlevinseniella Yamaguti, 1971 is considered a synonym of Levinseniella Stiles & Hassal, 1901.
10.2307/3225476|The purpose of the investigation was to determine (a) the effect of removal of the accessory boring organ (ABO) on the ability of muricid snails (Urosalpinx cinerea, U. c. follyensis, Eupleura caudata etterae) to bore, and (b) the rate of anatomical, histological, and functional regeneration of the organ. The ABO was extruded from the body of the snail by pressure and excised with iris scissors. Rate of regeneration of the ABO was determined anatomically and histologically, and the capacity of regenerating snails to bore was tested on small live oysters. All snails from which the ABO was excised recovered. Full size, or nearly full size, of the regenerating ABO occurred between the 10th and 20th days after excision. The diameters of boreholes excavated by snails after regeneration of the ABO varied within the range of diameters of those of normal snails. However, full anatomical symmetry was not always achieved by regenerating ABOs, and this deformity was reflected in the form of the boreholes. The ABO is thus an essential component of the mechanism of shell penetration by muricid gastropods, and the shape and size of the borehole are the result, primarily, of the dissolving activity of the ABO.
10.2307/3225477|The infraciliature of 11 species of the hypotrich ciliate Euplotes was studied with the Chatton-Lwoff silver impregnation technique. Particular attention was given to the number of dorsolateral kineties, the interkinetal network, the number and spatial arrangement of the ventral cirri, the morphology of the peristome and its bordering adoral zone of membranelles (AZM), and the shape of the macronucleus and the position of its replication bands during DNA synthesis. The following characteristics constitute a trustworthy basis for separation of species within the genus Euplotes: (1) the pattern of the dorsal interkinetal network; (2) the number of dorsolateral kineties; (3) the shape of the AZM and the number of membranelles composing it; (4) the number, spatial arrangement, and distribution of the ventral cirri; (5) the shape of the interphase macronucleus. Four new species of Euplotes are described, three from intertidal pools in Nassau, Bahama Islands (E. indentatus, E. magnicirratus, E. polycarinatus n. spp.) and one from a fresh-water habitat in Madison, Wisconsin (E. octocarinatus n. sp.).
10.2307/3225478|Scanning electron microscopy was used to study the Seattle strain of the peritrich ciliate Telotrochidium henneguyi. The animals were monoxenically propagated with Bacillus cereus in a 1:1:8 (v/v) broth prepared from proteose-peptone, cerophyl, and wheat kernels as described in previous papers. Specimens were prepared for SEM by chemical fixation-freeze dry sublimation methods. Attention was focused on the surface topography, especially the pellicular surface of the body proper, the scopular area, the peristomial cilia, and the aboral ciliary wreath. The ridges, furrows, and pores of the pellicle are described and illustrated with SEM micrographs. A pit at the aboral end called the scopular port is described and shown to contain bulbous elevations of the pellicle; each elevation marks the location of an underlying barren kinetosome.
10.2307/3225479| Rhizamoeba polyura n. g., n. sp., is a marine amoeba isolated on the northeastern coast of the United States and cultivated in clonal culture on agar media. Its limax locomotive form (mean length 76 ) advances by steady cytoplasmic flow and often trails a uroid of ragged filaments. Stationary forms often have extensive uroidal holdfasts. The majority of individuals are uninucleate, but many are bi- or multinucleate. The nucleus, which may be elongated into spindle- or comet-like shapes, contains a central nucleolus to which the presumptive chromosomal material is closely and asymmetrically apposed. Mitosis is of the pattern common in amoebae, with disintegration of the nucleolus. In amoebae generally, two principal categories of filamentous uroids can be distinguished on the basis of their form and their apparent method of formation: the villous knob and the adhesion uroid. The villous knob, which may also adhere to the substratum at times, is found in quite diverse amoebae. The genus Rhizamoeba, defined on the criteria of locomotive form, method of locomotion, kind of uroid, and mitotic pattern, is separated from the genus Trichamoeba and other amoebae with a villous knob. It is classified in the family Hartmannellidae. Observations of amoeboid movement in R. polyura are not completely compatible with the application of motive force at either the posterior or the anterior end alone. 
10.2307/3225480| An attempt was made to delineate the variable effects of the physical nature of the substratum, the current velocity, and dissolved oxygen concentration on the distribution of the amphipod Gammarus pseudolimnaeus. A series of experiments designed to evaluate the relationship between oxygen consumption and substratum particle size under both still- and flowing-water conditions shows that as the particle size increases or decreases from  -4.0 (16-32 mm diameter), oxygen consumption rises, the absolute levels varying according to the rate of flow. An inverse relationship is manifest when data from substratum selection studies and oxygen consumption levels over particle types are compared. In this connection, it is noteworthy that individual specimens entrapped in small glass-tygon tubes consume less oxygen and demonstrate a greater capacity for regulation (reflected in a decreased number of pleopod beats) and that field and laboratory substratum selection experiments indicate a significant correlation between body size and choice of substratum category. The experimental maximal current speed against which G. pseudolimnaeus can move approximates the maximum speed at which the amphipod is taken in nature. 
10.2307/3225481|The history of microscopy and the development of the microscope and its present-day accessories are discussed, with emphasis on the importance of the microscope in modern society. Critical observations are made, particularly with respect to the automated microscopy anticipated as the fashion of tomorrow.
10.2307/3225482|Two genera, Helvidia, described in the family Araneidae, and Proboscidula belong to the Theridiidae. Trichursa is a synonym of Dipoenura; Microcephalus, of Argyrodes; and Selkirkiella, of Anelosimus. Bathyphantes semicincta is a synonym of Coleosoma floridanum; Anelosimus portazuelo, of A. alboguttata; and Linyphia dorsalis, of Anelosimus analyticus. There are additional notes on the habits of Anelosimus species.
10.2307/3225483|Parophiopsyllus ligatus n. g., n. sp. (Cancerillidae) and Presynaptiphilus amphiopli n. sp. (Clausiidae) are described from Amphioplus abditus in Connecticut and Amphioplus sp. in Florida. Observations on the biology of these two cyclopoids are presented, based on approximately monthly samples over a two-year period in Connecticut and bimonthly samples for one year in Florida.
10.2307/3225484|The digestive tissue of Otocelis luteola, as revealed by techniques of light microscopy and electron microscopy, is apparently a syncytium. It is conspicuously alveolar in character, and diatoms which have been eaten occupy vacuoles which are similar to the alveoli. Perhaps the alveoli enlarge or fuse to accommodate the diatoms as they are ingested. While digestion is in progress, and after it has been completed, the diatoms circulate extensively through the syncytium. Repeated coalescence of vacuoles originally containing single diatoms leads to the accumulation of several empty frustules in a vacuole which is moved to a position dorsal or posterodorsal to the mouth. Elimination of the frustules is accomplished by bursting of the vacuole as the mouth dilates and the body contracts. When O. luteola encounters a diatom, it tests it by placing the anterior part of the ventral surface over it. If it accepts the diatom, it pushes it through the mouth into the digestive tissue. In selecting diatoms which are suitable for food, the acoel evidently recognizes the polysaccharides in the cell wall or the mucilaginous material external to the cell wall. Frustules from which all organic material has been removed are not accepted, but if these frustules are infiltrated and coated with gum arabic or gum tragacanth, they are eaten readily.
10.2307/3225485|Traditionally, only two possible modes of origin of obligate endoparasitism seem to have been supported. One is that endoparasites arose from ectoparasites by invasion of the latter into the tissues or digestive tract of the host. The other is that free-living forms, accidentally ingested, have quickly and successfully adapted to their new, internal environment. Proposed here is a hypothesis endorsing a third possible mode of evolutionary origin of the obligately parasitic habit, one suggesting that the endoparasitism exhibited by a number of animal groups today may be the end result of a process involving facultative parasitism as a transition between a strictly free-living existence and the endoparasitic life-style. "Living" examples are cited from the conditions found among the 10 species comprising the holotrich ciliate genus Tetrahymena. Grouped by degrees of parasitism (from none to obligate endoparasitism), four species (T. setifera, T. patula, T. vorax, T. paravorax) are obligately free-living; two (T. pyriformis, T. rostrata) are facultatively parasitic; two (T. chironomi, T. corlissi) are facultatively free-living; and two (T. stegomyiae, T. limacis) are obligately parasitic. Also discussed are two additional, interrelated topics: evolution of Tetrahymena species within and among their three taxonomic complexes; and, independently, evolution and development, to some degree, of the parasitic habit in six of these species.
10.2307/3225486|The guanine + cytosine moles % in DNA preparations from the peritrich Telotrochidium henneguyi and from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a bacterium eaten by the peritrich, were determined from the thermal denaturation temperatures of their DNA. The Telotrochidium DNA has a T
10.2307/3225487|Limnodrilus bulbiphallus n. sp. (Oligochaeta, Tubificidae) is described from the Belize River, British Honduras C.A. The worm appears to be limited in its distribution to the Belize River and its tributaries. Taxonomically, it is distinguishable from other species in the genus by a unique bulge found on the penis sheath.
10.2307/3225488|In an interdunal pond of northern Indiana, a euglenoid flagellate of the genus Colacium inhabits the rectal part of the hindgut of several species of damselflies during the winter. The Colacium species enters the anus in the fall, multiplies, and forms a green mass in the lumen. The symbiotic organisms remain attached to the rectal wall by a gelatinous secretion. The mass of cells is little affected by the movement of the host's fecal pellets whose passage is aided by the movement of spicules and spines attached to the cuticular lining of the hindgut. The flagellates are ejected from the rectum in the spring only when the larval cuticular lining is cast off during the molt. The damselfly larvae are not reinfected before they emerge as adults.
10.2307/3225489|Amoebo-flagellate cells of the protostelid Ceratiomyxella tahitiensis, as observed by electron microscopy, are surrounded by oval concave scales that resemble those of certain algal protists. The scales are formed within special vesicles probably derived from the Golgi apparatus. These findings support the concept that mycetozoans evolved from algal protists.
10.2307/3225490|The triclad Phagocata gracilis (Haldeman, 1840) is reported for the first time from Michigan. Numerous individuals were first collected in 1968 in Oden Stream (T35N R4W S18), Emmet County, a cold, spring-fed fish hatchery outlet stream. Ecological data collected over a two-month period and observations on planarian populations are presented. Other species found in the stream include Dugesia dorotocephala, D. tigrina, Phagocata morgani, P. velata, and Procotyla fluviatilis; Dugesia dorotocephala may be unable to compete with Phagocata gracilis.
10.2307/3225491|Wild type and mutant poliert compound eyes of D. melanogaster studied by means of scanning electron microscopy reveal subunits accompanying normal faceting of the ommatidia. The shape, length, and distribution of hairs over the eye are substantially different in the mutant compared with wild type. However, the fine structure of the ocelli is the same in both flies.
10.2307/3225492|The method employs an empty glass vial floating erect within a glass test tube of slightly larger diameter containing the water-covered sediment sample. The arrangement significantly increases the rate of migration from sediment to surface and the degree of aggregation at the meniscus; here the concentrated meiofauna, with little or no debris, is collected with a Pasteur pipette or is allowed to overflow into the glass vial, which is then removed with a spring-wire retriever.
10.2307/3225493|Artifacts in form of oil-like droplets were encountered in preparations after rapid freezing of plant tissues with a quick-freeze aerosol and sectioning in a cryostat. These droplets may be tolerated in routine investigations, but they interfere in photomicrographs.
10.2307/3225166|The presence of aquatic organisms often provides the best indication of the condition of a stream. Most groups of aquatic organisms have been suggested as valuable indicator species. All groups have some merit, but none are adequate alone. The tendency now is to consider the entire community as a unit of study in determining the health of a stream. Several useful techniques of reporting these community analyses are discussed.
10.2307/3225167|The fresh-water isopod Lirceus fontinalis has a straight tubular digestive tract which for convenience is divided into a foregut, an intestine, a rectum, and two pair of lateral caeca. The esophagus, cardiac, and pyloric chambers collectively form the foregut. The gastric armature, an elaboration of the chitinous intima, provides the triturating mechanism of the cardiac chamber. The intima of the pyloric chamber forms a pressing and straining apparatus. The intestine, possessing a dorsal longitudinal typhlosole and intestinal sphincter, is joined anteriorly by the two pair of lateral hepatopancreatic caeca. The rectum is short and terminated by way of the anus. The foregut and rectum are histologically similar, their walls consisting of a chitinous intima, a mucosa of columnar epithelium, continuous bands of circular muscle, and scattered strands of longitudinal muscle. Histologically, the intestine is cellular in nature and possesses a chitinous intima. The muscularis of the midgut forms a segmented checkerboard pattern of spaced inner circular bands and spaced outer longitudinal bands. The hepatopancreatic caeca are hollow blind tubes composed of two types of cells.
10.2307/3225168|The paper describes an ultramicroscopical determination of the diameter of membrane vesicles larger than 1 m which is based on the following phenomenon. Like macroscopic hollow spheres, the vesicles show two reflexes if illuminated at right angles to the direction of observation. The distance  between the two reflexes projected onto the image plane is related to the diameter D of the particle by the simple equation D =
10.2307/3225169|Fine structure and distribution of nuclear pores were studied in Allium sativum root tip cells. Glancing sections of the nuclear surfaces reveal the pores to be circular entities ranging in outside diameter from 86 to 140, nm. An electron-dense annulus, comprised of eight subunits, forms the periphery of each pore. The "lumen" of the pore is either electron-transparent or contains a centrally located denser element which connects to the annular material by several thread-like structures. In sections perpendicular to the nuclear surface, the annulus is situated within interruptions of the nuclear envelope and shows dilating extensions into both the nucleoplasm and cytoplasm. It is estimated that there are ca. 7,000-8,000 pores covering the surfaces of the nuclei. The present observations are discussed in relation to earlier studies and suggest that the annular material represents an arrangement of globular subunits and not a system of microcylinders. The observed filamentous connections between some of the annular subunits and ribosomes or ribosome-like nucleoplasmic components suggest further that the pore sites may be involved with polyribosomal assembly.
10.2307/3225170|Hoplolaophonte differs from all other known laophontid genera in the reduced numbers of spines on the terminal segments of the swimming exopods, and in the type of modification shown by the endopod of P2 in the male. H. aculeata is the only known species. Coullia n.g. is considered to include C. platychelipusioides (Noodt) as well as C. heteropus n. sp.; the genus is distinguished by its swimming feet, whose endopods are very much reduced (that of P2 most of all, contrary to the usual rule among laophontids), and whose exopods bear no setae, but only terminal and outer spines. Paralaophonte sculpta n. sp. belongs to the gracilipes-group, hitherto comprising only P. gracilipes (Brady), from which P. sculpta differs in the form of the prosome, the extensive somitic ornamentation, and the much longer exopod of the female P5. The fourth species in this material, Paralaophonte congenera (Sars), was represented by specimens which appeared to intergrade with P. brevirostris (Claus), showing some features of each species.
10.2307/3225171|Scanning electron microscopy of low density volatile films is discussed. The results presented are for thin ice films formed by condensation on a cryogenic surface in the microscope. It is shown that beam penetration of such films is the limiting factor in the resolution of surface detail and that false detail may appear in some cases. The conclusions are applicable to any low density uncoated material.
10.2307/3225172|Phase contrast micrographs and scanning and transmission electron micrographs are presented for eleven species of the Trichiaceae and two species of the Dianemaceae. Ultrastructural evidence supports the recognition of five types of capillitium based on the presence or absence of a lumen and on the specific combination and organization of amorphous (lacking distinct structure) and fibrillar components.
10.2307/3225173|Saccocoelioides pearsoni n. sp. uses the fresh-water snail Posticobia brazieri as intermediate host. It is postulated that this snail has changed from a marine to a fresh-water habitat, as may have occurred also in other parts of the world where haploporids are found in fresh-water fish. The sporocyst of S. pearsoni is simple. There is one redial generation. Cercariae are ocellate and encyst on algae, etc. Lecithobotrys sprenti n. sp. is also described. The definitive hosts of both adults are species of mullet. Light and electron microscopy (scanning and transmission) were used in this study. Saccocoelioides magniovatus Szidat, 1954 is transferred to the genus Lecithobotrys Looss, 1902, as L. magniovatus n. comb.
10.2307/3225174|Tetrahymena pyriformis, strain W, was synchronized by the application of seven 30 min heat shocks, each interspersed by 30 min at optimal temperature, and the subsequent development was studied using the scanning electron microscope. Among the findings reported in this study are: (1) The "anarchic field stage," observed at the end of the heat treatment, is more organized than previously thought. By this time, the kinetosomes are in various stages of ciliation, ranging from the posterior margin of the field, where the most primitive stages are found, to the anterior border of the field, where ciliation is almost complete. (2) Ciliary growth within each of the membranelles begins with the two kinetosomal rows proximal to the cytosome, while the row most distant (the third row) is ciliated at a later time. (3) By the beginning of cytokinesis, oral regions of both the proter and the opisthe are in the same stage of development and continue to develop in a synchronized manner until the cell divides. The implications of these findings are discussed.
10.2307/3225175|The new species Metaphidippus barrowsi n. sp. is described and compared with three other species in its group, particularly with M. castaneus, with which it has been confused. Likewise, M. flaviceps n. sp. is described and compared with the other species in its group, particularly M. flavipedes, from which it can be readily distinguished by its bulbous, shiny, yellow head region. M. peckhamorum n. sp. is described and compared with the closely related M. galathea. The fourth new species described, M. tillandsiae, appears to stand alone among the 13 species of Metaphidippus in the area, and its distribution is correlated with that of Spanish moss. Additional synonymies and data, as well as drawings of epigyna and palpi, are supplied for each of the nine species previously known, and the female of M. sexmaculatus is described for the first time. A comparison is made with the area's six species of Eris. Moreover, these are compared among themselves, and drawings of epigyna and palpi are supplied, as well as size and distribution data for each species.
10.2307/3225176|The quadriflagellate Polytomella agilis swims 2.4 times faster than the biflagellate Polytoma uvella. The presence of two flagella on either side of the cell body of the former species is undoubtedly responsible for its greater speed over the latter, which has but one flagellum on either side. A ratio of speeds greater than two suggests that not only is flagellar number proportional to speed but that when flagella beat close enough to one another hydromechanical interaction creates a disproportionately greater effective beating force.
10.2307/3225177|The gastric cavity of the large coelenterate polyp Corymorpha palma is divided into longitudinal channels by columns of giant endodermal cells. The endoderm is low columnar along the surface of the channels and becomes progressively higher towards the interchannel columns. The histological transitions in height also reflect cell and tissue aging. The older interchannel cells are greater in size, nuclear volume, and DNA content. Fluorometric measurements on Auramine-O stained tissues indicate that the large nuclei have up to 16 C DNA contents; 2 C values (in nematocyte nuclei) were determined to be about 1  10
10.2307/3225178|The rotifer Proales werneckii parasitizes the tubular alga Vaucheria geminata growing in a fresh-water spring of north central Florida. After the rotifer enters the Vaucheria tube, the alga produces a short, lateral branch (gall) around the rotifer. The latter feeds on plastids, oil droplets, and cytoplasm of the gall; then it matures and deposits its eggs. These produce young which escape through the tip of the gall. Algal tubes infected with the rotifers display structural modifications not usually found in Vaucheria.
10.2307/3225179|Fish cells of two different types were exposed to media containing DMBA in various concentrations. Fibroblasts from rainbow trout gonads (RTG-2) were more sensitive to the inhibition of mitosis by DMBA than were epithelioid cells from the fathead minnow (FHM). However, FHM cells showed a marked increase in multinucleate cells as a result of the treatment while the RTG-2 cells did not.
10.2307/3225180|Clubiona pacifica Banks long has been listed as a synonym of Clubiona canadensis Emerton. A restudy of the species has shown that C. pacifica is a valid western species. Whereas it is clear that C. canadensis and C. pacifica are derivatives of the same basic stock, they now possess well marked genitalic differences in both sexes and show no intergradation.The distribution map shows that they are largely allopatric and have limited sympatry only in the north. Clubiona californica Fox is included in this study to show to similarity to the other two taxa.
10.2307/3225181|An osmium fixative and an epoxy mountant were used to prepare delicate organisms and tissues as whole mounts for light microscopy. Fine structural details are well preserved by the technique, and common artifacts of whole mount preparation are largely eliminated. The final specimens are suitable as bright field objects or as phase/quasi-phase objects.
10.2307/3225182|The first definitive report of a branchiobdellid, obligate epizoites of fresh-water crustaceans, living free of a host, is that of a new species (elsewhere described) from Veracruz, Mexico. The significance of this find in terms of possible means of dispersal of branchiobdellids and the need for additional ecological studies of these elitellate worms are discussed.
10.2307/3224913|With the increased resolution and depth of field afforded by the scanning electron microscope, it has been possible to investigate much of the organization previously described for Hydra, but with greater clarity and detail. Furthermore, this study has revealed certain structural details of Hydra not, heretofore, clearly disclosed.
10.2307/3224914| Neurosecretory substances within nervous tissues of Echinaster echinophorus, Luidia clathrata, and Patiria miniata were analyzed histologically and histochemically. Fuchsinophilic granules ranging from diffuse particles to 2.5  in diameter were demonstrated within motor and sensory nervous tissues of the radial nerve complex, tube feet, body wall, and cardiac stomach. Histochemical results indicated that the granules were polypeptides containing ester sulfates and lacking large quantities of arginine, tyrosine, and indoles. 
10.2307/3224915|This first paper on the deep-sea harpacticoids off North Carolina revises and gives keys to two known genera, Hemimesochra Sars and Paranannopus Lang. A new species is described in each genus. H. trisetosa n. sp. differs from all the previously known species by having three setae on the A
10.2307/3224916|This second paper on the deep-sea harpacticoids off North Carolina deals exclusively with the family Cerviniidae. Seven species, including two new to science, were collected. The new species, Cerviniella hamata n. sp. and Cerviniella bodini n. sp., differ from the known species primarily in mouthpart setation and swimming leg segmentation and setation. Both new species possess a P
10.2307/3224917|A carrier which securely accommodates a standard microscope slide, and can be attached to the goniometer stage of a JSM-U3 scanning electron microscope (SEM), and a light microscope (LM) with a precision stage were used in these investigations. This made it possible to transfer a suitably prepared specimen from one microscope to the other. Since both microscope stages are graduated in metric units, predetermined areas of interest could be located under either microscope after taking into account certain correlative integers. The feasibility of this technique was tried out on biopsy sections of human nasopharyngeal tumor. It was noted that the surface characteristics of tumor cells, the basement membrane, and the ciliated regions of the glandular epithelium were better resolved with the SEM. Air-dried preparations of tumor chromosomes examined with the SEM provided a better definition of metaphase chromosomes.
10.2307/3224918|Aquatic Acari were investigated in Lakes Michigan, Huron, Superior, and St. Clair. Benthic, planktonic, and neustonic habitats were sampled. The number of known water mites in the Great Lakes was increased to 21 genera and 32 species. However, water mites are generally low in abundance in the Great Lakes. The scarcity of aquatic vegetation is an important limiting factor. Benthic littoral and sublittoral habitats had the greatest numbers of individuals and species. Species composition and biomass diminished rapidly with depth. Hygrobates longipalpis and Lebertia porosa were most abundant and widely distributed in benthic habitats. Piona rotunda and Unionicola crassipes were most common in the plankton and Hydrozetes, Limnohalacarus, and Soldanellonyx were unique to the neuston.
10.2307/3224919|Second stage Ascaridia galli larvae artificially hatched from embryonated eggs were cultivated in medium Ae and medium Ac (Ae modified by substituting chicken serum for calf serum). Cultivation was also attempted in medium Ac supplemented with autoclaved bacteria or gut extracts from embryo or adult chickens, or with chick embryo cells. Larval longevity and increased length were greatest in medium Ac at pH 6.7-6.8 supplemented with autoclaved bacteria of chicken duodenal origin. Salt solutions charged with CO
10.2307/3224920| Lecithaster helodes n. sp. is described from Mugil curema and M. cephalus. It differs from the closely related L. mugilis Yamaguti, 1970 by having four rather than three ovarian lobes and other minor differences. Discussions and measurements are presented for L. confusus Odhner, 1905, L. leiostomi Overstreet, 1970, Hysterolecitha elongata Manter, 1931, Aponurus pyriformis (Linton, 1910) n. comb., and A. elongatus Siddiqi & Cable, 1960. Branchadena Linton, 1910 is considered a synonym of Aponurus Looss, 1907. New host records are listed for some of the above hemiurid trematodes. Leurodera ocyri Travassos, Frietas & Bhrnheim, 1965 and L. inaequalis Travassos, Freitas & Bhrnheim, 1965 are considered synonyms of A. pyriformis. 
10.2307/3224921| Three types of macromeres are produced in early embryogenesis of Hymenolepis diminuta. The first macromere, M I, is a large cell resembling the oocyte. This cell does not show prominent morphological changes during early cleavage, despite its repeated divisions leading to the formation of other embryonic cells. Subsequently, M I divides into two daughter macromeres, M II and M III, which are the precursors of the outer and inner embryonic envelope, respectively. M I contains clusters of ribonucleoprotein bodies (RB) of two structural types, A and B. In type A, the electron-dense substance is arranged in rows, whereas in type B this substance forms a spheroid body. During division of M I, the RB clusters break up into individual type B bodies, all of which are inherited by M II cells. A few RB of an additional type, C, appear in the daughter macromeres. Both M II and M III macromeres contain annulate lamellae. After the outer embryonic envelope is formed, its nuclei degenerate; the membranous system appears within the cytoplasm and the RB disappear. Subsequently shell material is deposited around the envelope in the place previously occupied by the capsule which surrounded the cleaving embryo. The possible participation of ribonucleoprotein material in shell formation is discussed. The changes occurring in M II at the time of the inner embryonic envelope formation involve: size increase of the Golgi complex; formation of membranous bodies; initiation of -glyogen synthesis; enlargement of mitochondria; and an increase in diameter of the endoplasmic reticulum cisternae leading to the formation of lipid bodies. 
10.2307/3224922|Extensive feeding experiments involving 96 hosts of 19 species were undertaken to investigate the host-specificity of Cotylurus flabelliformis among domestic and wild avian hosts. Four new experimental hosts, representing three new orders were found: Pekin duck (Anseriformes); pied-billed grebe (Podicipediformes); American coot (Gruiformes); and song sparrow (Passeriformes). Although development was delayed in the pied-billed grebe, no host-induced variations of enough significance to question previously described species of Cotylurus were noted. Temperature of the fixative (AFA) greatly influenced the size of the worms in permanent preparations. Experimental studies on the development of C. flabelliformis in the domestic mallard indicate that adults are capable of producing eggs within 48 hr following their ingestion as metacercariae. Greatest changes in the parasite body occurred in the development of the hindbody and reproductive system during the first 42 hr. Untanned eggs were present in the uterus after 42 hr and eggs were present in the feces in less than 51 hr.
10.2307/3224923|A survey was conducted in areas of southern Nevada for helminths of roundtailed and antelope ground squirrels and only nematodes were recovered, including Spirura leucurusi n. sp., Subulura nevadense n. sp., Citellina triradiata, Syphacia citelli, and Physaloptera sp. Descriptions of the new species and brief discussions of each parasite recovered are presented, as well as a key to North American species of the genus Spirura. The roundtailed ground squirrel is a new host record for C. triradiata and S. citelli, and the antelope ground squirrel is a new record for S. citelli.
10.2307/3224924|A study has been made on the biology and pathogenicity of the fowl cestode Raillietina echinobothrida. Two species of ants, Triglyphothrix striatidens and Xiphomyrmex sp., are recorded for the first time as intermediate hosts of this tapeworm. Experimental infection of 26 White Rock chickens of two age groups with cysticercoids of R. echinobothrida revealed that age of the host and dose of infection had no influence on the prepatent period of worms, which ranged from 17-22 days. Among the histopathological changes, catarrhal hyperplastic enteritis with the formation of parasitic granuloma at the sites of attachment of the worms appears to be of pathological significance. Intestinal nodules were observed in one bird six months after infection with 200 cysticercoids.
10.2307/3224925| Neurosecretory granules within the motor and sensory regions of the radial nerve complex of Echinaster echinophorus and Patiria miniata were histologically compared before, during, and after natural spawning. Granules (0.5 ) within the sensory regions of spawning and post spawning animals appeared to decrease in quantity, whereas granules of motor regions increased in size and concentration. No migration of granules either toward the cuticle or the coelom was noted during or after spawning. There was no quantitative difference in granules between nerves fixed during spawning, 1-5 hr, or 1 days after natural spawning had ceased. 
10.2307/3224926| Urocleidus adsimulatus n. sp., U. anchorae n. sp., and U. carolinensis n. sp. are described and Gyrodactylus gloriosi Rogers, 1968 reported from the bluespot sunfish Enneacanthus gloriosus collected in Harnett, Tyrrell, and Wake counties, North Carolina. The new species can be distinguished from closest related species by the following: Urocleidus adsimulatus from U. circumcirrus Allison & Rogers, 1970 by the morphology of the dorsal anchor, which in U. adsimulatus has a swelling at the distal end of the anchor shaft and the point formed at a distinct angle to the anchor shaft. Urocleidus anchorae from U. dispar (Mueller, 1936) and U. parvicirrus Mizelle & Jaskoski, 1942 by the size of the dorsal anchor, which in U. anchorae averages 127  long, and the morphology of the copulatory complex. Urocleidus carolinensis from U. udicola Allison & Rogers, 1970 by the morphology of both dorsal and ventral anchors of U. carolinensis which have swellings at the distal ends of the anchor shafts and points formed at a distinct angle to the anchor shafts. The similarity between U. adsimulatus n. sp., U. carolinensis n. sp., U. circumcirrus Allison & Rogers, 1970, and U. udicola Allison & Rogers, 1970, and affinities of the fishes harboring these parasites, are discussed. 
10.2307/3224927|A technique employing ultrasonic vibration for the removal of diatoms from microscope slide substrates is described. A further application of this technique for chlorophyll analyses and certain microscopical mounting procedures are discussed.
10.2307/3224928| Cosmocercoides dukae (Holl, 1928) Travassos, 1931 was recovered from 122 (7.7%) of 1,578 terrestrial molluses in Nebraska. Stenotrema leai (Binney), Succinea ovalis Say, Triodopsis albolabris (Say), T. multilineata (Say), and Cionella lubrica (Mller) are reported as new hosts for C. dukae. 
10.2307/3224929|Encysted larvae in the hemocoele of adult raillietiellid females have been discovered. This indicates that development in the adult female pentastome parallels that in the insect intermediate host under certain conditions. This phenomenon is believed to represent an excellent example of parasitic opportunism and a new alternative in an already complex life cycle.
10.2307/3224930|Seventeen species of helminth parasites are reported from Larus californicus in Wyoming. New host records are Austrobilharzia variglandis, Austrobilharzia sp., Hymenolepis stellorae, Cosmocephalus firlotti, Paracuaria tridentata, and Tetrameres sp.
10.2307/3224931|Specimens of Porrocaecum sulcatum (Rudolphi, 1819) from the sea turtle Chelone mydas collected off the coast of North Carolina are redescribed. General morphological features that are observed by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy confirm the retention of this species in the genus Porrocaecum. The genus Sulcascaris is considered synonymous with Porrocaecum.
10.2307/3224932|The anatomy of the olfactory organs and the accessory nasal sac in the flatfish Cynoglossus oligolepis has been studied. It is a macrosmatic species since its total olfactory surface is considerably greater than the total retinal surface. A reference has been made about the mode of working of the accessory nasal sac and its role in effecting replacement of water in the olfactory chambers of the fish.
10.2307/3224933| Eimeria banffensis n. sp. is described from the pika Ochotona princeps from Alberta, Canada. The oocysts were spherical to subspherical and measured 27-32 by 24-28 . The oocyst wall was rough and lacked a micropyle. The sporocysts had Stieda and substiedal bodies. 
10.2307/3224934|Sixty-four gulls, representing four species, were collected from Texas and North Carolina during 1970 and 1971. Materials from the esophagus and colon of all of the gulls were cultured to determine the presence of algae and protozoa. The feet, feathers, and beaks of 20 of the gulls were checked for external transport.
10.2307/3225238| The outer wall (oolemma) of the oocyte of Crassostrea virginica, the American oyster, contains numerous villi (ca. 0.9 x 0.1 m) embedded in a translucent vitelline layer. The nucleus or germinal vesicle (ca. 40-50 m) contains an acentric nucleolus. Blebs or evaginations of both membranes of the nuclear envelope, some of which are branched, extend into the cytoplasm. Nucleopores, about 160 nm from center to center, have 8 sub-annuli, a central granule, and/or a diaphragm. Ribosomes, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, small vesicles of different types, as well as both lipid and yolk granules, are suspended in the cytoplasm. Lipid and yolk granules move to opposite poles when the oocytes are centrifuged at 2,500 g or more. The lipid accumulates at the centripetal pole followed by the nucleus, and the yolk concentrates at the heavy or centrifugal pole. At 30,000 g or more the mitochondria stratify between the nucleus and the yolk stratum. Most of the ribosomes accumulate centrifugal to the nucleus among the mitochondria and yolk globules. When oocytes were centrifuged at 85,000 gravity for one-half hour, their nucleoli moved centrifugally within the nuclei and stratified into two layers, granular and agranular. The latter was more dense and opaque than the former. 
10.2307/3225239|Lirceus garmani illustrates the typical malacostracan arrangement of oral appendages. The mandibles, first maxillae, and second maxillae originate from the cephalon, whereas the maxillipeds are derived from the first thoracic segment. The endoskeletal elements of the cephalothorax lie posterior to the esophagus and ventral to the cardiac and pyloric chambers of the foregut. They are comprised of a median longitudinal bar and four transverse processes. The lobes of the paragraph form the posterior margin of the oral cavity while the labrum forms its anterior margin. The foregut is lined by a chitinous intima and includes the mouth, esophagus, cardiac, and pyloric chambers. The cardiac chamber houses the gastric mill which functions as a triturating apparatus, while the pyloric chamber is formed by the pyloric strainer and gland filter. The musculature of the cephalothorax expresses a general reduction in complexity especially in the esophagus and cardiac region. The preference of the Asellota for small, soft, aquatic organisms and detritus as food in combination with their relatively small size, extreme dorsoventral compression, and affinity for aquatic habitat has resulted in overall reduction in complexity of the cephalothorax.
10.2307/3225240|The bacterium Aerobacter aerogenes is grown at 37 C, harvested by centrifugation, and stored in a separatory funnel in a concentrated suspension at 4 C. Aliquots of the bacterial medium are fed to cultures of paramecia which are maintained at 31 C. Portions of the paramecia solutions, in turn, are fed to rotifer populations at room temperature. The entire culture scheme is sustained by employing aseptic procedures.
10.2307/3225241|Copulation in the Asplanchna rotifers appears to occur by hypodermic insemination in which the male copulatory organ is pressed tightly against the female integument with the subsequent transfer of spermatozoa through the integument and into the pseudocoel. The mating behavior transcends four successive stages of (1) coronal contact of the male, (2) body arching of the male, (3) copulatory organ attachment, and (4) copulation. The process requires about 60 sec, during the latter part of which the male is pulled behind the female solely by the copulatory organ attachment. Electron microscopical examination of this attachment reveals an extra fibrous substance between the tightly juxtaposed surfaces which may function in some manner in formation of the firm bond between the female integument and the male copulatory organ.
10.2307/3225242|A new direct method of marking sites labeled with beta emitting isotopes in electron microscope sections has been found. This method does not require the use of a photographic emulsion. It has the following advantages. (1) The time of exposure is shortened to seconds. (2) The size of the marked area may be reduced to approximately twenty-five angstrom units. (3) The size of the marked area may be varied according to experimental design. (4) No special techniques in terms of light, temperature or special atmospheres are necessary. (5) Localization may be found throughout the depth of the section. (6) A double fixation procedure with osmium may be used to increase contrast and yet not disturb or mask the deposition of the marker metal. (7) More than one beta emitting isotope may be used simultaneously, each labeling a different material, with the identities of the marked labeled substances distinguishable according to microcrystalline size.
10.2307/3225243|In cells of the ulotrichalean alga Klebsormidium, vegetative protoplasts are transformed into single motile cells. Zoosporogenesis is signaled by the appearance of lateral papillae and is accompanied by the rearrangement of cell organelles. Numerous contractile vacuoles arise de novo and seem to "pump-out" the contents of the larger vacuoles. Mature zoospores have only contractile vacuoles and contain many lipid-body inclusions. Biflagellate zoospores escape through pores formed in the papillae. Zoosporogenesis in K. sterile is essentially like that of K. flaccidum. Attempts to induce zoosporogenesis in K. marinum have not been successful.
10.2307/3225244|Nine montane streams in or near deciduous forests in eastern Kentucky and western Virginia fell into two distinct classes with respect to hardness and alkalinity-five with these values below 30 mgl (Type B streams) and four with them exceeding 50 mgl (Type A streams). B streams contained as much or more phosphorus and nitrogen as the A's, but had no vegetation other than very sparse algal growth, and, with one exception, lacked molluses. Type A streams had abundant flowering plants and/or algae at all seasons and well-developed mollusc populations. Benthic insects also showed definite A and B characteristics, although the two stream types had a number of forms in common. Neither degree of shading nor stream size seemed primarily involved in scarcity of plants in B streams. Allochthonous debris was more concentrated in B streams. In one stream system the biota changed from B to A in character with downstream mineral increase.
10.2307/3225245|Total direct counts of aquatic bacteria from natural samples were estimated by epifluorescence microscopy after acridine orange staining. Cells were concentrated by membrane filtration on black membrane filters and counted directly. Using this method, bacterial counts of pure cultures corresponded to those obtained by the Petroff-Hauser and Coulter counter methods. Epifluorescence counting is the method of choice for ecological studies of the natural distribution of bacteria in aquatic environments since it permits ready discrimination of bacteria from detritus and does not rely on the adequacy of culture methods to elicit growth of all viable organisms. Total counts obtained in this way were related to glucose and acetate uptake by resident microbial populations of lake water sample. Viable counts of the same samples were not related.
10.2307/3225246|The life cycle events in two fresh-water sponges, Spongilla lacustris and Tubella pennsylvanica, have been followed over a three-year period. This study has established that oogenesis, spermatogenesis, larva production, gemmule hatching, and gemmule formation are processes which occur at specific times of the year. The absence of intracellular algae in T. pennsylvanica may be directly related to the earlier (August) formation of gemmules in this species as compared to S. lacustris (gemmules form in October). Thick individuals of S. lacustris display a midsummer gemmulation period (July) which is related to their size and to other undetermined factors. All available data indicate that both of these sponges are dioecious. Gemmule hatching in both of these sponges occurs when water temperature is low (4-5 C); factors other than an increase in temperature serve to stimulate gemmule hatching. Groups of archeocytes, post-larval aggregates, occur in the mesenchyme of S. lacustris following larva production; their function has not been established.
10.2307/3225247|This study was undertaken to compare the nutritional value of bacterial food organisms for Paramecium bursaria. Several bacterial species isolated from nature were tested as potential food for six stocks of Paramecium bursaria. Among the bacterial food organisms tested, those yielding the best growth are gram-negative rods. Among these, Enterobacter cloacae produced the best growth of P. bursaria. Gram-positive bacilli such as Bacillus polymyxa proved to be poor food organisms. The gram-positive coccus Micrococcus liquefaciens is toxic to all stocks of P. bursaria tested. A mixed bacterial flora yields a growth index (no. of animals at time t/no. of animals at time 0) which is intermediate to the growth indices on the single bacterial species tested separately.
10.2307/3225248|The food habits of several important species of invertebrates inhabiting a northern cool-desert stream were studied on a seasonal basis. The foods eaten were quantified according to frequency of occurrence and were compared with potential foods available in the environment. An assortment of diatoms (Bacillariophyceae) and the filamentous alga Cladophora glomerata (Chlorophyta) were the only important living constituents in the diets of the herbivores; no aquatic vascular plant material was found, even when it was abundant in the stream. Plant detritus was the other important food for the herbivores. Of eight invertebrate species studied in detail, five were herbivores, feeding mainly on diatoms and detritus: Hyalella azteca (Amphipoda), Baetis tricaudatus and Tricorythodes minutus (Ephemeroptera), Hydropsyche occidentalis (Trichoptera), and Simulium argus (Diptera). Three others, Argia vivida, Enallagma anna, and Ophiogomphus severus (Odonata), consistently were carnivorous. Other groups studied less extensively included the herbivores Gammarus lacustris (Amphipoda), Sigara sp. (Hemiptera), Optioservus divergens (Coleoptera), Limnephilus frijole (Trichoptera), and Chironomidae (Diptera); and the omnivore Pacifastacus gambelli (Deoapoda). There were no evident differences between size of the animals and the kinds of foods eaten nor between time of the year and diet. In general, the invertebrate animals in Deep Creek were opportunistic and fed in proportion to the foods present.
10.2307/3225249|Early in gestation the undifferentiated trophoblast is rich in both alkaline phosphatase and glycogen. However, as the two zones of trophoblast cells differentiate, glycogen becomes localized primarily in the basal zone cells while alkaline phosphatase is detected chiefly in the inner zone cells and maternal blood channels of both zones. The labyrinth exhibited a strong reaction for both glycogen and alkaline phosphatase. The visceral yolk sac was devoid of alkaline phosphatase, but glycogen was present. Alkaline phosphatase was present in the parietal endoderm of the degenerating bilaminar omphalopleure but glycogen was absent. The possible significance of these histochemical findings is discussed in relation to placental function.
10.2307/3225250|The genus Tetrapolipus Berlese, 1911 is reviewed and described. The egg, male, larviform female, and female of T. hunteri n. sp., collected from Batocera wallacei from New Guinea, are described. Other species in Tetrapolipus are T. batocerae (Berlese, 1910) and T. blattae (Oudemans, 1911).
10.2307/3225251|The literature on various aspects of the biology of Tetrahymena continues to grow enormously. To date, counting full papers, abstracts, review papers, notes, etc., nearly 3,000 "tetrahymenological" research works have been published, appearing in over 275 books or journals in 8-10 different languages and involving over 1,200 investigators. Over half of these papers bear dates more recent than 1958. Also more than three-quarters of them are of a biochemical or physiological nature, with the type-species T. pyriformis by far the most popular as the experimental organism. In a forthcoming volume on Tetrahymena edited by A. M. Elliott, a "General Bibliography" is included which contains over 1,700 references to full papers, with complete citations given for each. The present paper discusses the nature and the values of Elliott's bibliography and offers a guide to all of the tetrahymenological literature. In outlining in an historical way the four principal areas or categories of research on the 10 recognized species in the genus, works directly cited are limited primarily to major review articles of recent vintage which themselves are rich in references; however, selected citation is also made of publications representing break-through discoveries or landmarks of significance in the history of research on Tetrahymena. Some two dozen abstracts of special importance are also cited in full. In spite of its natural dependence on the exhaustive "General Bibliography" to be available in the Elliott-edited book (publication anticipated before the end of the summer of 1973), the present report itself contains over 230 references and may be considered to represent a literature guide with a considerable degree of innate completeness.
10.2307/3225253|An aerophilous winter diatom community consisting of 41 taxa was dominated by Melosira roseana Rabh., both in terms of number of cells and bio-mass. Scanning electron microscopy revealed details of M. roseana auxospore and vegetative cells not previously reported.
10.2307/3225254|Large numbers of neutral fat droplets have been demonstrated histochemically in the caecal lumina and epithelia of Leucochloridiomorpha constantiae metacercariae from snails collected during spring and maintained at 22-25 C. Only trace amounts of neutral fats were demonstrable in metacercariae from snails collected in winter and held at 3-4 C. When the latter metacercariae were individually incubated in non-nutrient Locke's solution at 22-25 C, a marked increase in caecal fats was noted. These results suggest the lipid observed may be a metabolic byproduct excreted through the gut.
10.2307/3225255|A study was made to compare the subunit structure of microtubules in the nematodesmata, the longitudinal ribbons, the doublets and central pair of the ciliary axoneme, and the tentacular arrays in the gymnostome protozoon Actinobolina, the first ciliate to be so studied. Results, obtained by optically rotating high resolution electron micrographic images with the aid of the Markham technique, suggest the existence of thirteen subunits in the various types of microtubules examined.
10.2307/3225256|A new Anostraca (Crustacea: Branchiopoda), Streptocephalus moorei n. sp., collected in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, is described and compared with other species already known for the genus.
10.2307/3225257|Developing embryos, stained by the Feulgen method, were studied to determine the embryogenesis from fertilization to acanthor larva. Results were compared to previous studies of other species.
10.2307/3225258| Six species of solitary ascidians (Ascidia paratropa, A. callosa, Styela gibbsi, Pyura haustor, Chelyosoma productum, and Boltenia villosa) from the San Juan Archipelago, and two species (P. haustor and Styela montereyensis) from the central Oregon coast were examined for symbiotic protozoa associated with the pharyngeal basket. In the San Juan Archipelago the suctorian Trichophrya salparum Entz was commonly found in B. villosa, P. haustor, and A. callosa; the hypotrich ciliate Euplotaspis cionaecola Chatton & Sgula occurred in P. haustor, A. callotisa, and A. paratropa; and the thigmotrich Parahypocoma rhamphisokarya n. sp. was encountered in P. haustor, A. callosa, and B. villosa. These three ciliates also occurred in P. haustor from Oregon. Parahypocoma rhamphisokarya differs from P. collini Chatton & Lwoff in having only 18-22 kineties, which are all of about equal length, and in having a J-shaped macronucleus. No symbiotic ciliates were observed in the pharyngeal basket of S. gibbsi, S. montereyensis, or C. productum. 
10.2307/3225259|Tetrameres (Gynocophila) aspinosa n. sp. is described from the Snowy Egret (Leucophoyx thula) in Louisiana. It is most similar to the two other large forms of the subgenus Gynocophila, T. (G.) robusta Schmidt & Kuntz and T. (G.) sobolvei Gubanov, but differs in having three pairs of preanal, two pairs adanal, and no postanal papillae, smaller size of spicules, smaller ratio of spicule length, plus other minor morphological differences. Also, a new host and geographic record is established for T. (G.) robusta from the Marsh Hawk (Circus cyaneus) in Louisiana. Both of the above species are reported for the first time encysted in pairs with one male and one female per cyst in the muscularis mucosa of the proventriculus of their avian host.
10.2307/3225260|Red coloration in Peridinium wisconsinense Eddy is reported for the first time. The red color of active cells in the plankton of Buckhorn Lake is not related to abnormally large cell size as has been believed for other species of Peridinium. Because the red color in active cells appears to be the result of preparation for encystment, it is suggested that P. wisconsinense has a cycle of encystment and excystment similar to that or P. cinctum f. westii.
10.2307/3225261|Soil samples were collected at the surface and at a three-inch depth monthly from October through May. Twenty-four genera of algae were collected and cultured from the tobacco beds over the eight-month period. Cell numbers per gram of surface soil varied from 23,000 to 165,000 and, at the 3-inch depth, from 150 to 15,000. Fertilizer applications and chemical treatments of the beds reduced both the cell numbers and the number of genera which could be cultured.
10.2307/3225265|Specimens of the entocommensal ciliate Thyrophylax vorax were collected from the intestines of Allocentrotus fragilis, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis, S. franciscanus, S. pallidus, and S. purpuratus. Data obtained from Chatton-Lwoff and protargol silver impregnations, Heidenhain's and Harris' hematoxylin, Feulgen, Azure A, and borax carmine-indulin stains warrant morphological redescription and detailed morphometric characterization of this species. Its zoogeography, bathymetric distribution, host-specificity, distribution within the host, nutrition, and behavior are discussed. Somatic infraciliature, buccal morphology, morphogenesis, and behavior closely resemble those of Plagiopyliella pacifica. Thyrophylax vorax (Strelkov, 1959) n. comb. is designated and characterized. The Thyrophylacidae, a previously established monotypic family of echinoid entocommensal ciliates, is characterized and expanded to include two genera, Plagiopyliella Poljansky, 1951 and Thyrophylax Berger in Corliss, 1961. It is assigned to the suborder Philasterina of the order Hymenostomatida sensu lato.
10.2307/3225266|Drugs active on the nervous system of animals (caffeine, serotonin, and melatonin) cause reversible loss of the blue-green pigment granules from the surface of the single-celled ciliate protozoan Stentor coeruleus. Such gradual "bleaching" is described on the basis of light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. A new gold chloride fixation for both types of microscopy has been developed. Pigment granules in bleached stentors move from their definitive cortical location into the cell. Complete recovery of normal pigmentation requires protein synthesis. Cortical pigment granules may develop by fragmentation of large perinuclear pigment granules. The migration of cortical pigment granules to the surface may occur by a microtubule-mediated transport system.
10.2307/3225267|The lymph channels of Megalodiscus temperatus were studied with the electron microscope. The channels consist of a syncytial layer of epithelium possessing lamelloid processes on the luminal surface. Electron-opaque granules are found in vacuoles formed by these processes. The cytoplasm contains extensive smooth endoplasmic reticulum, small regions of rough endoplasmic reticulum, numerous mitochondria, and numerous lipid droplets. Large, tightly packed clumps of microtubules are scattered throughout the cytoplasm. The lymph system is connected to the digestive system by large parenchymal cells. These parenchymal cells contain numerous large mitochondria, microvillar-like structures, and large quantities of glycogen. The function of the lymph system remains speculative at this time. The structure of the system indicates some type of energy-requiring transport function. The composition of the electron-opaque granules may give some clues as to the function of the system.
10.2307/3225268|Four species of stilbonematid nematodes are recorded from Florida waters, two of which are described as new to science, Eubostrichus dianeae n. sp. and Catanema porosum n. sp. Cobb's term, the "porid" is reintroduced in its original context of being "tubular setae serving as outlets for glands. . . ." Unique cervical and caudal porids are described for males of Eubostrichus. The association of the pleiomorphic blue-green alga Schizothrix calcicola with Eubostrichus species is discussed. It is speculated that the alga's differential growth habits are related to specific substances emanated from the hypodermal gland complexes via the porids (or pores).
10.2307/3225270|Three families are considered in this third paper on the deep-sea harpacticoid copepods off North Carolina. Twenty-eight species in these three eurybathic families were collected. The previously unknown males of three species (Zosime incrassata, Z. paramajor, Dactylopodopsis dilatata) are described along with a new species, Pseudomesochra gemina n. sp. P. gemina is most closely related to a Norwegian species, P. tatianae Drzycimski, but differs primarily in mandible and maxillipede morphology. P. gemina is the only species in the genus in which both sexes are known and demonstrates a sexually dimorphic rostrum, a feature heretofore unreported for the Harpacticoida. A new key and a table with the salient morphological features of Pseudomesochra are presented. Keys are also given for Zosime, Tachidiopsis, and Pseudotachidius.
10.2307/3225271|In this paper, the last in a series on deep sea harpacticoids from off North Carolina, a new genus and species, Pyrocletodes desuramus n.g., n. sp. and two new species Mesocletodes commixtus n. sp. and Dorsiceratus triarticulatus n. sp. are described. Pyrocletodes is unique in that it harbors characteristics of both the Cylindropsyllidae and Cletodidae and completely lacks P
10.2307/3225272|A new species of pseudoscorpion, Apochthonius malheuri n. sp., is described from a Pleistocene lava tube in southeastern Oregon. The first species of the genus to be reported from a cave west of Missouri and Arkansas, the organism is compared to congeneric epigean and cavernicolous species in terms of the following troglobitic modifications: depletion of pigment, loss of photoreceptors, attenuation, and giantism. Aspects of habitat and life cycles are considered. The genus Apochthonius is redefined on the basis of study of the types of all known species.
10.2307/3225273|Study of seasonal population dynamics of developmental stages in intermediate and definitive hosts indicates that Cotylurus flabelliformis is adapted to the migratory habits of its anseriform hosts. All stages exhibit a bimodal seasonal fluctuation. A total of 299 birds of 33 species, known or suspected to harbor natural infections of C. flabelliformis, was examined from May to October 1969 and April to October 1970. Included were 190 wild ducks and geese. Blue-winged teal, lesser scaup, and mallards harbored infections of this species. Blue-winged teal were the most commonly infected. Highest percentages of infection were during spring and early fall (September) corresponding to the migration of blue-winged teal. Other helminth infections increased as the summer progressed and began to decline steadily with approach of fall and the time for southerly migration. Weekly examinations of naturally infected Lymnaea stagnalis and Stagnicola reflexa revealed bimodal seasonal fluctuations of cercarial and metacercarial infections corresponding to the spring and fall migrations of the anseriform hosts. Factors influencing development, activity, and distribution of cercariae and metacercariae were studied by experimentation. The bimodal pattern is influenced by the migration of ducks, water temperature, and longevity of the molluscan hosts.
10.2307/3225274|Three macrocercous cercariae are described in detail and their second intermediate hosts determined. The cercariae appear to belong to the family Echinostomatidae and are compared to a macrocercous cercaria of the genus Petasiger. Some notes on preliminary experiments to determine the identity of the adult parasites are also included.
10.2307/3225275|Thirty-two protozoan-free 51 x 76 x 64 mm polyurethane foam units were individually anchored to a line at a depth of approximately 30 cm from the bottom in 2.5 m of water in Douglas Lake, Cheboygan County, Michigan. At weekly or semi-weekly intervals a pair of substrates was harvested and not reused. The term harvest is used to indicate sampling which removed most of the liquid-containing protozoa from the substrate. These results were compared with studies of surface floats and natural substrates. The most significant results of this study are: (1) pioneer colonizers appear to persist longer than colonizers of areas already inhabited by established communities; (2) the same species may colonize artificial substrates placed in different areas of a lake but may do so at different times; and (3) natural substrates and artificial substrates may have many species in common.
10.2307/3225276|Pseudobradya major n. comb. has been unknown since its description in 1917 by Olofsson as Ectinosoma major from West Spitsbergen. Specimens are described from Nuwuk Lake, Point Barrow, Alaska. The genus Pseudobradya is in need of revision and P. major is assigned to it as one of its normal, rather than aberrant, species. It particularly agrees with the characters of the maxilla and maxilliped of such species. The endopod of the maxilla is distinctly 3-segmented, thus setting it apart from Halectinosoma Lang. It is a brackish-water species, having been collected in Spitsbergen in a lagoon and in Alaska in a land-locked body of water.
10.2307/3225277|Laboratory-reared Lymnaea stagnalis and Stagnicola reflexa of three defined size groups were exposed to 25 cercariae per snail and development of the tetracotyles followed to completion at temperatures of 14, 24, and 32 C. Of the 252 snails exposed to infection, successful metacercarial development occurred in all sizes of both species, but fewer tetracotyles developed in smaller snails of each species regardless of temperature. The number of metacercariae was limited by temperature, snail size, and host species. Development of tetracotyles was most successful in L. stagnalis at 22-24 C, and requisite time for development correlated inversely with temperature. The time required for development at any given temperature was the same, regardless of snail size or species.
10.2307/3225278|Epistylis rotans was abundant in the plankton of a Newfoundland lake (Bauline Long Pond) during summer months in 1971 and 1972. The seasonal and vertical distribution and the swimming habits of the species are described briefly. The species has not previously been reported from the Western Hemisphere.
10.2307/3225279|The surface of the termite flagellate Pyrsonympha vertens is covered with two types of scales, both of which occur on the same organism. Both types are tubular structures with a basal stalk extending perpendicularly from the cell membrane, with no apparent differentiation at the point of attachment. They differ from each other in size and form of their terminal portions: the dendroid scales branch into three or four prongs at the end, while the salpingoid scales terminate in a flared cup-like structure. The appearance and distribution of these scales are described.
10.2307/3225280|Specimens of Cambarincola meyeri cannot be recognized by comparisons with Goodnight's holotype or description. Topotypical material was obtained and here illustrated; and an emended description is given. The relationship of a group of species closely associated geographically and anatomically is briefly discussed.
10.2307/3225214|Scanning electron micrographs are presented of five species of Staurastrum, one species of Cosmarium, five species of Micrasterias, and three fairly stable, cultured variants of M. thomasiana (uni- and triradiate, and diploid forms). The range of some typical morphological variations encountered in cultures is illustrated. The use of scanning electron microscopy in investigations into morphogenesis of new semicells after cell division is also mentioned.
10.2307/3225215|The fine structure of the nephridium of the bivalved mollusc Mercenaria campechiensis resembles that of other resorptive membranes. The basal region of the cells in the nephridium contains dense conglomerations of alpha-glycogen rosettes. The observations suggest that the nephridium of this species may be a glycogen storing organ, as well as functioning in the reabsorption of filterable metabolites, ions, and water from the urine.
10.2307/3225216|The general ultrastructural features of the neurons of the esophagcal ganglion complex of Triodopsis divesta are presented. The smallest neurons present, the globuli cells, and the giant neuron cells are in general characterized by clumped nuclear chromatin, extensive rough endoplasmic reticulum, active Golgi zones, and numerous cytoplasmic vesicles of varying size and density which display an ultrastructure similar to that in other published accounts of molluscan neurosecretory material. These similarities suggest that these two cell types, generally considered to be separate neuron populations, are representatives of a single cell type continuum. Conventional neurons, which are present in substantially smaller numbers, contain lesser amounts of nuclear heterochromatin, and a paucity of endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, and cytoplasmic vesicles when compared to globuli and giant neurons. Conventional neurons also exhibit an elaborate cytoplasmic neurofibrillar network composed of neurofilaments and neurotubules. These cells certainly represent a separate neuronal class in the ganglion. A discussion of these neuron types and their relationships to other systems is presented.
10.2307/3225217|Life cycle events of new, larva-produced sponges of Spongilla lacustris and an unidentified species were followed from the time of metamorphosis in midsummer to late fall in the natural environment. In these small sponges sexual reproduction occurs six to eight weeks following metamorphosis. The simplest interpretation of these data is that sexual reproduction in these animals is endogenously controlled. The unidentified sponge is unusual in that it does not gemmulate and continues sexual reproduction late into the fall. Larva-produced individuals of S. lacustris form gemmules at approximately the same time of year (October) as typical, gemmule-derived sponges. The control of gemmulation can be viewed as being influenced by endogenous factors throughout the summer and then triggered by environmental factors in the fall.
10.2307/3225218|Cytological studies of Vicia faba root meristematic cells exposed to various concentrations of m-nitrobenzhydrazide reveal the presence of nuclear bridges. Morphological classification of the bridges suggests a progressive developmental anomaly in the nuclear division. Some of the observed nuclear anomalies include failure of the nuclear membrane to dissolve, chromosome contraction, bimitotic cells, apparent telosynapsis, and hypodiploid cells. It is suggested that m-nitrobenzhydrazide affects RNA metabolism and the subsequent chemical cytogenetic programming of the cell cycle.
10.2307/3225219|A new marine labyrinthula was isolated from the seagrass Halophila englemannii using serum-agar culture techniques. This phycomycete fungus, Labyrinthula saliens n. sp., is characterized by: (1) a distinctive, teardrop-shaped spindle cell having a morphologically differentiated anterior; (2) a peculiar spindle-cell locomotion consisting of intermittent rapid but short advances; and (3) a recurrent chytroid epiendobiotic sporangial stage.
10.2307/3225220| Labyrinthula thaisi n. sp. is described. The species was isolated from pieces of gill tissue of the marine gastropod Thais haemastoma floridana which were cultured on a 10% beef serum-agar medium. The developmental cycle was characterized by cysts which released round pre-sporangial cells (average diameter 5 m). Pre-sporangial cells divided to form small thick-walled cells in a tetrad arrangement. By a series of karyotic divisions followed by cytokinesis mature thick-walled sporangia 8-25 m in diameter were formed. Eccentrically nucleate, spherical vegetative cells from thick-walled sporangia underwent karyokinesis to produce thin-walled sporangia (7-20 m in diameter) or plasmodia. Spherical, centrally nucleate vegetative cells (average 6 m in diameter) from thin-walled sporangia and plasmodia moved over slimeways (0.4 m thick). A tetrad of cells was the normal division product of this vegetative cell. Sections of cultured gill tissue and of the viscera showed no evidence of tissue invasions by L. thaisi. Two Labyrinthula-like colonies were found growing on the mantle of Thais haemastoma, suggesting that L. thaisi could live as a commensal on the snail. 
10.2307/3225221|Biancolina brassicacephala n. sp. is described from the eupelagic Sargassum natans and S. fluitans of the Gulf Stream and the Sargasso Sea. Certain structures, difficult to see using light microscopy, are illustrated with scanning electron micrographs.
10.2307/3225222|The present study describes, for the first time, external development of the tube-dwelling ampharetid polychaete, Amphicteis floridus Hartman, 1951. Spawning occurs from late May to early September. The eggs, released into the tube of the female, develop to about the two-setiger stage at which time they leave the tube and continue to develop on the bottom. The changes which take place from fertilized egg through metamorphosis are described. After cleavage, a typically annelidan trochophore develops. A pygidial growth zone is then established and the trochophore lengthens, eventually forming segments. The trochophore thus develops into a juvenile by the addition of new segments, eighteen of which are equipped with a pair of notopodia-bearing setae. Neuropodia first appear in the three-setiger stage and continue to appear as new segments are added. Tentacles make their appearance in the six-setiger stage while branchiae are not formed until the eleven-setiger stage. The ease with which larvae of A. floridus can be reared under simple laboratory conditions suggests that this species may be extremely useful for investigations in experimental embryology.
10.2307/3225223|Paulisentis missouriensis n. sp. is described from the intestine of Semotilus atromaculatus in Missouri. It differs from the other members of the genus by a combination of characters including the length and morphology of the proboscis retractor muscles, shape of the apical organ, length of the lemnisci, and arrangement of the acanthor hooks. The developmental stages are described from the copepod Cyclops vernalis.
10.2307/3225224| The marine dinoflagellate Amphidinium carterae (Hulburt) swims at a mean speed of 75.1 m/sec. Swimming occurs along helical, curved, and straight paths. Analysis of 142 paths showed that 44% were curved, 38% helical, and 18% straight. The mean speed was highest along helical paths and lowest along straight paths. Helical swimming may be of ecological significance in the following ways: (1) adaptation of swimming behavior along helical paths yields the greatest average speeds; (2) helical swimming is an essential component of negative geotaxis; and (3) helical swimming ensures contact of the organism with a greater volume of medium for reproductive and nutritional activities. 
10.2307/3225225|Mesocercariae of Alaria mustelae and A. arisaemoides were maintained for 10 days on the chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM), and those of A. marcianae for five days. None of the larvae recovered from the eggs had advanced in development. Penetration of the chorionic epithelium was apparently accomplished by body movements along with the anterior body spination. Larvae were located primarily in the mesenchyme of the CAM. All A. mustelae mesocercariae recovered from chicks had developed to metacercariae. In mice, partially developed A. mustelae metacercariae were found after four days and fully developed after nine, although a majority were unchanged even after 145 days. None of the A. marcianae or A. arisaemoides mesocercariae advanced in development in mice or chicks.
10.2307/3225226|Paracoenia turbida Cresson, an endemic thermophilic brine fly of Yellowstone National Park, escapes egg predation by depositing eggs deep in algal mats. Only the end of the terminal horn of the egg is exposed to air, and oxygen can diffuse down the hollow horn into an array of longitudinal air channels lying in the chorion. This air system is adequate to supply the egg with oxygen. The other common brine fly, Ephydra bruesi Cresson, deposits undifferentiated eggs in exposed clumps but it lives in habitats less frequented by egg predators.
10.2307/3225227|A simple photographic method is described for rapid analysis of microscopical sections. Prepared microscope slides were used in lieu of a negative to produce enlarged prints of the entire slide, facilitating interpretations of complex spatial relationships.
10.2307/3225228|In the case of one-sided oblique illumination the sharpness of edges and the clarity of a light micrograph are improved with the degree of incoherence of the illuminating light source.
10.2307/3225229|The scanning electron microscope is a very useful tool for studying protozoan cells and other biological specimens. Currently, freeze-drying is the most common method of preparing protozoan cells for scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Critical point drying (CPD) is easier and quicker, and can give better results. This report describes a simple and inexpensive CPD apparatus, its operation, and methods of handling biological specimens in preparation for SEM.
10.2307/3225230|The surface structure of Trichodina oviducti, a parasite found in the copulatory sac of adult, female, thorny rays (Raja radiata), was examined. It bears two ciliary bands, an adoral one in the buccal region, and an aboral one around the flattened adhesive disk. This disk is supported by a radially arranged, sub-surface, skeletal complex, which is covered by a smooth, thin pellicle, to produce a structure that adheres by vacuum forces.
10.2307/3225231|The work represents what we believe to be the first published report of conjugation in Stentor multiformis. Certain similarities of the event to that known for Stentor coeruleus are mentioned.
10.2307/3225232|The ciliate Paramecium bursaria harbors within its cytoplasm a population of ca. 1,000 algal cells. These symbionts contribute, through photosynthesis, to the nutrition of the host. The ciliates also feed on bacteria and other particulate food and, presumably, take in soluble matter. Results of the present study indicate that bacteria are probably the predominant source of nutrition in ciliates grown in the dark but not of those cultured in the light. In light-grown animals, photosynthesis may be a more important source of nutrition, quantitatively, than bacteria. The flow of photosynthate from symbiont to host is manifest in a greatly reduced utilization of bacteria by light-grown cultures compared to those grown in the dark.
10.2307/3225233|Fifty-three cockroaches were collected and examined for natural infection of Moniliformis moniliformis (Bremser, 1811). Seven of these (13.2%) were infected with cystacanths ranging in number from three to 114. Some of these larvae administered by gavage to two white rats and five chickens developed into adult worms in both of the former but were refractory in all of the latter. P. americana is reported for the first time as the intermediate host of M. moniliformis in Puerto Rico.
10.2307/3225234|The new species is described from Catostomus columbianus and C. macrocheilus in the Snake River drainage of Idaho. It is the second species in the genus generally lacking postovarian vitellaria. A discussion of pertinent morphological features, intraspecific variation, and comparisons with related species follows the description. A key to the six species in the genus is presented.
10.2307/3225235|Paleozoic (Pennsylvanian) age miospores assignable to the taxon Elaterites triferens are demonstrated to be the microspores produced by the presumed calamitean fructification Calamocarpon insignis.
10.2307/3225283|A new lichomolgid copepod, Odontomolgus mundulus, is described from New Caledonia, where it is associated with scleractinian corals. The type material occurred with Alveopora mortenseni Crossland. A variant population regarded as O. mundulus was recovered from Alveopora catalai Wells.
10.2307/3225284|A. fitzpatricki is a junior synonym of Alona eximia Kiser, 1948, and A. leei is a junior synonym of Disparalona rostrata (Koch, 1841). Alona eximia is reillustrated from a paratype and compared with the holotype and a paratype of Alonella fitzpatricki and with four specimens of A. eximia from West Africa. Seemingly minor differences in the relative length and stoutness of the postabdominal claw, the point of attachment of its basal spine, the general proportions and armament of the postabdomen, and the size of the lateral pores suggest that the three populations, particularly that from West Africa, might be sufficiently differentiated from each other to warrant separate recognition at some later date when more specimens are available. The general status of chydorid knowledge and research in North America is discussed.
10.2307/3225285|The organic tests of Allogromia sp. and A. laticollaris are highly structured. The structure is apparently influenced by the absence or availability of bacteria which are, at times, incorporated into the test. Surface-related features such as synthesis and sequestering of plasmalemma, "coated vesicles," microtubules, microfilaments, and mitochondrial concentrations are noted.
10.2307/3225286|Two types of bacteria are found associated with Pyrsonympha vertens: (1) helically-shaped bacteria attached to the outer surface of the protozoon through a specialized region involving both the bacterium and the protozoon; (2) endobiotic rod-shaped bacteria occurring in the cytoplasm and rough ER posterior to the nucleus and in the perinuclear space. Bodies similar to bacteria are also present in the nucleus. The epibiotic bacteria have been identified as gram negative on the basis of wall structure and gram-staining, while both grampositive and gram-negative endobiotic bacteria have been identified on the basis of wall structure alone. The possible significance of these bacteria are discussed.
10.2307/3225287|The problem of nomina nuda is discussed with respect to the Gastrotricha. A series of generic transfers are proposed or accepted, with emended taxonomic diagnoses of six families and two genera. The genus Draculiciteria n.g. is described, having as its type-species D. tesselata (Renaud-Mornant, 1968) n. comb. Two other new combinations are proposed: Cephalodasys cambriensis (Boaden, 1963) n. comb. and C. turbanelloides (Boaden, 1960) n. comb. The species Chaetonotus schromi n. n. and C. acareus n. n. are given new names for reasons of homonymy. The elevation of Halichaetonotus from sub-genus to genus and the erection of sub-orders Multitubalitina and Paucitubulatina of the order Chaetonotida are approved.
10.2307/3225288|The purpose of these studies was to determine if the number of species colonizing artificial substrates is related to the depth of water at which they were suspended. Two series of 7.6 cm x 6.4 cm x 5.1 cm hexahedrally shaped units (PF units) of polyurethane foam were suspended at the surface and at 1.5, 3.0, 4.5, and 6.0 m in South Fishtail Bay, Douglas Lake, Michigan at a point where the total depth was 6.5 m. A third series was suspended at 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, and 20 m where the total depth was 20.5 m deep. The thermocline was between 6 and 10 m for most of the study. There was no pattern evident related to depth of substrate suspension for the PF units in the epilimnion which had an average of 35.4 species per PF unit. Those in the hypolimnion had an average of 11.4 species during the summer stratification. However, these differences were substantially reduced by the fall overturn of the lake which was followed by an average of 31.4 species per PF unit in the 11 to 20 m depths.
10.2307/3225289|The midpiece of the spermatozoan of the pulmonate gastropod Biomphalaria glabrata contains a central flagellum with a mitochondrial derivative in a periflagellar position. The derivative is compared to those of other pulmonate gastropods. In B. glabrata, the derivative contains two glycogen-containing helices. The remaining portion is made up of membranous compartments arranged with their long axes parallel to the long axis of the flagellum. Cytochrome c-cytochrome oxidase and succinic dehydrogenase activities are cytochemically localized in the intracristal space of the derivative. Glucose-6-phosphatase activity is observed in the matrix of the flagellum and in the helices. The functional significance of these findings is discussed.
10.2307/3225290| The properties of 19 biological stains and one combination of two stains were evaluated for the purpose of choosing an appropriate stain for use on benthic samples to facilitate hand-picking of animals from organic and inorganic debris. A 1:1 mixture of Eosin B and Biebrich Scarlet stains in a 1:1000 concentration of 5% formalin was found to be the most appropriate stain because of its unique selective affinity for only animal tissue. Six organism colorbackground color combinations, using stained and natural organisms and flat-black, white enamel, and light-table backgrounds, were tested to determine the effect of staining and background color on picking rate and quantitative accuracy. The six combinations yielded results varying from 5.6 to 7.6 organisms picked per min (.) and from 67.8 to 95.1% accuracy (), with the stained organism-light-table background combination being the most efficient in both respects. 
10.2307/3225291|Numerous reports have shown the existence of a substance controlling the proliferation of granulocytic precursors in bone marrow. This paper describes the myelopoietic stimulating activity of alpha-1 globulins of low molecular weight (< 120,000). Protein bands on the gel slab of serum protein fraction (from rat serum) were identified and separated into four groups: albumin, alpha-1, alpha-2, and beta globulins. Each sub-fraction was homogenized and injected with complete Freund's adjuvant into rabbits; the antisera produced were verified by immunoelectrophoresis and injected into normal rats. Cytological studies of peripheral and bone-marrow cells were made at intervals following injection. Antiserum to alpha-1 globulin produces significant depression in the development of early, intermediate, and mature granulocytes and thus confirms the earlier implication that alpha-1 globulin is the "myelopoietic factor." Antiserum to alpha-2 globulin produces a significant increase in bone marrow's mature granulocytes a week after injection, followed by an increase in peripheral granulocytes, suggesting the possibility of an "anti-release" factor present in the antiserum.
10.2307/3225292| Three forms of minute fresh-water polyps have been cultured for several months and studied developmentally and morphologically. One form, isolated from an aquarium in Jerusalem, fits previous descriptions of Craspedacusta (= Microhydra) sowerbyi (Lank.); it lacks tentacles, has a densely arranged population of nematocytes at its oral end which gives the polyp a capitate appearance, and is usually bipolar or multipolar. Another polyp strain, isolated in an aquarium in California, appears to be typical of Calpasoma dactyloptera (Fuhrmann). These animals possess tentacles bearing nematocysts, are monopolar, and are 100200 m. long, which is about half the size of Craspedacusta. A third polyp strain, also isolated from Jerusalem, is intermediate in form; its tentacles are shorter than those of Calpasoma, and it is frequently bi- and tripolar. All three forms reproduce by means of frustules, but each strain produces polyps only of its type. We conclude that these three forms may represent incipient stages in speciation of the freshwater microhydras. 
10.2307/3225293|A new species of Acochlidiacea collected intertidally from two rocky beaches at Nahant, Massachusetts is described. Unela nahantensis n. sp. is distinguished from other members of the genus by the presence of amorphous spicules, its anal position, and the number of radula plate series.
10.2307/3225294|Identification of ciliates was accomplished by extensive wet mount microscopical examination of fixed samples: 24 species representing 13 genera were found. Of these species, six were never before described from the rumen of American cattle. Diploplastron affine, Diplodinium anacanthum, D. monocanthum, D. diacanthum and D. pentacanthum were previously reported from U.S.S.R. cattle by Dogiel. Buxtonella sulcata, although known to occur in the cow's caecum, was found in the rumen of numerous animals examined.
10.2307/3225295|Some histochemical properties of cement-gland cells during the gland's functional stages have been investigated. The gland cells stain intensely with periodic acid Schiff's (PAS) and show a positive reaction for mercuric bromphenol blue. The PAS reactive material is not lost when the sections are pretreated with amylase, lysozyme, or saliva. The gland cells do not show metachromasia with toluidine blue or thionin and exhibit methylene blue extinction below pH 4.0. The cells also have little affinity for alcian blue without pretreatment, but stain intensely with this dye after periodic acid oxidation and metabisulfite addition. These histochemical characteristics lead to the conclusion that the cement-gland adhesive mucin in this species is glyco- or mucoprotein.
10.2307/3225296|An immature bucephalid trematode from Thynnus thunnina, taken in the Red Sea, was previously described by Nagaty as Rhidipocotyle septapapillata Krull, 1934. Examination of the description and figures shows that the specimen cannot be included in R. septapapillata; thus it is described as a new species, Rhipidocotyle heptathelata n. sp.
10.2307/3225297|A new genus and species of haploporid trematode are described from a commercially important freshwater characid fish from the Cauca River Valley of Colombia. The new form, 2.1-3.7 mm long, has a much more extensive distribution of vitellaria than the other genera in the family. Also, the testis is more posterior, and the eggs lack miracidial eyespots.
10.2307/3225298|Pieces of glass coverslips were mounted on aluminum rivets and were used in place of standard aluminum studs for scanning electron microscopy. No apparent differences were observed when comparing the results of using the technique described and using conventional studs.
10.2307/3225299|A versatile sample container for the preparation of delicate specimens for either scanning EM or high resolution shadow work with the transmission EM is described. The container can be easily constructed from common electron microscopy laboratory materials and provides a single container throughout fixation, dehydration, and critical point drying.
10.2307/3225300|A new bacterial isolate, designated as C-1, was found to exist in two morphological forms depending on the constitution of the medium. Ultrastructural and microscopical studies were used to investigate these morphological transformations.
10.2307/3225301|An analysis of data in the literature on 11 flagellate species shows no simple relationship among body size, body shape, flagellar number or length of the flagellum, and flagellar activity; but Reynolds number, which is proportional to flagellar length and flagellar beating frequency, provides a basis for comparison of flagellated cells. Sessile flagellates with one flagellum have higher Reynolds numbers then free-swimming flagellates with one, two, or four flagella. Among free-swimming flagellates Reynolds number generally decreases as flagellar number increases. Length of the flagellum is directly proportional to Reynolds number within each group of flagellates, sessile and free-swimming.
10.2307/3225302| The posterior pole of developing Musca eggs contains one or two aeropyles, each about 8m in diameter. Each aeropyle is formed at the intersection of 6-8 radially arranged follicle cells. The micropylar region at the anterior pole is surrounded by openings 1-2.5 m in diameter, which may also function as aeropyles. Such structures probably increase gas exchange rates in polar cytoplasm. The structure and distribution of aeropyles in Diptera may prove to be valuable taxonomic characters. 
10.2307/3225303|Thirteen helminths, one leech, and one copepod parasite were recovered from the common white sucker in the Kentucky River drainage system, as follows: Acanthocephalus jacksoni, Octospinifer macilentus (Acanthocephala); Clinostomum marginatum, Neascus sp., Phyllodistomum lysteri, Plagioporus serotinus, Triganodistomum attenuatum (Trematoda); Glaridacris catostomi, Hunterella nodulosa, Monobothrium hunteri (Cestoidea); and an unidentified caryophyllaeid; Contracaecum sp., and Philometra cylindracea (Nematoda); Piscicola punctata (Hirudinea); and Lernaea cyprinacea (Copepoda).
10.2307/3225431|Since Leeuwenhoek's time, nearly 300 years ago, the peritrich ciliates have attracted the attention of scientists. Accordingly, this address scans the highlights of advances is knowledge concerning peritrichs during the period 1676-1973. Attention is given to the controversies regarding the taxonomic position of peritrichs over the years and the impact of transmission and scanning electron microscopy on views about the morphology of peritrichs is touched upon. Some comments and predictions about ecology, saprobicity, physiology, and molecular biology, as related to peritrichs, are made. The literature cited should guide readers to many useful publications on the various topics treated.
10.2307/3225432|Deontostoma timmerchioi n. sp. is described as a new species of marine nematode from the interspicular spaces of an Antarctic sponge. Deontostoma angustifissulatum (Mawson, 1956) n. comb., D. brunni (Wieser, 1956) n. comb., and D. jae (Inglis, 1964) n. comb. are transferred to Deontostoma from the genus Thoracostoma. The morphology of the ventromedian supplement is described from whole mount preparations for light microscopy and SEM preparations of D. timmerchioi and from serial histological sections of D. californicum Steiner & Albin, 1933. Evidence is provided that this organ is a sensory receptor and possibly a chemoreceptor of pheromone secretion from hypodermal gland cells of females.
10.2307/3225433|Osmoregulatory responses of four Antarctic nematodes to various electrolyte and nonelectrolyte solutions were assessed utilizing the nematodes as osmometers. There is free exchange of water inwards and outwards. In those solutions in which the nematode regulates there is solute movement inwards; however, if there is a subsequent transfer of the regulated nematode into another solute solution the first solute is able to exit the nematode. Monovalent ions are better able to permeate the body wall than are polyvalent ions. Ion uptake is coincident with regulation; however, the bulk of the cations taken up are tissue-bound and only indirectly involved in Donnan equilibrium effects.
10.2307/3225434|The solubility characteristics of the pigment in the ocelli and esophagus of Deontostoma timmerchioi, D. antarcticum, and D. californicum are indicative of a melanin-like substance. The ultrastructure of the pigment granules is similar to that of the terminal stage of granules from other organisms and consistent with the accepted notion of melanin granule formation. It is suggested that the pigment serves a light-shielding function to permit the photoreceptor to provide a physiological regulatory signal.
10.2307/3225435|A new polymorphic, phycomycetous fungus, Labyrinthuloides schizochytrops n. sp., was found commonly on the seagrass Halodule ( = Diplanthera) wrightii in Florida. Cultures were isolated and maintained on 10% bovine serum agar medium. Large, spreading colonies of inflexibly spheroid, heavily included "spindle" cells moving slowly on fine filiform slime trails are characteristic. Sporangia compartmentalize in the manner of Schizochytrium (Saprolegniales; Thraustochytriaceae) with numerous well-developed rhizoids and may produce biflagellate heterokont planonts. Small motile and larger nonmotile plasmodia are also formed. A weakly parasitic relationship to the host is indicated. Taxonomically, the new species is near Labyrinthuloides saliens (Quick, 1974) n. comb., here removed from the genus Labyrinthula.
10.2307/3225436|By electron microscope cytochemistry, acid phosphatase (AcPase) has been localized in spermatids and spermatozoa of the snail Biomphalaria glabrata. In early spermatids, AcPase activity is observed initially in the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. As development proceeds, reaction product is observed subsequently in the cisternae of the Golgi complex and associated vesicles. It is believed that the primary function of the Golgi complex during this period is the "packaging" of acid hydrolases into lysosomes. During the latter stages of sperm transformation, much of the peripheral cytoplasm dissolves, probably as a result of lysosomal activity, and AcPase activity is observed only in the central portion of the axoneme. Its function at this site is probably the hydrolysis of nonspecific phosphate esters to maintain a phosphate ion pool for high energy compounds. No association of the Golgi with the acrosome has been observed at any time.
10.2307/3225437|Five fluorescent cytochemical end-group methods were used to reexamine oogenesis in the slug Limax flavus, particularly the unusual multiple nucleoli in these cells. The method for demonstrating protein SH groups failed entirely to fluorochrome nucleoli. In contrast, nucleoli were intensely fluorescent when the same fluorochrome was used after thioglycollate reduction. Since the most intense fluorescence was localized in the "nucleolar cap" of the "amphinucleolus" complex, SS groups are probably involved in the assembly of ribosomes. While larger primary nucleoli displayed more intense fluorescence than smaller secondary nucleoli after methods directed toward the demonstration of C-terminal and side-chain carboxyl groups, the methods for demonstrating SS groups and basic groups resulted in equivalent levels of fluorescence in both types of nucleoli. These results were discussed in relation to the special value of fluorescence methods for the study of nucleoli and oogenesis in general.
10.2307/3225438|Calpasoma dactyloptera (Fuhrmann) is a fresh-water coelenterate related to Craspedacusta (=Microhydra) sowerbyi. Species of Calpasoma possess one-celled tentacles, each of which is a protrusion of a specific kind of epithelial cell, the tentaculocyte. Each tentaculocyte bears many nematocytes. The polyps are sufficiently motionless to permit study of the migration of individual nematocytes in the body and tentacle, using time-lapse cinematography. Nematocytes move rapidly and irregularly through the polyp ectoderm. When a nematocyte enters a tentacle, its movement generally becomes more regular; it moves outward until coming to rest just proximal to the previous nematocyte. Occasionally, however, a nematocyte will move past other nematocytes, and it may migrate back out of the tentacle or erratically shuttle about within a tentacle.
10.2307/3225439|By the use of a simple nutrient medium containing only amino acids, glucose, and inorganic salts, complete cephalic regeneration has been obtained from fragments of the planarian Dugesia dorotocephala as small as 0.08 mm
10.2307/3225441|Although perhaps not widely appreciated, resolution of the sometimes lingering problem of whether or not to use a "y" (or an "i") in the spelling of the specific epithel pyriformis (piriformis) in scientific names-and in the formation of the related vernacular adjectival form pyriform (piriform)-has already been achieved. The approved usage, however, may justifiably vary with the case. With respect to the generic name of the ciliate Tetrahymena, the "y" now must be used in the specific name T. pyriformis. In other cases, for example, for the sporozoan parasite Eimeria piriformis, the "i" spelling may be considered correct. Freedom of choice exists in regard to the adjectival form; but pyriform, with the "y," is the logical one to employ in reference to the form of the body of the ciliate protozoan species in question. Both "pyriform" and "piriform" mean "pear-shaped"; but the adjective "pyroform" is an entirely separate word, with a different meaning, and should not be-though it sometimes has been-involved at all in the controversy.
10.2307/3225442| A protozoon found by Margileth and colleagues in autopsy material from a human infant is considered to be the only parasite of man whose identity as a microsporidian is well established. Using some of the original material, with permission of its discoverers, the spores of this organism were compared with those of Encephalitozoon cuniculi a rodent parasite controversially reported once from man. The former measure ca. 4-4.5 x 2-2.5 m and are binucleate, while the latter measure ca. 2.5 x 1.5 m and are uninucleate. It is concluded that these two organisms are neither conspecific nor congeneric and that the former should remain provisionally in the genus Nosema. Since there is no other described species in mammals with which this species can be confused, it is considered new and given the name Nosema connori n. sp. 
10.2307/3225443| Oocysts of Isospora endocallimici n. sp. from marmosets Callimico goeldii are ovoid, 25-31 x 21-27 (27.8 x 24.0) m, and have ellipsoid sporocysts measuring 15-20 x 10-15 (17.3 x 12.5) m. A polar granule, micropyle, oocyst residuum, and Stieda body are all absent. A spor is present. Excysted sporozoites measure 10-13 x 5-6 (11.3 x 5.4) m and have the nucleus located subcentrally. Sporozoites excysted from sporocysts in vitro after exposure to a bile salt-trypsin solution; this was associated with a collapse of the sporocyst wall. Similarities in structure between I. endocallimici n. sp from other primates are discussed; also treated are the differences in excystation of sporozoites from sporocysts of I. endocallimici n. sp., I. canis, and Sarcocystis fusi-formis. 
10.2307/3225444|The adult stage of Cercaria cursitans Holliman, 1961 was shown to be a species of Stictodora (Trematoda: Heterophyidae) parasitizing the rice rat Oryzomys palustris, the raccoon Procyon lotor, and the opossum Didelphis virginiana, in a Florida salt marsh. Natural infections of C. cursitans were found in the type host, Cerithidea scalariformis, and natural metacercarial infections in the killifishes Fundulus confluentis, F. similis, and F. grandis collected in the same marsh. Uninfected F. grandis, F. similis, and F. pulvereus were exposed to the cercariae from this marsh as well as from the type locality and produced infective metacercariae in 28-35 days. White mice were fed metacercariae; gravid flukes were recoverd six days post-infection. Adult Stictodora cursitans (Holliman, 1961) n. comb. differ from other members of the genus by having complexly branched genital spines and a short prepharynx.
10.2307/3225445|Parathelandros texanus n. sp. is described from lizards in West Texas. It is the first species of this genus to be recorded from reptiles in North America. Pharyngodon armatus Walton, 1933 is transferred to the genus Parathelandros (Baylis, 1930) as Parathelandros armatus (Walton, 1933) n. comb.
10.2307/3225446|In the living Biomphalaria glabrata (Say) the distal edge of the rectal ridge is a free-moving structure which often comes into contact with the edge of the dorsal ridge of the mantle cavity. This temporary contiguity of the two ridges, which can be readily observed through the shell of a snail of the albino strain, in effect divides the mantle cavity into temporary dorsal and ventral water-filled chambers. These chambers open to the aqueous environment on the left side of the snail. Water flows incurrently in the dorsal mantle chamber and excurrently in the ventral mantle chamber. The right portion of the dorsal mantle chamber contains a gas bubble. The pseudobranch appears to serve more as a valve than as a respiratory structure. It is suggested that the rectal ridge and the associated mantle epithelium are intimately involved in the uptake and elimination of substances by the snail and are perhaps the site of either molluscicide uptake or toxic action, or both. The histological composition of the rectal ridge supports this postulation.
10.2307/3225447|A species of Halteria has been studied in the light microscope after staining with protargol to reveal its infraciliature. The adoral membranelles have a distinct fiber system somewhat in the shape of a V which is slightly beneath them in the cytoplasm. Buccal ciliary structures have a fiber similar to that of other heterotrichs. The unique bristles most often consist of 6-12 cilia, the kinetosomes of which possess long fibers extending parallel to the equator of the cell. Some other structures are described.
10.2307/3225448| Histochemical procedures were used to demonstrate the presence of glycogen and some glycolytic enzymes in these animals. The enzyme systems found were: phosphorylase, phosphoglucomutase, hexokinase, and glucokinase, aldolase, -glyceraldehyde dehydrogenase, and lactic acid dehydrogenase. The presence of these enzymes, coupled with that of glycogen storage, suggested that glycolysis is operative in these forms. 
10.2307/3225152|Molluscs have two major dormant stages: hibernation, a reaction to reduced temperatures; and aestivation, a response to extremes of heat and drought. These behaviors are collectively referred to as Oblomovism, a term descriptive of the retiring existence recounted by the Russian Goncharov in his novel Oblomov. Certain species exhibit a phenomenal capacity for survival in inhospitable environments by remaining in a sustained dormant state for up to five or six years, and sometimes more. The best documentation of molluscan Oblomovism occurs among marine prosobranch snails, fresh-water bivalves, and fresh-water and terrestrial gastropods, both prosobranch and pulmonate. The evidence suggests that basommatophoran and stylommatophoran pulmonates are better able to tolerate greater environmental extremes than are prosobranchs, a generalization supported by zoogeography. It is postulated that the capability of conquering the exigencies of physically rigorous environments plays an important role in the expansion of geographic ranges of species and may have profound consequences on the processes of speciation and extinction.
10.2307/3225153|Artemia salina, an anostracan crustacean known as the "brine shrimp," is restricted in nature to highly saline lakes and salterns throughout the world. Its biological success under these unusual circumstances is due, in large part, to the production of cysts during reproduction. The cysts, composed of an early embryo surrounded by a complex shell, are released by the female into the environment where their usual fate is desiccation, either osmotically or after being blown on shore. Dried cysts require only suitable concentrations of water and oxygen to resume metabolism and development, eventually emerging from the shells as swimming larvae (nauplii). Investigators from several laboratories have described a number of unusual features in the biochemistry and metabolism of these cysts. Notable among these are certain aspects of the intermediary metabolism of carbohydrates and nucleotides, and the biosynthesis of nucleic acids. When viewed from the perspective of the natural environment of the cysts, and the problems they encounter and successfully overcome, these metabolic peculiarities might be interpreted as adaptations at the biochemical or metabolic level of organization. A number of such examples have been presented and rationale given to support the contention that they have adaptive significance.
10.2307/3225154|Dormancy in bdelloid rotifers pertains to the ability of adults to survive in a frozen or desiccated state. Morphological, cytological, physiological, and ecological aspects of this cryptobiosis are discussed. Dormancy in monogonont rotifers usually is a feature of the fertilized resting egg. The structure and development of resting eggs are described. The hatching of these eggs and its control are considered in detail. Resting-egg production is a result of mictic-female production, which is controlled by different environmental factors in different rotifers. Recent literature on this subject is reviewed. An hypothesis on the relationship between the population dynamics of a rotifer and the type of environmental factor inducing dormancy is briefly presented.
10.2307/3225155|Tardigrades and nematodes which exhibit the phenomenon of anhydrobiosis must be dried slowly, at high relative humidities, if they are to survive. The animals undergo important morphological and metabolic changes during the extended dehydration: tardigrates contract into tuns and nematodes coil; the nematode Aphelenchus avenae synthesizes free glycerol and trehalose at the expense of lipid, glycogen, and free glucose. Hypotheses for the adaptive significance of these compounds are presented, with evidence for each hypothesis. It is suggested that anhydrobiosis, while regarded as a form of quiescence, is more complex than formerly thought, involving endogenous controls.
10.2307/3225156|In the Gymnolaemata dormancy or quiescence is restricted to hibernacula, stolonic sections, or to cells of the cystid wall of certain cheilostomes, which remain alive for extended periods in the winter in the absence of feeding polypides. New aspects of the fine structure of statoblasts of the Phylactolaemata are discussed and illustrated, using the first scanning electron microscope for statoblasts. Surface details of the capsule and annulus and the fibrous nature of the tubercles of Plumatella fruticosa are included. The architecture of the suture zone of statoblasts of three species is found to be notably different. The medial rib of this zone is seen to be continuous or discontinuous, and lateral ribs vary in terms of design and orientation. Statoblasts demonstrate both obligate and facultative dormancy. Statoblast production and number of generations of statoblast produced colonies in one season varies among species. Exogenous factors, including light, temperature, and water chemistry relate in different degrees to induction of dormancy and germination. In the same context possible endogenous factors are discussed. Tolerances of statoblasts to extremes of temperature and desiccation are reviewed. Statoblasts of certain species of Plumatella are viable after exposure to sewage pollution, to high levels of heavy metals and toxins, and to pesticides and herbicides including toxaphene and 2, 4-D butyl ester.
10.2307/3225157|Among the Porifera dormant structures, gemmules, are produced by most fresh-water species and a few marine forms. Two types of gemmules are known: with single- or double-layered coats surrounding mono- or binucleate cells, with triple-layered coats surrounding binucleate cells. In some species the gemmule cells contain "intracellular" symbiotic algae, and in all gemmules reserve substances in the form of cytoplasmic platelets or granules are present. Environmental triggers for gemmule formation are not well understood and are probably variable. Several factors influence gemmule formation: size and nutritional state of the sponge, time of year, thickness of sponge tissue, and availability of light. Detailed life cycle studies and experimental field data indicate low temperature triggering of thin-walled gemmule formation in Spongilla lacustris; endogeneous factors also influence the time of formation. Gemmule hatching, while inducible by an increase in temperature in most species, can occur at low temperatures. Two types of gemmules have been described in terms of hatching. Osmotic studies indicate that hatching is coupled to a decrease in intragemmular osmotic pressure. A new concept of gemmule formation is presented which relates the colloidal state of the sponge to gemmule formation: an increased colloidal state, coupled with increased osmoregulatory demands, is viewed as the stimulus for gemmule formation. According to this view gemmules serve to compartmentalize the sponge within an acellular, osmoregulatory coat as a result of osmotic stress.
10.2307/3225158|In spite of a rather large number of reports, scattered throughout the older literature, on the existence of cysts (of several kinds) in many species of free-living protozoa, we have discouragingly little information on the precise role of this stage in the organism's life cycle or how it relates specifically to survival of the species. Significant questions such as the part they may have played in the "adaptive strategy" of the organism during its long evolutionary history and their place in the microbiocenoses of which they are now members remain unanswered, not to mention many others, including exact information on the frustratingly elusive nature of the basic factors involved in inducement of both encystment and excystment. Nevertheless, many data of some pertinence have been accumulating over the decades, and these deserve at least brief consideration. The most recent previous review on cysts appeared 20 years ago and was highly limited in its coverage of the subject.
10.2307/3225159|Seed dormancy is here viewed as a specific expression of biological rest. Seed dormancy reflects a condition of suspended growth and development which is under endogenous hormonal control. The concept of inhibitorpromotor control is invoked, but the specific origin of the hormones involved remains obscure. It is hypothesized that seed embryos enter a state of rest by the active inhibition of growth and development and recover from rest by the active promotion of growth and development.
10.2307/3225160|There is growing evidence that the dormancy status of seeds is influenced by moisture exposure during their production, curing, and storage. Such questions are considered in the light of recent research.
10.2307/3225161|Spores, sporangia, and similar structures of the true fungi (Eumycota) often are ungerminable when first formed and must undergo a period of dormancy (rest, after-ripening) before they can germinate. Dormancy, however, is by no means the rule among fungi, and other methods of surviving adverse conditions are both common and effective. Typical examples from major groups of the fungi are examined briefly, as are a few dubious but instructive cases of putative dormancy. The most common difficulties are (1) failure to discriminate or difficulty in discriminating between immaturity and dormancy, and (2) confusion of unusual germination conditions, for example, low temperature, with the breaking of dormancy. Investigations on the mechanism of dormancy in Neurospora spp. are reviewed as the most thorough and fundamental study of the problem so far attempted. It is argued that the concept of "exogenous dormancy" in the fungi-inactivity imposed solely by an environment inimical to germination-is at best an unnecessary and at worst a confusing idea. It is proposed to restrict the term dormancy to a failure of a mature spore or comparable structure to complete its development under external conditions which later, after the end of the dormancy period, allow normal development.
10.2307/3225162|The adaptability of some fresh-water algae has allowed their survival under stress of fluctuating temperature, light quality and intensity, pressure, salinity, pH, soil, water, and air chemistry, and moisture. Algae are found in aerial, aquatic, and terrestrial habitats; and their polymorphic tendencies, reflected in their morphological and cytological variations, may have aided in survival through geological time.
10.2307/3225163|Survival of great extremes in environmental conditions may not be the primary function of dormant stages for the majority of aquatic species which have them. In most populations, the dormancy strategy may be of greatest importance in its function of permitting the population to avoid having to "playing the game" much of the time when environmental conditions are such that birth rate minus death rate (of active individuals) drops to and remains somewhat below a rather modest negative value. The response structure (RS) modeling approach is used to compare population dynamics in two populations which have identical properties except that one has a low mortality rate dormant stage. In the RS approach, the species population response pattern, as a function of all important combinations of levels of determinative environmental factors, is utilized. Environmental conditions as they change or remain constant through time are related to the RS, and it is thereby possible to follow the rate and result of population change throughout whatever period is of interest. An environmental structure (ES) for Austin, Texas, which gives the probabilities, in an average year, of occurrence of various combinations of levels of temperature, rainfall, and duration of sunlight is presented. This ES is then combined with the RS of a hypothetical lichen (an RS which incorporates the lichen's very important ability to become dormant during hot, dry weather), to illustrate the detailed response of this lichen to these three environmental factors as they occur in this location. Examination of this construct has great heuristic, analytical, and modeling potential for the examination of ecological, evolutionary, and other processes.
10.2307/3225528| The heart of Anomalocera ornata is a thin-walled sac composed of striated muscle cells and lacks an epicardium and endocardium. The myocardial cells contain thick filaments (18-22 nm in diameter), each of which is surrounded by 8-12 thin filaments (6 nm in diameter). The mitochondria are large, measuring up to 4 m in diameter and 7m in length. The sarcoplasmic reticulum is abundant and an extensive longitudinal tubule system is present. The tubules of the longitudinal system vary from 62 to 124 nm in diameter. Intercalated discs, rarely encountered, resemble those described for other crustaceans. A cardiac ganglion is not present but extrinsic cardioregulatory nerves and neuromuscular junctions are described. Terminal processes containing dense-cored vesicles of about 142 nm in diameter occur only in axoaxonal synapses within the cardiac nerves. Clear, ellipsoidal vesicles, measuring from 24 by 37 nm to 37 by 49 nm, respectively, for major and minor axes, were present in presynaptic terminals of neuromuscular junctions. 
10.2307/3225529|Ten taxa of aquatic Oligochaeta have been identified from eight Appalachian caves, including one new genus and three new species of Lumbriculidae and one new species of Haplotaxidae. Spelaedrilus multiporus n. g., n. sp. is characterized by uniquely branching genital ducts. Trichodrilus culveri n. sp. belongs to the group of species devoid of posterior lateral blood vessels, with a single pair of spermathecae, and is closely related to the European T. pragensis. Stylodrilus (Bythonomus) beattiei n. sp. is distinguished from its close European relative, S. sulci, by the posterior vasa deferentia which remain in segment X in the former but penetrate into segment XI in the latter. Haplotaxis brinkhursti n. sp. is a phylogenetically important taxon characterized by a segment devoid of gonads between the testes (segments X and XI) and the ovaries (segment XIII). Haplotaxis gordioides is known from subterranean and epigcan waters, but the naidid Nais variabilis, the tubificid Rhyacodrilus sodalis, and the lumbricid Eiseniella tetraedra are probably casual visitors to the cave environment. North American Enchytracidae are badly in need of taxonomic revision and therefore could not be identified.
10.2307/3225530|Dero (Allodero) hylae is reported from coastal Mississippi from ureters of a new host Hyla cinerea cinerea. The oligochaetes infested 10% of all H. c. cinerea examined in 1972: 15% of the adult frogs, and none of the young-of-the-year frogs. Five other species of anurans were examined from Mississippi and one species from Tennessee; none was infested. Primarily, worms occurred in equal numbers in right and left ureters. One hylid revealed oligochaetes in the cloaca. Morphometrically, worms agree with those from other areas of their distribution. Only asexual reproduction was observed. The mode of infestation still remains unknown.
10.2307/3225531|A general method, employing collagenase digestion in conjunction with mechanical dispersion, is described for the preparation of viable single cells, cellular aggregates, and whole epithelial sheets from frog (Rana pipiens) pharynx, free from underlying connective tissue. Utilization of this method allowed subsequent analysis and documentation of the form of the ciliary beat and metachrony in live specimens of frog pharyngeal epithelium, using high speed cinemicrography employing Nomarski differential interference and phase contrast microscopy. Results of analyses of ciliary beating in single cells reported in this communication showed that: (1) the ciliary beat appears to be a planar discontinuous forward and return stroke; (2) the effective stroke is 2. 5-3 times faster than the recovery stroke; (3) the velocity of the effective and recovery phases increases directly with beat frequency; (4) the velocity of propagation of the metachronal wave is a function of the velocity of the return stroke; and (5) the form of metachronal coordination is antiplectic. The results obtained in this study are compared to the findings of other investigators; and the relationship of the form of the ciliary beat and metachronal coordination observed in single cells, to mucous flow and particle transport, is mentioned.
10.2307/3225532|Just before the larva hatches, the fertilization membrane has lost most of its fibrous inner component, while its dense outer component remains intact. In the uniformly ciliated larva, the outer surface of a typical ectodermal cell bears a single cilium and numerous microvilli. The tips of these microvilli support a thin glycocalyx consisting of fibrous material and oriented parallel to the larval surface. Except where associated with the tips of the microvilli, the glycocalyx is separated from the plasma membrane of the ectodermal cells by a space containing extracellular flocculent material. The outer surface of each mitotic cell of the ectoderm lacks microvilli and a well-developed glycocalyx. The same ectodermal surface features are present in the doliolaria larva (except for the absence of cilia from part of the ectodermal cell population). In the early attached larva, which is undergoing metamorphosis, the outer surface of the ectoderm is covered with a thick, extracellular crust of homogeneous material; the cell surfaces beneath the crust bear relatively few, short microvilli and no cillia. In the early and late cystidean larvae, the outer surface is covered with a thick glycocalyx not separated from the plasma membrane by a conspicuous space; there are no ectodermal cilia (except at the tips of the papillae) and microvilli are short or absent.
10.2307/3225533| Field trips to Chincoteague Bay, Virginia were made to determine the types of marine amoebae that could be detected in sea-water samples taken during different months of the year (January, April, May, August, October). Sea water from the bay ranged in salinity from 25.7 to 32.6 , and temperature ranged from 4.5 to 28 C. Water samples collected in January (4.5 C) yielded approximately the same species diversity as water samples collected in August (28 C). Descriptions are offered of two new genera, Boveella n. g. (Mayorellidae) and Stygamoeba n. g. (Stereomyxidae), and nine new species: Mayorella corlissi, M. smalli, Vexillifera pagei, V. ottoi, V. browni, Triaenamoeba jachowskii, Flabellula hoguae, Boveella obscura, and Stygamoeba polymorpha. 
10.2307/3225534|Eight species of small filose free-living amoebae (Acanthamoeba) which typically produce refractile cysts were studied after growth on bacterized agar media. Species of four other genera of small amoebae which form smooth and rounded lobopodia and spherical refractile cysts (Naegleria, Tetramitus, Didascalus, and Hartmannella) were studied under the same conditions and never produced filose acanthopodia. Acanthamoebidae n. fam. is proposed for all filose amoebae having the identifying characters of the genus Acanthamoeba Volkonsky, 1931 sensu Page, 1967, including the filose species which have been cited previously as members of Acanthamoeba or Hartmannella, interchangeably. The recently described species Hartmannella culbertsoni, which is pathogenic, is reassigned to the genus Acanthamoeba culbertsoni (Singh & Das, 1970) n. comb. We also provisionally place Amoeba glebae into the genus, as Acanthamoeba glebae (Dobell, 1914) n. comb.
10.2307/3225535|The structure and composition of ridges in the cuticle of the citrus red mite Panonychus citri were examined with scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The ridges, which possess a periodicity of 0.2-0.4 m on the dorsal surface and 1.2-1.4 m on the ventral surface, are composed of epicuticle and procuticle. The mechanism of formation of the ridges, which was studied in molting females, appears similar to that found in insects. Mechanical properties of the cuticle were studied, and stress/ strain curves for the dorsal and ventral cuticle were prepared. The moduli of rigidity under the experimental conditions used were 2.2 x 10
10.2307/3225536|A medium, devoid of living cells, capable of supporting sustained growth of Chlorella-bearing Paramecium bursaria in the light has been developed. The basal medium, consisting of glutaraldehyde-killed bacteria suspended in a 1:1 mixture of baked lettuce extract and Bristol's mineral medium, supports slow but sustained growth. Addition of yeast nucleic acid, vitamins, and proteose-peptone improves growth. Supplementation with lipids (fatty acids and sterol) enhances growth further, particularly if serum albumin is also added. Protein hydrolysate (trypticase) does not substitute for serum albumin as a growth stimulant. It is suggested that the role of serum albumin may be that of a carrier for fatty acids.
10.2307/3225537|Frustular morphologies of Thalassiosira fluviatilis and T. pseudonana from fresh-water habitats are described, using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Although T. fluviatilis has commonly been found in fresh-water and marine habitats, T. pseudonana has previously only been reported from saline waters. Fresh-water specimens of T. fluviatilis have conspicuously fewer central processes (fultoportulae) than reported in marine and brackish-water specimens. The morphology of T. pseudonana is similar to that of marine specimens and has some affinities to the genus Cyclotella.
10.2307/3225538|A turntable device is described which greatly facilitates the photographic rotation technique of Markham as developed for the determination of radial symmetry in electron micrographs of biological specimens.
10.2307/3225539|Description is given of a simple well slide, with directions for its construction. Such a slide is useful for temporary mounts of living specimens of a great variety of microscopic plants and animals.
10.2307/3225540|Species collected are Victorella pavida, Pottisiella erecta, Fredericella sultana, Plumatella repens, and Pectinatella magnifica. Colonies were collected from 59 localities in 10 parishes, and physicochemical data were recorded. Distribution was considered with respect to the physicochemical characteristics of the habitats.
10.2307/3225541|The bryozoan Electra crustulenta is reported incrusting the carapace of a mature specimen of the Alabama red-bellied turtle Chrysemys alabamensis. No identified bryozoan species have previously been reported epizoic on Holocene, Western Hemisphere turtles.
10.2307/3225542|Observations by transmission electron microscopy of germinating Physarella oblonga f. alba spores show a densely fibrous zone from which is excluded all structural components at the site of emergence. Early in germination structural breakdown of the wall occurs along with an extension of the intervening space from spore wall to the plasma membrane. Both wall changes and the fibrous emergence zone may represent sites of internal enzymatic activity. Unique structural features include the development of digestive vacuoles prior to spore germination, small electron dense bodies in cytoplasmic vesicles and the wall zone, binucleate spores, and membrane-limited bodies appearing as doughnut-shaped or circular structures.
10.2307/3225543|Loricae of three unusual species of Tintinnida, not heretofore reported from New York waters, were recovered from neritic plankton samples. Length variability of the Parafavella was considerable and resulted from differences in both the bowl and the aboral horn. The width of each of the three species varied only slightly in these populations. The bulk of the loricae of P. gigantea is organic. The view that such loricae are composed of pseudochitin was confirmed by microhistochemical tests and analyses for minerals.
10.2307/3225544|In samples from a patch of "red water" in Seymour Canal, Southeast Alaska, two species of protozoa, the phytoflagellate Eutreptiella marina and the ciliate Mesodinium rubrum, were found in large numbers. The color of the water may have been caused by M. rubrum. An extract of the pigment was not toxic to laboratory mice.
10.2307/3225545|An electron microscopic study of encystment in Stylonychia mytilus has revealed the presence of numerous unique dense bodies of unknown origin in the cytoplasm. Ribosomal arrays, composition of the nuclei, and cyst wall structure are also described. Comparison of our findings with data known for species in related hypotrich genera reveals some distinct differences as well as not unexpected similarities.
10.2307/3224977|Former syngens 1-14 of Paramecium aurelia arc characterized and assigned respectively the names P. primaurelia, P. biaurelia, P. triaurelia, P. tetraurelia, P. pentaurelia, P. sexaurelia, P. septaurelia, P. octaurelia, P. novaurelia, P. decaurelia, P. undecaurelia, P. dodecaurelia, P. tredec-aurelia, and P. quadecaurelia, all new species. The features previously morphological, cytological and molecular characters all of which are set forth as common characters of the whole complex of species. Because the descriptions of P. aurelia do not distinguish any one of the species from the others, this species name is declared unusable, that is, a nomen dubium. The distinguishing characters of each of the new species include its mating reactions, breeding relations, and mode of inheritance of mating type; and the zymograms by starch gel electrophoresis for few of a small group of enzymes: beta-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, and esterases A, B, and C. For each species, available informa given for morphological characters, geographical distribution, and species of bacterial symbionts. One or two "reference specimens" of each species have been set aside in the form of growing or frozen cultures for distribution to investigators; these will be deposited in the American Type Culture Collection. Identification of an unknown stock can be accomplished by matching its characters with those of the live cultures of reference specimens. Also provided is a key for identification which is independent of the use of reference cultures except for distinguishing P. decaurelia from P. dodec-aurelia.
10.2307/3224978|The larval development of the cirratulid polychaete Cirriformia spirabrancha is described. Gametes are released into the sea water where fertilization takes place. Planktonic larvae are lecithotrophic and metamorphose in seven days at 17.5 C. Spawning techniques and culture methods are described. Systematic implications of unusual setal and branchial characteristics of juveniles are discussed. Development of the Cirratulidae is reviewed.
10.2307/3224979| Wallabicestus n. g. is established for W. ewersi n. sp., an anoplocephalid cestode from a wallaby. The new genus and species are characterized by the lack of an external seminal vesicle, the posterior location of the vagina, the presence of two sets of male and female reproductive systems in each proglottid, and the single, continuous band of testes anterior to the ovaries. Fuhrmannodes talboti n. sp. is also described from a wallaby. It differs from F. proterogyna (Fuhrmann, 1933) in being smaller, in having a cirrus pouch 230-260 m long and an ovary 130-220 m wide, and in not being proterogynous. Proteocephalus niuginii n. sp. from a frog has a single field of testes and an equatorial genital pore. It differs from P. tigrinus Woodland, 1925 in having suckers 180-185 m wide, 135-165 testes, and an oval cirrus pouch 140-165 m long. Also reported are Progamotaenia sp., Hymenolepis diminuta, Raillietina (R.) casuarii, Raillietina (R.) infrequens, and the nematodes Toxocara mackarrasae and Syphacia obvelata. 
10.2307/3224980|The fine structure of destructive alterations produced by the marine burrowing sponge Cliona celata Grant (1826) as it penetrates calcium carbonate substrata were examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. Typical patterns of destruction included crevice-like etchings and undercuts. Chips of calcium carbonate, etched out of substrata by sponge cells, exhibited microterracing along their surfaces. An identical pattern of relief was seen on walls of pits, formed by the removal of chips. Fine structural features of etchings and the microtopography of pits and chips were similar for Iceland spar (calcite) and molluscan shell.
10.2307/3224981|Light microscope histology and histochemistry reveal that a single large pseudocoelomocyte, the dorsal cell, located in a web of connective tissue fibers stretching from the intestinal caecum to the body wall, shows no variation in structure and chemical composition during the molting cycle. Its staining reactions are consistent with the view that it is a fibroblast. Moreover, blebs of cytoplasm exist in the connective tissue separate from the cell body; it is thought that these represent a means by which the dorsal cell exports connective tissue precursors to regions remote from the cell. A preliminary study of the cell with the electron microscope supports this view.
10.2307/3224982|A statistical study was conducted to test the initial and residual effects of phentolamine, an adrenergic blocking agent, upon the nephridial apparatus of Paramecium. The mean normal rate of evacuation for the control organisms was 6.925 cycles/min. After initial exposure to 6 x 10
10.2307/3224983|Scanning electron microscopy coupled with X-ray microanalysis provides evidence that the structural differences between the crystalline calcareous deposits of the Didymiaceae compared to the amorphous calcareous deposits of the Physaraceae is correlated with predictable chemical differences. The enigmatic dictydine granules are also shown to contain calcium.
10.2307/3224984|Quite recently there has been a new surge of interest in modernizing the scheme of classification for the Ciliophora, particularly because of the ready availability of new characteristics, including ultrastructural features, judged to be of significance in the comparative systematics of protists assigned to this phylum. Just a year ago, proposals for two only slightly different classifications were made with which the present author is in general agreement. But some "repairs" seem in order and some changes based on still newer knowledge or analysis appear to be desirable. Thus a revised scheme is proposed in the present paper. More importantly, characterizations are offered, for the first time, for all of the suprafamilial taxa included in the new classification: the phylum and its three classes, seven subclasses, 23 orders, and 31 suborders. Over 425 "representative" genera, close to 40% of all the ones known to date, are listed in their appropriate orders and suborders; 51 of these genera have been selectively figured as an aid to general recognition and understanding of the diversity among the major groups comprising the whole assemblage of ciliates. Nearly 200 selected references are made to the pertinent literature, with emphasis on papers published within the past 6-8 years.
10.2307/3224986|A technique for the preparation and mounting of phytoplankton specimens is described. This technique provides for a homogeneous background for photographic purposes and an increased specimen area, thus reducing specimen exchange.
10.2307/3224987|Mitochondria were isolated and critical-point dried along with other cellular organelles from two genera of hypotrichous ciliate protozoa. Comparisons between thin-sectioned and isolated mitochondria and observations on the quality of the critical-point dried mitochondria were made.
10.2307/3224988|Six species of protozoa were recovered from the seminal vesicles and intestines of earthworms. Two species of acephaline gregarines were recovered from seminal vesicles: Zygocystis legeri from Pheretima diffringens and Monocystis agilis from Pheretima hupeiensis, Lumbricus terrestris, and Eisenia foetida. Intestines of Pheretima diffringens contained two unidentified astome ciliates. Eisenia foetida hosted two intestinal ciliates, Maupasella nova and Metaradiophrya lumbrici.
10.2307/3224989|Specimens of this species have been found in Berlese samples of hardwood litter in Georgia and Florida. The female appears superficially to resemble tiny leaf litter inhabitants of the family Linyphiidae.
10.2307/3224990|Descriptions are given for two new species, Arrenurus texensis and Arrenurus opisthifoliacercus, from a spring-fed lake in Hays County, Texas.
10.2307/3225496|Eleven new species of marine amoebae were established in pure clonal cultures after isolation from sea-water samples taken from Chincoteague Bay, Virginia. Comparative features of interphase nuclei of different genera and species were determined, rates of locomotion were measured, and survival in diluted sea water and in fresh water was studied in water and on agar media. Phase contrast photomicrographs were made to document specific features of trophozoites, interphase nuclei, and floating- or rayed-stages. One new genus and eight new species are assigned to the family Thecamoebidae Schaeffer, 1926: Lingulamoeba leei n. g., n. sp., Platyamoeba murchelanoi n. sp., P. langae n. sp., P. weinsteini n. sp., P. douvresi n. sp., Clydonella rosenfieldi n. sp., C. sindermanni n. sp., and C. wardi n. sp. Three new species are placed in the family Hyalodiscidae Poche, 1913: Hyalodiscus angelovica n. sp., Gibbodiscus newmani n. sp., and Unda schaefferi n. sp. Recent progress in the taxonomy and systematics of the families Thecamoebidae and Hyalodiscidae and certain unresolved problems of generic and specific characteristics are discussed.
10.2307/3225497|The genus Macrocotyla Hyman comprises three species, all from North America. A redescription of M. glandulosa Hyman is presented, M. lewisi n. sp. is described, and Speophila hoffmasteri Hyman is transferred to Macrocotyla as M. hoffmasteri n. comb. with a new description. The taxonomic value of the musculature of the pharynx, which separates the families Planariidae and Dendrocoelidae, is discussed on the basis of current knowledge. Macrocotyla shows a condition which is intermediate between the two families. It is more closely related to Sphalloplana than to any dendrocoelid known. The author is inclined to reintroduce Hyman's family Kenkiidae with a new definition, including the genera Kenkia, Sphalloplana, and Macrocotyla.
10.2307/3225498|Two new caryophyllaeid cestodes, Isoglaridacris erraticus n. sp. from an undescribed species of Moxostoma similar to M. poecilurum (Jordan) and I. etowani n. sp. from the Alabama hogsucker Hypentelium etowanum (Jordan), are described from Alabama. Isoglaridacris erraticus most closely resembles I. folius Fredrickson & Ulmer, differing by the arrangement of testes and the size of the cirrus; I. etowani most closely resembles I. jonesi Mackiewicz, differing by having postovarian and median vitellaria. A new host record for I. agminis from Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque) is reported from Alabama. The description of I. agminis is corrected with new observations on variation. The distribution of vitellaria in the genus Isoglaridacris is discussed.
10.2307/3225499|For several successive years gemmulated sponge was collected in November from a New Hampshire bog pond, stored at 2-4 C in the dark, and then implanted back into the pond at different times during the following spring and summer. Sponges developing from implants set out after mid-June gemmulated later than sponges implanted during May and early June. Sponges implanted in late August and September either failed or just began to initiate gemmule formation by the end of the first week in November, the approximate time of surface ice formation and when the natural population in the pond had completed gemmule development. Clearly, gemmulation is not regulated entirely by environmental factors characteristic of a particular time of year. The implications of these findings, regarding the control and adaptive significance of gemmulation, are discussed. At water temperatures between 10-12 C, the development of gemmules with a single coat takes approximately two weeks.
10.2307/3225500|This paper, continuing a series dealing with Gnathostomulida from the Western Atlantic, describes a new genus and species found in Bermuda, Problognathia minima n. g., n. sp. Characterized by extremely small body size and a protrusile pharynx, it is placed within the order Bursovaginoidea, at the base of the "higher" Scleroperalia. Diagnoses of the species, the genus, and the new family Problognathiidae n. fam. are given.
10.2307/3225501|Haller's organ of 10 species of two subgenera of the tick genus Ixodes was examined by scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy. Six new surface features appeared to show distinct differences among the species examined. These were shape of entire organ, shape of anterior trough, height of anterior trough walls, presence or absence of distal transverse wall of anterior trough, location of anterior trough sensillae, shape of posterior capsule aperture. The significance of this type of study to systematic analysis is discussed.
10.2307/3225502| This paper describes stimulation of granulopoiesis in albino rats by the macroglobulin fraction (MW  800,000 daltons) of isologous rat serum proteins. The effects on maturation of granulocytic precursors are demonstrated by an in vivo assay of changes in the marrow granulocyte population. Stimulation of granulocytic colony formation in the spleen of irradiated rats injected with isologous bone marrow and stimulation of granulocytic colony formation by mouse bone marrow cells incubated in the soft agar culture technique was also shown. The granulopoietic stimulation produced by injection of the serum macroglobulins correlates well with past reports of radiation protection and of antimacroglobulin inhibition of granulopoiesis. The macroglobulin fraction is unique in its marked stimulation of the differentiation process. This suggests that the factor plays a role, distinct from that of colony stimulating factor, in the control of the maturation process. 
10.2307/3225503|Benthos samples were collected from 50 stations in southwestern Lake Michigan at depths ranging from 3 to 18 m from February 1973 through April 1974. Oligochaete species made up large portions of the benthos community at each station. Early spring and late summer peaks in the abundance of a number of species were observed. Fine sand and sand with silt were the predominant substrates. The distributions of 22 taxa of Tubificidae, 10 Naididae, and one Lumbriculidae were examined in relation to depth and substrate type. Oligochaeta increased in abundance with depth. Tubificidae were most abundant at depths of 9 through 18 m in silt substrates. Naididae were most numerous in the sandy 3 and 6 m locations. Stylodrilus heringianus, the only lumbriculid present, was most abundant at depths greater than 9 m and was the most numerous oligochaete in sand substrates.
10.2307/3225504|The genus Rugipes Schaeffer, 1926 was established to accommodate two new species of amoebae, R. bilzi and R. vivax, the first a fresh-water species, the second marine. The type species, R. bilzi, may well fall as a member of an older genus; at any rate, the second species is no longer considered congeneric with it. Clydonella n. g. is proposed to provide a new generic home for certain marine amoebae with characters similar to, yet distinctly different from, Vannella Bovee, 1965 and Platyamoeba Page, 1969. At the same time, the new genus is considered appropriate for the former R. vivax, as its type species, although this organism had been removed to Vannella by Bovee and to Platyamoeba by Page. Comparative data on the three genera and specific characters for C. vivax (Schaeffer, 1926) n. comb. are presented briefly.
10.2307/3225505|Examination of polymastigote flagellates from the termite Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar) utilizing the scanning electron microscope has revealed a variety of sizes and forms which display varying degrees of torsion. In all cases, independent of size and shape, cells possess four recurrent flagella which are seen to lie in grooves and extend beyond the length of the cell. Symbiotic spirochaetes adhere either directly to the cell surface or to modified regions of the surface which resemble screw-like structures forming brackets for their attachment. Associated with the cell surface is a dense mat-like covering believed to be composed of scales. Physiological and taxonomic implications of these findings are discussed.
10.2307/3225506|The ultrastructure of the oblique prismatic layer and the underlying mantle surface of three archaeogastropods has been examined using scanning electron microscopy. The oblique prismatic layer consists of a series of plates pointing towards the aperture of the shell; the mantle surface is covered by folds. The interaction of the oblique prismatic layer and the mantle folds when the animal is extended or crawling provides traction which is considered to be advantageous for mantle-shell orientation and manipulation.
10.2307/3225507|Thin serial section of leaf and midrib prepared for light microscopy were examined under a scanning electron microscope to study crystals. certain structural features, such as the membrane enclosing the crystals in parenchymatous cells and crystals in the xylem which could not be detected under the light microscope, were revealed clearly under the SEM. Crystal distribution in the vessels is indicative of crystal transport through the pits in the cell wall.
10.2307/3225508|Electron microscopical examination of cultured Stichococcus revealed a lenticular pyrenoid of low electron-density, traversed by parallel arrays of pyrenoidal thylakoids. The homogeneous, granular matrix of the pyrenoid was observed with unusual linear faults which further subdivide the pyrenoid. Osmiophilic, lipid-rich inclusions, termed pyrenoglobuli, are usually observed contiguous to the pyrenoid. Observations are recorded on the nature of the pyrenoid and some of the morphological changes involved in pyrenoid maturation.
10.2307/3225509|Alloglossidium renale n. sp. is described from gravid specimens found free in the antennary gland of the fresh-water shrimp, Palaemonetes kadiakensis. A. renale differs from other members of the genus in host preference, uterine configuration, and morphometric characters. Macroderoides progeneticus Sullivan & Heard, 1969 from the crayfish and catfish is assigned to Alloglossidium Simer, 1929 as A. progeneticum n. comb. on the basis of the shape of the excretory bladder, extent of the vitellaria, and structure of the cirrus sac.
10.2307/3225510|Seasonal blooms of Stentor tartari, a red species, have been observed regularly in India in the vicinity of Bangalore.
10.2307/3225511|The scopular organelles of Ophrydium versatile are kinetosomes plus very short modified axonemes, not barren kinetosomes. The axoneme has a 9 + 0 microtubular arrangement due to the loss of the main part of the shaft which is normally made up of microtubular doublets. Thus the transitional zone passes directly into the axonemal tip of microtubular singlets. The scopular cilia are involved in the formation of the stalk of the zooid and may be tactile in function in the telotroch.
10.2307/3225518|The surface and interfacial morphology and function of selected algal and chloroplast symbionts and their host cells are reviewed. Symbionts may be intercellular or intracellular with respect to host digestive cells. Intracellular symbionts are generally within host cell vacuoles, but some chloroplast symbionts seem to lie free in the host cytoplasm. Cell walls may be modified, unmodified, or lacking in symbionts compared to the condition in free-living counterparts. While wall modification may be viewed as an adaptation for a symbiotic existence, it is not a prerequisite for metabolic interactions such as translocation of reduced organic carbon from algae to host cells. The function of symbiont and host surfaces is described in connection with symbiont acquisition and resistance to host digestion. Evidence is presented for cellular recognition of symbiont surface antigens by host cells. Hypothetical mechanisms for resistance of symbionts to host digestion are described and compared to known mechanisms employed by symbiotic bacteria.
10.2307/3225519|Immunology as a tool has been utilized to document membrane changes occuring during the process of development as well as membrane changes occuring with the onset of leukemia. Chicken red blood cell membranes express a fetal antigen (CFA) at pre- and posthatching. CFA is lost with aging of the chicken and reappears on the red blood cell membrane of adult leukemic chickens. The mode of membrane antigen loss and reappearance were followed. Additionally, the genetic mechanism coding for the reappearance of CFA was considered. The reappearance of CFA does not have to involve the derepression of a repressed fetal gene as had been assumed. A differentiation antigen hypothesis is now favored. The use of immunotherapy for treatment of cancers of this type is now questionable, since the fetal-cancer antigen has been found to be present on normal stem cells which are undergoing maturation.
10.2307/3225521| The normal pharate adult development of the abdominal epidermis of the silkmoth Hyalophora cecropia was analyzed at the ultrastructural level and was compared with changes in cell morphology resulting from the application of the insect growth hormones, -ecdysone and juvenile hormone. The onset of adult development elicited by endogenous -ecdysone is accompanied by a change in cell ultrastructure from pupal cells having few mitochondria, few Golgi, numerous free ribosomes to epidermis containing rough endoplasmic reticulum and numerous Golgi. The microvilli of the apical plasma membrane appear to secrete pupal endocuticle during early pharate adult development and adult endocuticle a little later. Giant autophagic vacuoles, appearing early, may be requisite for cellular remodeling that necessarily precedes differentiation into adult cell types. Glycogen is accumulated in the epidermal cells during pharate adult development, and masses of glycogen rosettes are still evident in the newly eclosed moth. Adult endocuticle continues to be secreted after eclosion. Within an hour after injection of -ecdysone into pupae, blebbing of the apical plasma membrane occurs; this is followed by the premature accumulation of giant autophagic vacuoles and the precocious deposition of cuticle. Similar responses occurred after juvenile hormone injection, except that giant autophagic vacuole development was completely suppressed. The ecdysone-like effects of juvenile hormone treatment are probably a result of juvenile hormone stimulation of endogenous ecdysone secretion. In response to juvenile hormone, spaces appear between the epidermal cells in the basal region, suggesting that juvenile hormone may modulate the permeability of the epidermal monolayer. 
10.2307/3225522|The tapeworm "cuticle" is, in reality, a cellular syncytium, referred to in the recent literature as a tegument. Lacking a gut, tapeworms utilize the tegment alone for chemical interchange with the host. Attendant to this function is a brush border containing a number of transport mechanisms and hydrolytic enzymes. The external limiting membrane is coated with a layer of carbohydrate-rich polyelectrolytes, viz. a glycocalyx. This structure serves as a binding surface for inorganic ions and higher molecular weight organic compounds, including host enzymes. Certain of the latter retain activity, and may thereby contribute to contact-digestive functions at the surface of the worm. Others are bound in a catalytically-inactive configuration, which may serve to protect the parasite from digestion. Intrinsic enzymes of the tegument membrane surface include phosphohydrolases and a ribonuclease; the hydrolysis products of these activities interact with proximal transport loci and are thereby absorbed. Thus, the tapeworm tegument includes a digestive-absorptive-protective surface, whose functions involve the interaction of both parasite and host components within the structural framework of a membrane-defined interface.
10.2307/3225523|The properties of the tegumental hexose transport systems of the intestinal helminths Hymenolepis diminuta (Cestoda: Cyclophyllidea) and Moniliformis dubius (Acanthocephala) are described and compared to those of the glucose transport systems of other tapeworm species and of the mucosal brush border of the vertebrate intestine. Glucose transport and accumulation in H. diminuta and in other cestodes are Na
10.2307/3225524|A review of the digestive tract of digenetic trematodes is presented with emphasis placed on the gastrodermis. In those organisms studied to date, the gastrodermis is either a syncytium or characterized by definite cell boundaries. A limited degree of variability is discerned in the surface amplifications of the gastrodermis. Some organisms display a lamellar type of amplification, others possess a microvillar type. Cytochemical studies related to the surface coat of these amplifications are presented with speculations as to function. Acid phosphatase appears to be the most ubiquitous enzyme at this site and may be analogous in function to the alkaline phosphatase observed in vertebrate digestive systems. Other properties of the gastrodermis are discussed: autophagy, synthetic activities, and function of the basal plasma membrane.
10.2307/3225525|The concept of the brush border as a digestive-absorptive surface is reviewed and brought up to date in terms of brush border membrane enzymes, brush border membrane transport systems, and those brush border membrane diseases which result from deletion of enzymic or transport activities. The molecular basis of brush border membrane disease, in the case of sucrase-isomaltase deletion, is indicated to be an absence of enzyme protein from the membrane rather than its presence with altered properties.
10.2307/3225346| Mature sperm of Biomphalaria glabrata are cells 650 m x 0.8 m, with a short head and conical acrosome. There is a long middle piece, ending in a relatively short tail. The middle piece consists of a typical 9 + 2 axial complex, ensheathed by the mitochondrial derivative wound in a double helix, becoming single near the tail. The axoneme begins in a complex neck region, where coarse fibers appear fused with both the centriole and the peripheral tubules of the axoneme. The mitochondrial derivative has a paracrystalline material encasing a membranous core, in which a tubular channel is present. In negatively stained whole-mount preparations, the helical arrangement of the mitochondrial derivative and the ladder-like configuration of its membranous core are clearly seen. Enzymatic digestion with -amylase and cytochemical tests demonstrated that the granules seen within the mitochondrial derivative and axoneme, as well as granules surrounding the axial complex at the tail region, consist of glycogen, which must serve as an endogenous source of energy. Short pronase treatment digested the axial complex of the sperm, but not that of the cilia of the seminal vesicle. 
10.2307/3225347|The amicronucleate strain GL-and the micronucleate strain WH-14 of syngen 1 demonstrate detailed morphological stability over a period of 31 months in axenic culture. These strains and GL-are indistinguishable in their multivariate morphology as assessed by attributes reflecting the relative sizes and dispositions of argentophilic cortical structures. We hypothesize that GL-I and GL-C represent descendants of an original syngen 1 stock and predict that syngen 1 will be found in France.
10.2307/3225348|The coelomic cells of Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri were found to consist of two categories: the amebocytes (or lymphocytes) and the chloragogen. The structure of these cells is described. Worms were exposed to three levels of X-irradiation (7,000 R, 3,000 R, 1,000 R). After a period of time (170 hours-768 hours post-irradiation), the chloragogen cells became heavily granulated and very black; there was necrosis and subsequent loss of Stage I sperm. The amebocytes remained relatively negligible in numbers for both irradiated and control groups.
10.2307/3225349|Wilson's 1932 monograph of the copepods of the Woods Hole region described as a single species the female of one and the male of another species. I have been able to examine males and females of both his animals and to redescribe both species. The female of Wilson's original specimens belongs to the genus Paronychocamptus and is hereby named Paronychocamptus wilsoni n. sp. This same animal was listed and misnamed P. capillata by Lang in 1948. The male of Wilson's specimen belongs to the genus Heterolaophonte and is renamed H. capillata n. comb. here. H. capillata is the same animal, misnamed by Lang as H. non-capillata. Keys to both sexes of Paronychocamptus are presented as well as a discussion of the quinquespinosa group of Heterolaophonte.
10.2307/3225350|The insertion end of stretcher muscle fibers in the walking leg of Carcinus maenas (L.) was examined with a transmission electron microscope. Muscle fibers were found to attach to the exoskeleton through specialized epidermal cells, the tendinal cells, which contain a tremendous number of oriented microtubules that extend the entire length of the cell. The tendinal cells are attached to the ends of the muscle fibers by desmosomal junctions. Thin myofilaments anchor to one side of the desmosome and tendinal cell microtubules to the other side. The myo-tendinal cell attachment area is also heavily invested with collagen fibrils which may aid the desmosomes in securing these cells together. The apical end of the tendinal cell is secured to numerous dense cuticular rods called tonofibrillae which extend from within the cuticle into conical invaginations of the tendinal cell. The tonofibrillae and the tendinal cell form hemidesmosomes to which attach the tendinal cell microtubules. The microtubules presumably serve to transfer the tension developed by the muscle fibers to the exoskeleton. Adjacent tendinal cells are anchored together by desmosomal, septate, and "intermediate" junctions.
10.2307/3225351|The dense extracellular substance in the pore of the bovine circumvallate taste bud shares two unusual ultrastructural features with the smaller, dense, intracellular granules. Both contain large numbers of small, round, lucent areas and a lesser number of sheet-like lucent regions. These observations support prior speculations by others that the dense extracellular material is derived from dense granules usually found in the apices of type I cells of mammalian taste buds. That the dense extracellular material may play a role in the formation of the numerous free vesicles also observed in the pore is a possibility which is discussed.
10.2307/3225352| Six species of parasites were recovered from the gills of the spot Leiostomus xanthurus Lacpde, from the brackish waters of Clear Lake, Texas. Of 556 spot examined from September 1970 through August 1971, 414 (72.7%) were parasitized by one or more species of the following: Protoza-Kudoa branchiata; Trematoda-Heteraxinoides xanthophilus; Copepoda-Ergasilus lizae; Isopoda-Lironeca redmanni, Anilocra acuta, and Cymothoa excisa. This is the initial report of these isopod species from the spot; and they, along with H. xanthophilus, were recovered from fish along the Texas coast for the first time. Prevalence of parasites associated with the spot was: E. lizae, 63.3%; H. xanthophilus, 13.5%; K. branchiata, 5.8%; and all isopods, 5.8%. Mean number of parasites or protozoan cysts per host was generally low and, with the exception of the isopods, damaged the gills little or not at all. While population fluctuations of E. lizae were correlated with temperature, population variations of other parasite species were not related to either temperature or salinity. Both prevalence and mean number of E. lizae individuals declined as fish length increased. Prevalence of H. xanthophilus increased in fish over 160 mm long. 
10.2307/3225353|Evidence is found of selectivity for certain materials used in lorica-building, and there appears to be selection for particles according to size as well. There are striking differences in the proportions of biogenic:non-biogenic materials on the loricae of various specimens, and this appears to have taxonomic significance. Certain species apparently produce the lorica in the sediments; the development of others appears to take place in the water column.
10.2307/3225354|Histochemical methods for nonspecific esterases and cholinesterases have been applied to intact Cysticercus fasciolaris. Reactions for nonspecific esterases occur in lateral margins of the proglottids, calcareous corpuscles, portions of the excretory canal, the rostellum, and suckers. The nervous system containing cholinesterases was selectively visualized in simple whole-mount preparations when the Gomori method was applied. It consists of 10 longitudinal nerve cords with transverse commissures in the strobila and of ganglia and a complex system of commissures in the scolex. The longitudinal trunks terminate in the bladder as a nerve net which ramifies throughout its tegument. Cholinesterases are inhibited by 10
10.2307/3225355|Gammarus hyalelloides is described from specimens living in Chara beds at the mouth of Phantom Lake Spring, Jeff Davis County, Texas. The new species is the smallest of the North American fresh-water Gammarus species. It is closely related to G. pecos Cole & Bousfield, known only from Leon Creek and Diamond Y Spring, about 85 km east of Phantom Lake Spring.
10.2307/3225356|Larval stages of Philophthalmus hegeneri Penner & Fried, 1963 obtained from naturally infected Batillaria minima (Gmelin) snails were compared with previous descriptions of cercariae and metacereariae of this species. New observations are reported on cystogenous material, body spines, cephalic glands, lateral ducts, and the excretory system. The distribution and localization of papillae in excysted metacercariae were determined using the silver nitrate technique. Observations on larval P. hegeneri also were compared with cerearial and metacercarial descriptions of P. megalurus (Cort, 1914).
10.2307/3225357|A new species is described from Catostomus macrocheilus, C. ardens, and C. catostomus from Montana, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, and British Columbia. It differs from the closely related G. catostomi by having a very large external seminal vesicle, many more testes, and a smaller scolex. The genus is briefly reviewed, related problems of caryophyllid distribution and systematics are discussed, and a comprehensive key to all Glaridacris species is presented.
10.2307/3225358|The sporulation process of Isospora canis oocysts is described and compared with sporogony of other Isospora species of carnivores. Oocysts had not completed sporulation after 16 days at 10 C. At 20, 30, and 35 C, sporulation was completed at 48, 16, and 16 hr, respectively. At 45 C, oocysts degenerated and did not complete sporulation.
10.2307/3225359|Various fixatives and processing techniques were utilized to determine the best method of preparing large numbers of copepods for histopathological examination. Dietrich's fixative gave the finest cytological detail and was the best suited for general use.
10.2307/3225360| Since the staining of autoradiograms can produce deleterious results, the use of interference contrast microscopy (after Nomarski) is an alternative way of viewing autoradiograms. This method serves to make visible details in transparent specimens of very poor contrast and is ideal for observation and measurement of minute particles such as silver grains. Viewing was optimal when the developed silver grains were in the high contrast position. This orientation caused the silver grains to appear as pits on the tissue surface while the underlying tissue was shown in relief. The method eliminates the time and expense of staining and appears ideally suited for observation of 2 m sections of plastic-embedded material following autoradiography. 
10.2307/3225361|A modified technique is explained for obtaining good carbon-metal replicas of coal ball fossils for use with electron microscopy.
10.2307/3225362|The effects of subatmospheric pressures on mammalian cells are presented. Photomicrographs of mouse fibroblasts held at 60 Torr of air and water at 37C in a light microscope hydration chamber show progressive morphological changes associated with increased duration of exposure to hypobaric pressure. Cells exhibit increased blebbing at their margins and subsequently round out after 8-10 min exposure to 60 Torr. The cytoplasm becomes edematous, and Brownian motion of the intracellular organelles and granules becomes quite marked. Continued hypobaric exposure at 60 Torr leads to cell lysis; however, cells returned to normal atmospheric pressure and culture medium at the rounded stage can recover, as shown by re-attachment to the substrate, re-spreading, and cell division. The implications of these results for electron microscopy and the potential use of the light microscope hydration chamber to simulate extra-terrestial conditions for aerospace studies are discussed.
10.2307/3225363|Previously undescribed forms of encysted Naegleria gruberi are presented. Organisms were cultured on dilute proteose peptone-yeast extract agar and transferred to nonnutrient agar. One such plate was examined at 24 hr intervals for five consecutive days. Numerous organisms were found "doubly encysted." Occasional cysts contained two separately encysted organisms, and in both forms the original cyst was often deformed or ruptured. These cysts may have been ruptured by the mechanical force of the sampling technique. Naegleria gruberi is able to synthesize a second cyst if the integrity of the original one is disrupted. This phenomenon may be related to the reproductive mechanism and the cell cycle of Naegleria.
10.2307/3225364|A photographic film-plate holder unit designed for the desiccator of the Zeiss 10 transmission electron microscope is described. This unit is made of Plexiglas and has the capability of holding over 90 loaded film plates. The plates are stacked for quick reloading of the camera and protected from mechanical injury by the holder during desiccation.
10.2307/3225365|The fresh-water polychaete Manayunkia speciosa Leidy was found in Cayuga Lake, New York, in depths of ca. 20 m or less. It was common in the northern and southern areas of the lake where densities of more than 1,000/sq. m were found occasionally. Past and recent distributional records and the small size of the species suggest a much broader distribution in the Nearctic region than is presently known.
10.2307/3225366|The gross morphology of proturan eggs in a late stage of embryonic development is described for the first time. Proturan eggs possess a rupturing chorion similar to that of Collembola. The prelarva is shown to be the first postembryonic stage, as assumed by previous authors.
10.2307/3225367|Leuconostoc mesenteroides has a cell structure and mesosomes associated with septum development in accord with structures known for other gram positive cocci.
10.2307/3225368|Transmission electron microscopy of fossil (Pennsylvanian) pollen grains reveals the presence of Ubisch bodies associated with a tapetal membrane. The occurrence of these structures suggests that sporopollenin synthesis and deposition were well established early in seed plant evolution, and, apparently, have undergone little change in the microsporogenesis of living plants.
10.2307/3225056|The history of nematodes responsible for human anisakiasis spans almost 500 years. Our knowledge of this group parallels the advancement of research from visual observation-through development and refinement of the microscope and advancement of technology-to newer research tools, such as the electron microscope.
10.2307/3225057|A new technique is described to determine in situ invertebrate predation on zooplankton assemblages. The method involves staining the prey animals with fluorescent dye, acridine orange, and releasing them into a grazing chamber suspended in the lake. Predator-prey interactions can be quantified from the number of fluorescent prey and predators recovered. Predation is indicated if a suspected predator possesses a fluorescent gut tube.
10.2307/3225058|The nervous system of the marine polychaete Ctenodrilus serratus consists of central, stomatogastric, and peripheral components which were demonstrated by histochemical techniques for acetylcholinesterase. The central nervous system consists of a brain, circumesophageal connectives, and two ventral cords which dilate in the posterior region of each segment and join terminally in the circumanal loop. The stomatogastric system arises from the brain as the stomodeal loop, from which branch both a nerve plexus along the gut and a nerve loop around the eversible, proboscis. The peripheral system includes the dorsal epidermal nerves, the nephridial nerve plexuses, and four pairs of nerves per mature segment, each of which branch off the ventral cord. A comparison of the anterior region of the nervous system of C. serratus with that of Dodecaceria concharum and Audouinia tentaculata supports Dales' contentions, based on the "protrusible ventral tongue," of the affinities between the families Ctenodrilidae and Cirratulidae.
10.2307/3225060| Late vegetative amoebae of two species of Dictyostelium were isolated from either liquid suspension or nutrient agar plate cultures. Cells resuspended in either nutrient medium or in physiological saline can be seen to exhibit filamentous extensions when viewed under Kohler-dark field illumination. These filaments are cellular processes, often with elaborate dichotomous branches. The filaments can be seen at many points on the cell surface. They arise at the sites of pseudopodial extension and remain there after the pseudopods retract. The filaments are uniformly cylindrical and of the same diameter, 0.1-0.2 m. There is no reduction in diameter with branching, and a filament with all of its branches may extend out from the cell surface as much as four cell diameters, ca. 30 m. The extensive branchings of the filaments produce a mesh-like array around the amoeba in which bacteria may become trapped. These filaments are similar to microspikes of tissue-cultured mammalian cells. 
10.2307/3225061|Pulmonate snails are mostly simultaneous hermaphrodites. A variety of other gastropods and bivalves are protandric consecutive hermaphrodites, and this pattern has been claimed as primitive for the phylum Mollusca. Serial sections and field observations of the fresh-water limpet Laevapex fuscus have shown that this species, despite being one of the more specialized of higher limnic basommatophoran Pulmonata, is functionally protandric. Discussion of patterns of sexuality in various pulmonates leads to the conclusion that protandry in Laevapex has immediate adaptive advantages and probably does not represent vestigial retention of a primitive pattern.
10.2307/3225062|Amylase activity was histochemically compared in selected segments of the small intestine from normal rats and rats infected with Hymenolepis diminuta. Evaluations of amylase activity were made by a starch substrate film method. Relative activity was greater in the 3rd segment (of six) than in the 4th for rats either parasitized or not parasitized by the tapeworm. No differences could be found in the relative amylase activity between sections of comparative intestinal segments which were either infected or not infected. Results indicated that differences which have been noted in starch digestion between rats infected with H. diminuta and uninfected rats were not due to changes in distribution of intralumenal amylase along the small intestine.
10.2307/3225063|A technique for observing individual live and physiologically unharmed ciliates is described. When GAF Carbonyl Iron was mixed into a suspension of Tetrahymena pyriformis, the organisms readily ingested the iron particles. Wet mounts of iron-containing ciliates were observed microscopically; they appeared unrestricted, free-swimming, and physiologically unimpared. When a small magnet was placed next to the wet mount, the extracellular iron particles aggregated and local magnetic fields were induced around these agglomerates. Ingested iron particles were attracted and held fast to these magnetized agglomerates, thus fettering the ciliates and arresting their forward motion. Magnetic fettering did not impair any visible cellular activity, such as rhythmic ciliary beating, feeding, or contractile vacuole operation. These activities were easily monitored in individual organisms for at least an hour. The technique is potentially useful for the measurement of visco-elastic properties of protoplasm and of the swimming strength of ciliates.
10.2307/3225064| Basidiospore development is characterized by expansion of the wall of the external half of a swelling (l'apophyse) situated at the tip of sterigmata. Uneven growth of a developing spore brings about a shift of ca. 45 of the spore apex, causing the spore to become repositioned in relation to the sterigma. Germination of spores is accompanied by swelling and sloughing of the outer walls. The germ tube forms from a bulging of the outward-facing spore wall. 
10.2307/3225065|Snails containing encysted and free metacercariae and adult worms of a new species of trematode were collected in from 2-3 m of water 20-30 m off Entebbe, Uganda in Lake Victoria during a study of snails for schistosomes. This report is the first to note the occurrence of adult trematodes in fresh-water pulmonates. Whether the complete life cycle occurs in the snail is unknown.
10.2307/3225066|A new apparatus, which combines an electronic probe micro-analyzer with an electron microscope, has been used in conducting a systematic elemental analysis of several pathogenic species of the fungus Aspergillus. All elements in the periodic table whose atomic numbers lie between 5 (boron) and 92 (uranium) can be detected. All chemical information can be obtained on the same sample. The analysis is made under visual check and all artifacts can be eliminated. The species examined were: Aspergillus clavatus, A. Chevalieri, A. glaucus, A. oryzae, and A. versicolor.
10.2307/3225067|Acid phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.2, orthophosphoric monoester phosphohydrolase) activity within electron-opaque, membrane-bound vesicles of Mercenaria mercenaria granulocytes has been localized by employing cytochemistry at the light and electron microscope levels. These vesicles can now be considered lysosomes. They presumably function, at least in part, as storage organelles for acid hydrolases, and are therefore analogous to the granules in mammalian polymorphonuclear and monocytic leucocytes. Lysosomes containing acid phosphatase are probably the sources of this enzyme found in cellular and serum fractions of the hemolymph of M. mercenaria, although the mechanism for enzyme release remains uncertain.
10.2307/3225068|Conjugation in a clone of Stentor coeruleus was induced more frequently at elevated temperatures (25 C) than at ca. 20 C. This effect was more pronounced in the presence of a circadian light cycle. Stentors were observed to feed while conjugating.
10.2307/3225069|Incisor crown length measurements were obtained from 11-week-old Swiss albino mice fed a 30% casein diet and from mice fed the same diet with NaF (160 ppm F) added. The incisor lengths were calculated using a vernier caliper, a binocular microscope with a calibrated eyepiece, and a method which determined the arc length of the tooth by use of a negative film image and polar coordinate graph paper. The maxillary incisor arc length measurements were significantly greater in both the normal length incisors from the nonfluoridated dietary group and the over-elongated teeth from the fluoridated dietary group when compared to linear values obtained from the vernier caliper and microscope procedures.
10.2307/3225070|Chloroplasts in the mesophyll cells appear to be more numerous in number and larger in size than those in ground parenchyma and ray parenchyma cells of the midrib. Chloroplasts of palisade parenchyma and spongy parenchyma are strikingly different in that the former contain starch grains, whereas the latter lack in starch grains but possess pores.
10.2307/3225071|A new species of whipworm, Trichuris chiliensis, collected from the rodent Akodon longipilis is described. In the division of the cloaca into proximal and distal regions, with the spicule lying in the distal portion, the new species resembles T. bradleyi. Both species are distinct from all other rodent species of Trichuris in the absence of a true spicular tube.
10.2307/3225072|The occurrence of a sponge hybrid is recorded from Massachusetts, and a description of its morphology is provided. It is suggested that fresh-water sponge hybrids are better termed as parazoan species mixtures.
10.2307/3225073|Metacercariae of Neascus rhinichthysi Hunter, 1933 were found parasitizing 405 (37.3%) of 1,085 blacknose dace, Rhinichthys atratulus (three subspecies combined), taken from West Virginia streams. Incidence and parasite loads were higher in female dace than in males. Dorsal and ventral surfaces and the caudal fin were the most frequent sites of infection. Incidence and parasite loads in juveniles were lower than in adults.
10.2307/3225123|Polymerization and oligomerization of nuclei and organelles during macroevolution of Protozoa are considered in the light of Dogiel's theory about the leading role of oligomerization of homologous organs in progressive evolution of the Metazoa and about a similar role of polymerization of organelles in that of the Protozoa. Polymerization in Protozoa primarily involves the locomotory organelles (flagella, cilia). Nuclear polymerization proceeds in homokaryotic protozoa at two different levels, that of whole nuclei, which process predominates and leads to multinuclearity, and that of genomes inside polyploid nuclei. Nuclear dualism in ciliates opens wide possibilities of re-formation of the genic apparatus of the macronucleus. Polymerization of whole nuclei (especially of diploid type macronuclei), of genomes inside a polyploid macronucleus, or of separate genes (amplification) inside macronuclei with a fragmented genome, are all possible. In the last two cases, the macronuclei themselves show a tendency to oligomerization. There is a complex interaction of polymerization and oligomerization of structures in evolution of the ciliary apparatus in ciliates, the two opposite phenomena usually acting at different structural levels. Oligomerization of complex organelles is frequently based on polymerization of their unit organelles (e.g., of cilia inside cirri). The tendency of unit organelles to polymerization depends on the rigidity of their macromolecular structure.
10.2307/3225124| Les cirres de Stylonychia sont des alignements parallles de cintosomes; ceux de la range externe droite portent un rideau de fibres postciliaires, ce qui permet d'assimiler cette range  une cintie;  l'oppos de cette dernire, les cintosomes externes ont des fibres transverses. Des liaisons longitudinales relient les cintosomes de chaque cintie, alors que des liaisons transverses et obliques runissent les cintosomes de cinties adjacentes. Des nmadesmes, issus de la partie proximale des cintosomes, courent tangentiellement  la base du cirre, qui est entour d'un rempart microfibrillaire, issu des cintosomes antrieurs et postrieurs de chaque cintie, et  l'origine lui-mme de microtubules. Chaque organelle adoral est constitu de quatre ranges de cintosomes: ceux de la range postrieure portent des fibres postciliaires, ce qui permet d'assimiler cette range  une cintie et d'orienter l'organelle. Aux cintosomes de la premire puis de la deuxime range sont associes des fibres transverses. Des microfibrilles relient les cintosomes entre eux et des microtubules runissent les cintosomes d'organelles voisins. Deux parorales, constitues chacune d'une seule range de cintosomes, sont implantes de part et d'autre d'un bourrelet ectoplasmique. Une discussion, base sur les lectronographies donnes par les auteurs, sur d'autres espces d'hypotriches, met en vidence les faits suivants: (a) chez la plupart des espces dcrites, les cintosomes de la cintic droite de chaque cirre portent une fibre cintodesmale (sauf chez Stylonychia) et un rideau de postciliaires, tandis que les cintosomes les plus  gauche ont des fibres transverses (sauf chez Euplotes); (b) les liaisons intercintosomiennes dans un cirre forment deux plaques (Euplotes, Oxytricha, Gastrostyla) ou une seule masse (Stylonychia); (c) l'organisation du cirre des hypotriches est aussi celle du cirre des htrotriches Plagiotomina; (d) l'infraciliature parorale est du type diplostichomonade (chez Stylonychia, Oxytricha comme chez les Clevelandelloidea, les Armophorina, les Plagiotomina), ou polystichomonade (Gastrostyla), alors que c'est une stichomonade chez les oligotriches, ces trois types ne reprsentant que des modalits d'une mme organisation de base; (e) les organelles adoraux des hypotriches sont des paramembranelles comme chez les oligotriches, les htrotriches Bursarioidea, Armophorina, et Plagiotomina, alors que ce sont des htromembranelles chez les Clevelandelloidea. /// The infraciliary bases of the cirri of Stylonychia are parallel rows of kinetosomes; those in the external right row bear one ribbon of postciliary fibers, which permits assimilation of this row as one kinety. To the opposite side of that one, the external kinetosomes possess transverse fibers. Longitudinal connections join the kinetosomes of each kinety, while transverse and oblique ones link the kinetosomes of adjacent kineties. Nematodesmata, originating from the proximal part of kinetosomes, run tangentially to the base of cirri which is encircled by a microfibrillar rampart given out from the anterior and posterior kinetosomes of each kinety. The rampart itself functions as an origin of microtubules. Each adoral organelle is composed of four rows of kinetosomes: those of the posterior row bear postciliary fibers which permit assimilation of this row as one kinety and to orient the organelle. The kinetosomes of the first and second row are associated with transverse fibers. Microfibrils link kinetosomes between them and microtubules join the kinetosomes of neighboring organelles. Two parorals, each consisting of a single row of kinetosomes, are implanted on both sides of an ectoplasmic crest. A discussion, based on electron micrographic facts known also for other species of hypotrichs, presents the following points: (a) in most of the species described, the kinetosomes of the right kinety of each cirrus bear one kinetodesmal fiber (except in Stylonychia) and a ribbon of 
10.2307/3225125|Vorticella campanula, V. microstoma, V. nebulifera, and V. picta were propagated and studied by conventional microscopy. Our morphological and "behavioral" studies made it possible to identify the telotrochs (free-swimming stage) of each of the four species. Body length alone did not distinguish one species from another; but body shape was found to be species-specific. The telotrochs also differed with regard to speed; generally, the larger the telotrochs the lesser their speed and less erratic their movements: they generally move in a straight line instead of quickly changing directions and reversing their course. Telotrochs differed in the time lapse of behavior pattern, regarding attachment, secretion of stalk, first division, etc. The four species also varied in their pellicular striae (PS) silverline pattern; and the myoneme pattern, as revealed by the protargol technique, differed, too.
10.2307/3225126|Vorticella campanula, V. microstoma, V. nebulifera, and V. picta were propagated and studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Our SEM studies make possible the identification of species of Vorticella at the telotroch (free-swimming "larval" stage) level. New findings were made on the differentiation of the aboral ciliary wreath, the progress of binary fission, and the pellicular striae (PS) patterns in conjugating specimens (macro- and microconjugants). In addition, previously published descriptions by SEM of aboral kineties, pellicular pores, pits, and other surface features were confirmed.
10.2307/3225127|Inadequacy of definition, inaccuracies of observation and interpretation invalidate most supposed species in this group. Authors have been content to describe "type" individuals, ignoring Metcalf's advice that identifications must be based on whole infections and not on selected individuals. Other morphological features being of doubtful taxonomic value, specific identification is based mainly on general body form. As statistical morphometric techniques are not applicable to wild populations, the only remaining method of species definition is by a series of illustrations, as complete as possible, of the whole range of forms that the organism is found to assume. For case of comparison, these illustrations should be of standard magnification and standard orientation. This method is applied to the identification of two species of Protoopalina from Bufo regularis, one of which is new and here named P. pseudonutti n. sp. It is suggested that the opalinids may be a relict fauna much older than their usual hosts, the anurans, and that the genus Protoopalina may not represent the ancestral form of the group.
10.2307/3225128|Vorticella microstoma and Telotrochidium henneguyi were exposed to doses of X- and gamma-radiation ranging from 46 r to 120 Kr. Irradiation was applied to freshly excysted motile organisms. Doses below 2 Kr did not induce noticeable morphological effects in either peritrich. Doses between 2 and 5 Kr induced pellicular blisters in Vorticella but to a very limited extent; the blisters were more prevalent 12 hr post-irradiation. Pellicular blisters were not induced in Telotrochidium, regardless of the dose. A 30 Kr dose caused both peritrichs to become more rounded than the control animals. Doses above 2 Kr altered the normal life cycle of both peritrichs as follows. The post-excystment binary fission stage was extended beyond the normal 18 hr. Post-excystment conjugation occurred later than the usual 18-36-hr period. A 38 Kr dose depressed Vorticella's population growth curve during the first 24 hr after irradiation, but recovery and growth was almost complete between 24-48 hr post-irradiation. A 57 Kr dose also depressed the population growth curve during the 24 hr following irradiation, but recovery to near normal did not occur until 60 hr post-irradiation. Telotrochidium's response was different and inconsistent in comparison with Vorticella's response. In some experiments only 10% of the Telotrochidium population survived a single 38 Kr dose; in other experiments most of the population survived a single 38 Kr dose and growth occurred. Likewise, 57 Kr gave inconsistent results in that it was lethal to the total population in some experiments but merely retarded growth and recovery of the total population in other experiments.
10.2307/3225129|Some results of Japanese studies on protozoan populations in sewage and industrial waste treatment plants are briefly reviewed. Species of some 50-60 genera have been recorded, with peritrich ciliates being of most common occurrence. Use of such biological indices may be considered a distinct advantage in determining the state of water quality or the condition of activated sludge material.
10.2307/3225130|Experiments were designed to find an inexpensive axenic culture medium to replace previously proposed defined media used to propagate peritrichs. A proteose-peptone-cerophyl-wheat (PPCW) medium turned out to be the answer. Axenic populations of Telotrochidium henneguyi were propagated in PPCW (10
10.2307/3225131|During 10 years in the USA and five years in Great Britain, 15 species of fresh-water/soil amoebae and five species of marine amoebae have been certainly identified in both countries, and the identifications of three other species in Britain correspond with unquestionable identifications in the American literature. Furthermore, the species most commonly isolated in both countries were the same. Likewise, the common genera appeared to be the same in both countries, whether or not identification was carried to the species level. Two especially interesting ecological results in the British investigations have been the isolation from relatively dry terrestrial habitats of amoebae, in addition to Thecamoeba, which are not known to encyst, and the cultivation from estuaries with a salinity of 26-29.5 % of at least one common fresh-water/soil species. More extensive and more systematic biogeographic studies of Gymnamoebia and other protozoa would be profitable and, for the Gymnamoebia, at least, are now possible because of ease of cultivation and an increased possibility of identification.
10.2307/3225132|When healthy populations of Vorticella nebulifera were immersed 12 hr in a solution composed of dimethyl sulfoxide and culture medium (3.5% DMSO, v/v), the animals' outermost pellicular membrane was fatally damaged, even if at the end of the period the organisms were carefully washed in isotonic salt solution to remove all traces of DMSO and then put in culture medium. But, immersion for 12 hr in concentrations of DMSO in the range of 1%-3.25% was not fatal if the animals were washed in isotonic salt solution at the end of the immersion period. Moreover, such DMSO treatment did not interfere with subsequent reproduction. Electron microscopical observations revealed the damaged pellicular membrane of vorticellas exposed to 3.5% DMSO and the undamaged pellicular membrane of vorticellas exposed to 3.25% DMSO.
10.2307/3225133|Three species of Stentor, S. coeruleus, S. polymorphus, and S. sp., were examined with SEM. Attention was focused on the oral region, particularly on the membranelles and the "clear border stripe." Verified was the compound nature of the membranelles, while calling attention to the (misleading) effects of fixation on their cilia. The area of the "border stripe" is actually a clear stripe containing a row of cilia and a pigmented stripe.
10.2307/3225134|Dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) was added in the following concentrations: 2.5%, 5.0%, and 7.5% (v/v) to exponentially multiplying Tetrahymena pyriformis GL cultures to determine the effect on cell proliferation. As studied over a 5-hr period the rate of cell proliferation is slower in 2.5% DMSO than in untreated controls, whereas no increase in cell number occurs in the presence of 5.0% or 7.5% DMSO. The effect of DMSO on the rate of RNA synthesis was studied by electron microscope autoradiography. After a 1-hr exposure to DMSO in the above-mentioned concentrations the cells were exposed to tritiated uridine for 10 min. Furthermore, a cell sample was first exposed to 7.5% DMSO for 1 hr and then left to recover for 1 hr after removal of DMSO before being exposed to tritiated uridine for 10 min. Investigation of the autoradiograms (at least 10 cells per sample) revealed a low rate of incorporation of labeled material in the presence of 5.0% and 7.5% DMSO. Semi-quantitative determination of the amount of incorporation was made by counts of silver grains above measured nuclear and cytoplasmic areas. Using the former data, a linear response of the rate of RNA synthesis is found with increasing concentrations of DMSO. Furthermore, the rate of RNA synthesis in the cells treated with the high concentration of DMSO and left to recover for 1 hr is increased above the value found in untreated control cells. The finding indicates that renewed synthesis is correlated with the recovery from the effects of DMSO.
10.2307/3225135|Presented is a simple scheme of structural transformations which generates the basic ciliate architecture starting from a simple flagellate. Two key intermediates are proposed: a torsionless, unicellular flagellate chain, and a unicellular ribbon composed of many ciliary rows closed on itself. The structure of these intermediates can explain or provide insights into many fundamental and seemingly unrelated features of modern ciliates. Currently observable accidents or genetic defects of morphogenesis are invoked, whenever possible, to account for the structural changes proposed. Examples of organisms possessing most of the postulated intermediate organizations among living marine flagellates and ciliates are cited.
10.2307/3225136|The question of the difference between lumpers and splitters in taxonomy is a complex one, as much so in the systematics of members of the phylum Ciliophora as in any major plant or animal group. Here attention is directed to the problem only as it concerns the suprafamilial taxa of ciliates in the hierarchy comprising the overall scheme of classification of this phylum. Bases for differences involve choices of characters and of ideas applied, the narrowness of expertise of workers in the field, the amount of utilizable data available, and the degree of recognition of balance relative to groups at the same or nearby levels. Reliable characters for use in higher-level ciliate systematics are discussed and half a dozen relevant hypotheses are presented; the extent of application of such guiding principles can throw light on the rationale behind any worker's proposal of a new or revised classification scheme. Neither lumping nor splitting-if reasonably moderate -is necessarily "bad," and different situations may justify one or the other action. A plea is made for greater self-criticism and greater caution before promulgation of major changes; but we need to recognize that new discoveries (new species, ect.), new techniques, and new ideas are bound to result in revisions and, often, in expansions of older or outmoded schemes of classification.
10.2307/3225137|The predaceous behavior of Heliophrya and the defensive behavior of various species and strains of Paramecium were investigated, using thin plastic film coverslip preparations. Many paramecia contacting the tentacle knob escape, discharging trichocysts at the point of contact. This discharge uproots the cilia attached to the knob. Firmly attached paramecia can escape by rapid turning which twists off the tentacle or a portion of their own solated cytoplasm. Food vacuolar contents of prey are not ingested. Electron microscopy reveals more than 60 slender haptocysts in each tentacular knob, which is covered by only the plasma membrane. Dense bodies, some biconcave, are observable inside the nonfeeding knob and tentacular inner tube. Knobs attached to paramecia show proximally located haptocysts, distally located osmiophilic capped vesicles and dense bodies, and a central core of prey cytoplasm. Contracted tentacles possess numerous pellicular pores. The inner tube of each tentacle consists of an outer cylinder of 59 microtubules and an inner cylinder of 22 microtubular groups, each group having 6-9 microtubules in an incurving row. Suctorian food vacuoles vary from large ones, containing intact prey organelles, to smaller, denser ones, in locations throughout the pellicular layers suggesting egestion.
10.2307/3225138|The genus Neurospora shows remarkable morphological variations based on mating type compatibility and cellular variations caused by mutations. Scanning electron microscopical and cytological studies of ascospore development were carried out on three homothallic (8-ascospore ascus) species, N. africana, N. dodgei, and N. lineolata, and one pseudohomothallic (4-ascospore ascus) species, N. tetrasperma. Although N. tetrasperma ascospores were the largest in size quantitatively, the highest yield of pure ascospores was obtained from N. africana culture, and the shape of ascospores of all species studied were elliptical, though those of N. tetrasperma were more elongated. N. africana ascospores matured within 15-20 days, whereas ascospores of other species matured after 21 days when grown on agar medium. Pictures were taken by SEM to study patterns of wall sculpturing of ascospores of different species. DNAs isolated from all of these species showed biomodal thermal denaturation curves typical for DNAs of heterothallic species N. crassa; however, minor fractions of ascospore DNA were significantly smaller, quantitatively, in comparison with those of mycelial and conidial DNAs.
10.2307/3225139|The plaque technique was employed to study in vitro chemotherapeutic effects of drugs and immune sera on three strains of Toxoplasma gondii. The RH strain effected a titratable LD
10.2307/3225140|Two bands of cilia act together in feeding by Vorticella. Propulsive cilia of the polykinety draw water and particles to the peristome, where less active haplokinety cilia filter out the particles. Activity of cilia of both bands transports particles between the two bands towards the cytostome and provides a flow of water out of the infundibulum which can carry away particles that are not ingested. The rates of ciliary action are high and the filtration mechanism is strikingly effective.
10.2307/3225141|Test of thecamoebae isolated from soil cultures and examined with a scanning electron microscope and with an X-ray micro-analyzer show differences in the size, distribution, and element composition of assimilated mineral particles.
10.2307/3225142|Some 25 species of ciliated protozoa have been identified from cores of Matador grassland soil from southern Saskatchewan, Canada. These edaphic organisms represent both microphagous (generally bactivorous) and macrophagous (carnivorous on other ciliates and amoebae) forms. Four of the species have been found only in this particular soil.
10.2307/3225143|E. aediculatus, E. eurystomus and E. woodruffi, all having nine frontoventral cirri and an "eurystomus-type" dorsal interkinetal system were compared in life, as well as with specimens prepared by picro-carmine nuclear stain, a silver impregnation technique and nigrosin-HgCl
10.2307/3225144|The nerve cord was divided into its separate parts, the supraesophageal, the subesophageal, the three thoraric, the six abdominal ganglia, as well as the corpus cardiacum. Saline extract was made of each and each was assayed on the isolated cockroach heart. Inhibitory activity was detected in extracts of supraesophageal and thoracic ganglia. Extracts of the second to the sixth abdominal ganglia, as well as the subesophageal ganglion and the corpus cardiacum, exhibited acceleratory activity. Neither inhibitory nor acceleratory activity was detected in extracts of the first abdominal ganglion.
10.2307/3225145|The two otherwise most closely similar members of the Paramecium aurelia complex of 14 sibling species are shown to be morphologically unique but practically inseparable by multivariate methods, based on measurements of 100 specimens of each of 5 stocks of P. primaurelia and of P. pentaurelia. These results support conclusions based on electrophoretic, genetic, and other data.
10.2307/3225146|Growth of two estuarine ciliates, Uronema nigricans and Potomacus pottsi, was inhibited when the bacterial food source was at a population level of  10
10.2307/3225147| A new method of microscopic slide preparation characterized by low toxicity and high gaseous exchange is described using nonwettable thin plastic film (Handiwrap) as the coverslip and plastic slides.The preparation can be used with oil immersion (100 x) lens with some modifications. Layers of high vacuum silicone grease are used to surround the film and reduce evaporation, creating a very long-lived, well-aerated preparation. Removing excess water pulls the plastic film down, creating a controllable microcompressor effect. Surprisingly, such thin preparations have excellent optical qualities. Various applications are discussed. 
10.2307/3225373|A survey of trichodinids endozoic in fishes is presented, including literature records and new observations. Host specificity, distribution, and variability of the species are discussed. The genus Trichodina includes six endozoic species of which a single one (T. fariai) invades the digestive tract; all others are parasites of urinary or urogenital tracts. The genus Paratrichodina comprises three endoparasitic species, of which one is new-P. deguistii n. sp. from Notropis heterodon. Buccal ciliature and morphology of ciliates of the genus Vauchomia are described with the use of silver impregnation methods. The hypertelic development of the adoral ciliary zone of these species is not accompanied by a similar development of the infundibular ciliature. The main feature of endoparasitic trichodinids-from fish as well as from amphibians-is a great number of densely spaced denticles with long, narrow blades, probably an adaptation serving to strengthen the structure of the adhesive disc of animals exposed to larger pressures within the organs of their hosts.
10.2307/3225374|This report describes a technique for establishing prolonged growth curves of peritrich ciliates with attendant increases in numbers of organisms. The method facilitates mass cultivation of vorticellas suitable for such biochemical investigations as protein, enzyme, carbohydrate, lipid, or serological analyses. Media for cultivation of 10 species of peritrichs are given.
10.2307/3225375|Toxic effects of ionic and nonionic detergents on Paramecium caudatum show approximately linear relations, when both concentration of detergent and time of exposure of ciliate to detergent solution are expressed as double logarithmic plot of LD
10.2307/3225376|In the life cycle of the coccidium Eimeria stiedai in the epithelial cells of the bile ducts of rabbits uni- and multi-nucleate merozoites were observed which showed the process of endodyogeny. The results confirm the theory that endodyogeny is the primary and fundamental process of asexual reproduction in the Coccidia, and that schizogony is a secondary process which has developed from endodyogeny. This theory is important with regard to the taxonomy of the Sporozoa.
10.2307/3225377|A modification of the pyridinated silver impregnation technique of Rio-Hortega is offered, with step-by-step directions for its use. Following such a procedure, the likelihood of successful results employing a variety of ciliates is high. Although the preparations obtained are usually impermanent, the specimens are so clearly impregnated that photomicrographs can be taken to record the revealed structures of the infraciliature. Some cortical organelles are seen with greater clarity than is possible with other silver methods.
10.2307/3225378|Microorganisms which can be cultivated in vitro on common bacteriological media and can be subcultured through several passage generations have been isolated from the disrupted, but not intact, macronuclear lobes of Spirostomum ambiguum. Serological evidence gives further support to the opinion that they represent endosymbionts of the ciliate. Preliminary characterization of these microorganisms of uncertain taxonomic status is presented.
10.2307/3225379|Studies of the morphology of the endosymbiont reveal similar characteristics in either fixed specimens of Spirostomum ambiguum or material cultivated in vitro: lack of a definitive cell wall, presence of two triple-layered membranes separated by a periplasmic space serving as cell boundaries, and the presence of membrane-bound vesicles. Structural evidence concerning the filterability and motility of the isolated endosymbiont is discussed.
10.2307/3225380| In the summer of 1968, 34 species of marine fishes were sampled from Newfoundland coastal waters, the northern Grand Banks, and the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick. Only two proved to harbor microsporidans. Glugea branchiale (Nemeczek) was recorded from three of five examples of the haddock, Melanogrammus aeglefinus (L.), from the Bay of Fundy, and Glugea berglax n. sp. is now described from five of seven roughhead grenadiers, Macrourus berglax Lacpde, from the Grand Banks. Glugea anomala (Moniez) is also reported from three of 48 threespine sticklebacks, Gasterosteus aculeatus L., examined in the Bay of Fundy in July 1958. 
10.2307/3225381|Ultrastructural characteristics of the pellicle and somatic and oral kinetics of Colpoda simulans Kahl, 1931 are very similar to those found previously in other colpodid species. Two structural differentiations in the cortex of C. simulans distinguish this species: (a) a vestibular kinety bounded on its cytoplasmic side by a set of supraepiplasmic microtubules; (b) a region just posterior to the oral cavity called the somatic groove in which quite simple modifications have occurred in kinetid structure and interrelationships. Structural differentiations in the cortex of ciliates are concluded to be significant in the reconstruction of the evolutionary process in these protozoa.
10.2307/3225382|Trypanosoma lewisi (L isolate) cells grown in albino and black rats and culture forms of T. lewisi (L isolate) and T. conorhini (T isolate) were characterized by the guanine-cytosine (GC) contents. In addition to the standard Marmur procedure, the urea-hydroxyapatite method was used for the isolation of DNA. A greater yield of highly purified DNA was obtained using the latter method. The genome determinations for T. lewisi (from black rat), T. lewisi (from albino rat), and culture forms of T. lewisi and T. conorhini were 1.68 x 10
10.2307/3225383|Ichthyophthirius multifiliis Fouquet, 1876, a fresh-water member of the Ophryoglenidae, and other "Ich-like" parasites of fresh-water fishes, appear to be limited in distribution and infectivity by the temperature tolerances of their hosts. Because of the widespread distribution of the parasite in aquaria, hatcheries, and rearing ponds, in tropical and temperate regions, probably multiple physiological races exist, perhaps even several separate species (possibly in more than one genus).
10.2307/3225384|Bacteria, protozoa, and fungi were examined from rhizospheres and nearby soils from 16 plants in southeastern Louisiana forests. Rhizosphere unicellular bacteria and actinomycetes equaled or doubled nearby soil populations. Protozoa were usually several times more numerous in the rhizosphere, but reduced in species diversity, especially among ciliates, which showed only two species each of Colpoda and Cyrtolophosis. Rhizosphere fungal mycelium did not differ greatly between rhizosphere and soil, but the percentage of stained mycelium was highest in rhizospheres of those plants requiring greatest assistance in nutrient translocation.
10.2307/3225385|Three species of Colligocineta are described. In C. affinis n. sp., a parasite of the prostomial cirri of Sabella pavonina (Sabellidae), the ciliary field consists of 10 kineties, of which two on the right side are continuous posteriorly with two on the left side; this species differs only slightly from C. furax Kozloff. Colligocineta finleyi n. sp., also found on the prostomial cirri of S. pavonina, has 15 kineties, of which two on the right side are continuous with two on the left side. In C. scololepidis n. sp., a parasite of the anterior tentacles, dorsal branchiae, and dorsal lamellae of Scololepis fuliginosa (Spionidae), there are nine kineties, one from the right side being continuous with one on the left side.
10.2307/3225386|The nutritional requirements of Nitocra typica Boeck were studied in gnotobiotic cultures incubated at either 15 or 25 C. Both temperature and food quality effected the growth rate and fecundity of the copepods. On adequate diets generation time at 15 C was 31-41 days, while at 25 C it was 13-24 days. Taken as a group, diatoms were better food sources than the chlorophytes tested. At 15 C nauplii hatched 2 days earlier from animals fed on dicts of strains 709 and Bl-27 of Cylindrotheca closterium and C. fusiformis, respectively, than those raised on C. closterium (strains Bl-35 and 9), but they were less viable and matured more slowly. At 15 C the fastest maturity was reached on a diet of strain 9, but the total number of fertile females was only 17% of the number produced on a diet of strain 709. At 25 C the nutritional value of these strains was reversed. One species of Nitzschia (Pb-7) was a good diet at both temperatures. Some species of Chlamydomonas or Dunaliella were good foods at one or both temperatures for all the stages of the life cycle, while others were not. Phaeodactylum tricornutum and Amphora coffeaeformis acutiuscula are not good food sources. The animal has very complex and graded nutritional requirements which seem to flexibly adapt it to feed on different species and strains of algae which are likely to occur in the community at different seasons.
10.2307/3225387|Dense, brownish, nonmotile forms of Paramecium aurelia were formed and preserved on three separate occasions in cultures in which paramecia were used as food for the suctorian Heliophrya erhardi. Some suctorians were also preserved. Many of these altered cells remained intact for more than six months. Transmission and scanning electron microscopy established that these forms were dead ciliates, in which organelles and membranes were preserved in slightly altered forms but in nearly normal anatomic arrangement. The preserved cells contained a few bacteria, and soluble materials appeared to have been lost. It is not clear why normal decay processes failed to remove these corpses, but some possibilities are considered. One testable hypothesis postulates that the filamentous actinomycetes seen on the surface of the cultures are similar to organisms known to cause bulking in activated sludge and that they may be retarding decay of the ciliates.
10.2307/3225389|Polyurethane artificial substrates were positioned in a substrate-associated transect through littoral, sublittoral, and profundal sediments of Douglas Lake, Michigan. Substrates were also suspended in a vertical transect within the epilimnetic open water. Cluster analyses of species composition and statistical comparisons of species numbers indicated that distinct protozoan communities develop on each substrate, all manifesting characteristics of interactive equilibrium. The large differences in preoverturn species numbers and compositions between littoral-sublittoral sediments, profundal muds, and open waters clearly illustrate the distinctive nature of these environments in Douglas Lake. Following the major perturbation (autumnal overturn), there was a breakdown of competitive interactions with noninteractive colonization dynamics apparently determining the nature of each assemblage.
10.2307/3225390|Erginulus clavotibialis (Cambridge, 1904) Goodnight & Goodnight, 1976 is a relatively large opilionid which is found in a wide variety of habitats in southern Mexico, Yucatan, Belize, and Guatemala. It is often found in small groups of 2-3 individuals under moist logs or rocks in suitable moist habitats. Because of its size and activity and omnivorous habits, it probably plays an important role in the ecology of the areas in which it is common. A study of the structures and characters used for its classification indicates that the number of tarsal segments, general spination of the dorsum and legs, the color pattern, and form of the penis are all important; the number of tarsal segments is least variable and that of the color pattern most variable. The female remains with the eggs after they are deposited in suitably moist spots. They hatched in 23-27 days at 20 C; the young remained with the female for ca. four days and then scattered. There were six nymphal stages, and the final molt was undergone 121 days after hatching.
10.2307/3225391|The ability to distinguish different species among members of this complex, combined with increasing evidence of their ancient divergence and large molecular distances, requires that they be assigned Latin binomials. We propose that the breeding strains be assigned species designations corresponding, insofar as present evidence permits, to natural populations sharing common gene pools. On this basis we recommend recognition of Tetrahymena americanis, T. australis, T. borealis, T. canadensis, T. capricornis, T. cosmopolitanis, T. hyperangularis, T. pigmentosa, T. thermophila, and T. tropicalis as new species. For amicronucleate strains we recommend species designations for sets of strains agreeing in at least 67% of their electrophoretic mobilities, thus making the amicronucleate species taxa approximately equivalent to the genetic species in terms of molecular diversification. The species designation T. pyriformis (Ehrenberg) is reserved for the amicronucleate kindred descended primarily from Lwoff's original laboratory strain GL. Three additional amicronucleate species are proposed as new: Tetrahymena elliotti, T. furgasoni, and T. lwoffi.
10.2307/3225392|Soft shelled turtles from northeastern Kansas have rich aufwuchs communities on their carapaces which include both attached and free-swimming protozoa. Among such microorganisms are several previously unknown peritrichs, described herein as: Epistylis finleyi n. sp., E. bishopi n. sp., E. plummeri n. sp., and Opercularia jahni n. sp.
10.2307/3225393|Epistylis sp. (Ciliophora: Peritricha) is a facultative ectosymbiont of fresh-water fishes in streams and lakes throughout the southeastern U.S. In combination with the gramnegative bacteria Aeromonas hydrophila, epizootic outbreaks of Epistylis have been implicated in the death of many thousands of game fish, primarily striped bass and several species of Centrarchidae (sunfish), in several reservoirs in North Carolina. While these epizootics have been correlated with high levels of organic loading, recent studies suggest that thermal loading from a nuclear production facility may influence the level of infection by A. hydrophila and Epistylis sp. (A-E complex) on centrarchid sunfish in Par Pond, Savannah River Plant, Aiken, S.C. Utilizing electro-fishing techniques, in excess of 11,500 sunfish, representing six different species, were collected and examined for external lesions associated with the A-complex. Largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) were most heavily infected, followed in incidence of infection by bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus), warmouth (Lepomis gulosus) and redbreast sunfish (Lepomis auritus); lesions were not observed on the surface of black crappie (Pomoxis nigromaculatus). The body conditions (or K-factor) of more than 2,000 largemouth bass were calculated; direct correlations were found between thermal loading, body condition, and incidence of infection. These data are discussed in terms of thermal effluent and the epizootiology of Epistylis sp. and Aeromonas hydrophila.
10.2307/3225394|A simple technique for fixing and staining peritrich ciliates involving fixation in phosphate buffered formalin and staining with Semichon's Acetic-Carmine is presented. This procedure appears to be superior to conventional methods for achieving relaxation of zooids and for differentiation of the macronucleus.
10.2307/3225395|A checklist is given of the 42 accepted named species of gregarines of the genus Lecudina (phylum Apicomplexa, class Sporozoea, subclass Gregarinia, order Eugregarinida, suborder Aseptatina, family Lecudinidae) together with their synonyms, the names of their hosts, their locations in their hosts, their known geographic distribution, and key references. The following taxonomic-nomenclatural innovations are introduced: Lecudina bhatiai n. nom., L. bogolepovae (Levine, 1971) n. comb., L. criodrilii (Sciacchitano, 1931) n. comb., L. eunicae (Lankester, 1866) n. comb., L. nereicola (Bogolepova, 1953) n. comb., L. staurocephali (Mingazzini, 1891) n. comb.
10.2307/3225396|The combined Langmuir trough-critical point drying technique maintains the structural integrity of subcellular structures, including chromatin fibers, nuclear pores, mitochondria, microtubules of cilia, the oral apparatus of Tetrahymena, bases of cirri, kinetodesmata, kinetosomes, and the protozoan pellicle. The technique is shown to be of value in further study of these structures in cell biology.
10.2307/3225397|Two species of Tintinnida were grown in vitro and their loricae examined by SEM. Tintinnopsis parva loricae clearly showed the anterior spiral region characteristic of a number of species in this genus. A novel method of building a lorica, one using fibrous spherules, was found for Tintinnidium sp. The authors confirm earlier analyses of the structure of the adoral membranelles and add to the knowledge of the arrangement of the somatic cilia.
10.2307/3225398|Histological studies on crustaceans collected from Sandy Hook Bay, New Jersey and near-shore stations in the New York Bight Apex showed that a suctorian ciliate, Ephelota sp., was present on the gills of five species of decapods (Cancer irroratus, C. borealis, Ovalipes ocellatus, Callinectes sapidus, and Homarus americanus). Ephelota was found on ca. 15% of C. irroratus, C. borealis, and H. americanus but was rare on swimming crabs, C. sapidus and O. ocellatus. The discovery of this suctorian on gills of decapods collected from recognized sewage and dredge-spoil dump sites in the Bight Apex suggests that the ciliate may be pollution-tolerant and thus possibly useful as an indicator species.
10.2307/3225399|Clonal cultures of Philaster hiatti (Thompson, 1969) were established from specimens collected at Windley Key, Florida. Ciliates were examined after protargol silver impregnation. A detailed account of stomatogenesis is presented, with emphasis on the development of the opisthe haplokinety. Morphological and morphogenetic observations suggest that the haplokinety of P. hiatti is composed of three distinct segments.
10.2307/3225400|On the basis of data gathered through study of properly fixed and silver-impregnated material, a ciliate from the body cavity of larvae of the treehole-breeding mosquito Aedes sierrensis, from California, is considered to be a new species, Lambornella clarki n. sp., congeneric with L. stegomyiae Keilin, 1921, an organism treated for the past 15-16 years as a member of the ubiquitous, and sometimes entomophilic, genus Tetrahymena. The single most important differentiating characteristic is the euticular "invasion" cyst formed by species of Lambornella. By means of it, as T. B. Clark has very recently demonstrated, the host's cuticle is penetrated and the ciliate is (often) able to reach the haemocoel of the larval mosquito, where it multiplies and causes the death of the host. Possession of a larger number of postoral kineties than known in Tetrahymena is another major character justifying separation of the two genera both of which, however, are to be considered members of the family Tetrahymenidae. Topics reviewed for all known cases of ciliatosis in culicine mosquitoes include infectivity and host resistance, degree of pathogenicity, mode of entry into host, and facultative vs. obligate parasitism. Comparisons are made of the situation for Lambornella with those obtaining for other tetrahymenine ciliates (notably Tetrahymena species), and taxonomic conclusions are offered concerning organisms describedoften inadequately-in the past literature. The potential importance of such ciliates in possible biological control of mosquitoes of biomedical interest underlies the need for further comparative investigation of their morphology, bionomics, and taxonomic status, and especially for controlled laboratory experimentation.
10.2307/3225401|A proposal is made for separation of the Ciliophora into two new subphyla, the Rhabdophora n. subphylum and the Cyrtophora n. subphylum, based on the constancy of two major criteria, one morphological and the other morphogenetic. Both criteria are related to the cytostomecytopharyngeal complex of ciliates. Comparisons are made with recently published revisions of the classification of the phylum to illustrate how the new subphyla would affect the systematic ordering of included higher taxa. Due to our disturbingly sparse critical comparative ultrastructural knowledge of the suctoria, their systematic status is the least certain, whereas other major groups appear to be placed relatively easily within the new subphyla proposed in the present work.
10.2307/3225957|Two species of Acanthomolgus are associated with the gorgonian Muricea californica near La Jolla, California. They are Acanthomotgus eminulus n. sp., characterized by a combination of several features: the two second antennal claws subequal and approximately as long as the fourth segment, the very unequal length of the two setae on the second segment of the female maxilliped, and the shape of the inner proximal expansion on the female fifth leg; and Acanthomolgus pollicaris n. sp., distinguished by the prominent inner thumb-like process on the female fifth leg. The copepods, which are consistent members of the epifaunal community on the gorgonian, are cryptically colored and may feed on the mucus present on the polyps.
10.2307/3225958| Nematocysts of the ephyra stages of the scyphozoans Aurelia aurita, Chrysaora quinquecirrha, Cyanea capillata fulva, and Rhopilema verrilli were examined using a light microscope. Isorhizas, heterotrichous anisorhizas, and heterotrichous microbasic euryteles were present in Chrysaora, Cyanea, and Rhopilema. Isorhizas and heterotrichous microbasic euryteles only were found in Aurelia. The isorhizas were of one morphological type in Rhopilema (a-isorhizas), two types in both Aurelia (a-isorhizas and polyspiras) and Chrysaora (a-isorhizas and A-isorhizas), and three types in Cyanea (a-isorhizas, A-isorhizas, and -isorhizas). However, polyspiras and A-isorhizas were present only in occasional specimens of Aurelia and Cyanea, respectively. The -isorhizas were found in all but a few ephyrae of Cyanea. Differences in the nematocyst complement can be used as an aid in distinguishing ephyrae of the four species from the Chesapeake Bay region. 
10.2307/3225959|A new genus of macrodasyid gastrotrich collected from a low energy beach at Nahant, Massachusetts is described. Dolichodasys elongatus n.g., n.sp., is distinguished by its lack of lateral adhesive tubules, the presence of a single caudal tubule in the adult, and the possession of an aberrant type of sperm with associated refractile bodies. A prominent posterior glandular bursa is present. Juveniles resemble the adult in general form but possess four posterior adhesive tubules.
10.2307/3225960|Studies on the mechanism of attachment of gravel particles to the verrucae of the body wall of anemones, Anthopleura elegantissima, correlated with physiological studies, suggest that the attachment involves an extracellular secretion. Field experiments on survival indicate that the attached gravel is particularly important at wind speeds in excess of 5 mph and temperatures in the range of 20 C; under these conditions 68.1  11.6% survive 6 hr exposure when provided with gravel, while only 34.4  12.8% do so when deprived of their gravel. A multifactorial experiment concerning the effects on evaporative water loss of wind speed, temperature, and presence or absence of gravel on the surface of the animals was conducted in the laboratory. The results of this experiment show that the possession of gravel impedes the rate of evaporative water loss significantly; at a wind speed of 5 mph and at 21 C, for example, the rate of loss from animals with gravel was about 80 mg hr
10.2307/3225961|The integument of critical-point dried adult S. mattheei was observed by scanning electron microscopy at 38-6,240 magnifications. There are marked differences in surface features of male and female schistosomes as well as different regions on the same parasite. SEM reveals surface structures which suggest basic adaptations for clasping of male and female schistosomes as well as for parasite attachment or anchorage in blood vessels of definitive hosts. Surface features are similar to those of S. haematobium, a morphologically related species.
10.2307/3225962|The visceral musculature of Canton S strain of Drosophila melanogaster was studied at the ultrastructural level to investigate the fine structural alterations that occur in this organism with age. Although drastic age-related alterations have been reported in the fat body, brain, midgut epithelium, cardiac and flight muscles of various insects, only limited and minor changes were noted in the midgut musculature for the first 90 days of life. Additional ultrastructural alterations, such as disarray of myofilaments, were noted in Drosophila over 100 days of age.
10.2307/3225963|Histochemical tests are employed to demonstrate the chemical constituents of inclusion bodies found in a 20-methylcholanthrene induced tumor in DBA/1J mice. Evidence is presented to show that these inclusions contained lipid. No nucleic acids, proteins, or carbohydrates are observed to be present within the inclusion bodies.
10.2307/3225964|Anheteromeyenia ryderi (Potts, 1882) is a fresh-water sponge that has been reported from Canada, Ireland, the United States, and Scotland. It is known to exhibit considerable variation in gemmosclere morphology. In Louisiana, several different but intergrading forms are associated with different habitats. In the pine lowland, forms with short robust spicules are present in the headwaters of streams; and forms with long, thin spicules occur in standing waters. Alkaline swamps on the Mississippi River floodplain support very different forms, ones with gemmoscleres with irregular rotules and large spines with microspines along the shafts. In these characteristics, they resemble robust forms of Ephydatia fluviatilis. This variation appears to be ecomorphic and related to differences in the physicochemical properties of the habitat water. Anheteromeyenia conigera (Old, 1931) is considered to be identical with A. ryderi.
10.2307/3225965|The sessile suctorian Tokophrya lemnarum feeds on motile ciliates such as Tetrahymena and Paramecium which are captured on random collision with its tentacle tips. If T. lemnarum are subjected to a feeding of Tetrahymena pyriformis that recruits most tentacles, there is a decrease in prey-capture capacity immediately thereafter. Over the ensuing 6-hr period there occurs a partial recovery which proceeds rapidly at the outset and plateaus by 5 hr. This plateau is short of the original prey-capture capacity, a result related to post-feeding decrease in tentacle numbers through retraction. The decrease is temporary, however, since by 48 hr post-feeding the tentacle numbers and mean prey-adherence capacity have returned to their pre-feeding levels. If young, previously unfed T. lemnarum are subjected to 6-hr feedings throughout a 24-hr period, the maximum number of Tetrahymena they can capture is on the order of 20.
10.2307/3225966|Trichodina heterodentata n. sp. from Tilapia zillii, T. mossambica, and Trichogaster trichopterus; Trichodinella carpi n. sp. from Cyprinus carpio; and Trichodinella tilapiae n. sp. from T. zillii are described. Trichodina acuta Lom, 1961 is redescribed from T. zillii and T. mossambica, new host and locality records.
10.2307/3225967|Light photomicrographs of in situ algal populations and of algae extruded from individuals cells of Paramecium bursaria reveal a high proportion in the same stage of the developmental cycle. This apparent synchrony in stage of the developmental cycle is not of exogenous origin since different ciliate cells taken at the same time from the same monoxenic culture may have algal populations at different stages in the life cycle. These observations suggest that synchronization is imposed on the intracellular algal population by its protozoan host.
10.2307/3225968|The absorptive surface of the small intestine of the great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) was studied by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The general morphology of the villi as seen with scanning electron microscopy was similar to that of the chicken, a graminivorous bird and numerous mammalian species. Separations were observed in the epithelium of the duodenum of the owl. Transmission electron microscopy revealed epithelial cells with numerous vacuoles containing membranous whorls. Osmophilic areas were observed in the mucin vacuoles of the goblet cells that were not seen in the graminivorous birds and other mammalian species.
10.2307/3225969|The Bodian protargol technique has been modified for use in staining frozen, embedded, and cultured nervous tissue. Tissues are fixed or post-fixed in solutions containing formalin and/or picric acid for at least 12 hr. Impregnation in a 1% protargol solution in the presence of polished 0.12 mm copper sheets takes place at 50-60 C for 1 hr; this is followed by quick rinsing with distilled water and development for 10 min, at 50-60 C, in 1% hydroquinone in 5% sodium sulfite. If necessary, tissues can be reimpregnated and developed until optimum results are achieved. The remainder of the process consists of washing, gold toning in 1% aqueous gold chloride followed by 5% oxalic acid, washing, fixing in 5% sodium thiosulfate, washing, dehydrating, clearing, and mounting. The stain is neuronally selective, revealing developing and adult neurons, senile plaques, myelinated and unmyelinated fibers, small neurites, and cilia in both central and peripheral nervous tissue; its applications extend to human as well as animal tissues.
10.2307/3225970|Saccocirrus sonamacus n. sp., found abundantly in coarse sand near mean lower low water, is distinguished from all species of the genus by a large patch of cilia on either side of the mouth and several rows of tufts of cilia across the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the body. Saccocirrus sonomacus n. sp. is most similar to S. gabriellae in size, setal structure, and the unilateral positioning of the gonads. Some additional taxonomic characteristics of Saccocirrus eroticus Gray, 1969 are also included.
10.2307/3225971|Although there has been a rash of recent publications treating suprafamilial ciliate taxa in various revisions, all offering drastic and rather expansive changes over the basic Faurean classification so popular in the fifties, sixties, and early seventies, no workers have yet given detailed attention to the important problem of properly locating existing families and genera in the new schemes proposed. Following communication with many colleagues around the world, the present paper is being published as an attempt to succinctly meet that deficit. Some 1,123 genera and 204 families, considered bonafide taxa, are assigned to the orders and suborders (in their respective subclasses and classes) comprising the writer's classification system for the phylum Ciliophora. Authors' names are supplied for all taxa, some of which are placed in incertae sedis positions. Comments are included in place with respect to groups-at all levelsconsidered most controversial taxonomically. In explanatory introductory sections preceding the scheme itself, such problems as synonyms and homonyms, nomina nuda, relative abundance of species in the genera listed, and certain other related nomenclatural matters are treated briefly.
10.2307/3225972|Chaetogaster limnaei limnaei von Baer has been found in the mantle cavity of the pill clam Sphaerium corneum (Linne) and more uncommonly in the mantle cavities of S. striatinum (Lamarck) and S. partumeium (Say). Morphological characters were found to agree with earlier descriptions of C. l. limnaei. C. l. limnaei was originally thought to be only a commensal of pulmonate snails. The infestation of Sphaeriidae as well as Gastropoda allows for a more diverse distribution.
10.2307/3225973|Gyrodactylus plotosi n. sp. is most similar to G. lavareti Malmberg, 1956, from which it differs by having a smaller dorsal bar and having a distinct shelf on the hooklet toe. This is the first record of a monogenean from P. lineatus.
10.2307/3225974|In 1972-1975, 226 fishes, representing 23 host species, were taken from the middle Oconee River drainage (15 sites), the upper Ogeechee River drainage (4 sites), and the middle Ocmulgee River drainage (2 sites). Some 87% (197 specimens) of all fishes were parasitized. Parasites recovered, with some new host records, included species from the following groups: Acanthocephala, Crustacea-Copepoda, Cestoidea, Hirudinea, Nematoda, Trematoda-Digenea, and Trematoda-Monogenea.
10.2307/3225975|The organization of the stenotele nematocyst has been studied in order to understand how its pattern might develop. The butt, or axial filament, was found to connect to the most anterior transverse loop by means of a major arch of the tubule. It is postulated that this arrangement can be understood in terms of developmental mechanics.
10.2307/3225976|The mixture of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and Bouin's solution was found to be a satisfactory fixative and adhesive for smears of parasitic protozoa. PVA keeps material firmly attached to slides but does not interfere with staining or washing of specimens, while Bouin's fixation enables one to stain for flagella using the Bodian silver technique. Smears prepared with this mixture may be stored dry prior to staining with little apparent damage to the protozoa.
10.2307/3225977|A versitile, inexpensive specimen holder for small pieces of tissue can easily be constructed from two polythene BEEM capsules. The holder can be used to immerse tissue samples in most chemicals used for electron microscopy, makes bulk processing of specimens practical, and eliminates artifacts caused by excessive handling.
10.2307/3225978|A shaker was constructed using an automobile vacuum windshield wiper motor as the power source. A supporting box (constructed of 26 gauge sheet metal) was made to bear a rocking platform and clamping plate. Adapters on the motor and platform allowed for a 60 degree tilt from horizontal of the rocking platform. The rocking speed could be adjusted between 4 and 70 cycles per min. Various sizes of a large variety of vessels could be accommodated either in an upright position or on their side. The shaker was designed to be used primarily in preparing material for electron microscopy.
10.2307/3225979|Coronastrum ellipsoideum Fott is reported from a small temporary pool in Cleveland County, Oklahoma in September and October 1975. This is the first report of compound coenobia for this species.
10.2307/3226093|Association of distinctive larval types with adults of certain species of dryopoid water beetles has been important in enabling taxonomists to determine generic groups. The fundamental difference between the larva of "Cylloepus" sculptipennis and those of other species of Cylloepus was largely responsible for the creation of the genus Neocylloepus. Similarly, another new genus must be extracted from Cylloepus because the larva is of yet another distinctive type. On the other hand, the fact that larvae of Psephenops are indistinguishable from those of Psephenus suggests that the name Psephenops should be relegated to synonymy.
10.2307/3226094|The lumina of major ampullate ducts of orb-web-spinning spiders, sacrificed when on draglines, are filled with nonbirefringent, "undrawn," liquid material. Because the continuum of this material is a solid, strong, axially oriented, silk fiber, the transformation is presumed to occur at the spigot. The liquid from the ampulla converts to a birefringent solid when sheared. The more viscous nonbirefringent material between value and spigot is capable of being stretched into a fiber-like solid, possessing a helical birefringent structure. The locus of formation of a fiber-like structure may shift proximally. When this occurs, the material proximal to it is always birefringent, this last developing in the region of cuticular pits of somewhat proximal to that section. At high velocities of forcible silking, the fiber-forming system fails. Internal fracture may take place or a weak solid, having a lower birefringence and greater cross-section than normal silk fiber, may be pulled out of the distended tip of the spigot.
10.2307/3226095| Spermatogenesis in Ephestia kuehniella is described. The eight follicle germaria of the testis contain apical cells surrounded by predifinitive gonia. The gonial cells leave the germaria and individually become associated with somatic nurse cells to form cysts of definitive spermatogenic gonia which undergo six mitotic divisions followed by meiosis to produce an optimal number of 256 spermatids per cyst. During spermiogenesis the spermatids differentiate into spermatozoa ca. 585 m in length. This process is accompanied by a transition to more basic nuclear proteins. 
10.2307/3226096|A numerical taxonomic study of 28 known and two unknown strains of Blepharisma was undertaken, using 13 morphological characteristics, to clarify the classification of species of the genus. Initially, the 30 strains were tested as one grouping. Subsequent analyses were performed on three of the four subdivisions determined by their macronuclear configuration. The results show that the strains could be further classified if they were first assigned to the four karyomorphic groups. Group I (compact), which has no basis for comparison since it consists of one strain, contains the species B. seculum. Group II (halteriform) is regarded as consisting of three separate and distinct natural taxa, B. undulans, B. tropicum, and B. semifiliformis. The results concerning Group III (moniliform) suggest that it consists of 12 closely allied strains regardable as B. musculus and one distinctly separated strain comprising the species B. wardsi. Group IV (filiform) appears to consist of 13 strains divisible into three phenons, two named species, B. stoltei and B. japonicum, and a third unnamed organism. The idea of creating a theoretical "median" organism and finding the one strain in a group that closely approximates those median characteristics is presented, based on a least squares analysis of the strains included in a particular species.
10.2307/3226097| Schistosomules of Schistosoma mansoni were recovered and incubated in culture medium following penetration of excised mouse skin. The development of the digestive tract was studied at the ultrastructural level for the first 15 days in vitro. The effect of red blood cells on this development was monitored. Some of the schistosomules were offered red blood cells on days 0-4, but the first indications of feeding were not demonstrable until day 6 post-penetration. At that time, dense deposits of pigment were observed in the lumen of the ceca. The esophageal gland cells synthesized crystalline granules at day 4 post penetration. These were observed in the cells and in the lining of the posterior region of the esophagus. The number remained relatively small unless red blood cells were ingested by the schistosomules, at which time the number of granules increased significantly. Since the cytoarchitecture of the cells manifests the requisites for synthetic activities (e.g., rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi complexes) prior to addition of red blood cells, it was hypothesized that the ingestion of red blood cells stimulates an increase in synthesis of the granules. The ultrastructure of the developing ceca was similar to comparable regions in the adult. Ingestion of red blood cells stimulated formation of new surface amplifications as well as a general increase in size. 
10.2307/3226098|Exposure of mice to reduced oxygen tension during early pregnancy blocks embryo implantation. One possible mechanism by which pregnancy could be terminated is through failure of corpora lutea. To determine the effect of hypoxic exposure on luteal tissue, mice were exposed to the approximate concentration of oxygen present at sea level (21% oxygen) or 22,000 feet altitude (8% oxygen). The effect of this treatment was determined by macroscopic and ultrastructural analysis of corpora lutea at 24-hr intervals for the first six days of pregnancy. By day 4, the corpora lutea of mice exposed to the 21% oxygen control environment were hyperemic and 2.0 mm in diameter, whereas corpora lutea of mice exposed to 8% oxygen were chalk white and only 1.0 mm in diameter. Ultrastructural observations revealed a reduction in lutein cell diameter and the diminution of endoplasmic reticulum in 8% oxygen exposed mice on day 4-6 of gestation. On the basis of morphometric analysis it is concluded that the number of mitochondrial profiles per cell per thin section is reduced, and the diameter of lipid granules is increased in mice exposed to 8% oxygen when compared to 21% oxygen controls. These findings suggest a reduction in the mobilization of cholesterol esters from lipid granules and the subsequent decrease in progesterone biosynthesis in luteal tissue of mice exposed to hypoxia. Thus, incomplete progesterone priming of the uterine endometrium at day 3 of pregnancy is a plausible explanation for the interruption of blastocyst implantation and termination of gestation during exposure to hypoxia.
10.2307/3226099|The differentiation of the nematocysts and associated structures in the autozooid tentacles of the anthozoon Renilla reniformis are described by electron microscopy. The stages include: (1) transformation of the interstitial cell; (2) development of an external tube and a capsular region; (3) elongation of the capsular region to include the external tube; and (4) differentiation of the internal thread from the capsular matrix. The nematocyst of R. reniformis, an atrichous isorhiza in Hyman's terminology, is redescribed as having an internal tube with spines.
10.2307/3226100|A new copepod, Pseudocyclops bilobatus, collected in the Los Angeles Harbor, is described. This is the first reported occurrence of the genus in the eastern Pacific Ocean. Pseudocyclops bilobatus n. sp. differs from the most closely related species, P. magnus and P. xiphophorus, primarily in the morphology of the male fifth legs. The bilobed appearance of the posterior thoracic segment in lateral view also identifies it, hence its trivial name.
10.2307/3226102|The lumen of the cecum of germ-free and conventional mice was examined en face with the scanning electron microscope, and cross-sections of certain areas were examined with the light microscope. It was found that short stubby villi (not only crypts) are present in the mouse cecum. These villi appeared shorter in germ-free than in conventional mice. The precise diagnosis of these findings was verified by light microscopic study of the subsurface architecture of the intestinal segment. The microflora of the intestine of conventional mice contained some bacteria previously undescribed by SEM.
10.2307/3226103|Histological and histochemical studies were made on paraffin and cryostat sections of Baelloura candida (Turbellaria) removed directly from Limulus polyphemus (Xiphosura) and worms maintained in artificial sea water for one and two weeks. During in vitro maintenance, worms accumulated vacuoles in the gastrodermis, probably as a result of tissue autolysis. Worms maintained in vitro depleted protein and glycogen mainly from the parenchyma, but accumulated neutral fat in the gastrodermis. Contrary to the findings of other studies on triclad turbellarians, neutral fat was not detected in the parenchyma of Bdelloura.
10.2307/3226104|Austrobdella californiana n. sp., collected primarily from flatfishes (Hippoglossina stomata, Pleuronichthys verticalis, and Pleuronichthys decurrens) from coastal waters of southern California, is described. Individuals reach a maximum length of 35 mm. Pigmentation in life is uniformly green, often with narrow, paired, longitudinal, unpigmented stripes on the dorsal surface.
10.2307/3226105|Two new digeneans are described from characid fishes in Colombia. Phyllodistomoides duncani n. g., n. sp. is proposed for a worm from Astyanax sp. which differs from members of the nearby genus Phyllodistomum in possessing a pharynx. Chalcinotrema lucieni n. sp., from Leporinus muyscorum, differs from the other species of its genus by having oculate miracidia, a prepharynx shorter than the esophagus, and an oral sucker smaller than the acetabulum. A key to the four species of Chalcinotrema is included.
10.2307/3225859|A description is provided of the gross anatomy (ganglia arrangement, sizes, nerve complements, and topological details) of each of the 11 central ganglia in the central nervous system of a primitive pulmonate mollusc, Melampus bidentatus. From histological examination of the central ganglia, detailed anatomy reported includes the location of identifiable single and groups of neurons, estimates of total numbers of cells per ganglion, and descriptions of nonneural structures. The cerebral gland, located in the lateral lobe of the cerebral ganglion, was found to vary dramatically in both volume and staining characteristics throughout the year. Correlation of these changes with major environmental factors and known reproductive events revealed no obvious relationships. Special attention is given to the cytological features (including the appearance and form of presumed neurosecretory material) of certain neurons. Phasic patterns of neurosecretion were observed in some groups of cells, particularly in the giant cells. A comparison of the central nervous system of M. bidentatus with those of other well-described pulmonates is followed by a short discussion of systematic implications. Speculations are presented concerning the role of the cerebral gland and functions of giant cells in general.
10.2307/3225860|The external surface of the ephippium of Daphnia pulex bears numerous, randomly distributed pits which are formed by the thickening of the brood chamber cuticle. The internal surface is covered by a thin amorphous sheet below which lies a polygonal matrix or lattice. In section, the wall of the ephippium is shown to be formed of several layers. The exterior is the thin epicuticle. The second or middle layer, the procuticle, is subdivided into an outer, thick laminated or banded region, a middle polygonal matrix of varying thickness, and an inner, thin, irregular lattice region. Innermost is an amorphous noncellular layer within which are observed bacteria-like particles. Comparisons are drawn with light microscope observations of the ephippium of Daphnia magna.
10.2307/3225861|Two new species of Tubificidae were collected from streams in the southeastern United States. Limnodrilus psammophilus n. sp. is characterized by a short cuticular penis sheath, widened proximally and distally, and almost circular musculature around the penis. L. rubripenis n. sp. is unique in having two projections from the distal end of a reddish-brown penis sheath and enlarged ventral setae in segments IV-IX. Limnodrilus grandisetosus Nomura is removed from synonymy with L. silvani Eisen.
10.2307/3225862|Batracobdella cryptobranchii n. sp., parasitic on Ozark hellbenders, Cryptobranchus alleganiensis bishopi, is found in the North Fork of the White River, Ozark County, in Missouri. B. cryptobranchii reaches a length of 17 mm; dorsum is smooth; color pattern or metameric markings are absent. The anus opens dorsally with two postanal annuli. Caudal sucker is circular, directed ventrally, and is distinct from the body on a very short pedicel. Gonopores are separated by two annuli.
10.2307/3225863|A third species of Pseudostenhelia Wells, 1967 (P. wellsi n. sp.), differs from the two previously known species in A
10.2307/3225864|Adults and several juvenile stages of Echinoderes coulli n. sp. and E. sublicarum n. sp. are described from the North Inlet Estuary, Georgetown, South Carolina. Adults of E. coulli lack dorsal spines, may have small lateral spines on segments 7 and 10 in addition to lateral terminal spines, and thereby closely resemble E. maxwelli from South Africa. Echinoderes coulli is the first kinorhynch apparently restricted to an intertidal mud habitat and the first kinorhynch known to have a dimorphic female. E. sublicarum is similar to E. bookhouti and was collected from hydrozoan colonies (Eudendrium sp.) growing on pilings. In addition to descriptions of E. coulli and E. sublicarum, this paper reports the occurrence of Centroderes spinosus (Reinhard, 1881) Zelinka, 1928, at Mt. Desert Island, Maine and Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts, and of Campyloderes macquariae Johnston, 1938, at Seabrook, New Hampshire.
10.2307/3225865| Laboratory reared Onychiurus folsomi (Schffer) were incubated at 15.5 C and 21.1 C for the extent of their lifetime. The dorsal chaetotaxy of the fifth abdominal segment, from first to seventh instar, is described as it developed. The chaetotaxy of the first thoracic segment was found to be of taxonomic value only up to the second instar. Development of the setal pattern for male and female genital plates are presented. Variation of the male ventral organ is described with changes in setal morphology from first to thirty-fourth instar. 
10.2307/3225866|Cells of a sensitive strain of Euplotes crassus were fed with a killer cell homogenate of the same species, previously labeled with
10.2307/3225867|A simplified version of the protargol technique for Tetrahymena pyriformis is presented. Bleaching and gold toning are omitted. Attention is drawn to the temperature of fixation, proper pH and brand of protargol solution, and the method of mounting the fixed organisms on the albumen layer. The protocol gives consistent results and reveals the major cortical microtubular bands.
10.2307/3225868| The surface of Urosporidium spisuli spores was examined ultrastructurally, gaining further evidence in support of the hypothesis that surface fine structures of haplosporidian spores are taxonomically significant. Spores have 2-extensions which subdivide at the spore body and flare out for varying distances along the cell surface. Approximately circular depressions of 49-208 m diameter are found on the whole cell surface except over the pore region. 
10.2307/3225869|A new trematode genus, Paratelorchis n. g., is erected to contain three species, two of which were formerly assigned to the genus Telorchis, with a third described herein as Paratelorchis dollfusi n. sp. The rather involved-both taxonomically and nomenclaturally -systematics of the digenetic trematodes which parasitize snakes and turtles is treated in some detail.
10.2307/3225870|Pennsylvanian age pteridophyte spores isolated from a limestone matrix contain structurally preserved stages of endosporal gametophytes. Ultrastructural examination of gametophyte cells reveals well-preserved cytoplasmic remains. This degree of preservation indicates the potential of investigating subcellular phenomena within fossil cells.
10.2307/3225871|Methods for converting a brightfield condenser into a phase contrast condenser and making a centering telescope are described. The single substantial expense is the purchase of a phase objective; otherwise only photographic techniques and materials are required.
10.2307/3225872|Electron microscopy of field-collected vegetative cells of Schizochlamys gelatinosa revealed a pyrenoid extending from the inner surface of the chloroplast. The entire structure is enclosed by a cap, differing completely from the types of pyrenoids previously described for the green algae. Schizochlamys is placed in the family Schizochlamidaceae n. fam., distinct from the Tetrasporaceae, on the basis of its pyrenoid ultrastructure, zoospore flagellation, and pseudocilia configuration.
10.2307/3225873|Two of seven Urophycis cirratus collected in the Gulf of Mexico at 275 fathoms were infected with a total of 92 adult specimens of an opecoelid, genus Bathycreadium. One of these fishes was also infected with one adult and two immature specimens of a species of the hemiurid genus Adinosoma. Bathycreadium nanaflexicollis n. sp. is described and distinguished from Bathycreadium flexicollis by its smaller body size and larger egg size. The species of Adinosoma is apparently undescribed; but because of the lack of an adequate number of specimens, it is not assigned a new species designation. The mature specimen of Adinosoma sp. is described and contrasted with identified specimens of A. robustum.
10.2307/3225874|Symbiotic bacteria having characteristics of the order Spirochaetales were found in Hydra attenuata. The ultrastructural characteristics of these spirochactes were studied in ultrathin sections and in negatively stained preparations. The living organism was also examined, using phase contrast microscopy. The organism was found to have morphological characteristics of the genus Leptospira. It occurs both extracellularly, in the mesoglea, and intracellularly, in large vacuoles in epitheliomuscular cells, particularly those of the ectoderm. Its possible route of entry into and nutritional relationship with the host are not known at this time.
10.2307/3225875|The leech Piscicolaria reducta Meyer is reported for the first time from West Virginia. Of the five leeches found on three greenside darters, Etheostoma blennoides, four were attached to caudal fins, and the fifth was attached to the pectoral fin.
10.2307/3225660| A theory for podocytic slit pore filtration in the mammalian kidney is presented. The dimension of the slit is suggested to be ca. 66  wide. Documentation of this proposed width is offered not only by electron micrographs but also by calculations of the filtration coefficient, mean length of effective porosity through the basement membrane, pressure gradient, and restricted diffusion coefficient for slit pores, taken from experimental data and compared to published data. 
10.2307/3225661|It has been demonstrated that an interpedicelar slit pore, within dimensions to satisfy physiological observations of clearances from the mammalian kidney, exists. It has been shown that the visualization of these pores and related structures is highly dependent on fixation, embedding, staining, and three-dimensional geometry of the glomerulus.
10.2307/3225662|Three new species of an exclusively subterranean amphipod genus, which are the first records of hypogean amphipods in Colorado, are described. Stygobromus coloradensis n. sp. and Stygobromus pennaki n. sp. were taken from the hyporheic zone of the North Fork of the South Platte River in central Colorado. Stygobromus holsingeri n. sp. was collected near the source of a small spring in northern Colorado.
10.2307/3225664|The eudactylinid copepod genus Protodactylina Laubier, Maillard & Oliver is placed in synonymy with Bariaka Cressey. Additional material of Bariaka pamelae Laubier, Maillard & Oliver collected from the gill bar of Notorhynchus maculatus Ayres in San Francisco Bay is described. A new genus of bomolochid copepod Boylea is described from the nasal sinuses of Indo-Pacific Elagatus bipinnulatus (Quoy & Gaimard). The new genus is distinguished by the modified fifth seta on the first antenna.
10.2307/3225665|A new species of Tardigrada, Hexapodibius pilatoi, is described from the eastern United States. It is unique among the Eutardigrada in that it possesses only one diplounguis on each of its rudimentary hind legs. In other features it resembles not only Hexapodibius micronyx, but also Haplomacrobiotus spp. and Parhexapodibius lagrecai. A redescription of a rarely collected tardigrade, Diphascon belgicae, based on specimens from Michigan, is also given.
10.2307/3225666|Commensal ciliated protozoa of fresh-water bivalve molluscs were tested for their ability to detect conditions of organic pollution within a small midwestern stream. Data are presented which demonstrate that one of these ciliates, Heterocinetopsis unioni darum, responds rapidly to unfavorable conditions. The further development of sensitive biological indicators and their potential to warn of impending and possibly irreversible environmental change are discussed.
10.2307/3225667|A member of the genus Foettingeria and various hypotrichous ciliates commonly occur in association with the sea anemone Bunodosoma cavernata Bosc from waters near Galveston Island, Texas. The Foettingeria species shows a few differences from specimens of F. actiniarum from Roscoff, France, and apparently depends on the anemone for completion of its life cycle, as determined by Chatton and Lwoff. The hypotrich ciliates observed in association with the same host include Euplotes, Uronychia, Aspidisca, Oxytricha, and Paraeuplotes. The symbionts were observed to undergo variations in occurrence and abundance. The more common forms are described and illustrated.
10.2307/3225668|Morphological comparison of fossil Dinogymnium to both motile cells and cysts of living representatives of the orders Gymnodiniales and Peridiniales suggests an affinity with the modern family Lophodiniaceae (Peridiniales). The thick, acid-resistant, highly punctate to perforated wall resembles the exospore layer of the resting zygote cyst of Woloszynskia and probably of Lophodinium. The meridional ridges of some Dinogymnium, interrupted only by the median cingulum, are similar to features of Lophodinium. The archeopyle of Dinogymnium develops at the time of excystment. The rarely present "flagellar pores" result from the late retention of the flagella by the planozygote, prior to completion of the thick cellulosic endospore layer of the wall of the later hypnozygote stage. Within the perforated exospore, this thicker endospore layer protects the pre-meiotic zygote, although the cellulosic composition precludes its preservation. Other than the endoskeletal Actiniscaceae, all fossil dinoflagellates thus appear to represent cysts, and from analogy with modern species, probably all are hypnozygotes.
10.2307/3225669|Progressive microbial colonization of natural (sycamore leaf) and artificial (polyurethane foam) substrate material in lotic and lentic systems was studied by scanning electron microscopy. The organisms which participated in colonization showed substrate preferences and aquatic system variation. The rate of colonization was dependent not only on the aquatic system, but also on the type of substrate. Protozoa were not found on either substrate, indicating that they are lost during specimen preparation. Fungi and bacteria were principal colonizers on leaf substrates, while algae were predominate polyurethane foam invaders. In each case, colonization served to structurally modify the substrate, rendering it a more suitable habitat which was nutritionally capable of supporting other organisms.
10.2307/3225670| Two strains of Didinium nasutum (Mller, 1786) Stein, 1859 were successfully frozen using 10% dimethylsulfoxide as a cryoprotectant. A suspension consisting partially or wholly of cysts frozen at a controlled rate of 1 C per min gave rise, when thawed, to active feeding trophozoites which did not appear different from the original stock. Dried cysts were similarly recovered from -150 C. An accelerated storage test designed to gauge stability of dried material proved that shredded filter paper was preferable to glass as a drying substrate, but indicated that viability would gradually decrease with storage at 4 C. The ease, reliability, and advantages of maintaining this protozoon cryogenically, especially in a dried condition, are presented to encourage more widespread acceptance and use of cryopreservation for encysting protozoa. 
10.2307/3225671|Oceanobdella pallida n. sp., a marine leech parasitic in the mouth of Parophrys vetulus is described. Individuals reach a maximum length of 20 mm. Pigmentation consists of faint reddish-brown segmental transverse bands; the caudal sucker is unpigmented and has no ocelli. The leech occurred on about 20% of the English sole in Oregon coastal waters and was present throughout the year.
10.2307/3225672|Oil Red O histochemical studies on Dugesia dorotocephala showed that neutral lipids are localized mainly in the gastrodermis of the intestine. TLC analysis showed the major lipid fractions to be phospholipids, triglycerides, and free sterols, along with lesser amounts of free fatty acids and sterol esters. Histochromatographic analysis of D. dorotocephala suggested that the main neutral lipid fractions detected in the gut were triglycerides and free sterols.
10.2307/3225673|Fresh-water prawns, Palaemonetes kadiakensis, collected from Lake Charleston, Coles County, Illinois were infested with Lagenophrys sp. (Ciliata: Peritrichida). This is the first report of these ciliates on this host species. Infestations were more numerous on gill lamellae than on other parts of the host. Size of the lorica appears different from those of previously described species, but in other observed aspects the ciliates are similar to Lagenophrys lunatus.
10.2307/3225674|A preparative technique for chromosomal study of fresh-water oligochaete worms is described. The chromosome numbers of two species, Pristina aequiseta and Dero pectinata, were determined; and a karyotype of Dero pectinata is presented.
10.2307/3225675|Stentor is known to ingest various organisms, including rotifers, which may break out of the food vacuoles enclosing them (necessitating their reenclosure in a new vacuole). A description is offered here of the repeated occurrence of the complete escape of the rotifer Monostyla through the outer pellicle of the ciliate which had ingested it.
10.2307/3225676|A Dugesia species from San Felipe, Texas, with a haploid set of four chromosomes and previously identified as D. dorotocephala (Woodworth), is now recognized as new and described as D. (Girardia) jenkinsae n. sp.
10.2307/3225680|There is a characteristic succession of phytoplankton species associated with eutrophication in the Laurentian Great Lakes. A common pattern of introduction of certain exotic populations and the extirpation of indigenous species may be traced over time in lakes which have received increased loadings and regionally within lakes which receive concentrated point source discharges. In large, physically complex, long residence time systems, such as the Great Lakes, phytoplankton assemblage composition can furnish a valuable integrative index of water quality conditions difficult to achieve by other means. At the present time, this information is drastically under-utilized due primarily to the lack of modern, comprehensive, and readily available taxonomic treatments of the Great Lakes flora.
10.2307/3225681|Zooplankters have potential value as assessors of tropic conditions. They respond quickly to environmental change and may be effective indicators of subtle alterations in water quality. Since most species are widely distributed in diverse environments, those with greatest value are ones limited to extremes of trophic lake types (i.e., oligotrophy, eutrophy, and dystrophy). In the wide range of ill-defined intermediate lake types, quantitative data on zooplankton community composition offers more potential than qualitative information on the presence or absence of certain species. The ratio of calanoid copepods to other major groups of zooplankton appears to be of value in identifying relative differences in trophic conditions. Multivariate analyses based on distribution and abundance of rotifer and crustacean species have proved useful in delineating major water masses of different trophic conditions in large lake systems. But caution must be exercised in establishing one-to-one causal relationships between zooplankton composition and trophic conditions since other factors, especially toxic pollutants and size-selective predation, may exert considerable influence on changes in the community composition.
10.2307/3225682|The attached algal community is an important component of aquatic ecosystems and has unique attributes for water quality studies which stem not only from its habit but also from its species composition. Several sampling methods have been developed that provide useful data on properties of this phycoperiphyton community. Involved are biomass measurements, pigment composition, productivity, community structures and species composition. These features are reviewed here. Routine measurement of the basic properties of periphyton in surface water monitoring programs is highly recommended. To help handle the large amounts of data on the phycoperiphyton (and other communities of aquatic organisms) that should result from these studies, the EPA is developing a general computerized biological data management system.
10.2307/3225683|Zooperiphyton (e.g., the Protozoa) can be very useful indicators of water quality. Their ability to rapidly colonize artificial substrates provides an assessment capability not generally available for higher organisms. In addition, one can collect a sufficient quantity for statistically reliable results without endangering a local population through over-collecting, as is often the case for higher organisms. There are still other advantages in use of periphyton. However, no method or taxonomic group should be used automatically in every situation. Data redundancy, cost, and speed in gathering data are factors to be kept in mind; and the ability to measure a biological parameter does not mean that it should always be measured.
10.2307/3225684|The resting egg of Brachionus and Asplanchna is an encysted embryo consisting of two concentrically arranged, syncytial tissue layers which are surrounded by a multilamellar shell. In Asplanchna there are major differences between the embryo of the resting egg and the parthenogenetic embryo both in shell structure and in the organization of the embryonic tissues. The possible adaptive significance of these differences is discussed in relation to dormancy.
10.2307/3225685| Amoebae were cultured from 43 to 49 samples taken from 19 stations in North Atlantic waters: four samples from Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island; 20 samples between Rhode Island and Spain (R/V Trident cruise 170); and 25 samples from the open ocean waters of the Strails of Florida (R/V Gilliss cruise 7603). Both surface microlayers and subsurface samples were obtained. Particulate matter was concentrated and dilutions cultured in artificial sea water with OZR agar plugs. An average of 33.6 amoebae/liter were found in the surface microlayer samples (equal to 1,413 organisms/liter, assuming their association with a 5 m-thick surface layer and a 70% collection efficiency), while subsurface water contained an average population of 1,4 organisms/liter, to a depth of 3,090 meters. The surface microlayer had a higher number of species isolated per sample than subsurface samples. Clydonella, Acanthamoeba, and Platyamoeba were the most frequently encountered genera in both oceanic samplings. Narragansett Bay samples showed a greater diversity of species than those from the Straits of Florida and trans-Atlantic stations. For the surface microlayer samples from all three sample sets, there were no significant differences in the numbers of amoebae/ liter. However, the subsurface values for the trans-Atlantic samples were significantly lower than those for either the Straits of Florida or Narragansett Bay. There was an inverse relationship between numbers of amoebae and dissolved oxygen in subsurface samples, and a positive correlation of amoebae with particulate ATP in the surface microlayer. 
10.2307/3225686|The Trentepohliaceae have been characterized in the past as having a central pit in the transverse walls. Electron microscopy has shown that the pit is a group of plasmodesmata rather than a single large plug like that of red algae. However, a cultured species of Cephaleuros with narrow filaments and narrow transverse walls has plasmodesmata occupying nearly the entire transverse wall. Collected Cephaleuros spp. found on the leaves of Magnolia and other woody genera have wider transverse walls with plasmodesmata centrally located in a pit. A cultured species of Trentepohlia with cell width intermediate between the two types of Cephaleuros has plasmodesmata centrally located in a pit, but the pit occupies a large portion of the transverse wall. It is concluded that the Trentepohliales can be characterized as possessing a centrally located group of plasmodesmata, but they are clearly seen as such only in wider cells where the transverse wall extends sufficiently beyond the central region. Some taxonomic, developmental, and phylogenetic problems are discussed.
10.2307/3225687|The cytomembranes of red algae often project negative images with standard electron microscopical double fixation procedures. This condition occurs in cultured Bangia fuscopurpurea and can be alleviated by the addition of small quantities of calcium chloride to the primary fixative.
10.2307/3225688|Octomacrum spinum Dansby & Shoemaker, 1973, was found on the gills of 47 of 257 (18.3%) stoneroller minnows examined over a 12-month period. Incidence and parasite loads for males approximated those for females. Larval O. spinum were generally collected March through May and, with one exception, were found on smaller fishes. Incidence of Unicauda sp. was somewhat higher in males than females, 17.7 and 12.8%, respectively. No seasonal patterns of Unicauda sp. were evident.
10.2307/3225689|The prostomium of Aeolosoma sp. permits an unusual type of suction-feeding. By placing the rounded prostomium over a soft substrate and lifting the ventral surface of the prostomium with unicellular dorsoventral suspensory muscle fibers, a partial vacoum is created which acts to lift particulate food off the substrate when water at a higher pressure is introduced along the prostomial margin. The ventral cilia can then sweep the food into the mouth. The development of suction-feeding permits the aeolosomatids to compete successfully in the ephemeral environment of decaying plant material.
10.2307/3225690|Intraspecific variation in self-grooming in male Sinella coeca was explored by conducting two experiments. The first failed to reveal any evidence for circadian fluctuation in bout length or bout frequency. Typical antennal cleaning requires ca. 10.5 sec, in contrast to imperfect antennal grooming, which is highly variable in duration. The second experiment examined the percentage of imperfect bouts in hours following ecdysis. An initial decrease to a baseline of ca. 30% is followed by fluctuations.
10.2307/3225691|The male boll weevil deposits sperm in the copulatory pouch of the female during mating. Normally, the sperm swim up the spermathecal duct and enter the spermatheca where they are stored until they are used for fertilization. The sperm exhibit a positive chemotactic response to the secretion of the spermathecal gland. This is the first report of evidence of a chemotactic substance in the internal secretions of the reproductive tract of the female.
10.2307/3225692|Species descriptions of ciliate protozoa are characteristically deficient in quantified morphometric data. Procedures to rectify this omission are proposed herein and include (1) choosing as large a suite of attributes as is feasible, with special emphasis on using derived characters (indices, proportions); (2) utilization of large (>100) clonal samples from geographically diverse sources; (3) ensuring that all descriptions incorporate sample means, standard errors, ranges, coefficients of variation, sample sizes, and appropriate estimates of the variability of discrete variates; and (4) that continuous and discrete variates are analyzed using appropriate uni- and/or multivariate techniques. Modern micromensuration techniques are discussed and the use of electronic coordinate digitizers recommended. Emphasis on the inherent advantages of easily obtaining large numbers of specimens is made, accentuating the concomitant benefit that, by using large population samples, a firmer basis for estimating variability would result. An appeal is made to improve the quality of descriptions so that the resulting taxonomic data can be readily integrated into modern evolutionary thought. Adoption of such approaches should resolve disputes concerning species boundaries as well as place schemes of supraspecific classification on a more stable basis.
10.2307/3225694|An improved method allows fixing attached cells for transmission electron microscopy without direct handling. Cells are grown on coverslips and fixed, dehydrated, and embedded thereon. After polymerization, the coverslips are burst away by dipping into liquid air.
10.2307/3225695|A procedure for staining algae with V. Jensen's stain is outlined. Several delicate components of algae which are of diagnostic importance in taxonomy, such as flagella, haptonemata, pedicels, loricae, scales, and spines, are readily stained and easily recognized in Jensen-stained samples. Jensen staining creates a high-quality image which is comparable or superior to that obtained with unstained specimens and expensive optical accessories, such as phase contrast or Nomarski interference. The technique is inexpensive and rapid.
10.2307/3225585| Twenty-two species of tubificids, 12 naidids, and 1 lumbriculid are recorded from Cayuga Lake, New York. The species Potamothrix bavaricus (schmann) and P. bedoti (Piguet) are redescribed and compared. A key to the Nearctic species of this genus is provided. The oligochaete fauna of Cayuga Lake resembles that of the St. Lawrence Great Lakes, but Stylodrilus heringianus Claparde was not found in the former though common in the latter. Potamothrix bedoti, rare in most localities, occurs abundantly in Cayuga Lake. 
10.2307/3225587|The genus Apodopsyllus, commonly found interstitially in fine sands, is split into two species groups, separated primarily on the structure of the first leg. In the "littoralis group" (10 species), the exopod and endopod are of about equal length; in the "madrasensis group" (two species) the endopod is at least 2 1/2 times as long as the exopod. A. unguiformis n. sp. belongs to the "madrasensis group" and differs from the other known species in the group in P
10.2307/3225588|Sperm transfer via discrete spermatophores has evolved in a number of benthic tube-dwelling and interstitial polychaetes and tends to reduce gamete loss during the transfer when compared with broadcast spawning. The size, shape, and mode of transfer of spermatophores may vary considerably as is exemplified by the eight species of spionid polychaetes discussed. The morphology and ultrastructure of spermatophores from two species of the genus Polydora, as seen with the scanning electron microscope, are described in detail for the first time. The relationship between spermatophore transfer and direct copulation is discussed, along with the advantages of spermatophore production by tube-dwelling polychaetes.
10.2307/3225589|Echinoderes gerardi n. sp. is described from adult and preadult stages collected at Korbous, Tunisia, where they were found inhabiting the red-orange sponge Tethya aurantium (Pall.). The new species is the same color as the sponge and appears closely related to Echinoderes ehlersi from Zanzibar and E. dujardinii from coastal Europe. Adults and several juvenile stages of Echinoderes riedli were collected from sediments in the Punic Port at Salammbo (Carthage), Tunisia. Previously, this latter species was known only from a single specimen collected near Al-Ghardaqa on the Egyptian coast of the Red Sea.
10.2307/3225590|It is proposed that the external structures of the anterior spinnerets are capable of being used as a deceleration mechanism during the combined formation and descent of a spider on its dragline. This transfers the axial forces, developed by the falling spider, from the continuum that converts progenitive material into silk fibers to frictional forces on the strong dragline, external to the spider's body. The structures involved are illustrated. After the spider has stopped, there are some indications that the mechanism used for deceleration may be converted to a holding brake by cementation between fibers or the addition of tangles of very fine fibers of unknown origin. It is shown that the force-elongation behavior of dragline fibers are consonant with the hypotheses developed. The techniques required in the experimental part of the study are described.
10.2307/3225591|The occurrence of spirochaetes in the pyloric cecum in three species of planorbid molluscs is reported. Ultrastructural studies on these organisms, from one host species only, demonstrated 15-20 axial fibrils inserted in a single row, subterminally, from each end. The degree of host-parasite specificity observed suggested that three different species of spirochaetes may possibly be involved.
10.2307/3225593|Anisakid nematode larvae identified to the genus Sulcascaris Hartwich, 1957 have been collected from several marine molluscs: surf clam Spisula solidissima, calico scallop Argopecten gibbus, Atlantic bay scallop Argopecten irradians, moon sail Lunatia heros, and whelk Busycon canaliculata. As an adult, the only known species of this nematode genus (Sulcascaris sulcata) parasitizes the stomach and intestine of the green (Chelonia mydas) and loggerhead (Caretta caretta) turtle. Parasitized turtles occur in the areas where the larvae parasitize the molluscs. The excretory system of S. sulcata includes an excretory pore at the base of the ventral interlabium, a large ventral ribbon-like gland cell with a nucleus posterior to the level of the ventriculus, and an excretory canal in the right lateral chord that extends posteriorly about half the length of the body. Third- and fourth-stage larvae from molluscs are described and compared with fourth-stage larvae and adults from marine turtles. Comparative data for fourth-stage Sulcascaris from Australian turtles and a scallop are also presented.
10.2307/3225594|Microhydrula sp. was discovered in inverted plastic petri dishes in a marine aquarium stocked with coastal water from Woods Hole, Mass., Beaufort, N.C., Alligator Harbor and Tampa, Florida, and Savannah and Sapelo Island, Georgia. A nearly identical strain was found in an aquarium stocked from Chincoteague Bay, Maryland. The aufwuchs community of these aquaria from different locations had many genera and species in common. Algae and protozoa formed associations with the Microhydrula polyps, which fed on harpacticoid copepod nauplii and copepodids. The Maryland animals also switched to feeding on nematodes when they were abundant. The polyps and the asexually derived migrating frustules were studied under brightfield and phase contrast microscopy. The organism lacks cilia and tentacles and possesses heterotrichous microbasic eurytele nematocysts. No medusa were noted. The slow-moving frustules were seen ocasionally attached to chaetae of gravid female copepods, providing dispersal. Both strains compare closely in morphology, size, and behavior to the original description of Microhydrula pontica by Valkanov.
10.2307/3225595|Decorating materials in Loxorhynchus crispatus are attached to the hooked setae of the dorsal surface of the exoskeleton. Examination with the scanning electron microscope reveals that the setae bear spinules, a median groove, and a spiralled region. Ablation of these setae prevents the crabs from decorating, but removal of the glands of the first maxillipeds has no effect on the process. Attachment of decorating material appears to be mechanical, not by means of an adhesive secreted by the mouthparts.
10.2307/3225596|In order to ascertain the patterns of genetic and morphological variation which exist in nature, and to seek to explain those patterns with nontrivial, predictive, and falsifiable hypotheses, it is necessary to adopt a quantitative, multivariate methodology that concentrates on the evolution of populations. The biological species concept is an unrealistic basis for the study of ciliate evolution, and most attempts at phylogenetic reconstruction ignore the essence of the evolutionary process. Simple examples are given, based on the genus Euplotes, to illustrate an axiomatic approach to ciliate systematics.
10.2307/3225598|Pristina acuminata Liang is redescribed from material collected from the western basin of Lake Erie and the Ohio River. A key to the North American species of Pristina is included.
10.2307/3225599|A new species of fresh-water sponge (Porifera: Spongillidae) in the genus Corvospongilla is proposed, C. becki n. sp. It was collected from Duck Lake in the Atchafalaya Basin, St. Martin Parish, Louisiana. An illustrated description, species diagnosis, and taxonomic discussion are given, along with ecological observations.
10.2307/3225600|This is the first report of a skin-infesting species of the copepod Ergasilus on fishes. Moribund gizzard shad from locations in Tennessee and Alabama were found with epidermal lesions containing large numbers of egg-bearing Ergasilus clupeidarum. Study revealed the strong likelihood that the copepod was the primary cause of the lesions.
10.2307/3225601|An improved technique for the fixation and embedment of N. gruberi cysts is presented. Organisms are subjected to a transitional embedment in 2% agar, with extended fixation, washing, and post-fixation (the post-fixation includes both osmium tetroxide and uranyl acetate); and infiltration in Mollenhauer's Epon-Araldite resin mixture. The agar embedment stabilizes the pelleted organisms, facilitates the handling of specimens, and eliminates additional centrifugations during the preparation. This technique works well with amoebae and young cysts, but its main advantage lies in the preparation of 5- to 15-day-old cysts, in which the cytoplasm may become very dense.
10.2307/3225602|A new pseudoscorpion, Malcolmochthonius n.g., containing three new species is described. Its species are all from leaf litter habitats: Malcolmochthonius malcolmi n. sp. is reported from California and Oregon; M. oregonus n. sp., from Oregon; and M. perplexus n. sp., from California. They are assigned to the nominate subfamily of the family Chthoniidae in the suborder Heterosphyronida.
10.2307/3225603|A simple method for the study of zooplankton food is described. Animals are cleared with sodium hypochlorite, which dissolves soft tissues and leaves only the exoskeleton and the digestive tract intact. The algae inside the gut are not altered by the concentration of hypochlorite used (1-6%) and are thus readily identifiable.
10.2307/3225604| Euplotes has a diploid micronucleus and a highly polyploid macronucleus. During the cell division cycle, the micronucleus divides by intranuclear (closed) mitosis; the nuclear envelope does not break down during division. During telophase the daughter nuclei are separated by a large distance (ca. 35-50 m), while still contained within the original, greatly elongated nuclear envelope. Electron microscopic observations of telophase and early interphase micronuclei reveal an unusual mechanism for completion of separation and compartmentalization of the daughter nuclei: the daughter nuclei form a new envelope inside the old one. Forks connecting the outer (old) and inner (new) envelopes are readily observed. At boundaries of the developing inner envelope where a fork is absent membrane vesicles are observed. These vesicles may be involved in formation of the inner envelope. In the outer envelope pore complexes are present, but they are not as numerous as those of the developing inner envelope. After cell division the early interphase micronucleus is bounded by a single envelope, except for an occasional small stretch where a remnant of the old envelope can be detected. The developing inner envelope of the Euplotes micronucleus bears a striking resemblance to annulate lamellae and might serve as a good model system for the study of such membrane systems. 
10.2307/3225605|A mounting medium of glucose can be used for making permanent phytoplankton and zooplankton slides. An inexpensive method that precludes the use of extensive time and equipment is described. Preparations are still usable a decade or more later.
10.2307/3225606| A minor problem encountered with the direct mounting of specimens on stubs for low magnification SEM has been the inclusions of lathe marks or scratches on the resulting micrograph. Highly polished stubs or mounting on smooth surfaces such as coverglass or mica can alleviate some of these problems but can also result in a bright or greyish background. This paper presents a much simpler method of specimen preparation which, when employed, can effectively erase this distracting background. The procedure involves painting the stub and mounting the specimen with a conductive carbon paint such as locally available Tubekoat. This technique provides a dark black (No 2 electron return) background, resulting in maximization of contrast between specimen and background while providing a strong conductive bond between stub and specimen at a cost much lower than that of silver-conducting paint. 
10.2307/3225982| Crithidia fasciculata Lger, Trypanosoma equiperdum Doflein, and T. lewisi Kent were examined by thin section, freeze-etch, and cytochemical techniques. These kinetoplastid flagellates possess matching structural specializations of the flagellar and pellicular membranes that appear to represent discrete attachment sites. The intracellular sites differ structurally from metazoan intercellular junctions and also differ among the species studied. 
10.2307/3225983|Head regeneration after decapitation and head formation after fission in Dugesia dorotocephala (Woodworth) were compared to determine if the processes giving rise to new heads were identical. Decapitated animals exhibited a slight increase in length but no decrease in width during the regenerative period. Fission fragments did not increase in length, but decreased significantly in width. The presence of large numbers of formative cells in a well-defined blastema was observed in decapitated animals. Fission fragments showed no blastema formation, and the number of formative cells was lower as compared to decapitated animals. It is concluded that fission fragments develop new heads through a remodeling process which differs from regeneration involving blastema formation which occurs after decapitation. Due to the absence of a blastema and fewer numbers of formative cells in fission fragments, it was possible to study the role of the ventral nerve cords in the formation of cephalic ganglia. New ganglia appear to be direct outgrowths of the old ventral nerve cords. Changes in the neurosecretory cell population support the view that neurosecretory cells play a role in the formation of cephalic ganglia.
10.2307/3225984|Morphological variation of two Cymbella species from a collection at South Fox Island, Lake Michigan, is discussed. Populations are compared to treatments in the taxonomic literature, and variation indices are used to help determine whether distinct growth forms or varieties are present. Although Cymbella delicatula initially appeared to have three defined morphological series, these are interpreted as part of one continuously variable population. The Cymbella hustedtii population appears to be a single variable group. Descriptions and photographs accounting for intraspecific variation are given for both species, and comparisons are made to other Cymbella species in the collection.
10.2307/3225985|The ultrastructure of a Chlorella-like alga is described from a marine coelenterate, Anthopleura xanthogrammica. These algae are restricted to the gastrodermal tissue layer of the host where they occur within host-cell vacuoles. Their morphology and reproduction are similar though not entirely consistent with that observed in Chlorella-like algae symbiotic with fresh-water invertebrates. The most notable exceptions are the structure of the pyrenoid, the production of only two autospores by division, and the large accumulation of storage starch within the chloroplast. The specialized environment of this alga apparently has little effect on its characteristics. The Chlorophyceae may now be included as a third class of algae, along with the Dinophyceae and Prasinophyceae, possessing representatives capable of forming intracellular associations with marine invertebrate hosts. In this study, a host was also found-for the first time-harboring members of two of those classes of algae.
10.2307/3225986|The outer surfaces of the resting eggs of A. sieboldi Leydig, A. intermedia Hudson, A. girodi de Guerne, and A. brightwelli Gosse are distinctly different from one another, at both light and scanning electron microscope levels. This specificity in shell morphology clarifies the taxonomic relationships of these forms. The decomposition-resistant resting eggs of Asplanchna and other rotifers can be identified in lake sediments and in digestive systems of predators, permitting analyses at the species-level of ancient lacustrine rotifer communities and of selectivity on the part of rotifer predators.
10.2307/3225987|Macronuclear and micronuclear chromatin fibers from several hypotrich ciliates were examined by electron microscopy after spreading on a Langmuir trough and subjecting to critical-point drying. Three size classes of "unstretched" macronuclear fibers were seen: (a) 10-15 nm, (b) 23-28 nm, and (c) 60-65 nm. The 60-65 nm fiber predominates in gently lysed macronuclei and is probably representative of the most highly supercoiled chromatin. Micronuclei exhibit a 25-nm fiber exclusively. Examination of numerous macronuclear spreads has revealed a tangle of fibers with no obvious organization above the fiber level. For example, they are not structured into small spherical bodies as are the fibers of Paramecium and Tetrahymena. On the basis of morphological evidence, the interdivisional hypotrich macronucleus appears to contain a moderate number of long chromatin units (large linkage groups) rather than numerous gene-sized units such as are found in purified hypotrich macronuclear DNA.
10.2307/3225988|The cytopharyngeal pouch of Tetrahymena vorax, limited to the carnivorous, macrostome form, is bounded by a membrane and functions as a prey receptacle which later pinches off from the cytostome forming a food vacuole. The pouch occupies about 80% of the cell volume of the organism. Macrostome in which its maintenance is inhibited by cycloheximide are unable to capture and digest prey. Addition of TTP, UTP, CTP, ITP, GTP, ADP, AMP, and adenosine (3 mM) does not result in collapse of the pouch while addition of ATP (3 mM) induces its rapid collapse. The time required for such collapse for 50% of the population is dependent on the initial concentration of ATP. The effect of ATP is transitory and the pouch reforms. The addition of ATP to macrostomes which have been extracted for 3-4 h with 5% glycerol also results in collapse. Microfilaments approximately 7 nM are observed extending into the cytoplasm from the membrane bounding the pouch.
10.2307/3225989| The cardiac ganglion of Callinectes is embedded in the heart. The ganglion contains five large (follower) neurons (80 m transnuclear diameter) and three or four small (pacemaker) neurons (20 m transnuclear diameter). An extracellular neural lamella composed of fine fibrils embedded in an amorphous matrix surrounds the ganglion. A cellular perineurium extends from the neural lamella to the neuropil. Often, a layer of "intermediate" glial cells is situated on the surface of the neuropil. The neuropil occupies the core of the ganglion and contains the neural elements and supporting cells of the ganglion and probably neural elements that originate in the central nervous system. Perikarya of follower and pacemaker neurons contain abundant granular endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, and inclusion bodies. Synapses appear to be of the chemically transmitting type. Four types of synaptic vesicles were observed: (1) small round vesicles (280-360  diameter); (2) dense vesicles (850-1,000  diameter); (3) flattened vesicles (250-550  diameter); (4) large clear vesicles (700-1,000  diameter). Electrotonic synapses were not found. 
10.2307/3225990| The fine structure of intracellular calculi in the cytoplasm of Euplotes, a ciliate protozoon, was studied by electron microscopy. The mineral concretions are small (ca. 1 m in diameter) and are formed and retained within membrane-bound vacuoles, some of which may be a constituent of the cell's osmoregulatory apparatus. The ultrastructural data provide a basis for suggesting possible stages of calculus formation. Although the chemical composition of the mineral concretions has not yet been analyzed, it is likely that the calculi are calcium deposits either with carbonate or phosphate. They appear to be constitutive through the cell division cycle in fast-growing populations. Slow-growing cultures and starved cells were not studied. The function of intracellular calculi is unknown. 
10.2307/3225991|Form and placement of the spermatophore of Acartia tonsa are investigated, utilizing scanning electron microscope techniques. Attachment of single and multiple spermatophores to the posterior portion of the female genital opening is accurate and r restricted to the spoon-shaped proximal end of the neck, while the cylindrical portion of the neck and remaining distal section of the spermatophore hang entirely free.
10.2307/3225992|Histochemical characterization of refringent globules which occur in fresh-water gastrotrichs is presented. Whole specimens of Lepidodermella squammata were stained with the neutral lipid stain, oil red O. Controls were first extracted with methanol-chloroform. The globules were determined to consist primarily of neutral lipids.
10.2307/3225993|A new diatom species, Plagiotropis arizonica n. sp., is described on the basis of characteristics visible with the light microscope. The occurrence of this organism in inland waters is particularly interesting, since most members of the genus are considered marine or brackish water forms. The type-locality of this taxon indicates a preference for water of high conductivity and chloride content.
10.2307/3225994|The myoepithelial lining of the hyperbranchial coelom of the lancelet Branchiostoma floridae was studied by transmission electron microscopy. The myoepithelial cells contained microfilaments of two distinctly different sizes: "thin" filaments with a diameter of 5-7 nm and "thick" filaments with a diameter of 18-25 nm. Microfilaments were markedly more plentiful in myoepithelial cells situated near sites where groups of solenocytes were attached to the coelomic surface of the ligamentum denticulatum. From the work of previous investigators, it is thought that such patches of solenocytes represent sites where fluid moves from blood spaces (within the ligamentum denticulatum) into the coelom. In turn, coelomic fluid is thought to be propelled into the lumen of excretory tubules by the beating of solenocyte flagella. The present paper postulates that the well-developed myoepithelium found near solenocytes plays a role in renal function by influencing the movement of fluid into the coelomic cavity.
10.2307/3225995|Excysted metacercariae of Zygocotyle lunata did not advance in development in 3-day-old chick embryos. However, postmetacercarial development was obtained when excysted metacercariae were placed on 10-day-old chick chorioallantoic membranes and maintained there for five days at either 39 or 41 C. These worms were comparable in size and development to those grown in the cecum of domestic chicks for five days. Worms were either attached to the chorionic ectoderm by their acetabulum or were free in a lesion on the surface of the chorioallantois.
10.2307/3225996|All stages of a new mite are described from the scarabaeid beetle host (probably Catharsius molossus) collected in Viet Nam. Tarsopolipus langi n. sp., second species in the genus, is characterized by lack of a solenidion on tarsus II, by having the chelicerae in females longer than the length of the gnathosoma, and by possessing a relatively long aedeagus with blunt setae. Such characteristics are not found in the most closely related genus Dorsipes.
10.2307/3225997|A new rotary microcompressor is described and compared with the rotocompressor invented by A. A. Schaeffer. The present instrument allows delicately controlled compression of microorganisms between a standard coverslip and slide with negligible shear forces. The low profile design permits turreting to higher power objective lenses without refocusing. The compression plate with affixed coverslip is prevented from rotating by two precisely positioned rods in the baseplate that holds the glass slide. A reduction gear with graduated scale is turned by thumb wheel to raise and lower the coverslip relative to the glass slide. Slide preparations can be changed rapidly by releasing the four tight-fitting retaining clips holding the compression plate and reduction gear to the baseplate. The Spoon Microcompressor is designed to gently slow and stop swimming organisms, compress organisms to a set thickness and thus determine biomass, and compress soft-bodied organisms so that their internal structures, including ingested food, can be better seen.
10.2307/3225998|Most taxonomists find it necessary to accumulate an extensive library which is likely to include a wide variety of materials such as journal publications, hard cover texts, personal sketches and notes, keys, photomicrographs, etc. All these materials can be manipulated and consolidated into a personalized, functional format by use of the microfiche system described here.
10.2307/3226162| On the occasion of the Centenary Meeting of the American Microscopical Society, it is appropriate to honor microscopists over the centuries and in every part of the world. One such group encompasses those "philosophers in little things," the protozoologists, whose dependence on microscopy is self-evident: tribute is paid, by biographical note and photograph in each case, to 54 such microscopists of the past, from founding father A. van Leeuwenhoek to H. E. Finley, recently deceased former President of the Society. From the long-extended era (ending ca. 1850) arbitrarily designated as the first, embracing the dawn of protozoology and the later decades immediately preceding establishment of the field as a separate and distinct discipline, Leeuwenhoek, Hill, O. F. Mller, Ehrenberg, and Dujadin are the giants singled out for special consideration. A second period includes the remainder of the 19th century; and chosen to represent it are Claparde, Stein, Btschli (that incomparable "architect of protozoology"), Kent, Schewiakoff, Leidy, Heeckel, Maupas, R. Hertwig, and Penard. The turn of the century, broadly interpreted (recognizing overlapping in both directions), is proposed as a third era in the growth and development of the field of microscopical protozoology, and "thumbnail" sketches are offered of Doflein, Calkins, Kofoid, Hartmann, Jennings, Mesnil, Metcalf, Woodruff, Wenyon, Hegner, Dogiel, and Dobell. A fourth era extends roughly from 1920 to 1970, with homage deliberately limited to workers no longer living. This final period is marked by a still further increased diversification in protozoological research (and its reunion with cell biology), the appearance of fresh and provocative hypotheses, and the cytologically revolutionary advent of electron microscopy. Included here are the following outstanding persons: Chatton, Faur-Fremiet, Kudo, Reichenow, M. Robertson, Hyman, Bla, Kahl, Kirby, Wenrich, Cleveland, R. P. Hall, 
10.2307/3226163| Some attempts are made to clarify the taxonomic status of the nassulidean Hypostomata which have a continuous hypostomial frange. The early work by Blochmann is indispensable in helping us distinguish species belonging to a new family, the Scaphidiodontidae n. fam., from those assignable to Jankowski's Orthodonellidae. Species of the genus Chilodontopsis, first described by Blochmann, should never be mistaken for species of a new genus Zosterodasys n. g. A third family, the Nassulopsidae n. fam., is established for Faur-Fremiet's Nassulopsis and another new genus, Phasmatopsis n. g. Brief characterizations are offered of all taxa implicated: the order, two suborders, four families, and seven genera. 
10.2307/3226164|Asplanchna brightwelli, A. girodi, A. priodonta, A. sieboldi, A. silvestrii, and Asplanchnopus multiceps co-occur in the water of the lower Mokelumne River in central California. They are similar in body form and in the structure of their trophi. Differences in trophi morphology can be correlated with differences in the foods consumed by each species. Strong adductor muscles associated with either expanded bases of the rami, as in Asplanchnopus, or large apophyses, as in A. silvestrii and A. sieboldi, together with pointed tips to the rami are correlated with the consumption of larger prey than that consumed by A. girodi and A. priodonta which lack these features. A. brightwelli is intermediate between the two groups. The capability for apposition of the rami of the trophi in the midline in A. priodonta and A. silvestrii appears to be correlated with the use of diatoms for food. Other correlations are also observed.
10.2307/3226165|Detailed light microscopical descriptions of four free-living trypanoplasm-like flagellates are given and their position in the order Kinetoplastida Honigberg, 1963 ascertained. In gross morphology, members of the new genus Procryptobia resemble members of the genus Cryptobia Leidy, 1846 but differ in being phagotrophic and in lacking cortical contractility. The trypanocide 4'.6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) used as a DNA-specific. vital stain in conjunction with fluorescence microscopy demonstrales the presence of a single prominent kinetoplast in the trophic phase of Procryptobia spp; the three species described here-P. vorax n. sp., P. tremulans n. sp., and P. glutinosa n. sp. -differ in the shape of this structure. All form mononucleate thin walled cysts; in P. glutinosa, however, several kinetoplast nucleoids are present in the mature cyst and in the metacystic flagellate. The genus Dimastigella Sandon, originally described as an akinetoplastic trypanoplasm, is shown here to differ from Cryptobia and Procryptobia in the arrangement of the basal bodies of its flagella, and from Cryptobia in being phagotrophic. DAPI-staining, moreover, reveals that D. trypaniformis has multiple minute kinetoplast nucleoids present throughout the mitochondrion in the trophic flagellate; this polykinetoplastic condition is maintained in the thick walled cyst. Scanning electron microscopy shows marked homologies between the oral and flagellar pocket regions of Procryptobia, Dimastigella, and Cryptobia; but in the phagotrophic genera the rostrum and cytostomal lip are developed for seizing prey. Procryptobia tremulans was isolated from a contaminated human urine sample, where
10.2307/3226166|Three new species of the genus Ankylocythere Hart are described from crayfishes (Cambaridae) collected in Alabama, Florida and Mississippi, bringing the total number of species of the genus to 23. A. freyi n. sp. and A. krantzi n. sp. were found in association with crayfishes of varying habitats (streams, roadside ditches, burrows) and thus are not known to demonstrate any type of specificity for host or environment. A. chipola n. sp., however, demonstrates "ecological specificity" for the burrow environment, as it is confined to species of crayfishes that spend all or most of their lives in constructed burrows.
10.2307/3226167|The structure of the integument of two sipunculans, Sipunculus nudus L. and Golfingia vulgaris (de Blainville), was examined by electron microscopy. Despite some peculiarities, the cuticle of both species shows a similar plan, whether it comes from the trunk or from the introvert. In transverse sections, the cuticle shows three superposed regions. The external part consists of a thin continuous electron-opaque border. The intermediate area, variable in thickness and in shape, contains fibrillar structures. Comparatively, the internal region is by far the thickest; it consists of successive layers of fiber bundles, parallel-oriented in a same layer. In Sipunculus, the bundles intersect at right angles to cach other, Microvilli issuing from the subjacent epidermal cells penetrate the cuticle, more or less deeply according to the species, but never reach the external medium. Microvillar and fibrillar systems are embedded in a granulo-filamentous matrix, the latter containing in addition, electron opaque particles in Golfingia. The epidermis is characterized by the presence of attachment devices. From a phylogenetic point of view, this cuticular architecture is very similar to that of the annelids (especially the polychaetes) and the Pogonophora.
10.2307/3226168| In the region of Nosy B, northwestern Madagascar, three copepods are associated with sea pens. Doridicola virgulariae n. sp. on Virgularia juncea is characterized by the female genital segment being wider than long, the female caudal ramus longer than wide, the second antenna with two terminal claws, the first segment of the second maxilla with numerous small spines, and the free segment of leg 5 in the female unornamented. Doridicola pteropadus n. sp. on Pteroeides oblongum is distinctive in having two expansions on the inner margin of the free segment of leg 5 in the female. Pennatulicola pterophilus (Stock, 1962) is partially redescribed from specimens on Pteroeides sagamiense (this species previously known only from Pteroeides lacazei in the Sunda Sea). Seven lichomolgids are known as associates of pennatulid coelenterates. 
10.2307/3226169|Pleurocoptes furgasoni n. sp., a thigmotactic oligohymenophoran ciliate, is described from light and scanning electron microscopy and compared with P. hydractiniae, the other member of the genus. In addition to differences in hosts and locale, major structural differences are apparent in the differentiated thigmotactic ciliature. The buccal apparatus is compared with that of the related genus, Pleuronema. A noteworthy feature of P. furgasoni n. sp. is the regional differentiation of the pellicular oral surface into a complex array of interkinetal depressions. Comparative and evolutionary aspects of thigmotactism are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3226170| The thallus and zoospores of Blidingia minima (Ngeli ex Ktzing) Kylin var. minima were examined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Thalli are monostromatic with thick, fibrous cell walls. The basal disc of the thallus is composed of elongate cells, surrounded by a thinner wall and a loose, fibrous matrix. The quadriflagellated zoospores are ovoid, naked, and lack an eyespot. A single chloroplast occupies a posterior position and contains one pyrenoid, which is ovate, surrounded by starch and divided medially by a single thylakoid. The nucleus is often surrounded by multilayered rough endoplasmic reticulum. Mitochondria contain notably long and wide cristae. The four flagella and basal bodies are cruciately arranged. Cytoplasmic microtubules line the zoospore perimeter, radiating from a region of four cruciately arranged narrow bands or rootlets. Prior to settling, zoospores retract their flagella by fusion of the plasmalemma with the flagellar membrane. A comparison of the ultrastructural features of B. minima is made with other members of the Ulvales. 
10.2307/3226171|Diminutive cells are described from the sacoglossan gastropod Alderia modesta. The cells do not resemble any known type of molluscan cell, and they do not appear to be derived from the algal food of the mollusc. A prominent nucleolus and an abundance of free ribosome-like granules are present; mitochondria, cilia, and flagella were not identified. Diminutive cells are intracellular in many tissues of the mollusc and occasionally are intranuclear. They are found in the lumen of the digestive gland, which they appear to enter from the digestive cells, and in the lumen of the intestine and ovotestis and in the hemocoel. There is some evidence that they are phagocytized by hemocytes, but they do not appear to undergo lysis within any of the molluscan cells. Diminutive cells never were found enclosed within vacuoles, although they often were partially invested by cisternae of the rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum of a molluscan cell. Their occurrence within oocytes and in the lumen of the ovotestis may be of significance in effecting a transmission from one specimen of A. modesta to another. It is proposed that transfer of diminutive cells occurs transovarially and through copulation. It is suggested that they may be members of the Protozoa, but the absence of definitive features prevents their assignment to any accepted taxonomic category.
10.2307/3226172| Samples of benthic algae were collected from 73 sites in the Portage River drainage system. The samples were first examined in living condition, followed by cleaning with hydrogen peroxide and potassium dichromate. Cleaned samples were mounted on glass slides for light microscopy. Selected samples were also prepared for scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The taxa examined were: Gyrosigma acuminatum (Ktz.) Rabh. var. acuminatum, Gyrosigma macrum (W. Sm.) Griff. & Henfr. var. macrum, Gyrosigma scalproides (Rabh.) Cl. var. scalproides, Gyrosigma spencerii (Quek.) Griff. & Henfr. var. spencerii, Gyrosigma wormleyi (Sulliv.) Boyer var. wormleyi and Pleurosigma delicatulum W. Sm. var. delicatulum. Valves of Gyrosigma and Pleurosigma were found to be very similar in ultrastructure. Both genera possess central nodules, inner central grooves, central siliceous bars, terminal nodules, and apical raphe fissures which curve toward the valve margin. The punctal structure of the two genera is, however, distinctly different, each punctum of Pleurosigma delicatulum possessing a siliceous bar not found in any of the species of Gyrosigma. Gyrosigma spencerii, G. wormleyi, and P. delicatulum were found to possess fissures or indentations on their valve apices. Evidence indicates that these fissures result from fusion of individual punctal slits. 
10.2307/3226173|A technique is described for treating protozoa of moderate size (e.g., Tetrahymena) with a number of important laboratory stains while in situ on the surface of nitrocellulose membrane filters. Successful cytological staining of such cells can be achieved with slight modifications of the feulgen nuclear reaction and the Chatton-Lwoff and protargol silver-impregnation techniques for cortical structures. In addition, some selected cytochemical staining of the system has been found feasible. The methods employed include the alcian blue reaction (for acid mucopolysaccharides), Bauer's glycogen stain, a trypan blue discrimination of viable/nonviable cells, and the periodic acid-Schiff reaction (for neutral polysaccharides). Membrane filters can provide a swift and convenient vehicle for the bulk handling (including fixation, staining, and mounting) of large numbers of ciliate protozoa grown as monolayers.
10.2307/3226174| The scanning electron microscope reveals a conspicuous nephridiopore in the eleventh segment of E. coulli. This euryhaline species appears to be limited by a persistent interstitial salinity of 12. The population was found to exist in an interstitial salinity as high as 42 the highest salinity from which kinorhynchs have been reported. In a preliminary laboratory experiment, 25 of 31 specimens were able to survive a salinity of 1, for at least 11 h. 
10.2307/3226175|An improvement in the standard stub system for the scanning electron microscope is described. This system utilizes a permanent stub designed to fit the scanning electron microscope in use and demountable specimen discs. The specimen is securely attached to a conductive disc, placed into the permanent stub, viewed, easily removed, and safely stored in a special holding box. This permanent stub system unifies specimen mounting for scanning electron microscopy, permits the microscopist ease in specimen storage, and can lower operation costs.
10.2307/3226176|The wall structure of double zygospores of C. lineatum Ehrenberg, including previously unreported sutures in the median walls, is described and figured. The sutures compare favorably with those in zygospores of known taxa of the genus Spirogyra.
10.2307/3226177|Amoebae were isolated from kidney lesions in hatchery-reared yearling rainbow trout in Italy and established in continuous culture on modified Musgrave & Clegg agar media. Cultures were sent to laboratories in Oxford, Maryland and Dijon, France where the amoebae were identified as Vexillifera bacillipedes Page, 1969, a free-living mayorellid amoeba originally isolated from the Rock River, Janesville, Wisconsin. Further studies on experimental infections in fish and on the taxonomy and ultrastructural morphology of the organism are in progress in laboratories in Italy and France.
10.2307/3226178|The new cestode Dieffluvium unipapillatum n. g., n. sp. is characterized by having a scolex with two loculi, no postovarian vitellaria, a single gonopore, a uterus extending anterior of the cirrus, and a distinct seminal receptacle. The generic significance of the shape of the scolex, number of uterine loops, absence of postovarian vitellaria, and the postovarian loop of this cestode is discussed.
10.2307/3225938|The account traces the history of the American Microscopical Society from its founding in an organizational meeting in Indianapolis, in 1878, through its Silver Jubilee in Buffalo, 1904, and its 50th Anniversary in Nashville, 1927, to its Centenary Meeting in Richmond, 1978. Milepost years are indicated, charter members honored, and meetings described. The role of the journal is depicted; and symposial topics are listed, with emphasis on the themes of early meetings in which "pure" microscopy and microscope accessories received a great deal of attention. Numerous "personalities" are mentioned, with special attention to "giants" in the field: for example, the Spencers, R. Tolles, the Bausch family, and Governor Cox of Ohio. The first woman member was admitted in 1879; the Society's first woman president was elected in 1973. Problems, trends, progress, and philosophies are recounted, with more to come in succeeding installments of this comprehensive history of America's first national society of professional microscopists and of biologists dependent on microscopy in their scientific pursuits.
10.2307/3225939| In this concluding part of a special tribute to a select group of microscopists who were experts in various subfields of protozoology, homage is paid to an additional 15 leaders: again, each brief and somewhat informal biographical sketch is accompanied by a photograph. (Thus a new total-69 rather than 54, belying the original title of the paper-of former "greats" is presented.) Pasteur and Koch are added as the co-founders of modern medical microbiology, though their contributions to protozoology were limited. The early American microbiologist, Theobald Smith, is also saluted with them. Having been provided with appropriate photographic material, several additional outstanding 19th-century workers in general zoology and parasitological protozoology, who were able to be treated only briefly in Part I, can now be fully included: J. Mller, Balbiani, Collin, Laveran, Golgi, Chagas, von Prowazek, Schaudinn, and Minchin. Like Koch, Laveran and Golgi were Nobel Laureates. Finally, the great foraminiferan specialist Cushman and the parasitologists Becker and Strelkow (the latter only recently deceased) are recognized as three additional persons of highly unusual ability, in pursuance of their specialized research interests, in the application of microscopy to protozoological problems. Thus, in the combined Parts I and II of this work, published on the occasion of the celebration of the centenary of the American Microscopical Society, some 69 protozoologists have been honored pictorially and a total of nearly 300 other historically important workers cited for their exemplary contributions during the past three centuries. The bibliography for both parts of the paper appears at the conclusion of the present work: its more than 350 references, given in full, stand as the best monument possible to the memory of these inspired microscopists of the past. A brief Addendum of "firsts" in protozoology has been appended, following the bibliography. ["Part I" appeared in the preceding number of this journal.] 
10.2307/3225940|Electron microscopy of white and green, adult and gemmulated Spongilla lacustris revealed algal symbionts to be predominantly intracellular and to reside in membrane-bound host vacuoles. Ultrastructural characteristics of the algae in the adult green sponges were similar to those reported for the symbionts of Paramecium bursaria and Hydra viridis. These included a cup-shaped chloroplast containing thylakoids, stroma, starch grains, and osmiophilic lipid globules. The alga possessed a cell wall, nucleus with nucleolus, and in the cytoplasm a lipid storage body, one or more polyphosphate granules, and a mitochondrion. Pyrenoids were lacking in all of the zoochlorellae. The symbionts were actively reproducing in adult green sponges but not in adult white sponges or green or white gemmules. There was evidence of some digestion of the symbionts by the host. Large numbers of potentially parasitic algae were not observed in the white sponges.
10.2307/3225941|Two species of the family Cerviniidae have been collected from the Beaufort Sea off the coast of Alaska. Pseudocervinia magna (Smirnov, 1946) and Cervinia langi n. sp. were found in association. Lang (1936, 1948) described the new species as a variant of Cervinia synarthra Sars, 1911. However, C. langi is consistent and unique in the setation of its swimming legs and in details of the mandible and maxilliped. A key to the species and a table of salient morphological characters of the genus Cervinia are given. Appendages from the cephalothorax of P. magna are also figured, and its taxonomic position is discussed.
10.2307/3225942|The chemical nature of the contents of cortical ampules of Euplotes crassus during preconjugant interaction have been investigated. Different fixation techniques as well as chemical treatments and stainings were used. Results obtained led to the conclusion that these ampules contain a considerable amount of lipid associated with some protein. The presence of mucopolysaccharides was, on the contrary, not evident. Thus an analogy between these cortical organelles in Euplotes and mucocysts of other ciliates cannot be confirmed.
10.2307/3225943|Fluorescence-inducing illumination in combination with conventional tungsten white light provided enhanced microscopical observations of algae. Maximum fluorescence emission of biliprotein-containing algae (Cyanophyta, Rhodophyta, and Cryptophyta) occurred with green excitation light (540 nm). Bacillariophyta, Chlorophyta, Chrysophyta, and Euglenophyta fluoresced brightest when excited with blue-violet light (380-490 nm). A comparison of preservation techniques showed that glutaraldehyde was superior to treatment with either formalin, "M
10.2307/3225944|Adult populations of Limnocalanus macrurus in southeastern Lake Michigan are subject to heavy infestations by the suctorian Tokophrya quadripartita. Infestation levels are low (<5%) in the early summer, when the new adult generation appears in the plankton, and increase through the autumn and winter, reaching 100% by March or April. Immature L. macrurus copepodites and the copepodites of more abundant cooccurring species do not appear to be infested by the suctorian. T. quadripartita has been described previously from European and North American ponds and marshes in association with peritrichs on snails, beetle larvae, and turtles. Its association with a copepod inhabiting the cold oligotrophic waters of Lake Michigan represents a previously unknown habitat for this suctorian.
10.2307/3225945|Morphological features are presented which describe three new diatom taxa, Caloneis latiuscula var. reimeri, Cyclotella pseudostelligera f. parva, and Gomphonema montezumense from Montezuma Well National Monument, a unique solution-collapse basin in north-central Arizona. Their occurrence, thus far, appears to be restricted to this environment.
10.2307/3225946|The neuroanatomy of the North American pentastomid, Porocephalus crotali, is composed of a bilobed subesophageal ganglion, ganglia with associated peripheral nerves, and paired cuticular bulbous sensory papillae. The neurohistology of this species is illustrated and contrasted with similar features found in other closely related pentastomid species. Common features shared with other porocephalids of this species are: a compact subesophageal ganglion, paired major nerves, a neuropile core surrounded by a cellular rind bearing grape-like clusters of ganglion cells, and paired cuticular bulbous sensory papillae. Variation from other porocephalids was noted with respect to sensory neurons found in the sensory corpuscles. A setiferous-type sensory neuron was the most commonly observed sensor, while compact, nonsetiferous, neurohypodermal cells were observed within the cephalic papillae of P. crotali. Many of the sensory neurons previously described for other pentastomes were not observed in this species. Sensory corpuscles were located in five types of bulbous papillae: cephalic, hook, primary, ventral, and ventrolateral papillae.
10.2307/3225947|Two types of proturan eggs recovered from rotted wood are described. They differ from a previously described egg of Eosentomon in that one type bears large conical protuberances and the other has numerous small plates on the surface. Four eggs of each type were found. On both kinds, the outer shell is flexible and easily abraded. There is also a smooth, brittle, inner shell. The hatching of the prelarva consists of alternate flexing and curling of the body until the tip of the abdomen breaks through. The legs play no role in the observed hatching process.
10.2307/3225948|The quantitative separation of marine free-living nematodes from fine-grained sediments is an extremely difficult and laborious process. A simple flotation method, utilizing Ludox AM, is described. The efficiency of the method is 90% or greater when proper precautions are observed.
10.2307/3225949|Analyses of fecal pellets from the marine copepod Pontella meadi through 14 days of aging at 22 C revealed initial decreases in carbon and nitrogen contents, followed by secondarily fluctuating values for both. Observations by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed colonization of the pellets by bacteria and ciliates at 22 C, suggesting that the fluctuations in carbon and nitrogen contents at 22 C reflect microbial carbon and nitrogen levels. At 5 C, carbon levels were virtually unchanged through 14 days of aging, and SEM observation revealed that microbial attachment to-and biodegradation of-the pellets were greatly reduced. This suggests that once fecal pellets descend to the cooler waters of the deep sea, they may be ecologically significant in transporting organic matter to the abyss.
10.2307/3225950|Adult Acartia tonsa specimens collected in Escambia Bay, Florida in September 1977, were heavily infested with ciliates of the genus Epistylis. Investigation by SEM revealed that lesions were produced in the copepod exoskletons at the sites of attachment of the ciliate stalks. Bacterial colonization near the lesions suggests that the bacteria may utilize dissolved copepod body contents which are lost through the lesions. This may be a factor in the seasonal succession of copepod species in estuaries.
10.2307/3225951|Specimens of Sagitta tenuis (phylum: Chaetognatha) were examined with the scanning electron microscope. A sedation and handling procedure is described that preserved the surface microstructures of these organisms and produced fixed specimens in better condition than had previously been possible.
10.2307/3225952|Paratelorchis Stunkard & Franz, 1977, is preoccupied by Paratelorchis Mehra & Bokhari, 1932. Therefore, Auritelorchis nom. nov. is proposed as the replacement name.
10.2307/3225953|Endosymbiotic bacteria occurred in less than 5% of Pleurocapsa minor cells. Bacteria were rod-shaped and present throughout all regions of the cytoplasm. This is the first report of intracellular bacteria in the Cyanophyceae.
10.2307/3226017|The present account continues the chronicling of the long and colorful history of the American Microscopical Society. It is the second and concluding installment. Some of the highlights or mileposts mentioned briefly in Part I are expanded here. The early Constitution and its subsequent amendations are treated; and the Secretary's journal, the Transactions (or "TAMS") is described from the time of its origin until the present. Its "content-emphases" and general coverage are mentioned as well as the problem of reprinting back issues; its special Memorial Issues are cited. The Spencer-Tolles Fund is revisited; and the major officerships of the Society through the past decades are reviewed: President, Secretary (Secretary-Editor until 1966), Treasurer, Editor, and Custodian-Historian. The Centenary Meeting, held in December 1978, is described with details of the highly memorable Banquet Program. Finally, predictions are made for the second 100 years; and a bibliography of selected references is appended.
10.2307/3226019|Unela nahantensis, collected from Reid State Park, Maine, exhibit slight differences from the original species description by Doe. What was first described as a vestibular gland has been shown morphologically and histochemically to be a large anterior pedal gland, opening to the outside just ventral to the mouth. Histochemical tests demonstrate that the mucosubstance present in this anterior gland stains identically to that found in the numerous, smaller pedal glands lying along the entire length of the foot. The substance is a PAS (+), alcianophilic, highly sulfated organic compound with a large percentage of sulfate present as O-sulfate. A nonspecific esterase is the only enzymatic activity detectable in both pedal glands. In addition, some histochemical properties of the unicellular epidermal glands and a further description of their morphology are given.
10.2307/3226020|Laboratory-reared Tintinnopsis parva were examined under the electron microscope and their ultrastructure compared with published studies on freshly preserved species from the plankton. Capsules, inclusions unique to the ciliate suborder Tintinnina, were smaller than in other species, but the organizational pattern was similar. Absent throughout the bulk of the cytoplasm except in the posterior cortical region, the capsules were especially numerous in the cytoplasmic evaginations connected with the adoral membranelles (as in other species). The position of the evaginations was constant. Two striae were present, a median and an external, on opposite sides of each adoral membranelle. Observations are also reported on the lorica-building granules, the lorica proper, and various cytoplasmic inclusions. Endocytoplasmic bacteria, present in many other species, were absent in these cultivated specimens.
10.2307/3226021|Because of the selectively permeable nature of nematode cuticles, staining of nematodes has been difficult. This paper reports the effect of Pronase and collagenase on cuticle permeability to five stains. Collagenase increased the rate of staining in both laboratory and field populations of dead nematodes. Live nematodes, however, did not absorb stains even when treated with the enzymes; therefore, nematodes must be either heat-killed or fixed in a preservative. Biebrich scarlet-eosin B, a red dye, was absorbed most rapidly, and nematodes so stained were visible in soils. This allowed direct count of nematode populations in soil samples.
10.2307/3226022|Nitocrella, typically a low salinity/fresh-water genus, represented by a new species in South Carolina, N. aestuarina n. sp., is the first Nitocrella reported from North America and inhabits high salinity (28-34
10.2307/3226023|Histochemical methods for alkaline and acid phosphatase. glucuronidase, leucine aminopeptidase, nonspecific esterase, and acetylcholinesterase were applied to intact cercariae of Plagiorchis elegans. Reactions for alkaline and acid phosphatase were localized at the same sites in the tail, acetabulum, oral sucker, excretory bladder, and caudal pocket. No reactions were obtained for -glucoronidase and leucine aminopeptidase. Reactions for nonspecific esterase and acetylcholinesterase occurred throughout the nervous system of the body and tail and were inhibited by 10
10.2307/3226024|The microbiotal assemblage of the bathyal bottom of the San Diego Trough described in this paper consists of microfauna (flagellates, amoebae, testacids, and foraminiferans) and microflora (yeast-like cells and prokaryotes). Some of these organisms appear to belong to major taxa which have not been previously described. The techniques used for mounting, staining, and clearing of these samples were evaluated with regard to fragility, shrinkage, and distortion of the organisms. Results indicate that fragility is probably not a problem in quantitative studies of microbiota. Shrinkage averaging 70% (for six different species) should be considered in estimates of biovolume. Cellular distortion was found to be a potential problem at lower taxonomic levels for some Protozoa.
10.2307/3226025|A study involving light and scanning electron microscopes has revealed that the terminal and middle circles of proboscis hooks of the acanthocephalan Gracilisentis gracilisentis possess hook retractor muscles which aid in their retraction, while the basal circle of hooks has no muscular attachments and is permanently extended. Hook sheaths are present around all hooks. Hooks and hook sheaths of the middle circle retract simultaneously followed by retraction of the terminal row of hooks and hook sheaths. Variability was seen in the number and arrangement of proboscis hooks. The basal circle has 12-14 hooks; terminal and middle circles, 12 or 13.
10.2307/3226026|Elaphoidella wilsonae n. sp., a new harpacticoid species, was collected at two locations in northwestern Colorado. This species differs from related species in the form of the caudal ramus and the setation of legs 4 and 5. A key for the identification of North American Elaphoidella is included.
10.2307/3226027|An experimental analysis was made of the primary food sources of Lepidodermella squammata in mixed culture. Other organisms present in the culture included the green alga Chlorella sp. and the bacterium Pseudomonas pseudomallei. Direct observation, a staining technique, autoradiography, and culture attempts revealed that the alga and the bacterium served as food for the gastrotrich. The alga alone probably does not provide sufficient nutrients. These observations suggest that gastrotrichs in nature feed on bacteria and algae, with the latter playing a subsidiary role.
10.2307/3226028|Surface characteristics of the resting cysts of Blepharisma stoltei are described. The ectocyst is comprised of "sheets" of closely interwoven fibrils. Similar "sheets" have been seen connecting neighboring cysts. Many interruptions in the surface apparently allow communication from space within the inner wall to the external environment.
10.2307/3226029|In this note are shown what may well be the first pictures of encysted Polytomella by SEM. There are major differences in surface topography of the vegetative and encysted forms of this flagellate. The cysts are spherical in shape with either a smooth or wrinkled surface.
10.2307/3226030|The histology and histochemistry of the spermathecae of Sonorella santaritana, S. odorata, S. huachucana, and S. sabinoensis were investigated in an attempt to elucidate their physiological functions. The spermatheca is a thin-walled sac lined with columnar epithelium and surrounded by distinct layers of muscle. The lumen is filled with concentrically arranged layers of material which is apparently partially decomposed, sperm-filled mucin. The hydrolytic enzymes protease and deoxyribonuclease are localized in the lumen of the spermatheca. Ribonuclease is concentrated in the epithelial lining with lesser activity demonstrable in the lumen. Acid phosphatase activity is localized in the lower half of the epithelial cells and adenosine triphosphatase activity is concentrated immediately below the epithelium in the muscle layer. The cumulative evidence appears to confirm a digestive function of this reproductive organ.
10.2307/3226031|Palladium chloride in aqueous solution can be used an an en bloc stain for elastic fibers in Epon-embedded tissues. The visualization of elastic fibers in thick sections stained with toluidine blue appears to be greatly enhanced by this technique. Elastic fibers in thin sections counterstained with lead citrate are moderately electron dense and microfibrils are easily identified. Counterstaining with uranyl acetate and lead citrate results in increased contrast of elastic fibers that varies according to the length of exposure to uranyl acetate. However, as the elastic fibers become more electron dense, the microfibrils are less easily distinguished.
10.2307/3226032|The major flagellated protozoa symbiotic in the hindgut of the termite Zootermopsis were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The three species of the hypermastigote Trichonympha, each bearing thousands of flagella, were observed and identified. The absence of rostral flagella on T. sphaerica differentiated it from T. campanula and T. collaris. The latter two species were distinguished by the relative girths of their posterior ends; and the amoeboid posterior of T. collaris was noted in different configurations. The trichomonad flagellate Trichomitopsis termopsidis was observed and its surface organelles identified: axostyle, anterior flagella, undulating membrane, and recurrent flagellum. The epibiotic bacteria covering most of the exterior surface of the commensal flagellate Streblomastix strix were easily seen by SEM.
10.2307/3226033|The chromosome number and morphology for Paragonimus kellicotti and P. ohirai were studied, using the squash technique. Meiotic metaphase was observed in preparations of adult worm testes, and mitotic metaphase in intramolluscan stages of the parasites. Both species exhibit n = 11 chromosomes. Mitotic metaphase figures of P. kellicotti show two pairs of large submetacentric chromosomes; three of medium size, all with subterminal primary constrictions and two with median secondary constrictions; and six of small size, two with median, and four with submedian constrictions. In contrast, P. ohirai has four large pairs of chromosomes, two acrocentric and two submetacentric; three pairs of medium-sized chromosomes, all with submedian constrictions; and four pairs of small submetacentric(?) chromosomes.
10.2307/3225719|In the Moluccas, five copepods are associated with two species of the soft coral Litophyton. Paramolgus resectus n. sp. on Litophyton stuhlmanni has remarkably short setae on the caudal ramus, the longest seta much shorter than the ramus itself. P. litophyticus n. sp. on L. acutifolium is characterized by the shape of the female genital segment and the elongate slender claw on the second antenna. Metaxymolgus aculeatus is partially redescribed from specimens on both species of Litophyton. Paramolgus accinctus occurs on L. stuhlmanni, and P. prominulus, on both L. stuhlmanni and L. acutifolium.
10.2307/3225721|The somatic and oral ultrastructures of the carnivorous colpodid ciliate Bresslaua insidiatrix are described. The structure of the somatic and oral organellar complexes are very similar to those of other colpodids; however, somatic kinetids, especially the posterior kinetosomal postciliary ribbons, are supported by more dense material. Moreover, this carnivorous genus has apparently lost the right oral polykinetid and, instead, possesses a special set of microtubules along the right side of the cytostome-cytopharynx. These structural specializations are discussed with reference to the probable frequency of changes in ultrastructural features. It is further argued that structural change will occur more often in the oral region than in the somatic region of the ciliate cortex.
10.2307/3225722|The microanatomy of the supraesophageal ganglion of Munida iris was examined by reconstruction from stained serial sections. There are three major subdivisions: the protocerebrum, which contains the optic lobes; the deutocerebrum, which gives rise to the antennulary nerves and contains the olfactory and accessory neuropiles; and the tritocerebrum, which contains fibers of the tegumentary and antennary nerves as well as fibers of the esophageal connectives. Typically, the major constituents of invertebrate ganglia are present: cellular elements, neuropile, fiber tracts, and neuroglia. The supraesophageal ganglion is surrounded by an ensheathing artery. Ordinary neurons, halo cells, and neurosecretory cells are found in each of the cell clusters of the ganglionic mass. Globuli cells are found only adjacent to the olfactory and accessory neuropiles. Six paired and one unpaired neuropile occur in the supraesophageal ganglion. Only the olfactory and accessory neuropiles contain glomeruli. The glomeruli of the olfactories are small and angular; those of the accessories, columnar.
10.2307/3225723|In the heterotrich ciliate Phacodinium metchnicoffi the so-called cortex of the food vacuoles is composed of expansive material involving cytoplasmic "ribbons" of a sort and many microfibrillar bundles, all enclosed in a trilamellar plasma membrane. The rich bed of microfibrillar bundles penetrates into the surrounding cytoplasm. A comparison is made with the intestinal microvilli of multicellular organisms.
10.2307/3225724|Two methods for the separation of ectoderm and endoderm in hydra are described. One, using maceration solution, acts osmotically to cause separation. The other, using saline, acts mechanically by causing the epithelia to separate as they contract. Isolated ectoderm and endoderm may then be studied independently of one another. Microscopical observations of the separation processes and the morphology thus revealed are presented.
10.2307/3225725|The green fresh-water coelenterate Hydra viridis (Ohio strain) normally contains ca. 16 endosymbiotic zoochlorellae in each gastrodermal cell, which also harbors endosymbiotic flagellated bacteria. Both symbionts are transmitted directly to daughter gastrodermis during the development of the hydroid bud such that normal individuals remain green indefinitely. Paired spermaries and single ovaries develop on hermaphroditic individuals during late June and July. Neither sperm nor spermaries contain symbiotic algae and bacteria; unfertilized eggs are shed and disintegrate; fertilized eggs develop attached to the body stalk until the advanced stages of cleavage. They gradually darken. Observations using Nomarski differential phase contrast and fluorescence optics showed the algae and endosymbionts are released in large numbers from the enteron of sexually mature hydras. The release, in the form of algal and bacterial vesicles or vesicles containing only bacteria, is so copious that in some instances the sexually mature hydras become pale from loss of zoochlorellae. These vesicles have several fates but in a mixed culture they provide a supply of symbionts, some of which adhere to the conspicuous microbial community coating the eggs. This community accompanies the egg as it darkens, descends toward the holdfast and eventually is shed into the medium. Many brown eggs were studied and none harbored algae and bacteria inside, while all were covered with the surface microbial community containing many types of microbes including the symbionts. Both the zoochlorellae and the endosymbiotic bacteria can be cultured; hydras rendered aposymbiotic by high light intensities and DCMU can be reinfected and easily reestablish their normal symbioses. The algae and endosymbiotic bacteria are taken into the gastrodermis where they resist digestion. The algae are then moved to the distal end of the gastrodermal cells. Taken together, the evidence suggests that the endosymbionts are transmitted extracellularly and maternally to the new generation of sexually produced hydroids. Both algal and bacterial symbioses are presumably regularly reestablished by ingestion quickly after aposymbiotic hydras hatch from the eggs.
10.2307/3225726|A new tubificid genus Uniporodrilus (subfamily Phallodrilinae) is described from subtidal marine sands of North Carolina and New Jersey. It is distinguished from Phallodrilus by its unpaired atrium and spermatheca, both opening to the exterior midventrally, the latter in the posterior part of segment IX. The new species U. granulothecus is characterized by its possession of ca. 20 penial setae, located in funnel-shaped bundles at each side of the male pore. The spermatheca is divided into a long granulated duct and a small spherical ampulla.
10.2307/3225727| Adelodrilus magnithecatus n. sp. and A. multispinosus n. sp. are described from sublittoral sands of the NW Atlantic. Both species are distinguished from other Adelodrilus by details of their penial setae. A. magnithecatus is the only known species of the genus having large spermathecae with narrow central lumen and thick walls, the latter with numerous cavities containing sperm after copulation. A. cooki Ersus, 1978 is reported from Iceland. The generic characters of Adelodrilus Cook, 1969, and the relation of the genus to Phallodrilus Pierantoni, 1902 are briefly discussed. A new monotypic genus is established for Bermudrilus peniatus n. g., n. sp. from Bermuda. This species, like the genus Adelodrilus, has sperm-storing vasa deferentia, but it possesses true, cuticularized penes and lacks posterior prostates. 
10.2307/3225728|X-rays emitted from laser-generated plasmas provide a high brightness, pulsed source of X-ray for microradiography of small or thin biological samples. The salt concentration in ducts of mites and beetle larvae was evaluated by this method.
10.2307/3225729|The cephalic glands of three intertidal species of nemerteans, Procephalothrix spiralis (Palaeonemertini), Lineus socialis (Heteronemertini), and Amphiporus lactifloreus (Hoplonemertini) were studied. The cell types comprising the cephalic glands and the comparative morphology of these structures are described. Cephalic gland cells were examined over a 24-h period for evidence of diel activity during different reproductive states. Cytology of the cells did not indicate diel rhythmicity or relationship with sexual state; therefore, further investigation on the functional significance of these glands in stress tolerance should not be complicated by inherent daily or seasonal cycles of secretion.
10.2307/3225730| The large ciliate Bursaria truncatella, so long considered a well-entrenched polyhymenophoran (spirotrich) member of the order Heterotrichida, is shown-by a study of silver-impregnated specimens-to possess only a false "adoral zone of membranelles" and thus not to be a heterotrich at all. In fact, its system of numerous vestibular polybrachykineties (as named here) requires its removal to the kinetofragminophoran subclass Vestibulifera. Here it most resembles the Colpodida, with its telokinetal stomatogenesis, etc. Support is given, however, to recognition of the separate order Bursariomorphida Fernndez-Galiano, 1978, the vestibuliferan taxon erected for Bursaria by the author in a brief abstract of a year ago. 
10.2307/3225731|Transmission and scanning electron microscopic and cytochemical studies were performed on early in vivo and in vitro schistosomules of Schistosoma mansoni. Two changes in teguments of in vitro grown schistosomules are evident during the first 15 days post-penetration. First, at 3-4 days post-penetration, a marked diminution in the number of spines in the outer tegument is observed. This is shortly followed by an increase in the number and extent of the tegumental invaginations. Second, using adenosine triphosphate and uridine diphosphate as substrates, nonspecific alkaline phosphatase appears at the base of these invaginations ca. 12 days post-penetration. It is hypothesized that the onset of phosphatase activity marks the beginning of the tegument's ability to perform efficiently regarding the uptake of certain exogenous molecules. Utilizing the parameters of this investigation, the development of the in vivo schistosomule closely parallels the in vitro form. It is therefore concluded that in vitro organisms are reliable experimental organisms.
10.2307/3225732|Initial light microscope analysis of the brain of the cave beetle Glacicavicola bathyscioides has demonstrated a total absence of retinal dioptric apparatus, optic lobes, and optic neuropile. There is no evidence of the medulla, lobula, and lamina. Also, while the central body is present, there are no subdivisions to indicate the presence of the ellipsoid body or ventral tubercles. This lack of ellipsoid body and ventral tubercles may be related to the absence of optic lobes. Adult beetles studied that have compound eyes do show ellipsoid bodies and an indication of ventral tubercles. The remainder of the protocerebrum is well developed, having a well-defined corpora pedunculata, central body, and protocerebral bridge.
10.2307/3225733|The study was performed using samples obtained from the tap water of the most populated area of the Federal District in Mexico City. The organisms were concentrated through filtration procedures and subsequently cultured in sterile wheat infusions. The cultures were observed for a week and the taxonomic identification was achieved to the level of genus and species. Most commonly found were flagellates (84.58%), followed by amoebae (13.38%) and ciliates (1.86%). The greatest number (17) of species were found in the eastern region of the Federal District, though 16 were taken from the central region. Richest in numbers of organisms per ml were Bodo edax (8636/ml), cysts of flagellates and ciliates (4484/ml), cysts of amoebae of the Vahlkampfiidae (2083/ml), and trophozoites of the genus Vahlkampfia itself (1408/ml). Among detected species, only those belonging to the Vahlkampfiidae and Hartmannellidae might have pathogenic effect on human beings. However, several species were found red which denotes a high degree of organic pollution in the supposedly potable waters of the Federal District.
10.2307/3225734| Echiniscus kofordi and E. cavagnaroi, originally described from specimens collected in the Galpagos Islands, have subsequently been collected in Alabama and Georgia. Redescriptions include drawings. Known ranges of these species are extended. 
10.2307/3225735|Cryptobia catostomi infected 67% of 353 white suckers (Catostomus commersoni) examined. The prevalence of C. catostomi in hosts was 36% or higher in each of the 18 months sampled. Hosts longer than 5 cm were commonly infected with this hemoflagellate. The state of New Hampshire is a new locality record for C. catostomi.
10.2307/3225736|The processes of autotomy and regeneration in Tubifex tubifex were photographically recorded. The procedure of autotomy begins with constriction of circular muscles at the site of the wound, followed by complete autotomization. During regeneration, a blastema forms which gradually becomes reduced in size as new segments are added to the worm. Defecation then resumes. Autotomy and regeneration provide a mechanism which allows tubificids to continue with their life cycle, even though their posterior segments may have been consumed by benthophagic animals. Such "cropping" perhaps enhances the productivity of tubificids.
10.2307/3225898|The search and handling times of Didinium nasutum fed various prey densities of Colpidium campylum were determined. Although mean handling times were not significantly different among five replicates, the mean search periods were. Neither parameter was correlated with prey density or each other. The frequency distribution of the search periods was lognormal, but that of handling time was normal. Didinia ingested colpidia proportionately faster than paramecia, but their search periods were not relatively slower despite the colpidia's smaller size. There was no increase in the expulsion vesicle's rate as is characteristic of didinia fed paramecia. Didinia become significantly smaller when fed solely on colpidia as compared to those fed paramecia. Didinia will ingest several colpidia in a single feeding encounter. These data are compared with those reported previously for didinia fed paramecia. When reared exclusively on colpidia, didinia can eventually be reimprinted, with great difficulty, to a paramecid diet, but such clones are usually inviable. These results are discussed in light of the phenomenon of dietary imprinting in predatory ciliates.
10.2307/3225899|Epizoic ciliates of certain planktonic crustaceans from a eutrophic lake in Illinois, studied over a 13-week period in the summer and fall of 1975, were found on three of four species of copepods and three of 10 species of cladocerans. The percentage of all organisms hosting such protozoa averaged 11.6 percent. The phenomenon is thought to be related to the highly eutrophic conditions existing in the lake: if occurrence of epizoic peritrichs and suctorians is related to the degree of organic enrichment of a body of water, then the percent of planktonic organisms hosting them could serve as a rapid and useful index of water quality. Several interesting symbiotic associations were noted. Tokophrya cyclopum was always found on the anterior end of its cyclopoid copepod hosts and Vorticella microstoma was found exclusively on the cladoceran Scapholeberis kingi.
10.2307/3225900|Pseudodiphascon bindae n. sp. is described from 53 specimens collected from the pleurocarpus moss Acroporium smallii found at Gulf Shores Island, Alabama. This is the first report of this genus from the western hemisphere. Although hufelandii-type claws suggest its inclusion in Macrobiotidae, the presence of a flexible Diphascon-type buccal apparatus indicates that this new species is atypical within the family Macrobiotidae and may represent an intermediate between the latter and the Itaquasconinae.
10.2307/3225901|The use of stereo in the presentation of optical and electron microscopic data has become increasingly prevalent in recent years. The standard methods for the display of stereo data have been mounted stereo pairs, the light polarization method, and the red/ green anaglyph method. Of the (last) two methods suitable for group presentations, the polarization method, although an excellent technique, presents several distinct disadvantages: a special lenticular screen and dual projectors are necessary, in addition to special Polaroid glasses. Similarly, the standard anaglyph method usually requires stereoscopic or dual projectors and special glasses, but it can be advantageously displayed on a standard screen. Described here is a simplified method easily adapted to any laboratory for the preparation of red/green anaglyph slides. The technique provides a distinct advantage in its elimination of the need for a dual projector system, since the image is recorded on a single 35 mm slide.
10.2307/3225902|The Kahliellidae n. fam. includes all genera of the hypotrich suborder Stichotrichina the species of which lack transverse cirri and show an untwisted meridional arrangement of the somatic ventral rows. Its characteristics are thus of a primitive nature in comparison with those of other stichotrichine groups. Recognition of the new family involves elimination or appreciable alteration of several (formerly) neighboring or related families, since the genera involved overall are considerably redistributed.
10.2307/3225903|Several features of the stalking phenomena of S. gyrans have been measured and analyzed. Parameters studied were: stalk elongation rate, rotation rate, and an organism-stalk bending phenomenon. Elongation is continuous and may be related functionally to rotation. Several of the stalking characteristics are discussed for their possible contribution to efficient feeding. Some analyses are supported with SEM micrographs. Additionally, some physicochemical parameters of their environment and techniques of laboratory culture are recorded and discussed.
10.2307/3225904|Cortical morphogenesis of cell division has been investigated in A. costata, A. aculeata, and A. baltica by combining light microscopy of living and stained (protargol, nigrosin-HgCl
10.2307/3225905| A new species of amoeba, Acanthamoeba tubiashi n. sp., is described from the sediment of a fresh-water stream near Bishopville, Maryland. Living trophozoites have features characteristic of amoebae belonging to the family Acanthamoebidae Sawyer & Griffin, 1975, but the cysts are distinctly different from those formed by other members of the family. The new species forms large cysts that have a mean diameter of 22.6 m. Endocysts typically have three to four blunt rounded arms arranged in a stellate pattern, but five are occasionally observed. A. tubiashi grows at temperatures up to 38 C. 
10.2307/3225906|Had the theory of continental drift been popular in the 1920's, Metcalf's claim that past southern land connections were necessary to explain the present distribution of Anura might have received recognition, and the zoogeographic validity of host-parasite studies might now be better appreciated. Although such investigations have not been effectively pursued, current advances in geology and in herpetological and ichthyological systematics have allowed the stage to be set for new advances in our knowledge of opalinids. Work on this universal and seemingly important group, treated here as a phylum, over the last 10 years is reviewed. Four organisms recently described by Delphin and colleagues are named as new species: Protoopalina delphini n. sp., Zelleriella mandalayensis n. sp., Z. kyii n. sp., and Z. ooi n. sp. The finding of southern zelleriellas in a "northern" salamander, Tylototriton verrucosus, may not be incongruous, in view of the poverty of our knowledge. Similarly, the number of known species seems very low in relation to the large number of potential hosts; yet much is not known, including the degree of host specificity.
10.2307/3225907|Angursa n. g. is a slender Halechiniscidae with each claw bearing two laterally opposed points on each of four toes on each leg. A. biscuspis n. sp. possesses strap-like clava from thin base and spines on legs I only. Body shape, claw morphology, and placement of cirri E all serve to distinguish Angursa from Pleocola and Euclavarctus, to which it appears most similar within the Halechiniscidae. While overall it most closely resembles Oreella minor, claw morphology, which traditionally has been stressed in evaluating relationships among Tardigrada, is entirely different. Limited availability of material prevents comprehensive discussion of its relationships and ecology.
10.2307/3225908|Antigenic analyses of a strain from the Tetrahymena pyriformis complex and of one from the species T. paravorax, employing gel diffusion and immunoelectrophoretic techniques, reveal that there seem to be qualitative differences between these two ciliates. Such differences may be reduced to the quantitative level by use of a cross-absorption method.
10.2307/3225910|Fourth instar larvae of Chironomus plumosus (L.) collected from Lake Ontario were found parasitized by mermithid nematodes identified as very likely Octomyomermis itascensis Johnson. The host larvae died after the nematodes emerged; and by ca. 24-hour post-mortem the chironomid carcasses and one dead pupa were found colonized by bacteria, fungi, and ciliated protozoa. The fungus was identified as a sexually sterile aquatic phycomycete of the genus Saprolegnia. Attention is drawn to the role of parasites and saprophytic microorganisms in population control of chironomids and in decomposition of complex organic matter in the benthic environment.
10.2307/3225913|Specimens of Bratislavia bilongata, a species not seen since its description as a member of the genus Naidium in 1944, were collected in a Florida swamp. The authors agree with its recent taxonomic reassignment to the genus Bratislavia.
10.2307/3225914|Specimens of Dero (Dero) trifida n. sp. were collected from running-water habitats in Louisiana and North Carolina. The new species is characterized by trifid needle setae that become bifid under culture conditions and a sexually reproductive season in autumn.
10.2307/3225915|In view of the growing need for identification of potential biological control organisms with reference to various pests and parasites of importance to mankind, attention is briefly called to the discovery of a hymenostome ciliated protozoon, Tetrahymena sp. (a possibly mass-producible parasite), in the haemocoel of adult males and females of the Simulium damnosum complex from the Volta River Basin of West Africa. This group of blackflies includes the vectors of onchocerciasis, a debilitating filarial disease currently the subject of a major international control effort based on chemical larviciding. The latter procedure's risk of adverse environmental impact, and the possibility of resistance developing to it, pose urgent need for supplementary, innovative control methods. These include "biological control" approaches, practical development of which would make environmentally acceptable integrated control a reality. Any pointer towards such future biocontrols being considered worthy of active exploration, this preliminary note is felt timely despite its paucity of "hard data," especially as cessation of the collaborative project that made it possible could delay a fuller report for a rather long time.
10.2307/3225916|An epizoic peritrich identified as Lagenophrys labiata from both amphipod and ostracod hosts throws doubt on the existence of a separate "L. wallengreni" from the second host. Scanning electron microscopic observations add further strength to the proposal that the two species are identical and should be combined as one under the name L. labiata Stokes.
10.2307/3225917|Results of the experiment reported here support what would be predicted: following thymectomy, there is a dramatic loss of small lymphocytes followed by a compensatory increase in percentage of large lymphocytes.
10.2307/3226076|The morphology of mandibles from 18 species of Daphnia was studied using scanning electron microscopy. Mandible structure is illustrated with photographs and using canonical analysis. Results were interpreted in a discussion of Daphnia systematics.
10.2307/3226077|Cletocamptus helobius n. sp. is described from mud flats associated with Spartina alterniflora from salt marshes of the Gulf of Mexico and the Western Atlantic Ocean. C. helobius differs from other Cletocamptus in its reduction to a single seta of the fourth leg endopod and by the fact that it has a baseoendopodite with only 5 setae. A table of the morphological variation in Cletocamptus is presented with detail given to variation in leg setation of C. deitersi. Intrapopulation variation for C. deitersi from Louisiana is reported; the setation of the exopods of the first and third legs varies.
10.2307/3226078|Laophontina is not a well known harpacticoid genus. Until now there were but three extant species. However, on the southeastern United States continental shelf we encountered three additional species and describe them herein. L. triarticulata n. sp. is unique in that it has P
10.2307/3226079|Potomacus pottsi isolated from the Rhode River, Chesapeake Bay, was fixed and stained by a modified Bodian protargol technique. A detailed redescription of the morphology of the microstome form is given. The stomatogenic sequence is described with special reference to ontogeny of the microstome opisthe buccal structures. The concept of a tripartite haplokinety is supported.
10.2307/3226080|The functional morphology of the mouth apparatus for the suspension-feeding tetrahymenine ciliate Glaucoma was analyzed from a series of SEM photographs in conjunction with studies on feeding currents in living cells. The metachronal beating of membranelles 1 and 2 drive water posteriorly toward the cytostome. Before leaving the posterior right rim of the buccal cavity, the water is strained through membranelle 3 which retains food particles in front of the cytostome. This functional description is consistent with quantitative data on clearing rates and particle size selection.
10.2307/3226081|By means of electron diffraction studies of the basement membrane of the mouse glomerulus and electron histochemical staining, an ultramicroscopic structure has been proposed. Analysis of the evidence indicates a liquid crystalline arrangement of trop position of acid mucopolysaccharides, and the possible position of water. Presented is a proposal of the method of filtration of small molecules with reference to the morphology.
10.2307/3226082|Electron microscopic examination of sections through a small muscle spanning two joints in the walking legs of the horseshoe crab, Limulus polyphemus, demonstrated transverse tubules in the region of overlap of thick and thin myofilaments (T tubules) and at the Z disc (Z tubules). The two types of transverse tubules were distinguishable by location and by size, T tubules averaging 20 nm across and Z tubules averaging 100 nm. Commonly, continuity of several T tubules with the sarcolemma was obvious in a section, suggesting that the tubules may be clefts rather than cylindrical tubules, at least near the fiber surface. Multiple Z tubules also were seen in single cross sections, and longitudinal sections through the muscle showed that these tubules were oblong in cross-section under the conditions studied. The Z tubules gave off longitudinal extensions which ran between the myofilaments into the region of overlap between thick and thin filaments. Both the T tubules and the Z tubule extensions formed dyads with the sarcoplasmic reticulum in the region of thick and thin myofilament overlap.
10.2307/3226083| Three species of fresh-water sponge, Spongilla lacustris, Ephydatia mlleri, and Eunapius fragilis, were identified from spicule remains in a carbon-dated sediment core taken from Red Rock Lake, a Colorado montane semidrainage lake. One species, S. lacustris, is currently not found in Red Rock Lake. Levels of calcium hardness, magnesium hardness, total hardness, and total alkalinity were determined for water samples from Red Rock Lake and compared with those of Long Lake, a nearby alpine flowage lake, in an attempt to explain the absence of living colonies of S. lacustris in Red Rock Lake. 
10.2307/3226085| Light microscopy of Bulinus truncatus rohlfsi hemocytes in vitro revealed behavioral differences that parallel the morphological distinctions between granulocytes and hyalinocytes. Incubation of hemocyte monolayers in divalent cation-free media caused a complete reversal of adhesion and spreading of granulocytes on a glass surface, but only partial reversal of spreading of hyalinocytes with no loss of adhesion. For both cell types, spreading time decreased with increased temperature between 4C and 25C, and spreading was enhanced by the addition of foreign proteins to hemocyte monolayers in otherwise protein-free media. Granulocytes produced filopodia and lobopodia and were capable of rapid changes in shape. Rapid locomotion (4 m/min) was possible for granulocytes if pseudopodial extension was unidirectional. Filopodia provided attachment to the substratum and lobopodia provided the motive mechanism. Multidirectional extension of pseudopodia resulted in changes of granulocyte shape, but no net motion. Hyalinocytes produced only lobopodia, showed little change in shape, and very limited locomotor ability. Granulocytes were capable of cytoplasmic fusion with one another to form syncytia, but hyalinocytes did not fuse either with each other or with granulocytes. Fusion among granulocytes was reversible. 
10.2307/3226086|In vitro fertilization, egg activation and development to planktotrophic veliger in the marine prosobranch, Thais haemastoma, were studied using light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy. Isolated eggs from the ovary undergo spontaneous activation in the presence and absence of external CA
10.2307/3226087| Metagovea philipi, n. sp. is described and figured on the basis of specimens taken from within and from debris just without Los Taxos Cave, 36' South and 7812' West, in Ecuador. Savory (1977) suggested ordinal recognition of Cyphophthalmi because of the distinctive characteristics of its members. The authors concur in this opinion. 
10.2307/3226088|Oedocladium eriensii n. sp. was collected from a roadside ditch on Middle Bass Island in Western Lake Erie. This species should be compared with O. operculata Tiffany from which it differs by having papillose rather than scrobiculate spore walls and by its anatropous oogonia. It resembles O. prescottii Islam by the anatropous curved oogonial branches and oogonia, but it differs in that O. prescottii has a smooth spore wall. It also resembles O. terrestris (Biswas) Randhawa by having anatropous oogonial branches and oogonia, but it differs by having papillose rather than smooth spore walls. All four organisms have supreme opercula.
10.2307/3226089|A new staining technique, which clarifies cytological and nuclear detail in molluscan hemocytes, has been developed for use in light microscopy. Reynolds' lead citrate is used as a mordant for ripened hematoxylin, and basic fuchsin is used as a counterstain. Hematoxylin stains the cytoplasm. Basic fuchsin counterstains the nucleus only if the cells have been fixed in glutaraldehyde; hematoxylin stains both nucleus and cytoplasm in formalin- and methanol-fixed cells, thereby obscuring the counterstain. Filopodia and their axial rays, cytoplasmic granules, glycogen bodies, vacuoles, the ectoplasm-endoplasm boundary, nuclear chromatin, and the nucleolus are all clearly delineated by this staining technique. The method works equally well with hemocytes from a wide variety of molluscs and is of value for studying immune mechanisms in species that are of commercial importance or that serve as intermediate hosts for parasites.
10.2307/3226090|A simple stain used to enhance specimen contrast and definition when observed with phase contrast optics is described. The ruthenium red stain procedure results in a subtle stain reaction that effectively enhances specimen contrast without overstaining the tissue and is most effective when used with methacrylate embedded (JB-4, Polyscience) material but may also be used successfully with epoxy embedded material. The stain has been used effectively on bacterial, plant, and animal tissue. Contrast, in stained material, can be further enhanced by using a 546 nm broad band green filter (Olympus Optical Co. Ltd).
10.2307/3225699|The symbiosis of physical science and microscopy is applied to the field of microbial ecology by examining temperature and CO
10.2307/3225700|Protozoan communities were sampled in 1978 from the South River near Waynesboro, Virginia, and compared with a study carried out in 1972. Five study stations were located above and below sources of pollution. Species richness followed the same pattern as in the 1972 study except at Station 2 (just below a major source of pollution) where a marked improvement in water quality occurred. Numbers of species increased significantly downstream from a source of pollution. This study provides evidence that protozoan communities may be used effectively in the assessment of water pollution and that results compare favorably with those based on macroinvertebrates which are more expensive to collect.
10.2307/3225701|Ultrastructural examination of a species of green Vorticella revealed the presence of numerous endosymbiotic Chlorella cells, each contained in a separate perialgal vacuole. Pyrenoids and large starch grains were present in the algal cells. No evidence of algal digestion was observed. Algal cells were transmitted to the next generation of Vorticella by inclusion in motile telotrochs. The Vorticella was gregarious, bell-shaped, and ornamented with rows of delicate pellicular annuli. Lack of evidence of algal digestion and presence of Chlorella in telotrochs suggest a stable symbiotic association. Endosymbiotic Chlorella probably is common in some species of Vorticella.
10.2307/3225702| Scanning electron microscopy was used to characterize the external morphology of the frontal knob, a rounded button-like protuberance on the protopodite of each clasper (second antenna) of the male brine shrimp (Artemia sp.). The frontal knob surface that contacts the female's body during clasping behavior possesses two distinct kinds of specializations: (1) numerous recurved spines that originate from concavities in the integument and protrude 1.6-4.3 m from the general surface of the frontal knob; and (2) less numerous setae that are comprised of a slender shaft and broad basal elevation. The total height of the setae varies from 4.3 to 11.4 m. Since the setae are innervated, but the spines are not, a sensory function is presumed for the setae. Based upon what is known about the mating behavior of Artemia, it is suggested that the setae are mechanoreceptors sensitive to tactile stimuli and that the spines are specializations which serve to prevent slippage of the frontal knobs while the male is clasping the female. 
10.2307/3225703| The gonopod primordia (anlagen) of penultimate stadium instars of Sigmoria latior (Brlemann) consist of a rectangular basal coxa and a rounded distal telopodite. Scanning electron microscopic examination reveals a pair of macrosetae on the anterior surface of the coxa, medial and apical clusters of telopodal setae, and a midlength constriction of the telopodite. The setae are precursors of corresponding setae on the gonopod and are considerably shorter than their adult homologues. No trace of the adult cannula, prostatic groove, basal pit of the groove, or glabrous portions of the telopodite are evident on the primordia. The anlagen of S. latior differ from those of comparable developmental stages of Polydesmus angustus Latzel and Brachydesmus superus Latzel (Polydesmida: Polydesmidae) in the presence of medial telopodal setae and the absence of a primordial cannula on the coxa and an apical cuticular depression on the telopodite. Features shared by all three species include: (1) division into two segments; (2) round telopodal configuration; (3) presence of a midlength constriction and apical setae on the telopodite; and (4) absence of the prostatic groove, the pit at the base of the groove, and glabrous portions of the adult telopodite. Distinctions among representatives of two polydesmoid families suggest that juveniles may be more important in phylogenetic considerations than previously supposed, and thus indicate a need for more meticulous study of immature developmental stages. Use of the scanning electron microscope in revealing previously undetected structures in millipeds also indicates a need for further application of the technique. 
10.2307/3225704|Lepidurus bilobatus Packard, 1877, is redescribed from over 100 specimens collected at the type locality, Irish Canyon, Moffat County, Colorado. Included are notes on morphological variation and sexual dimorphism. The status of the type specimen is clarified. L. bilobatus has been collected from Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona.
10.2307/3225705|A new false water penny beetle is described from two larvae taken from streams in northern Alabama. Of Nearctic genera, Alabameubria somewhat resembles Ectopria, with which it coexists, but is closer to the far western Acneus; it is most like a eubriine from South Africa. Alabameubria differs from known related larvae in having the lateral or pleural processes of all thoracic segments and abdominal segments 1-7 reduced to sickle-shaped, spine-like processes bordered by fin-like setal membranes.
10.2307/3225706| The first complete sequence of maturation of the male and female reproductive tracts of a fresh-water hermaphroditic pulmonate has been studied in Stagnicola elodes. The first portion to begin formation of secretions is (1) the penial complex of the male reproductive system, followed sequentially by (2) the cells of the straight part of the oviduct, its caecum, and the ciliated groove of the female reproductive system, (3) the sperm duct and prostate of the male system, and then by (4) the othecal gland, muciparous gland, and anterior convoluted part of the oviduct, and (5) the posterior convoluted part of the oviduct and the albumen gland of the female reproductive system. Sperm are released into the hermaphroditic duct before the sperm duct and prostate contain much secretion. The male system is fully mature before the female system; at this time, the cells of the posterior convoluted part of the oviduct and albumen gland contain only a small amount of secretion. 
10.2307/3225707|Cercariae of Cloacitrema michiganensis were collected from the naturally infected snail, Cerithidia californica Haldeman and subjected to several histochemical methods for hydrolytic enzymes. Positive reactions were obtained for acid phosphatase (AcP), alkaline phosphatase (AlP), nonspecific esterase (NSE), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Leucine aminopeptidase (LAP) and -glucuronidase (-Glu) could not be visualized. AcP and AlP were observed at the same sites in the oral sucker, acetabulum, pharynx, gut, and tail. In addition, only AlP was observed in the excretory bladder. NSE and AChE localization visualized the main components of the nervous system in the body of the cercaria along with some details of the innervation of the tail. These reactions were inhibited by 10
10.2307/3225708|Fish parasites were collected in the upper 8 km of pool 20, Mississippi River, near Hamilton, Illinois from March through October 1977 and from June through September 1978. A total of 242 fish was taken, 158 (65%) of which were infected with one or more parasites. Fish hosts represented 29 species in 14 families, and parasites (excluding protozoans) represented 38 species in 5 phyla. Nematodes were the most abundant parasites, being found in 56% of the infected hosts, followed by trematodes (38%), cestodes (33%), leeches (13%), copepods (9%), and acanthocephalans (6%). The nematode Camallanus oxycephalus was the most common parasite, being found in 16 hosts. Three larval parasites were found; these were the cestode Proteocephalus, and the trematodes Posthodiplostomum minimum centrarchi (white grub) and Clinostomum marginatum (yellow grub). The following fishes were new host records for parasites: Scaphirhynchus platorynchus, Anguilla rostrata, Carpiodes carpio, Carpiodes cyprinus, Ictiobus bubalus, Moxostoma macrolepidotum, Alosa chrysochloris, Hiodon alosoides, Pylodictis olivaris, Morone mississippiensis, and Morone chrysops.
10.2307/3225709|Woloszynskia reticulata was collected in August and September 1978 in Norman, Oklahoma. Examination by light and scanning electron microscopy revealed the presence of prominent ridges on all platelet edges on the hypotheca. The carina splits as the protoplast increases in size. Spinescent-appearing cysts, described by Thompson, were absent in our collections and are thought to be hypnozygotes.
10.2307/3225710|A unique microzonation pattern on young leaves of aquarium-grown Potamogeton robbinsii Oakes was documented. Over 80% of the diatoms colonized the margins of and physiological mechanisms are suggested. Diatoms colonized the midrib portions of the leaves only after cytoplasmic decay was initiated. Cocconeis placentula v. euglypta and Eunotia incisa, both with superior attachment mechanisms, were the only epiphytes.
10.2307/3225711| Symbiotic algae (Chlorophyceae), which form intracellular associations with the sea anemone Anthopleura xanthogrammica, are sensitive to a prolonged elevated temperature when maintained within the host. Maintenance of the plant-animal association at 20C results in a loss of algal mitotic activity and a decline in the density of the algae within the host. These effects are reversible if the association is returned to a cooler temperature (13C). Sea anemones maintained at 13C and 20C expel intact algae to their environment. The continued expulsion of algae and the loss of algal mitotic activity are apparently responsible for the decline in algal numbers within the host at 20C. It is postulated that temperature may be a limiting factor in determining the distribution of zoochlorellae within the natural populations of the host. 
10.2307/3225712|Chaetonotus palustris, n. sp. was collected from Lilly Lake, Illinois. Other gastrotrichs found in association with this species were Chaetonotus acanthophorus, Heterolepidoderma gracile, H. illinoisensis, Polymerurus callosus, and P. rhomboides.
10.2307/3225713|Parachernes dissimilis, n. sp. is placed in the genus in spite of unusual shapes of palpal segments and placement of chelal trichobothria.
10.2307/3226001| Each walking leg of a horseshoe crab is innervated by a large and a small nerve. For part of its course through the trochanter and femur, the small nerve of the leg is attached to a connective tissue strand and to a small muscle, both of which have their origins in the coxa and their insertions in the femur. The nerve includes axons with diameters ranging from 0.13 to 35.00 m. Mitochondria in the larger axons are often centrally grouped. The connective tissue strand lies between two groups of axons, and includes fibers having the banded appearance characteristic of collagen. The muscle consists of fibers with diameters of 20 to 55 m. sarcomere lengths of 4.7 to 6.9 m, a thin/thick myofilament ratio of 3 to 6:1, and is generally comparable to other Limulus muscle. This report corrects previous inaccuracies in earlier descriptions of the gross morphology of this structure, and clearly establishes the identity and the morphological relationships between the three tissue types of which the organ is composed. 
10.2307/3226002|Testicular tubules in male P. latipinna are unbranched structures which extend from the efferent duct system and terminate at the testis periphery. Both tubules and efferent ducts are circumscribed by a reticular boundary cell layer. Boundary cells also extend between the proximal end of the tubules and the efferent duet, thereby completely enclosing the tubules except during spermiation when a temporary "spermiation channel" is formed. After mature sperm are shed through the spermiation channel, the enclosed tubule is reestablished by redistribution of boundary cells and resynthesis of basement membranes.
10.2307/3226003| Specimens of a small diatom from Grand Traverse Bay, Lake Michigan, were studied with light and scanning electron microscopy. They were assigned to the genus Amphora Ehr. ex Ktz., although previous investigators had most often treated the diatom as Cymbella parvula Krasske or Cymbella thumensis (Mayer) Hust. Characteristics influencing the genus assignment include differential mantle development, multiple intercalary bands, and raphe structure. Pertinent literature is reviewed. Comparisons are made to Amphora coffeiformis (Ag.) Ktz. isotypes, and arguments for use of the name Amphora thumensis (Mayer) A.Cl. are given. 
10.2307/3226004|Two orders are proposed: (1) Parachela, characterized by the absence of cephalic papillae and the presence of united primary and secondary branches of the double claw; and (2) Apochela with cephalic papillae and claws with the primary and secondary branches distinctly separate. New genera proposed are: (1) Dactylobiotus, distinguished from Macrobiotus Schultze by the absence of cuticular pores and by structurally connected double claws with no lunulae; (2) Minibiotus, separated from Macrobiotus by the absence of buccal lamellae and by a membrane enclosing processes of the egg; and (3) Pseudobiotus, distinguished from Isohypsibius Thulin by the presence of buccal lamellae and distinctive dorsal and ventral thickenings at the anterior end of the buccal tube. An arrangement of genera is derived from multicharacter analysis with emphasis on structures of the feeding apparatus. Systematic characters are illustrated by SEM photographs or line drawings, and a key is provided for the discrimination of eutardigrade genera.
10.2307/3226005|Only one Heteropsyllus species was known from North America prior to our description of H. pseudonunni n. sp. H. pseudonunni differs from its congeners in A
10.2307/3226006|The transformation of the heterotrich ciliate, Blepharisma americanum (Suzuki, 1954), from a bactivore to a carnivore, or cannibal giant is described. This transformation process is induced by exogenous d-alpha-tocopheryl acid succinate present at 10
10.2307/3226007|Mandibular organs from adult male spider crabs were implanted into the hemocoel of 15 immature females. Controls were sham operated. Two months following implantation, the seven survivors were sacrificed and their mandibular glands and ovaries fixed for electron microscopy. Ovaries of control animals were small, white organs. Ultrastructurally, they revealed little indication of yolk formation and no micropinocytosis. The ovaries of the experimental crabs ranged in color from a pale yellow to a bright red and were enlarged. The ultrastructure of these oocytes showed many signs of active vitellogenesis, including numerous pinocytotic vesicles in the oolemma.
10.2307/3226008|Denticula subtilis Grun., growing epiphytically on Spartina alterniflora Loisel. in coastal Louisiana, exhibited increasing dominance with height on the culms. Relative abundance of this epiphytic taxon ranged from a June minimum of 6.5% of the diatom community to a November maximum of 72% at higher elevations on the culms.
10.2307/3226009|An ATP phosphohydrolase was localized in the tegumental invagination of adult Schistosoma mansoni using a modification of the Wachstein and Meisel lead-ATP protocol. This reaction is not affected by deletion of Mg
10.2307/3226010|Achaearanea tabulata n. sp. has been collected in an urban area of Long Island, New York. Theridion miami n. sp. has been found in Dade and Lee Counties, Florida, and probably occurs in vegetation. The name Theridion lowriei Barrows is synonymized with that of T. aurantium Emerton.
10.2307/3226011|Tubificoides pseudogaster is redescribed from the type material to separate it from newly discovered, closely related taxa. Due to confusion regarding the holotype, a lectotype and paralectotypes are designated.
10.2307/3226012| Chromosome counts can be used to verify stages of dinoflagellate life cycles. However, standard chromosome techniques do not work well with dinoflagellate nuclei. A simple method involving cell lysis, heat, desiccation, and staining has been effective for Ptychodiscus brevis (Davis) Steidinger. Two vegetative count ranges were determined with this technique: (1) a haploid number of 121  3 for field and recent culture specimens; and (2) a diploid number of 240  6 for a 25-year old culture. The latter probably is a result of autodiploidy during extended culture conditions. Polyploidy may be occurring in many long-established algal cultures; therefore, the genetic status of present culture collections should be determined and stocks perhaps replaced. 
10.2307/3226013|Novolacs are transparent, highly refractive
10.2307/3225646|Redescriptions of Bursaria truncatella suggest that this species is not a heterotrich but more probably a vestibuliferan. A study of the somatic cortical ultrastructure of Bursaria supports this contention. The somatic kinetids are ciliated dikinetids. The anterior kinetosome bears an anterior transverse ribbon and a postciliary ribbon of 1-3 microtubules. The kinetosomes are linked to each other by striated desmoses. The fibrillar associates of the posterior kinetosomes are a striated kinetodesmal fibril, a postciliary ribbon, and a transverse ribbon. The latter microtubular ribbon extends posteriad to overlap posterior transverse ribbons from more anterior dikinetids, and thus forms a compound microtubular fiber. These features are virtually identical to those described for colpodid ciliates of a variety of genera. The ultrastructure and taxonomy of Bursaria and the difference between pairs and dyads of kinetosomes are discussed.
10.2307/3225647|The small naidid Chaetogaster langi feeds on ciliated Protozoa and can be maintained on them in the laboratory. The oligochaetes search the substrate at about 3 cm
10.2307/3225648| Representative samples of Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri were taken at monthly intervals from the Little Calumet River, Hammond, Indiana (413422N, 872830W) from September 1977 through August 1978. A study of spermatogenesis clearly established the presence of two distinct sperm types that develop concurrently within the sperm sac; these were designated Type I and Type II. The numbers of developing Type I and Type II sperm morulae appeared to be about equal. Type I undergoes six developmental stages beginning with a 4-cell morula. Succeeding stages follow with a doubling of cells or nuclei. The first four stages are cell divisions, followed by nuclear divisions in the last two stages. Type II undergoes eight developmental stages beginning with an 8-cell morula. The first four stages are cell divisions, followed by nuclear divisions in the last four stages. Spermiogenesis followed the 128-nucleate stage for Type I and the 1,024-nucleate stage for Type II. Spermiogenesis followed a typical pattern of cell elongation, reduction of both nucleus and cytoplasm volume, and formation of distinct cell compartments within the mature sperm: head, midpiece, and tail for both sperm types. Type I sperm is wider, has a distinct midpiece containing glycogen, and is marked by a long helically arranged nucleus within the head. Type II has a glycogen-containing midpiece but is longer and narrower. Its nucleus is short and flattened, and subtends an acrosome at the apex of the head. 
10.2307/3225649|A tabularization of morphological variability within the genus is given in order to describe two new species. Enhydrosoma franklini n. sp. differs from other Enhydrosoma species in the fusion of P2-P4 exopod segments 1 and 2. Enhydrosoma woodini n. sp. differs from other Enhydrosoma species in the setation of the female P5. A new generic description and a key are provided.
10.2307/3225650|Acridine orange has been proposed recently as a marker for living cladocerans used in predation experiments in situ. Tests of the effect of one brand of acridine orange on the filtering rates of cladocerans and observations on survival of stained individuals show that staining is detrimental to both laboratory and field animals. These findings suggest that the staining procedure may be responsible for high predation and mortality rates obtained in predation experiments in situ.
10.2307/3225651|Calcium was precipitated in lactating mammary cells of the rat using potassium pyroantimonate in glutaraldehyde-fixed tissue. Precipitates containing calcium were restricted to the cisternae and the secretory vesicles of the Golgi complex and to the alveolar lumen as shown by energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis of unstained sections in a scanning transmission electron microscope (STEM). We propose that pyroantimonate anions precipitate with calcium originating from a pool of bound calcium within the Golgi complex and the alveolar lumen.
10.2307/3225652|The diatom flora is examined in a 204-cm sediment core taken from Red Rock Lake, a small, shallow, semidrainage lake in the Colorado Front Range. One hundred twenty-five species in 24 genera were recorded. No diatom frustules were observed in the two deepest clay strata (190-204 cm); only four species in four genera in the deepest organic stratum (180-190 cm); and 80 species in 20 genera in the most recent organic stratum (0-10 cm). Comparisons were made with ecological factors presented in three previous papers on sediment cores from Red Rock Lake and with recent investigations on the lake's phytoplankton.
10.2307/3225653|The dinoflagellate symbiont of the sea anemone Aiptasia pallida occurs primarily within the tentacle gastrodermal tissue. Electron microscopy was used to identify the dinoflagellate symbiont and to determine whether it occurs within tentacle gastrodermal cells or in intercellular space between the gastrodermal cells. The ultrastructure of dinoflagellate vegetative cells appears identical to that of Symbiodinium microadriaticum (Freudenthal). Intact tentacles and enzymatically-digested tentacle gastrodermal tissue from infected and bleached animals were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Our observations provide evidence that dinoflagellate cells are located within vacuoles in tentacle gastrodermal cells. When the tentacles are expanded fully, as in full sunlight, gastrodermal cells are closely appressed to the mesoglea so that algal cells form essentially a monolayer. A possible significance of this algal monolayer is that it provides for maximum irradiation of the symbionts, thus optimizing photosynthesis. The significance of the intracellular location of the dinoflagellate symbiont is discussed.
10.2307/3225654|Phagotrophy is observed commonly in some dinoflagellate populations which occur in the Laurentian Great Lakes. Ingested cells include representatives of all major phytoplankton groups common in the area, and occasional cells of benthic populations. There appears to be little selection on the basis of either cell type or size. The size of cells ingested ranges from small microflagellates to large centric diatoms approaching the volume of the dinoflagellate. No correlation between depth in the water column or light availability and the abundance of phagotrophic populations is apparent. Phagotrophic populations appear to be distributed uniformly in the water column to depths as great as 180 meters under both mixing and stratified lake conditions.
10.2307/3225655|Plagiotropis arizonica, a member of a typically marine genus occurring in inland waters of high specific conductance, is shown to possess a laminar valve which is entire externally and occluded-poroid internally. The adaptive significance of this structure remains to be determined; the possibility of ion- and/or photo-regulation is discussed.
10.2307/3225656|Fourth-stage larval nematodes indistinguishable from Sulcascaris sulcata were found in 38% of calico scallops (Argopecten gibbus) collected in marine waters off Cape Canaveral, Florida, in 1970 and 1976. The same nematode was found in Hunter's banded tulip shell (Fasciolaria lilium hunteria) and the Florida horse conch (Pleuroploca gigantea). A list of 12 species of marine molluscan hosts is given for the larval nematode that matures in sea turtles.
10.2307/3225778|Cements at junctions of sticky spirals and radials of orb webs are non-birefringent, amorphous conglomerates. All other cements are birefringent and fibrous. Although glandular sources of both types are unknown, possibilities are suggested. Minor ampullate fibers are often associated with major ampullate fibers in radials, seldom in temporary spirals, and sometimes in supportive elements, draglines, and trailing silk. The pair of fibers, smaller than the minor ampullate pair, and associated with the major ampullate pair, are examined and a possible source is indicated.
10.2307/3225779| The eutardigrade Isohypsibius saltursus has a life cycle incorporating seven instars, under non-polluted stream conditions at Strouds Run west. Information was derived from frequency plots of body, buccal apparatus, and buccal tube lengths, correlated with diagnostic characters such as buccal tube width and hind-claw branch lengths. Results were applied to data from shed cuticles, simplex stages, and gravid females. Sexual maturity began at the end of the second instar (body length ca. 240 m). Buccal apparatus and buccal tube lengths regressed against body length produced slopes of 0.15 and 0.09, respectively, values apparently diagnostic for local populations. Variability in body length was accounted for almost entirely by morphometric instar growth, with ecological parameters, aside from sediment size and sorting, having little effect. Measurements of mounted specimens may be adversely affected by orientation, mounting medium, coverslip pressure, or the optical system used; caution is advised when describing or identifying animals in the mounted condition. 
10.2307/3225780|When T. tubifex was exposed to drying conditions, the function of the glandular clitellum shifted from cocoon formation to cyst formation. Encystment of clitellate worms was induced by desiccation. Subsequent excystment required immersion in water and was completed in about 20 h. The maximum survival time of encysted worms during drying was about 14 days. However, when the encysted worms were moistened periodically with water, they survived to about 70 days. Survival was greater in high humidities than in low humidities. The fecundity of excysted worms was impaired when compared with worms that had not formed cysts. The cysts of worms seem ideally adapted to weekly and monthly water fluctuations in reservoirs and ponds.
10.2307/3225782|Seasonal collections (including 38 fish species and two turtle species), taken mainly from two southeastern Wisconsin lakes between 1976 and 1978, were examined. Five free-living and six parasitic species of leeches (Hirudinea), from various fishes and turtles, are reported. New records include one state and nine host records. All records are new for southeast Wisconsin. Morphological variations and ecological observations, particularly of parasitic species, as well as notes on some host tissue reactions, are reported. The spermatophore of Placobdella ornata is described.
10.2307/3225783|An SEM study has revealed varying ciliary patterns on the bodies of four species of hematophagous marine leeches. The probosces, especially, are endowed with cilia arranged mostly in clumps on their rims, but these decrease in number in the region of the oral orifices. Cilia also occur in clumps, diffuse patches, or in pits on their trunks, but are sparse in the region of the posterior suckers. It is probable that the cilia serve a sensory function, especially in the proboscis end.
10.2307/3225784|Calanoid copepods from three Nebraska lakes were examined for bacterial epibionts using scanning electron microscopy. Goose, Roundup, and Branched Oak Lakes differ considerably in their physical and chemical characteristics, especially in their alkalinities. Bacteria occurred on Diaptomus from all three lakes. Two general morphologic types were distinguishable using SEM: rods attached along the entire length of the cell; and elongated rods showing polar attachment. Seven bacterial strains representing the genera Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, and Flavobacterium were identified from Diaptomus nevadensis streak plated on trypticase soy agar. No differences were evident in colonization of adult males and females, but only 10.5% of the copepodites were colonized as compared to 75.0% of the adults. Bacterial densities on the copepodites always were low, with usually only a few scattered cells, whereas numbers on adults ranged from less than 20 to several thousand cells. Maximum bacterial numbers occurred on Diaptomus from Goose Lake and were estimated to be 50,000-60,000 cells/animal. Molting of the copepod exoskeleton is a possible mechanism regulating bacterial colonization in pre-adult copepods.
10.2307/3225785|The cortex of Trimyema compressum is characterized by the presence of a well-developed alveolar layer, single kinetosomes with a long kinetodesmal fibril, a postciliary ribbon of 10-11 microtubules, a transverse ribbon of 4-6 microtubules, by the presence of mucocysts, and the lack of an ecto-endoplasmic microfibrillar layer. The vestibular ciliature is carried by numerous short segments of kineties which are the anterior parts of the somatic kineties. The vestibule is limited by microtubular fibers which are probably transverse microtubules. As in the other species of polysaprobic ciliates (Metopus), the mitochondria lack microvilli and have a dense matrix. They are gathered in groups associated with the ergastoplasm. There are no symbiotic bacteria.
10.2307/3225786|Cell division in the weakly filamentous Raphidonema sessile is similar to that of R. longiseta, and species of Stichococcus, and Klebsormidium. The vegetative cell has one mitochondrion, chloroplast, and Golgi body as shown by serial sectioning. As in R. longiseta and Stichococcus, no centrioles are present in the cells of R. sessile, and, also as in R. longiseta, no pyrenoids were observed. R. sessile produces holdfasts at each end of the filament. Dividing nuclei have an open spindle with a Golgi body at each pole. At telophase, the daughter nuclei are pressed closely against the chloroplast of each newly forming cell and are widely separated from each other. Interzonal vacuoles collect between the telophase nuclei and a cleavage furrow separates the cells.
10.2307/3225787|The determination of whole organ or tissue volume can be an important parameter for studies requiring such specimens. This is especially true for stereological studies where one attempts to correlate cytological information with physiological or biochemical data, since both types of information can be expressed on a per volume basis. In this communication, we describe the design and use of a simple, inexpensive device to measure whole organ or tissue volumes by water displacement. This device offers several advantages: (1) a variety of liquids can be used to fill the chamber (i.e., saline or buffered solutions, etc.); (2) tissue drying is kept to a minimum; and (3) it is a reliable method of measuring the volume of a wide variety of non-geometrically definable tissues.
10.2307/3225788|Eimeria centrocerci was found in the droppings from two of 153 sage grouse, Centrocercus urophasianus, from Moffat County, Colorado. Because Simon's (1939, 1940) figures are not clear and the description is ambiguous, a redescription of E. centrocerci from the sage grouse is presented.
10.2307/3225789|Ciliated Protozoa are reported from the hemocoelic cavity of some chironomid larvae from several Laurentian Great Lakes. Tetrahymena chironomi occurred commonly in larvae of Chironomus plumosus, while unidentified Tetrahymena spp. were found, with lower frequency, in larvae of Chironomus anthracinus, C. salinarius, Cladiotanytarsus sp., Cryptochironomus scimitarus, Micropsectra sp., Phaenopsectra jucundus, Procladius sp., and Tanytarsus sp.
10.2307/3225790| Density-gradient fractionation techniques, utilizing 25%, 35%, and 50% sucrose solutions, were applied to the separation of zooplankton from other net seston occurring in preserved lake samples. Zooplankton fractions were filtered, dried, and weighed to the nearest 0.1 g. The cleaned zooplankton fraction averaged 80.5% of total zooplankton dry weight. Dry weight data obtained from a 50-ml concentrated zooplankton sample subdivided into a sequential series of 10 subsamples indicated that relative consistency may be expected if no more than 50% of the total sample is removed by subsampling. 
10.2307/3225794| Subumbrellar epitheliomuscular cells contain ortho-striated fibrils within the basal fibers apposed to the mesoglea. Sarcomere length (1.6 m  0.2) for relaxed muscle is similar to that found in some hydromedusae but significantly greater than in others. Muscle fiber termini are joined by desmosomal junctions in a manner similar to the intercalated disc coupling of myocardial tissue. Parallel muscle fibers whose sarcomeres are in phase are joined by similar desmosomal complexes almost exclusively at adjoining Z-lines. Adjoining sarcomeres which are out of phase do not exhibit desmosomal junctions. No septate or gap junctions were observed to join adjacent fibers. The location, ultrastructure, and extent of contact of both terminal and Z-line junctions suggest a function similar to the zonulae adherentes of cardiac myocytes. While undoubtedly serving an adhesive function, junctions in Cassiopea may further serve to transmit internally-generated, contractile forces between cells and thereby allow for reproducible contractions of the bell or parts of it. The coupling of this mechanical system to electrically mediated processes would allow the fine, integrative control necessary for swimming and behavioral responses. 
10.2307/3225795|In Paramecium, food vacuoles are eliminated at random. All food vacuoles, regardless of their age, have a similar probability of elimination. There is no evidence for sequential elimination of food vacuoles with older vacuoles being eliminated first. These conclusions are based on food vacuole marking experiments which show that the fraction of those food vacuoles formed prior to a particular point in time decreases subsequently according to first-order kinetics. This implies that food vacuoles mix freely in the cytoplasm, and that the cytoproct apparatus is non-selective in sequestering food vacuoles for elimination.
10.2307/3225796|This report is the first confirmed record of ciliatosis in North American black flies. A new species, Tetrahymena rotunda n. sp. is diagnosed as a parasite of Simulium spp. This species is characterized by its globose shape, large size and total kinety number, and relatively small buccal cavity. In a five-year period (1976-1980) in upper New York State, the infection rate in Simulium spp. parasitized by this tetrahymenid was low, usually <2%. Ciliates were found in Simulium tuberosum larvae and in the larval, pupal, and adult stages of Simulium venustum. Hosts typically harbored ~10 ciliates, a number far less than generally reported for ciliate-infected dipterans.
10.2307/3225797|Thirty-eight species of fish were collected seasonally from two southeastern Wisconsin lakes between 1976 and 1978 and examined for crustacean parasites; five species (Copepoda, Branchiura) are reported. New records include two host (H) and two state (S) records: Branchiura, Argulus japonicus (H,S); Copepoda, Lernaea cruciata (S) and L. cyprinacea (H). Two other species recovered were A. appendiculosus and A. catostomi. All records (except L. cyprinacea) are new for southeast Wisconsin. Morphological variations and ecological observations, as well as notes on some host tissue reactions, are reported. Thriving populations of epizoic protozoans, diatoms, fungi, and filamentous algae associated with L. cyprinacea are described for the first time.
10.2307/3225798|The size of the hot spring alga, Synechococcus lividus, was found to be greatest at high temperatures and bright light. In a previous study of the alga from hot springs in four western states, the mean change in length was 0.132 m/1C when the water originated at various temperatures. When a more detailed study was made in two high-temperature springs, the cells increased abruptly in length between 71 and 74.5C. (0.759 and 2.159 m/1C. When light was ca. 415 cal/cm
10.2307/3225799|A new diatom species, Synedra planktonica, is described with respect to morphology and distribution and is compared with morphologically similar taxa in order to facilitate identification. Observations made using light and electron microscopy showed it to be weakly silicified. The distribution of S. planktonica throughout lakes and reservoirs of the southeastern United States and its numerical abundance in phytoplankton show it to be an important algal component of these systems. The observed range of environmental conditions include unbuffered acid to circumneutral waters of varying nutrient status.
10.2307/3225800|Diatom associations collected from polyurethane foam (PF) substrates were surveyed through time along a nutrient enrichment gradient in Smith Mountain Lake, Virginia. A qualitative model is proposed which emphasizes the adaptive characteristics, or life-form strategies, of the most abundant diatoms in an association and relates them to generalized environmental conditions. The model provides a framework for readily describing complex habitat variations within the lake and supplies a means of interpreting successional changes occurring on the substrates.
10.2307/3225801| Natural assemblages of peritrichous ciliates that develop in the fouling film on glass slides and plastic Petri dishes in both summer and winter were examined in two ecosystems. Fouling in non-stressed communities proceeded to the same biomass and diversity during the winter, albeit more slowly, as that occurring during summertime fouling. The reactions of the ciliates to the water-accommodated fraction (water phase of dispersion) of No. 2 fuel oil ranged from inapparent (0.01 mg/1, 5C) to almost total exclusion from the fouling film (0.08-0.50 mg/l, 24C). Intermediate effects included a delay in settlement of two weeks (0.10 mg/l, 5C), or the stabilization of colinization at a biomass significantly lower than the controls (1.0 mg/l, 5C). Hydrocarbon stress of stabilized peritrich assemblages consistently resulted in a reduction of biomass. Significant reductions of species diversity occurred only with severe stress. Mild stress resulted in an increase of the "evenness" aspect of diversity, apparently due to disruption of the normal dominance of colonial peritrich species. The withdrawal of hydrocarbon stress caused the biomass and diversity of stressed peritrich assemblages to approach values of the control community within 10 days. The effects of hydrocarbons were not due to toxicity per se, but appear to be due to exclusion through migration or avoidance induced by an alteration of the physical-chemical nature of the fouling film by adsorbed hydrocarbons. 
10.2307/3225802|Experimental analysis were made to histochemically determine the composition of the goblet cell matrix material in the larval midgut of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta. Techniques employed following fixation in Carnoy fluid were th periodic acid-Schiff reaction and the alcian blue stain at pH 1.0 and pH 2.5 and following methylation and subsequent saponification. The cumulative evidence suggests that the plug material is an acid mucosubstance.
10.2307/3225803|Cells of the peripheral blood of Alligator mississippiensis were examined and classified by light microscopy. Erythrocyte (RBC) numbers, hematocrits, hemoglobin, other RBC indices, white blood cell (WBC) percentages and thrombocyte numbers were determined. These hematologic values are reported for 45 wild healthy animals.
10.2307/3225804|Parasitic nematodes, of the superfamily Filarioidea, are reported for the first time in the olfactory mucosa of a vampire bat Diaemus youngii, the olfactory bulb of a nectarivorous bat Lonchophylla thomasi, and the brain ventricular system of an insectivorous bat Molossus molossus. What appear to be developing microfilariae are observed in the nematodes in D. youngii and L. thomasi. The adult nematode in M. molossus is similar in morphology and size to Litomosoides molossi, which is a filarioid parasite of the thoracic cavity of M. molossus. The life cycle of these worms is not known.
10.2307/3225548|A new species of Chydorus, C. canadensis n. sp., is described and illustrated. Similarities and differences in morphology and ecology between C. canadensis and C. ovalis, a related species, are discussed.
10.2307/3225549|A new genus and species of an interstitial priapulid is described from a coarse sand beach at Korolevu on Viti Levu, Fiji. This is the first interstitial priapulid described from the South Pacific Islands and it occurs in both intertidal and shallow subtidal sands. It is characterized by a bulbous introvert with numerous scalids, an elongate trunk with anterior scalids and a posterior circle of hooks, lack of a tail, pectinate pharyngeal teeth, a polythyridium, and separate sexes. It differs from the Caribbean species, Tubiluchus corallicola, in lacking a posterior appendage, showing no sexual dimorphism and having different types of cuticular scalids.
10.2307/3225550|Significant morphological and karyotypic differences between Fredericella sultana and F. australiensis establish that the latter is a valid species. Chromosome studies show that in F. australiensis 2n = 16, compared with 2n = 14 in F. sultana. Karyotypically, F. australiensis appears intermediate between or a common ancestor to F. sultana and several Plumatella species. Raised together under identical laboratory conditions, zooids of F. australiensis produced rounded, thick-rimmed statoblasts in distinct contrast to the elongate, thin statoblasts of F. sultana, with a dramatic difference in relative rates of statoblast formation. There also were differences in colony and polypide morphology. Our collecting experience suggests that F. australiensis can exploit new or disturbed sites, or is abundant at others on a seasonal basis, but only rarely occurs in association with other phylactolaemate species.
10.2307/3225551|The neuroanatomy of the polyp form of the jellyfish, Chrysaora quinquecirrha, was investigated in order to locate and distinguish "ordinary" from neurosecretory neurons, and thereby to study changes in neurosecretory activity during strobilation. The arrangement of neurons in the tentacles, tentacle bases, and mouth of this scyphozoan jellyfish polyp is similar to that described for the hydrozoan, Hydra sp. Unlike Hydra, few nerve cell bodies were detected in the column and foot, although nerve processes were seen to traverse these areas. Synthesis and transport of neurosecretory material began during the pre-strobilation polyp growth phase and continued through early and mid-strobilation. Transport, with little or no synthesis, was indicated in late strobilation. No secretion was detected in regenerated polyps which had just completed strobilation.
10.2307/3225552|By examining diluted suspensions of finely macerated sponges, it is possible to determine the particulate materials filtered by poriferans. I applied this technique to sponge specimens from Lake Valencia, Venezuela and observed 40 species of phytoplankton, including the 10 most common algae in the lake. I verified that the algae present within the sponges were affected by their feeding processes. In sponges placed in filtered lake water, a decline in the concentration of a number of algal forms occurred within four hours.
10.2307/3225553|Preserved material, passed through sieves of 500-, 250-, 125-, 62-, and 37m openings, was analyzed for 16 higher taxa of fresh-water meiofauna (animals < 2 mm in length). Only 38% of total meiofauna was retained cumulatively by the 62-m sieve and 89% by the 37-m sieve. Animals passing through these sieves were mostly gastrotrichs, rotifers, and nematodes. H' taxon diversity was used to characterize structure. S
10.2307/3225554|The development of a new undulating membrane (UM) during formation of the oral apparatus (OA), and the reconstruction of the old UM prior to cell division, are examined in Tetrahymena thermophila using light and scanning electron microscope techniques. The development of the new UM in newly-forming OA's is seen to proceed as follows. A loosely organized UM primordium consisting of variously-arranged doublet, singlet, or other basal body combinations first becomes organized into a single ciliated row. A new row of basal bodies is then assembled external to this ciliated row. The new outer row becomes ciliated and simultaneously the cilia of the original inner row are resorbed, resulting in the typical pattern of the trophic form with an outer, ciliated and an inner, unciliated row of basal bodies. During formation of a new UM at midbody, the old UM at the anterior end of the cell is reconstructed. The original outer, ciliated row of basal bodies is moved outward from the OA where it is resorbed, while a new outer (presumably) row of basal bodies is assembled. The inner row is presumed to persist and act as a template for UM shape. The new outer row becomes ciliated in synchrony with the ciliation of the new UM at midbody. The spatial sequence of ciliation of UM basal bodies does not conform to the sequence of organization of the UM infraciliature. The role of basal body couplets in UM formation, and the control of ciliation of UM basal bodies are discussed.
10.2307/3225555|Histological examination of over 6,600 individuals of the American oyster, Crassostrea virginica, inhabiting northern Gulf Coast estuaries revealed uneucysted precocious metacercariae of a digenetic trematode, Proctoeces sp., infecting the gonadal ducts of the mollusc. Infection is highest in oysters from Mississippi Sound near Pascagoula, Mississippi with prevalence greater in later summer and early winter. The worm did not provoke a significant hemocytic response from the oyster. Oyster hemocytes were observed inside the digestive caeca of worms but there was no evidence of significant germinal feeding or gonadal impairment to the oyster. The hooked mussel, Brachidontes recurcus, found attached to shells of collected oysters, may serve as first intermediate host and thus be significant in supplying cercariae for the worms' opportunistic exploitation of C. virginica as a surrogate intermediate host or final host.
10.2307/3225556|Acini (alveoli) from mammary tissue of lactating rats were isolated using collagenase and examined in the transmission electron microscope to determine if changes occur in cellular structure and cellular relationships as a result of the isolation procedure. The secretory cells within isolated acini maintain their secretory apparatus and polarity following the collagenase isolation procedure. Tight junctions (zonula occludens) were present between secretory cells. Myoepithelial cells and their contacts between one another, as well as their contacts with secretory cells, were present in isolated acini. Preparations of isolated acini were nearly free of basal laminae, adipocytes, ductal elements, and connective tissue components. Thus, basolateral membranes of secretory cells within isolated acini are in direct contact with the extracellular medium. Lanthanum stained the plasma membrane of secretory cells on either side of the tight junction, but was absent within the tight junction itself. The presence of lanthanum within the lumina of acini, coupled with the absence of cascin micelles within lumina, indicates that lumina are in direct contact with the extracellular medium, probably by way of the primary ductal opening. Below the tight junction, intermittent gaps were present between lateral membranes of adjoining secretory cells. The gaps may be the result of osmotic changes and mechanical forces generated during the isolation procedure.
10.2307/3225557| The enzyme -glutamyl transpeptidase was localized histochemically in the external epithelia of the sea anemone Metridium senile. This enzyme is generally associated with tissues known to be especially active in amino acid transport. Such tissues include vertebrate kidney, choroid plexus, ciliary body, and jejunum. Among invertebrates, it is reported from the midgut and proximal Malpighian tubules of the housefly and from the gastrodermis of Hydra. Much circumstantial evidence implicates it as a translocator of amino acids across cell membranes. To that end, it may be involved in the uptake of amino acids from seawater across the external surfaces of soft-bodied marine invertebrates. Other functions have been ascribed to this enzyme including activity as a phosphate-independent glutaminase, as a hydrolase of various -glutamyl compounds, and in the transport of small peptides. Therefore, multiple functions are possible. 
10.2307/3225558|A device for holding sensitive electron microscopy grids for staining procedures is constructed of a 10-mm length of polyethylene tubing and two insect pins. The tubing has slits cut into it which can be clamped onto the edges of grids by turning a curved pin in the bore of the tubing in such a way that the slots close. This device can be used in staining with less risk of contamination than with other staining apparatuses and is especially useful for staining serial sections because it is gentler on support films in staining procedures.
10.2307/3225559|Specimens of Ceriodaphnia lacustris demonstrated a 47% dry weight loss after 45 days of preservation in 3% formalin. Recommendations for achieving more accurate dry weight determinations are given.
10.2307/3226146|The brackish-water genus Thalassodrilides is taxonomically revised to include two clear species, Limnodriloides gurwitschi and Thalassodrilus belli, whereas Thalassodrilides milleri is retained in the genus as a species incertae sedis. Curacaodrilus is considered a junior synonym for Thalassodrilides, and Curacaodrilus sinus a junior synonym for T. gurwitschi. The species of Thalassodrilides are characterized by: (1) their possession of a barrel-shaped, thick-walled section of the esophagus in segment IX; (2) their simple atria with small lobes of broadly attached prostate glands; and (3) their muscular, elaborate eversible pseudopenes.
10.2307/3226147| The two morphological forms of Biomphalaria glabrata hemocytes, granulocytes and hyalinocytes, may be further distinguished by their different behaviors in vitro in response to Concanavalin A (Con A) or lentil lectin (LCA). Granulocytes, which produce lamellipodia and long filopodia but retract upon continued exposure to Chernin's Balanced Salt Solution (CBSS), undergo dose-dependent changes in cell shape when exposed to Con A concentrations from 0.5 to 500 g/ml for periods up to 1 h. In lectin concentrations greater than 50 l/mg, granulocytes become spherical as the lamellipodia and filopodia retract and are withdrawn from the substrate. Scanning electron microscopy indicates that some retracted cytoplasm is redistributed to numerous folds above the central region of the cell which contains the nucleus. Hyalinocytes do not form pseudopodia, but produce short spikes and retain flat morphology when exposed to CBSS or lectins. The difference in response between granulocytes and hyalinocytes may reflect a difference in the number of lectin binding sites on their surfaces and/or a difference in the structure or function of their cytoskeletons. 
10.2307/3226148|Specimens of Peromyscus leucopus were trapped in an undisturbed field station in New York State and their tracheas were studied histochemically. Alcian blue (AB) at pH 2.6 was used to stain acidic mucin, in combination with diastase/periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) to stain neutral mucin. The epithelium had a goblet cell population that constituted two-fifths of all the cells reaching the lumen, with acidic cells outnumbering neutral cells by three to one. The irregular distribution of the submucosal glands in this animal precluded the meaningful use of a gland-to-wall index. All glands were tubules composed of cells pertaining to any of five categories according to the nature and distribution of their cytoplasmic granules. Cell counts were consolidated into three types (AB+, PAS+, and AB/PAS+) according to the contents of the cell apex. While the inner and outer diameters of the glands varied independently from the height of their epithelium, a congruous frequency distribution was obtained from the values of diameter and cell height when lumen sizes were expressed as percentages of the cross-sectional areas of the glands. This percentage did not correlate with the occurrence of any histochemical type. All types of secretory cells thus occur throughout the tracheal glands of the deer mouse and are not, as in other experimental models, confined to specific portions of the tubules.
10.2307/3226149|A method is described by which large populations of macrostomes may be induced by the presence of 10 mM calcium chloride or 10 mM calcium sulfate to initiate food vacuole formation in the absence of prey. This process occurs synchronously so that by 4 min following exposure to Ca
10.2307/3226150|An electron microscope study of the cortex of Frontonia leucas has revealed new details pertinent to several unresolved problems. The infraciliary lattice makes up an irregular series of almost rectangular polygons. Microtubules originating from the kinetosomes of the fourth kinety of each peniculus ascend to form the sheet underneath the oral membrane. In the ribbed wall, each rib's microtubules form an oblique ribbon and connect with the first row of nematodesmata situated to their right. Nematodesmata situated under the third peniculus arch toward the interior of the cell to reinforce the bottom of the oral cavity and then continue upwards on the right side. Two three-dimensional drawings are presented to show the interrelationships among these structures. When compared to those obtained in other peniculines, the results obtained from F. leucas suggest some differences of possible systematic value.
10.2307/3226152|Tokophrya quadripartita, a suctorian previously reported as an epibiont on adult Limnocalanus macrurus in southeastern Lake Michigan, was found in association with adult Epischura lacustris in the same area. Infestations occurred in late autumn when lake temperatures were low. In Lake Michigan, T. quadripartita appears to occur primarily in cold waters. A second Tokophrya species was found inhabiting the hypolimnetic Mysis relicta in collections made from Lake Michigan in 1954-1955 and 1979-1980. The incidence of infestation ranged from 55 to 85% in 1954-1955 and from 51 to 91% in 1979-1980. There was no clear seasonal trend in either set of collections. All size classes of mysids examined, including both immature specimens and adults, showed similar levels of epizoan occurrence. Tokophyra sp. also was found on Mysis in collections made between 1954 and 1956 from Lake Superior, southern Lake Huron, Georgian Bay, Crystal Lake, Torch Lake, and Elk Lake. Tokophrya associations in the Great Lakes region are reviewed.
10.2307/3226153|Five hundred marine fish, representing 89 species, collected from the Bay of Naples, Italy, were examined for monogenetic flatworms between September 1968 and February 1969. Twenty-one species of Monogenea representing 11 families were recovered from 38 (7.6%) of these hosts. Parasitized hosts include 21 species of elasmobranch and teleost fishes. Morphological data on Chauhanea mediterranea are presented. New host and locality records for several monogeneans are noted.
10.2307/3226154| A rapid and simple method for determining viable cells in populations of Peridinium cinctum employs fixation with methanol, staining with Giemsa, and dilution in water prior to enumeration. Reliability of this method is shown by comparison of stained and unstained cells in logarithmically growing cultures and by comparison of morphologically normal Giemsa-stained cells with the per cent of cell division observed for cloned cells taken from cultures treated with short-wave ultraviolet light, methyl-N-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, streptomycin, and acriflavine. These comparisons show that the Giemsa-staining technique introduces no detectable bias, allows assessment of the effect of detrimental agents on cell viability, and shows that cells with a normal morphology as revealed by Giemsa staining are able to divide and those cells with an abnormal morphology are not able to divide. 
10.2307/3226155|The surface structure of different stages of Oodinium ocellatum was studied using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Holdfast organelles (stomopode and rhizoids) penetrated deeply into the epithelium causing a hyperplastic reaction that manifested itself as many small "tubercles" on the gill surface of Hawaiian yellow tang Zebrasoma flavescens. The cyst and trophonts were devoid of surface structure and appeared as rough oval bodies. Synchronous and asynchronous divisions were observed; the majority of the cysts divided synchronously. This investigation confirmed previous observations that the final division stage prior to excystment of the dinospore is paired.
10.2307/3226156|This ultrastructural study of the dorsal ciliated organ of Nereis virens shows that the highly folded ciliated epithelium of the organ has characteristics of a transporting epithelium. Microvilli, lateral and basal membrane folding, and large numbers of mitochondria are seen in the single cell type forming the specialized coelomic epithelium. Glycogen and other granules are numerous in the cytoplasm. Vesicles of various sizes, some with inclusions, are present.
10.2307/3226158|Myzobdella lugubris is reported for the first time from West Virginia. This leech was collected from Ictalurus melas and Cottus bairdi. The mottled sculpin, Cottus bairdi, is a new host record for M. lugubris. The second occurrence of Piscicolaria reducta from West Virginia is reported and was found attached to the logperch, Percina caprodes.
10.2307/3225566|Antony van Leeuwenhoek laid the foundations of modern microscopy, and some of the original specimens which he sent to London in the seventeenth century have survived to the present day. Their discovery provides an opportunity to examine first-hand material from the earliest days of microscopy. Van Leeuwenhoek's expedient of wrapping the specimens in paper proved to be an excellent means of preserving them in near-perfect condition. Modern-day images of some of the sections cut by van Leeuwenhoek through one of his original instruments were recorded using a specially constructed photographic arrangement. Scanning electron microscopy revealed the presence of human blood cells and coccus bacteria, probably representing the personal legacy of van Leeuwenhoek, on one of the elder pith sections. Their presence offers tantalizing possibilities for future analyses which might yield more detailed information on this great pioneer of modern microscopical science.
10.2307/3225567| Monopylephorus cuticulatus, a marine oligochaete, was exposed in the laboratory to two sublethal concentrations of cadmium. Histopathological examination of control and Cd-exposed oligochaetes revealed that cadmium caused damage to the body wall, degeneration of the digestive epithelium, and degeneration of phagocytic amoebocytes. Composite cytosolic extracts from each oligochaete sample were separated according to molecular weight by gel filtration through a column packed with Sephadex G-75 gel and indicated that, following cadmium exposure, there was an increase of Cd and a concomitant decrease of Zn in the high molecular weight protein pool, in a Cdbinding protein with molecular weight similar to metallothionein, and in the low molecular weight protein pool. 
10.2307/3225568|The cytoplasmic effects of chronically exposing the ciliate protozoan, Colpidium colpoda, to partially degraded Norman Wells crude oil were studied using light and transmission electron microscopy. Such cells developed cytoplasmic inclusions which stained blue-black with Sudan Black B. The abundance and area of these putative lipid-hydrocarbon (LH) inclusions were estimated from ultrathin sections of oil-stressed cells exposed for varying durations. Lipid droplets from early exponential and late stationary growth in control cultures constituted less than 1% of the total cellular volume. Conversely, the level of hydrocarbon material within oil-stressed cells was significantly higher. After 20 days of exposure to oil, about 20% of the ciliates' cellular volume was LH inclusions. Within 24 h of exposure to oil, the number of cortical "secretory ampules" (=mucocysts) increased relative to control cells.
10.2307/3225569|The structure of the oral apparatus in the saprozoically feeding microstomal form of Tetrahymena vorax has been investigated using serial thin sections and isolated preparations. Its general structure is similar to that of T. pyriformis. The cilia of the oral apparatus are organized into an undulating membrane which borders the right side of the buccal cavity and three membranelles which project from plateaus on the anterior surface. The membranelles and undulating membrane are joined by oral connectives. Oral ribs with bands of two microtubules anterior to rows of four or five microtubules line the right side of the cavity. A row of microtubules forms the fibrillar sheet and is adjacent to the pellicular membrane of the left and dorsal walls. The major differences between the oral apparatus of T. pyriformis and T. vorax microstomal cell type are the shape of the cavity and the position of the cytostome-cytopharyngeal complex. Whereas the cytostome in T. pyriformis is reported to be located in the posterior wall, in the microstomal form of T. vorax with food receptacles or receiving vacuoles in late stages of development, the cytostome and cytopharynx occur in the dorsal surface adjacent to the right wall near the posterior part of the cavity. Thus, the cytostomal lip is formed by the portion of the dorsal wall between the buccal cavity and the receiving vacuole to the left of the cytopharynx. The ventral edge of the buccal cavity is open at the level of the cytostome.
10.2307/3225570|A phase-contrast photomicrographic study of early encystment of secondary cysts, and the resting, pre-excystment, and excystment stages of zygote cysts of Echinosphaerium nucleofilum is reported. The stages are compared with descriptions for encystment in organisms of a closely related species, Actinosphaerium eichhorni. Both organisms form primary cysts, and their secondary reproductive cysts form zygote cysts by paedogamy (self-fertilization). Unlike A. eichhorni, E. nucleofilum was sometimes found to encyst without formation of the gelatinous primary cyst. Microtubulecontaining axopodia were absorbed prior to encystment and were assembled anew upon excystment. Natural excystment of an isolated culture of E. nucleofilum primary cysts containing zygote cysts occurred after eight weeks when the food source, Chlorogonium elongatum, also excysted. An excystment sequence is shown for E. nucleofilum.
10.2307/3225571| The history of the naming of Isospora species from the house sparrow Passer domesticus is described in the light of modern knowledge, and it is concluded that the correct host for Isospora lacazei is not the house sparrow but the goldfinch Carduelis carduelis. The species in the house sparrow is named I. passeris n. sp. The species in the chaffinch Fringilla coelebs is I. rivoltai (Labb, 1893) n. comb. emend. A list is given of the 60 species of Isospora named from passerorid birds. 
10.2307/3225572| The life cycle of Spinitectus gracilis was completed under experimental conditions and the development of the larval stages described. Oviparous females released their eggs within the intestine of the fish definitive host. Eggs were voided into the water with the fishes' feces and settled to the bottom where they were ingested by aquatic insect larvae. First-stage larvae hatched within six hours from the eggs in the insect's midgut, penetrated the midgut wall, and entered the hemocoel. At 20C, the first molt occurred within the hemocoel, 18 hours postinfection. Second-stage larvae penetrated abdominal muscles seven days postinfection with the second molt occurring eight days postinfection. Second- and third-stage larvae were encapsulated within the abdominal muscles (the second molt occurred in the capsule) and development of the third-stage larvae continued within the capsule. The third-stage larvae were not infective to the definitive host until 15 days postinfection. The third molt occurred three days postinfection of the definitive fish host. Fourth-stage female larvae could be distinguished from the fourth-stage males by the presence of a tail mucron. The final molt occurred 15 days postinfection of the definitive host. Ovigerous S. gracilis were recovered 24 days postinfection. 
10.2307/3225573|Diatoms were collected from the red algae Bostrychia radicans and Caloglossa leprieurii which were attached to dead stems of Spartina alterniflora and from sandy sediments in which the spermatophytes were rooted in St. Louis Bay, Mississippi. The dominant taxa in both communities were Anaulus balticus, Fragilaria atomus, F. pinnata, and Nitzschia minutula. The epiphytic and edaphic diatom communities possessed a surprisingly high degree of structural similarity as measured by SIMI, despite the fact that diversity was higher in the sediments. This higher diversity characterizing edaphic diatom communities may be a general phenomenon in the marine environment and may be a result of the stabilization of surface sediments by mucilage-secreting pennate diatoms.
10.2307/3225574|Integumentary convolutions of posterior segments in Tubifex tubifex serve to increase the available surface area for respiratory exchange of gases. When comparing the anterior and posterior regions of the same worm, there is at least a three-fold increase of surface area in the latter. The convoluted area is dominated by a complex network of furrows and ridges that, in combination with ventilatory movements, enhance the exchange of respiratory gases.
10.2307/3225575|While larvae of the family Chironomidae (Diptera) are both extremely abundant and diverse in fresh-water habitats, previously suggested methods for preparing and mounting larval chironomids for identification have been complicated and time-consuming. We suggest a preparation method which features mounting the chironomids directly from the preservative, using a CMCP 9/9AF mounting medium. The proposed method is simple, effective, and time-saving, clearing the specimens in 24 h and providing excellent contrast of the larval structures.
10.2307/3225577|A simple modification of the Protargol staining technique of Ng and Nelsen gives significantly improved results. This consists of adding anhydrous Na
10.2307/3225578|One female ascarid with three uteri was discovered while dissecting several thousand specimens for metabolic studies. Each uterus was found to contain viable one-celled eggs. Reports of this type of anomaly are rare.
10.2307/3225763| A previously described intermicroscopic (LM  SEM  TEM) correlative technique for muscle was used to aid in the interpretation of the SEM image. Polarization microscopy (POJ) used on cryostat sections prior to examination with the scanning electron microscope (SEM), revealed the state of contraction of the muscle fiber in the area being examined. This helped mainly in the SEM-interpretation of Z-line ridges and of mitochondria which were oriented transversely with respect to the long axis of myofibrils. Following SEM examination and preparation for transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of specimens prepared by an osmium-thiocarbohydrazide ligand binding procedure (OTOTO), high correlative precision was obtained. Direct SEM  TEM allowed for an accurate interpretation of the SEM image. This interpretation disclosed the consistent presence of mitochondria lying transversely in pairs over the I-band of the myofibrils and the occasional occurrence of T-tubules running parallel to the transverse mitochondria. 
10.2307/3225764|Morphological examination by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of the surface of the four North American species of Spinitectus (Nematoda: Spirurida) revealed distinct patterns of structures which may be useful in the identification and differentiation of members of this genus of parasitic nematodes. SEM examinations have revealed the presence of deirids, amphids, and papillae, which were previously undescribed or incorrectly described for these four species. Distinct differences were observed among the three species recovered from fresh-water hosts (S. carolini, S. gracilis, and S. micracanthus) when compared to the single species recovered from a marine host (S. beaveri).
10.2307/3225766|Attachment of Myzobdella lugubris to logperch (Percina caprodes) and brown bullhead (Ictalurus nebulosus) is described. Leeches usually are firmly attached to fins with the caudal sucker molded over a fin ray. The leech body is always directed posteriorly over the surface of the fins. Host tissue surrounding the leech attachment site is raised due to epithelial hyperplasia and hypodermal thickening. In brown bullhead, dilated blood vessels and hemorrhage are present around the attachment site, and hemorrhage occurs at the margins of the fin rays where the caudal sucker erodes the dermis. Epithelium is absent at the site of attachment in both fish species. An acellular layer is present between the caudal sucker and host tissues, and apparently is formed from secretions of several types of leech gland cells. The adhesion of the leech at the unprotected site on the fins probably is enhanced by the leech's body orientation which minimizes water resistance, caudal sucker secretions which likely complement suctorial pressure, and close concordance of the caudal sucker with the firm substrate provided by the fin ray. Localization of M. lugubris on the fins of the fishes may be determined in part by the preferred attachment of the caudal sucker to the fin rays.
10.2307/3225767|Lagenophrys verecunda n. sp. is described from the gill lamellae of the fresh-water shrimp Palaemonetes kadiakensis from Lake Jackson, Leon County, Florida. This is the twenty-second species to be reported from decapod crustaceans, and the fifth to be described from a palaemonid shrimp. Morphological details of this new species are examined with light and scanning electron microscopy, and is characterized by the dimensions of the lorica and an inconspicuous oral complex consisting of six lip elements. Comparative data for species of Lagenophrys found as epibionts of decapod crustaceans are given.
10.2307/3225768|The stainable polyphosphate bodies in five species of algae epiphytic on Cladophora glomerata were enumerated. The algal populations, two species of diatoms, two species of blue-green algae, and a red alga, were collected at various distances from a point source of phosphorus enrichment in Lake Huron. Populations assayed had accumulated polyphosphate bodies and exhibited different levels of maximum polyphosphate body abundance. Numbers of polyphosphate bodies per unit cell volume were least in the diatoms, greatest in the blue-greens, and intermediate in the red alga. No significant differences were found between subpopulations of the same species growing in different portions of the epiphyte community matrix at one location. The subpopulation growing at the location farthest from the point source of phosphorus had substantially fewer polyphosphate bodies than subpopulations of the same species closer to the point source.
10.2307/3225769| Vertical distribution of diatoms epiphytic on Spartina alterniflora from shoreline and inland sites was studied in a Louisiana salt marsh during a 13-month period. Seasonally, the diatom density at higher elevations on S. alterniflora showed a monomodal cycle with a peak that coincided with the annual demise of the above-ground portions of the marsh grass, seasonality of tidal ranges, and dissolved nitrogen. Diatom community density decreased with increased elevation on the culm and with the collecting site respective to shoreline. Taxa per sample ranged from 10-67 with a grand mean of 39. Species diversity (H) ranged from 0.99-5.05 with a grand mean of 3.20. While shoreline samples had the greater density, species diversity (H') was greater inland. Similarity indices (SIMI) indicated that the community structure for most comparisons was near unity. However, this skewing toward unity was caused by the abundance of a single taxon (Denticula subtilis). 
10.2307/3225770|In some compound microscopes, a single mirror between objective and eye-piece reflects the light beam; the image, and its left-right relationship, become reversed. Image reversal possibly may explain opposite statements as to left-right relationships in organisms or between a description and illustrations. Workers are urged to check their microscopes and their drawing/projecting aids for possible image reversal.
10.2307/3225772|Transmission electron microscopy of the metacercarial cyst of Ornithodiplostomum ptychocheilus occurring on the brain surfaces of fathead minnows reveals a two-layered cyst. The outer cyst is composed of host fibroblasts which become anucleate and flatten around the metacercaria. The inner cyst is a dense non-cellular layer produced by secretions of the tegument. A thick filamentous glycocalyx, originating from the tegument, fills the space between the inner cyst and tegument.
10.2307/3225810|The use of turbellarian rhabdites for phylogeny has been extended by an investigation of the ultrastructure and histochemistry of mature rhabdites and some ultrastructural details of rhabdite formation in 14 turbellarian species representing the orders Acoela, Macrostomida, Rhabdocoela, and Polycladida. The results of this investigation are compared with other published descriptions; a new definition of a rhabdite, based on comparative ultrastructure and histochemistry, is proposed. Three morphological variants of a rhabdite are recognized: (1) the Macrostomum-type, found only in the genus Macrostomum; (2) the lamellated type, found in members of the orders Macrostomida, Polycladida, Rhabdocoela, Temnocephalida, and in at least one member of the order Proseriata; and (3) the triclad type, found only in the order Tricladida. There is a reasonably high probability of these three types being homologous. Our research, and that of others, suggests that the so-called "rhabdites" of acoel turbellarians are not homologous to the true rhabdites found in the higher turbellarians. This conclusion is indicative of phylogenetic distance between the acoel-nemertodermatid line and the higher turbellarians.
10.2307/3225811|The common fresh-water gastrotrich Lepidodermella squammata displays an elaborately sculptured cuticle that consists mainly of overlapping, spineless scales arranged in longitudinal rows. Although this species is cell-constant, the cuticular pattern varies considerably. To learn the extent of variability and to determine whether it reflects genetic differences between individuals or developmental flexibility, parthenogenetic lineages presumed to be isogenic clones were established. Within clones, the cuticular pattern varied in both number of longitudinal rows and number of scales per row. In addition, despite the organism's fundamental bilateral symmetry, the pattern usually exhibited asymmetry of variable extent and direction. Because genotype presumably was held constant, the observed variations may be attributed to developmental flexibility during pattern formation. This finding is surprising for an organism whose cellular arrangement is so rigidly determined.
10.2307/3225812| Based on ultrastructure, there are four types of hemocytes or hemocyte-like cells in the heart of the oyster Crassostrea virginica. Types I, II, and III are agranular or slightly granular, and type IV is granular. Type I cells are small (4.0 m diameter) and have few organelles. Type II cells are round (6.5-7.5 m diameter), have a moderately dense cytoplasm, and often contain a juxtanuclear body consisting of a deposit of dense material surrounded by mitochondria and dense, membrane-bound bodies. Juxtanuclear bodies usually are related to pairs of confronting cisternae of rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER). Some type II cells contain numerous foci of multiple confronting cisternae of RER and lipofuscin-like bodies. Type III cells are oval (8.5 x 6.0 m), have an eccentric nucleus, numerous dense-cored vesicles, and abundant RER cisternae. Type III cells appear to be phagocytic. These cells also contain paracrystalline inclusions in the perinuclear space and in RER cisternae. Some cells containing such inclusions are broad, flattened, and closely related to the myocardial trabeculae. These cells have numerous pseudopodia, multiple confronting cisternae and heterogenous bodies, and an eccentric nucleus. The form of these cells and their close association with the myocardial trabeculae suggest that they are not circulating. Type IV cells are typical oyster granulocytes that have an eccentric nucleus, numerous clear-centered granules, and large cytoplasmic deposits of glycogen. Some granules have a PAS-positive content. Developmental or degenerative forms of type IV cells were not observed. Type IV cells were not phagocytic in this study. 
10.2307/3225815|The texture of the tegument of Cotylogaster occidentalis varied considerably with the degree of contraction of the highly flexible and polymorphic body. The pharynx was observed to protrude beyond the buccal funnel in living specimens, in the absence of food, and also was observed in this position among individuals fixed for scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Three morphological types of ciliated "sense organs" (sensilla) were observed using SEM. Type A sensilla contained a single external cilium orginating from a hemispherical, subtegumental bulge and these occur throughout the body; they are arranged in a regular pattern around the marginal alveoli. A type A sensillum was seen associated with each duct of the marginal organs. Type B sensilla consist of a free cilium arising from a raised pedestal of tegument and occur on the ventral haptor. Type C sensilla are composed of a cilium within a tegumental pit, with only the tip exposed. These sensilla are found throughout the body with the highest concentration around the buccal funnel. Marginal organs occur at the junction of the interalveolar septa and the side of the ventral haptor; they were observed in either a protruded or retracted position.
10.2307/3225816|The digestive anatomy of young planktivorous gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) is described, and development of the digestive system is traced through the adult condition by which time the fish has adopted a bottom-feeding habit. The mouth changes from a supra-terminal to a sub-terminal position to facilitate benthic feeding. The pharynx is modified for straining microscopic particles from the water. Pharyngeal organs possessing both goblet cells and taste buds develop, and esophageal and gastric glands appear. The gizzard acquires a thick muscular wall which facilitates its presumed function as a triturating organ in the adult. Intestinal length increases greatly, presumably in response to adoption of a predominantly herbivorous diet.
10.2307/3225817| The nuclear cytology for three strains of the green alga Sirogonium melanosporum is described. Interphase nuclei contain 1-6 nucleoli, a nucleolar-organizing track, and 23-26 chromocenters. During cell division, nucleoli are transformed into nucleolar substance which coats the chromosomes and is transported through mitosis on them. Chromatin strands with chromocenters condense in prophase to produce six rod-shaped chromosomes varying in length from 4.3-6.0 m. Two of these are nucleolar chromosomes. At metaphase, chromosomes are packed tightly within the nuclear envelope; at anaphase, separating chromatids are parallel; and at telophase, chromosomes lengthen with the nucleolar substance organized into discrete units which fuse to form one or more nucleoli. Cell division terminates with the reorganization of two nuclei that lie close to the newly formed septum or crosswall. No centromeres were observed, but the waviness of chromosomes at anaphase suggests that they may be polycentric. 
10.2307/3225818|Sexual stages (gametes, planozygotes) were observed in non-clonal strains of Ptychodiscus brevis stock cultures. Sexual stages were induced repeatedly in non-clonal isolates and crosses of six different isolates using nitrogen-deficient NH-15 medium, blue or green light, and/or lowered temperatures. Sexual stages also have been observed in field populations during Florida red tides. So far, hypnozygotic cysts have not been confirmed in laboratory cultures or field populations, although possible cysts have been observed during cold temperature experiments, initial experiments with multiple crosses, and during continuous 24-hour sampling during a red tide cruise in January 1980.
10.2307/3225820|Systylis hoffi, a large colonial ciliate protozoan previously recorded only from single localities in France, Hungary, and central Mexico, is a regular inhabitant of vernal pools of Kearny Mesa, San Diego, California. Colonies begin to develop when the pools first form after heavy winter rains, reach maturity in 7-11 days, and persist for up to a month. A large, few-branched form containing abundant zoochlorellae and exhibiting delayed cyst production occurs with the normal heterotrophic form in some pools.
10.2307/3225821|The styrene resin cracking method was applied to rumen ciliates with the intention of observing intracellular structures. Specimens were embedded in styrene resin and pulverized with ceramic mortar and pestle. This procedure yielded more satisfactory results than the cracking method using serum as packing medium. The topographical detail obtained is useful for morphologic and taxonomic studies of ciliated Protozoa.
10.2307/3225748|Three new species of Kinorhyncha are described from the shallow water coralline sediment of Castle Harbor, Bermuda. The order Cyclorhagida is represented by Echinoderes bispinosus n. sp. and E. bermudensis n. sp. Kinorhynchus fimbriatus n. sp. is in the order Homalorhagida. All three new species were found with Centroderes spinosus, a cyclorhagid, and two juvenile stages of a species belonging to the homalorhagid genus Pycnophyes. The new species of Echinoderes appear to be most closely related to Caribbean species while Kinorhynchus fimbriatus n. sp. appears related to K. langi from the southeastern coast of the U.S.A.
10.2307/3225749|Sponges may regress in periods of environmental stress and form reduction bodies, or enter an "overwintering" phase. While the asexual production of gemmules is a response to long-term environmental changes, reduction is initiated in response to short-term unfavorable environmental events. Laboratory-reared specimens of Spongilla lacustris were placed into either tapwater or heavily chlorinated swimming pool water in order to initiate the processes leading to reduction. Specimens were fixed at 0, 1, 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 h to allow microscopical examination of the early stages of the degenerative process. Four trends are evident during the first 72 h leading toward reduction body formation. These are: (1) a general withdrawal of the sponge into a central rounded mass; (2) the genesis of lysosomal activity concomitant with phagocytic activity which increases noticeably throughout the period of observation (3) cellular degeneration and decrease in the number of cell types in the sponge; and (4) initiation of connective tissue elaboration as cell mass decreases in proportion to an increasingly fibrous connective tissue matrix.
10.2307/3225750|Examination of the axial epithelium of the gorgonian Leptogorgia virgulata has revealed two cell types. The first type, or attachment cell, bears microvilli, the tips of which are connected by a thin bridge of cytoplasm. Each microvillus appears to terminate in four spherical projections. Epithelio-axial attachment occurs between these spherical bodies and fibrous projections from the axis. The attachment cells are capshaped and have invaginations of the basal plasma membranes that allow the passage of mesogleal fibers to the apical region of the cells. All of these structures provide strong, yet flexible, epithelio-axial attachment sites. The second epithelial cell type, a secretory cell, lacks microvilli and has instead a relatively smooth cell surface adjacent to the axis. There is a narrow extracellular space between the cell and the axis which contains fibrous material. The secretory cell seems to be involved in the synthesis and secretion of axial material. An amorphous calcium compound, probably calcium carbonate, has been detected throughout the axis, and appears to be involved in the strengthening of the axis.
10.2307/3225751|Scanning electron microscopy was used to investigate the changes in embryonic surface features of Manduca sexta which occur between 25 h postoviposition and eclosion 79 h later. During this period, the segments forming the head undergo a complex set of movements transforming a relatively flat structure into the larval head; the changing site of the appendage buds and their relative locations were charted over time, and the role of selective cell enlargements in establishing the final appearance of these appendage buds was detailed. The description of Manduca embryogenesis also was broadened to include a timetable of major morphological events in embryogenesis, including secretion of the embryonic cuticle and blastokinesis.
10.2307/3225753|A karyometric analysis of the diploid complement of Cercyra hastata (Tricladida: Maricola) was carried out, mainly on mitoses from the male germ cell line. C. hastata has seven pairs of homologous chromosomes. The chromosomes can be distinguished on the basis of their lengths; i.e., one pair of very large chromosomes, one of medium length, and five pairs of small chromosomes. With reference to centromere position: chromosomes 1, 4, and 5 are submetacentric; chromosomes 3, 6, and 7 are subtelocentric; and chromosome 2 is acrocentric.
10.2307/3225754|Protozoan colonization rates on artificial substrates in limnetic and benthic habitats were measured in two permanently ice-covered southern Victoria Land Antarctic lakes. Lake Hoare and Lake Fryxell are located on opposite sides of, but share drainage from, the same piedmont glacier. Lake Fryxell has been shown to be the more eutrophic of the two lakes. The polyurethane foam (PF) substrates were initially colonized by autotrophic Sarcomastigophora which were succeeded by Ciliophora. Colonization data were fitted to the MacArthur-Wilson model. Of 15 in situ colonization field experiments in these lakes, 11 showed agreement with the MacArthur-Wilson model. Artificial substrates placed on benthic algal mats in Lake Fryxell possessed more protozoan taxa at equilibrium than sponges from any other habitat. Late season limnetic PF units in Lake Fryxell were colonized faster and had the best fit to the MacArthurWilson model in comparison with any other site. Data from this limnetic transect demonstrated that the limnetic community is a greater source pool for potential colonizers than previously recognized in these non-turbulent polar lakes. Lake Hoare PF units had fewer total taxa at equilibrium than sponges from similar habitats in Lake Fryxell. Colonization rates were slower in both lakes and had fewer taxa at equilibrium in comparison with temperate lakes. Differences in equilibrium values and colonization rates between these Antarctic lakes and temperate lakes can be explained by the smaller pool of protozoan taxa, lack of water turbulence within these permanently ice-covered high latitude lakes, and the constant cold temperature. Antarctic lakes, as aquatic habitats subjected to unusual stresses caused by the high latitudinal climate, provide valuable laboratories for the study of unifying ecological concepts. Moreover, our colonization study constitutes a valuable tool for further microfaunal investigations in Antarctic lakes.
10.2307/3225755|Stephanodiscus alpinus is moderate in diameter, concentrically undulate and heavily silicified. Spine placement on valves from North American populations is variable and may differ from European material. North American specimens also tend to be more coarsely fasciculate. Stephanodiscus tenuis is distinguished by a rosette of areolae in the valve center. Stephanodiscus dubius is heavily silicified and concentrically undulate. The presence of alveoli near the margin of S. dubius distinguishes it from other Stephanodiscus species.
10.2307/3225756|The subaerial diatom communities of eight sandstone cliffs with different exposures and moisture regimes in eastern Kentucky were investigated. Distinct communities existed at each of the sampled sites, and a total of 113 taxa were observed. Cliff aspect and the amount and permanence of moisture were the major factors which appear to affect community composition. In communities which were sampled more than once, the relative abundance of the major constituent taxa, as well as the total number present, fluctuated little between sampling dates. Diatom taxa which appear to be associated with subaerial habitats in eastern Kentucky are Anomoeoneis serians var. brachysira, Achnanthes marginulata, Cymbella perpusilla, Eunotia fallax var. gracillima, Eunotia trinacria var. undulata, Frustulia rhomboides var. saxonica, Melosira roeseana, Navicula contenta, Navicula keeleyi, Navicula krasskei, and Tabellaria flocculosa.
10.2307/3225758|The attachment and engorgement of a water mite, Hydrachna virella, which is parasitic on a backswimmer, Buenoa scimitra, have been examined by scanning electron microscopy. There are two types of attachment sites: feeding and non-feeding. These sites reflect the attachment and engorgement behavior of the parasitic mite. Larvae that attach to the host for the first time do not feed. The attachment site of nonfeeding larvae has a characteristic shape, being a semi-circular depression made by the anterior edge of the mite's gnathosome. At the time of host ecdysis, larvae move to the newly emerging host individual for feeding. The feeding attachment site has a characteristic crater, termed here a "stylostomal crater," that always opens into the stylostome. Feeding is accomplished via the stylostome, and engorgement is permitted by expansion of highly convoluted pleural membranes and a posterior membranous bulb. Both feeding and non-feeding larvae use the chelicerae to attach to the host; however, the chelicerae of feeding larvae become embedded permanently in the stylostomal crater to make withdrawal impossible; therefore, ecdysis of H. virella to the nymphal instar occurs on the host.
10.2307/3225920|Euphysa ruthae n. sp. is described from the San Juan Island region, Washington, U.S.A. It is found commonly in infralittoral coarse sands at several locales, its size and field distribution suggesting that it is a member of the mesopsammic meiofauna. As is characteristic for Euphysa hydroids, E. ruthae is solitary and possesses an elongated hydrocaulus with a mucoid sheath, moniliform aboral tentacles, and basal papillae. E. ruthae shares the unusual property of polarity reversal in bud formation with three other species of Euphysa. The buds of E. ruthae are unique in that they combine morphogenetic features of gonophores with those of asexual bud formation. Bud morphogenesis has similarities to actinula morphogenesis in the closely related Tubularoidea. Each basal papilla contains a simple, terminal statocyst that apparently is homologous with that of Corymorpha palma, suggesting a synapomorphy that links the genera Euphysa, Corymorpha, and perhaps Vannucia. Comparison with other interstitial hydroids suggests that certain features may have special adaptive value.
10.2307/3225921|Eight-hour embryos of the marine hydrozoan Pennaria tiarella were treated for two hours with colchicine. The resulting larvae, devoid of interstitial cells and their derivatives including ganglionic cells, exhibited morphological polarity. These larvae maintained their anterior-posterior axes throughout their larval development. Results of this experiment show that epithelial cells are capable of forming as well as maintaining the anterior-posterior axes of larvae in the absence of neural elements.
10.2307/3225922| An electron microscopical study was undertaken to determine how brooded embryos of Mesonerilla intermedia are attached to the maternal body. Developing eggs are situated dorsally on posterior segments, partially covered by the brood hood. The brood hood is a fold arising from segment 8 and extending 195 m posteriorly; it consists of two layers of epidermis separated by nerves and extracellular space. The hood is open posteriorly and has no connection to the embryos. Embryos are connected to specialized cells of the dorsal maternal epidermis that are rich in tonofilaments and Golgi cisternae. At the cell apex, the maternal cuticle is absent, permitting direct attachment of cell processes to the embryonic cuticle, which also is modified at the region of contact. Coated vesicles and pits are found in both maternal and embryonic cells at this junction, but the direction of transport is not known. 
10.2307/3225923|Numerous Vorticella have been found attached to blue-green algal colonies in the plankton of a mesotrophic lake in northwestern Wisconsin. Vorticellids attached to Nostoc preferentially when Nostoc was present. As many as 200 Vorticella were found attached to single colonies of Nostoc. The numbers of Vorticella and Nostoc fluctuated in parallel patterns. The preferential association of Vorticella with Nostoc described here has not been reported.
10.2307/3225924|The frequency and specificity of associations of vorticellids with planktonic algae were examined and compared to associations with macrophytes and artificial substrates. Most associations were nonspecific. However, Vorticella monilata was found exclusively as an epibiont on Anabaena flos-aquae (Cyanophyta). Over two-thirds of the A. flos-aquae filament masses examined had attached vorticellids. Vorticellids were found in large numbers and were associated with increased motility of the filament masses observed. Additionally, Vorticella microstoma was found on nearly one-half of Microcystis aeruginosa colonies collected. This association was not specific inasmuch as V. microstoma was common on several other substrates. Advantages of such associations of vorticellids and planktonic blue-green algae are discussed.
10.2307/3225925|The cyst wall of Laurentiella acuminata, as revealed by scanning and transmission electron microscopy, is constituted of four layers. The ectocyst is an osmiophilic layer made up of stacks of plates. The mesocyst is formed by two zones: (1) the outer zone, rich in dense and fibrous material randomly oriented; and (2) the inner zone of stratified fibrils. The endocyst consists of a highly compact amorphous substance that is electron-lucent. The innermost layer exhibits a dispersed granular or fibrillar structure.
10.2307/3225927|In order to investigate the biochemical nature of the epidermal-dermal interactions which control keratin gene expression, we have determined that dissociated eight-day embryonic chick back skin cells form aggregates that reorganize histotypically and undergo normal cytodifferentiation in vitro. Using immunohistochemical methods, we find that alpha-keratins of the aggregates are localized in a pattern typical for normal skin epidermis, while fibronectin is distributed in a manner similar to that seen in normal skin dermis.
10.2307/3225929|Collection, fixation, and light microscopic methods for Synuraceae (Chrysophyceae) are poorly understood by researchers who are not specialists on this group. Because of the delicate nature of these organisms, special considerations are required. Copper sulfate and formalin-acetic acid solutions are used for wet-mount examination of cells or colonies. Lugol-Rodhe solution is used for wet-mount examination of flagella. Burned mounts, in air or with a high refractive index mountant, are used for detailed observations of scales, spines, and bristles. Nissenbaum's technique, with Naphrax as the mountant, is used for making permanent slides of intact cells or colonies for detailed examination. Both the burned mount and Nissenbaum techniques are described in detail with modifications for optimizing image quality. Because these light microscopical methods have been optimized and brought together here, systematic studies relating light microscopy and electron microscopy will be facilitated. Moreover, it is hoped that this will aid in reducing the current total dependence for precise taxonomy on electron microscope observations. Possible applications of these techniques for other algal and protozoan groups are noted.
10.2307/3225930|The first record of the chrysophycean alga Chrysodidymus for the United States is reported. Two species (C. gracilis and Synura microcrepis) are shown to be synonymous with the type species. Retention of the genera Chrysodidymus and Catenochrysis is supported.
10.2307/3225932|Limatulum mcdanieli n. sp. was obtained from the stomach of Myotis lucifugus in Dodge County, Wisconsin. The new species resembles L. oklahomense and L. gastroides in having the genital pores posterolateral to the acetabulum and relatively small eggs, but is differentiated from both species by a flap of tissue on the anterolateral margin of the acetabulum.
10.2307/3225878|Scanning electron microscope and light microscope studies show that each side of the Hyptiotes cavatus female genitalia has a spherical gland and a copulatory bursa which terminates in a long, looped sperm duct. Both components have adjacent openings into the vagina. The lack of secretory tissue associated with sperm ducts suggests that accessory glands function in sperm activation or another aspect of fertilization. A broad, median vaginal invagination with no direct connection to other components nor any associated secretory tissue appears during mating to accommodate the unusually long median apophysis spur of the male's pedipalpus. Separate bursal and sperm duct openings categorize this species as entelegyne, but the proximity of these openings suggests that Hyptiotes typifies an early transitional state in spider female genitalia.
10.2307/3225879|A tabulation of morphological variability within the genus Sarsameira accompanies the description of a new species from the deep North Atlantic. Sarsameira knorri n. sp. differs from other Sarsameira species in the genus, except S. sarsi, in the setation of pereopod 5; it differs from S. sarsi in percopod 3 endopod distal segment setation. A key to the species of Sarsameira is provided.
10.2307/3225880|A new fresh-water species of Gymnamoebia in the family Amoebidae, Amoeba algonquinensis n. sp., is described at the light- and electron-microscopical levels. This amoeba has a single dominant pseudopodium and a morulate uroid. It possesses a single, spherical, granular nucleus. These observations are compared with prior descriptions of other large Gymnamoebia.
10.2307/3225881|The structure of the cyst wall of the free-living encysted stage of Ichthyophthirius multifiliis was studied by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The wall consists of a relatively homogeneous inner layer and a somewhat less electrondense outer layer in which bacteria and debris are trapped. Cyst wall thickness is not uniform in a single cyst, but generally is greater from the time of encystment through the 16-cell stage than in later stages of development. The cyst wall probably is secreted by the secretory mucocysts of mature trophozoites after they leave the host and by developing daughter cells.
10.2307/3225882|Dermophthirius nigrellii n. sp. is described from the skin of the lemon shark, Negaprion brevirostris. D. nigrellii differs from the two previously known species, D. carcharhini and D. maccallumi, in: (1) being larger in size, and (2) having a cirrus complex with a different structural appearance. The description of the opisthohaptor of D. carcharhini is amended based on reexamination of the type specimens and the recent rediscovery of D. carcharhini from the skin of a dusky shark, Carcharhinus obscurus, captured off New York City and kept for five months on exhibit at the New York Aquarium.
10.2307/3225883|We have examined morphogenesis and biochemical differentiation of the metatarsal spur in normal and scaleless chickens. Unlike previous studies suggesting that the spur is a modified reticular scale, we find that keratins produced by the metatarsal spur are identical to those of scutate scales. Gross observations show that although the scaleless mutant develops spurs at the normal site, they are abnormal in their size, morphology, and time of appearance. Histologically, the epidermis and dermis of the spur in both normal and scaleless embryos are similar, yet electrophoretic data show that some alpha-keratins and all beta-keratins of normal spurs are absent from the epidermis of scaleless spurs. Thus, the spur's response to the scaleless gene differs from that observed for either scutate or reticulate scales, emphasizing the point that the tissue interactions that regulate morphogenesis and biochemical differentiation of the skin and its appendages may differ, depending on the structure being studied.
10.2307/3225884| Phytoplankton community structure was studied in relation to physicochemical characteristics of three South Carolina reservoirs in close proximity and of similar age and bottom type. Thermal alteration, resulting from the input of cooling water from a nuclear reactor, was substantially different in each reservoir. This provided an opportunity to compare water temperature effects separated from season. Water temperature (when examined independently in statistical models) appeared to be less important than other environmental variables in determining phytoplankton community structure. Pond C, a reservoir receiving intensely heated effluent (>20 C  T), displayed low species diversity (Shannon-Weaver H' < 2.0), except in winter. Unexpectedly, more than 50% of the total phytoplankton density in this reservoir was consistently comprised of green algae (principally Chlamydomonas sp.) despite water temperatures that averaged 47.3 C in summer. Par Pond, having a maximum  T of 5 C, displayed no temperature-induced alteration of phytoplankton community structure. 
10.2307/3225885|Examination of phytoplankton from a highly colored eutrophic Florida lake revealed an undescribed species of Paraphysomonas. Paraphysomonas circumforaminifera n. sp., possessing a perforated base plate located just within the rim, becomes the sixth member of the tack-shaped scale group.
10.2307/3225886|Substituted naphythylamides of leucine and alanine were used as substrates to determine peptidase activity in the eggshell-enclosed embryos of Schistosoma mansoni. The fluorescein used was 5-nitrosalicyladehyde. Discrete granules were observed in the germ cell region and epidermis of the miracidium and associated with the surrounding vitelline membrane. No activity was observed in the penetration glands of the miracidium. It is felt that this technique is applicable for the study of a wide variety of tissue proteases.
10.2307/3225826|How the author was initiated to the study of cellular immunity in invertebrates, especially molluscs, by the late Leslie A. Stauber is recalled. Phagocytosis is the principal mechanism by which molluscs defend themselves against invading nonself materials. The most active phagocytic hemocytes are the granulocytes. These cells are attracted to at least certain species of bacteria by chemotaxis. The attractants are proteins with molecular weights of approximately 10,000. Both microtubules and microfilaments are involved in migration of granulocytes to foreign substances. It is now known that molluscan granulocytes challenged with certain foreign substances undergo hypersynthesis of lysosomal enzymes and these are subsequently released into serum and are effective in degrading certain microorganisms and possibly helminths. In addition to extracellular degradation of foreign materials, there is an efficient intracellular degradation system associated with phagocytosis.
10.2307/3225827|Hemocoel tissues (coelomocytes, botryoid and vasofibrous cells) store reserve food materials in the predacious gnathobdellid leech Haemopis marmorata. In starved animals, all three cell types lose most of their stainable materials. Coelomocytes contain neutral lipids in vacuoles in addition to glycogen and acid mucopolysaccharides in the cytosol. Botryoid and vasofibrous cells store a glycolipid composed of an amine sugar and neutral lipid in phospholipid covered granules. Botryoid cells especially exhibit high activity of three glycoside hydrolases: beta-glucuronidase, beta-glucoaminidase, and N-acetyl-beta-glucoaminidase. Botryoid and vasofibrous cells also contain iron and probably are involved in the synthesis and breakdown of circulating hemoglobin. We postulate a functional role for these cells in the adaptation of H. marmorata to overwintering in a temperate-zone habitat.
10.2307/3225828|Specimens of six species of leeches of the genus Haemopis were necropsied and examined histologically in an attempt to elucidate the in situ host-parasite relationships between the leeches and their helminths. Specimens of five species of mature trematodes were recovered from the gastrointestinal ceca. The histological organization of the gastrointestinal ceca was found to be quite similar to that of the small intestine of ictalurid fishes, and it is suggested that ancestral macroderoidid parasites of leeches may have been preadapted to the intestinal environment of catfishes. This explanation is proposed to account for the continued existence of members of the genus Alloglossidium in the intestine of both piscine and hirudinean hosts. Extreme inter- and intraspecific crowding of enteric trematodes also was observed; a possible mechanism for reduction of competition through habitat partitioning is examined. Immature trematodes and nematodes were observed to be encysted along the blood vessels of the gastrointestinal ceca. A nonspecific fibrous encapsulation response to these cysts was observed frequently; in some cases, this host response appeared to induce disintegration of the larval trematodes.
10.2307/3225829|Specimens of five species of mature enteric trematodes, an unidentified tetracotyle, two species of nematodes, one enteric and one parenteric, and unidentified glossiphonid leeches were recovered from necropsies of 189 specimens of six species of haemopid leeches collected from Iowa and Minnesota, 1976-1979. Statistical analysis indicated that populations of all helminths were significantly overdispersed in their hosts and that the negative binomial distribution provided an adequate fit to most of the observed parasite frequency distributions. Estimated values of the parameter k were <1.0 and, in several cases, they approached zero. The significance of this extreme aggregation of parasites and its possible consequences at the suprapopulation level are discussed. Species-specific differences in habitat and dietary preferences of different species of hosts are compared with observed patterns of prevalence and density of helminths of haemopid leeches reported here and in the literature. The results indicate that Haemopis grandis, H. plumbea, and H. marmorata are primarily aquatic, that H. lateromaculatum and H. kingi are semiaquatic, and that H. lateralis is confined to terrestrial habitats. Dietary diversity, helminth faunal diversity, and relative density of helminths all appeared to decrease with the increase of terrestrial habits in the hosts. An ecologic hypothesis is proposed to explain species-specific differences in the dynamics of haemopid parasites on the basis of habitat and dietary relationships evolved by the different species of hosts.
10.2307/3225830|Immature, mature, and gravid specimens of Bothriocephalus acheilognathi from mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) were studied by scanning (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). SEM of the heart-shaped scolex revealed long, deep, pear-shaped bothria. A bilobed apical disc was present, although it was not prominent. The scolex tegument possessed microtriches which were morphologically distinct from those of the strobila. Microtriches had a more slender appearance within the bothria than on the surrounding tegument. SEM also revealed the presence of tumuli which were numerous and uniformly spaced on the scolex, but became less abundant posteriorly along the strobila. TEM revealed that tumuli contained dense-staining inclusions. Sensory cilia extended through the tegument of mature and gravid proglottids. The distal cytoplasmic layer was connected to the perikarya by cytoplasmic bridges. Muscle bundles were observed in longitudinal and cross-sections within the perinuclear region. Various organelles, including ribosomes, endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi bodies, were present and within the cytons.
10.2307/3225831|Three new echinostome cercariae parasitizing Lymnaea rufescens in Pakistan are described. Cercaria spinicephala n. sp. is characterized by a collar bearing 26 spines, arranged in an uninterrupted double row, five penetration glands on either side of the esophagus, cystogenous glands with rod-shaped contents, intestinal caeca reaching the posterior region of the body, an almost triangular excretory bladder, ascending excretory ducts enclosing refractile concretions, and a tail without a finfold. C. paraspinicephala n. sp. is furnished with 47 collar spines arranged in an uninterrupted double row, four pairs of penetration glands around the esophagus, an acetabulum larger than the oral sucker, a large, rounded excretory bladder, bunches of cilia in descending excretory ducts, and a thick cytoplasmic covering around the tail. C. heterolophoformis n. sp. is characterized by 25 collar spines arranged in an uninterrupted double row, a small prepharyngeal saccular structure containing bundles of refractile rod-like material, six pairs of large penetration glands laterally along the esophagus, an acetabulum larger than the oral sucker, a small rounded excretory bladder, numerous refractile concretions in the ascending excretory ducts, and a discontinuous caudal finfold.
10.2307/3225832| Oocysts of Caryospora simplex (Apicomplexa: Eimeriidae) are described from the feces of an Ottoman viper, Vipera xanthina xanthina, from the Atlanta Zoo. Oocysts are spherical, 14.9 (13.5-16.2) m, with a thick, single-layered wall. A polar granule is attached to the inner surface of the oocyst wall; a micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent. The sporocyst is ovoid, 11.6 x 8.9 (10.4-12.6 x 8.1-9.5) m, with Stieda and substieda bodies. A sporocyst residuum is present in most sporocysts and consists of numerous scattered granules of various sizes. Sporozoites are elongate, 11.4 x 2.3 (9.9-13.1 x 2.0-2.7) m, and lie parallel to one another and lengthwise within the sporocyst. Four are oriented in one direction; the other four lie in the opposite direction. Each sporozoite contains central and posteriorly located spherical, refractile globules. 
10.2307/3225833|The microtubules of the deep fiber in two species of Tetrahymena, T. pyriformis GL and the microstomal cell type of T. vorax V
10.2307/3225834|The histochemical identification of sperm masses in the spermathecae of Antrodiaetus hageni and Hypochilus thorelli, and the complementarity of form between the female genitalia and the male palpus in Atypoides hadros and other mygalomorph species, help to dispel the notion that haplogyne spider spermathecae do not store sperm. A preliminary histochemical analysis of the spermathecal gland in species of Antrodiaetus and H. thorelli indicates that the gland contains, at certain times and in certain regions, high concentrations of glycogen, and also that, in H. thorelli at least, there are two cell types in the gland. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that these glands may serve more than one function.
10.2307/3225835|Scanning electron microscopy has revealed the ultrastructure of Diatoma hiemale var. mesodon to be a composite of characteristics previously observed by independent investigators using light and transmission electron microscopy. Features such as marginal spines, a single labiate process per valve, and an apical pore field located at each pole were observed in this taxon and appear to be typical for the genus. Apparently, the straight-chain filamentous growth habit of D. hiemale var. mesodon was maintained by mucilage pads located at each apical pore field of opposing valves. Mucilage has not been reported previously as a mechanism holding together straight-chain colonies of any taxon in the genus Diatoma.
10.2307/3225836|Fecal pellets produced by Lake Michigan and Douglas Lake zooplankton in laboratory experiments were settled gently onto microscope slides in specially designed settling chambers. Permanent slides of settled pellets were made in triplicate 24, 48, 72, 96, 120, and 144 hours after removal of zooplankton. Light microscopic examination of the fecal material revealed variations in the amount of pellet degradation within each time interval as well as between successive time intervals. Degradation of the peritrophic membrane of fecal pellets from Douglas Lake zooplankton occurred more rapidly than those from Lake Michigan zooplankton. Degradation of the peritrophic membrane was not accompanied by significant changes in bacteria or chemical conditions in water surrounding the pellets. Results of degradation and sinking rate experiments showed that fecal pellets produced in the upper water column could be transported intact to the sediments of the deepest parts of Lake Michigan.
10.2307/3225837|A method for Alizarin red S and Alcian blue 8GX double staining of ossified and cartilagenous skeletal components has been developed for late larval and newly metamorphosed stages of Xenopus laevis. This technique, which utilizes fixed specimens, employs hydrogen peroxide bleaching, potassium hydroxide maceration, and ethanol/glycerin clearing, has proved convenient with many possible stopping points and the capability of producing assayable skeletons in only two and one-half days. The method routinely produces stained skeletons with excellent contrast and brilliant colors for photographics. This procedure was developed in conjunction with the use of late larvae of Xenopus as teratological test animals. The sensitivity and uniformity of response of this biological system and the capabilities of this skeletal technique provide an excellent system for the study of teratogenic effects on the development of ossified bone and skeletal conformation.
10.2307/3225844|Fresh-water sponges, Spongilla lacustris, were hatched from gemmules or gemmules were mechanically ruptured following heat-induced release from dormancy. The 0-36-hour preparations were extruded into the fluorescent dye, acridine orange, while coverslips bearing attached hatched sponges (36-144 hours) were supravitally fluorochromed with 10
10.2307/3225845|Tissue fusion between colonies of the bryozoan Thalamoporella californica was studied by characterizing the structure of the interzooidal pores. Unlike past studies, the history of each colony was documented allowing a comparison of fusion among sibling colonies, those derived from the same maternal colony, and nonsibling colonies. The results show that fusion occurred only between zooids of the same colony which had grown apart or between sibling colonies. In both cases, a particular type of interzooidal pore was formed. Nonsibling colonies failed to recognize each other and did not form the specialized pore. Apparently, genetic compatability is necessary for the intraspecific, intercolonial fusion of cellular parts in this species.
10.2307/3225846|Paromalostomum coronum n. sp. from a high-energy beach at Reid State Park, Georgetown, Maine and from Manomet, Massachusetts is described. Distinguishing features are the accentuated coronal shape of the cuticular apparatus of the bursa, a distinctive penis-glandular stylet complex with an approximate 1:1 size ratio between the distal portion of the penis stylet and the glandular stylet and a penis stylet which has an end-hook and two asymmetric thickenings at both ends of its distal portion. P. coronum, always abundant during this study, is a voracious predator feeding on a variety of prey. Eggs are deposited throughout the year and the juveniles emerge after 12-35 days.
10.2307/3225847|Piguetiella blanci, a naidid oligochaete previously unknown from North America, has been found in Mirror Lake, New Hampshire. Individuals from this lake usually lacked eyespots and had relatively broad spermathecal chaetae, but otherwise were similar to European specimens. A comparison of the New Hampshire specimens with the North American Piguetiella michiganensis shows that the two species are more similar to one another than has been recognized. Eyeless P. blanci are easily confused with the widespread Specaria josinae; thus, chaetal characters that allow for the reliable separation of the two species are discussed.
10.2307/3225848|A new species, Crangonyx aberrans, belonging to the amphipod family Crangonyctidae, is described from lowland aquatic habitats in eastern Massachusetts. The new species shares characters with both C. pseudogracilis, with which it is sympatric, and C. shoemakeri, which occurs along the middle Atlantic Coastal Plain and Piedmont. However, C. aberrans differs from these two species by possessing a unique arrangement of spines on the dactyl of the gnathopods of females and by the presence of subapical marginal spines on the telson of individuals of both sexes. The relationships between C. aberrans and other members of the genus are unclear. Although similar to species of the gracilis and shoemakeri groups, C. aberrans, by having subapical spines on the telson, stands apart from all known species of Crangonyx.
10.2307/3225849|Dermophthirioides pristidis n. gen., n. sp. is described from the skin of two heavily infested smalltooth sawfish, Pristis pectinata. One sawfish also was infested with Neoheterocotyle ruggierii n. sp. on the gills. Dermophthirioides is similar to Dermophthirius, except that the cirrus complex lacks spines and the opisthohaptor is inconspicuous. N. ruggierii is characterized by: (1) a septate opisthohaptor with one central and seven marginal loculi, a pair of posterior anchors, and six pairs of cup-shaped cuticular sucker-like structures on the dorsal surface; (2) two oral suckers; and (3) lobulated testes.
10.2307/3225850|Ergasilus colomesus n. sp. is described from the gills of an Amazonian ornamental fish, Colomesus asellus. The new species can be distinguished from all others in the genus by the following combination of characters: (1) an inflated first segment on the prehensile antenna; (2) a two-segmented first endopod; (3) a two-segmented fourth exopod; (4) a three-segmented fourth endopod; and (5) a sparsely pilose long seta, three short simple setae, and four spinules on the extremity of each uropod. The importance of coloration, pigment distribution, and host specificity in ergasilids is discussed. In a sample of 50 specimens of host fish, the prevalence of this parasite ranged from 76-100% and the intensity from 1-12 ergasilids/host. These values could be correlated roughly with fish size, the higher numbers being found in the larger hosts. Relative density and mean intensity also tended to increase with fish size. The new ergasilid was found to be pathogenic to its host and to induce extensive epithelial hyperplasia, accumulations of blood pigments, fusion of lamellae, and increases in the number of mucous cells near the site of attachment.
10.2307/3225851|In August 1982, meiofauna were collected from four attached macro-algal species on a man-made jetty at Murrells Inlet, South Carolina. The samples were dominated by juvenile mussels (temporary meiofauna). The permanent meiofauna were dominated by harpacticoid copepods, in this respect not unlike phytal assemblages elsewhere in the world. Thirteen harpacticoid species and 23 nematode taxa were identified from a set of quantitative samples. In September, qualitative samples from the same area had a similar harpacticoid species but the abundance rankings were different. We provide a summary table of known quantitative phytal meiofauna studies and hope that this first, albeit preliminary, study of the North American phytal meiofauna will encourage other investigations.
10.2307/3225852|Two stains (OTOTO and GTO) were compared regarding their suitability for scanning electron microscopic (SEM) examination or for simultaneous SEM and transmission electron microscopic (TEM) examination of muscle. Accordingly, gastrocnemius muscles from mice or rabbits were fixed in Karnovsky's fluid and stained with OTOTO, or fixed in glutaraldehyde, stained with a combination of tannic acid and osmium, and prepared for SEM as bulk specimens or for cryostat sections. SEM results on slide specimens prepared by the osmium-thiocarbohydrazide-osmium (OTOTO) method showed adequate resolution but very little contrast in the major bands (A and I) of the myofibrils. TEM showed excellent resolution and contrast of the myofibrils and in membranes of surrounding structures, although artifacts due to the preparation procedure for correlative microscopy were noted at high magnifications in mitochondria. SEM examinations of tannic acid-osmium (GTO) bulk and slide specimens showed better resolution and far better contrast in myofibrils than OTOTO specimens. The contrast in sarcomeres was entirely adequate to determine the length of these, and thus obviated the prior use of polarization microscopy for correlative microscopy of GTO specimens. T-tubules showed up slightly lighter than the A-band in specimens which had been examined with SEM using backscattered electron imaging. Mitochondria, however, were poorly preserved using the GTO processing procedure. TEM results confirmed the presence of well-demarcated T-tubules, and the virtual absence of mitochondria. It is concluded that the OTOTO preparation procedure for correlative microscopy is better suited for evaluation of the mitochondrial framework in muscle, while the GTO method appears more suitable for evaluation of T-tubules.
10.2307/3225853|Unicellular algae or individual filaments are mounted in glycerol on 22-mm circular coverglasses and covered with 18-mm circular coverglasses. The mount is then inverted in a drop of Canada balsam on a warmed glass microslide. This seals the mount permanently to the microslide and makes ringing unnecessary.
10.2307/3225854|There are four reasons why certain species of fresh-water algae have been considered rare: (1) sparse early collections, (2) species with restricted distribution, (3) species having long-lived spores difficult to germinate, and (4) stenecious species. It is postulated that there are very few truly rare fresh-water algae.
10.2307/3226529| Embryos of the acoel turbellarian Archaphanostoma sp. have been studied by transmission electron microscopy for stages of ciliogenesis in their developing epidermal cells. Although some of the ciliogenetic processes in this animal are similar to those known in other organisms, several significant differences pertaining to genesis of centrioles, development of an interciliary rootlet pattern, recruitment of new centrioles into the growing ciliary field, and initiation of axonemal growth are evident. Presumptive basal bodies (centrioles) form in the apical cytoplasm of the epidermal blastomeres. The first few centrioles move directly into position at the cell surface and form cilia; these cilia then apparently serve as focal points for the addition of later-forming cilia to the ciliary field of a cell. Procentrioles arise not only on centrioles serving as ciliary basal bodies and on more deeply lying centrioles, but also at initiation sites on the rootlets of established cilia. Centrioles at the cell surface produce an axoneme either as they are positioned perpendicular to the surface or as they lie parallel with it. In the latter case, the recumbent axoneme elongates to as much as 1.5 m before it is repositioned perpendicular to the surface. Shorter growing cilia have bluntly rounded tips; the shelfed tip characteristic of acoels develops only after the cilium has lengthened. A complex pattern of interconnections between ciliary rootlets is evident, even in their earliest development. This pattern apparently arises by orientation of forming centrioles to already established basal bodies. 
10.2307/3226530|Two new species of Acoela from the Philippine Islands are described: Convoluta boyeri and C. philippinensis. C. boyeri is distinguished from other species of Convoluta by the presence of a special glandular area at the anterior end, and also by the structure of the penis which is enclosed in the seminal vesicle and attached to it in such a way that the two appear to act as a muscular pump for moving the heavy sperm that characterize this species. C. philippinensis is compared with C. enelita of the Red Sea, but differs in having a ring of glandular pockets at the inner end of the penis.
10.2307/3226531|Larval development of the polyclad flatworm Echinoplana celerrima (Acotylea: Planoceridae) has been described. Before hatching, the embryo reaches the two-eyed and the four-eyed stages. The newly-hatched juvenile worm is ovoid, and dorsoventrally flattened possessing four eyes and six sensory cilia on each side of the body. The juvenile worms fed with unicellular algae and spent part of their time gliding on the glass surface. With aging, they pass more time on the bottom of the dishes and suffer eye loss. The significance of this phenomenon is discussed.
10.2307/3226532|The intracellular distribution of three lysosomal enzymes, acid phosphatase (AP), peroxidase (PO), and non-specific esterase (NE), in the blood cells (hemocytes) of two strains of the snail Biomphalaria glabrata (PR albino M-line and 10-R2) is described. AP and PO activity was observed exclusively in lysosomes located in the perinuclear region of hemocytes. There was no difference in AP or PO staining intensity with cells being either positive or negative for the enzymes. In comparison, hemocytes either had moderate, heavy, or no NE activity. Moderate NE activity was characterized by small granules localized primarily in the ectoplasmic region, whereas heavy NE staining had, in addition to these ectoplasmic reaction products, a heavy concentration of NE activity within the cells' endoplasm. Hemocytes also were assayed for AP + NE or NE + PO, simultaneously. In such assays, hemocytes were either positive for one, both, or neither of the enzymes. In general, cells positive for both of the enzymes (i.e., AP + NE or NE + PO) possessed only moderate NE activity. It is concluded that circulating blood cells from B. glabrata are heterogeneous in the occurrence of specific lysosomal enzymes and, furthermore, the enzymes are localized in characteristic regions of the hemocyte.
10.2307/3226533|Sections of brains of the tobacco budworm Heliothis virescens were taken when morphological or behavioral changes occurred during the last instar. Alterations in amount and location of paraldehyde fuchsin (PAF)-stainable material in neurosecretory cells were observed at these times. A composite map of PAF-positive cells at different stages has been constructed. There was little secretory activity and transport of PAFstainable material at both the beginning and end of the instar, but a great deal of secretion and transport during mid-instar. Changes in secretory activity and transport are related to changes in external morphology, behavior, prothoracicotropic hormone-critical periods and hemolymph ecdysteroid titers.
10.2307/3226534|Observations of foraging behavior and contractile vacuolar organization were used to distinguish Dileptus jonesi from D. beersi. The conventional taxonomic characters of body size and macronuclear number, size, and appearance were found to be variable in both species. Variability due to different nutritional states in D. jonesi was such that, for these characters, starved D. jonesi have ranges of values which largely overlap those of D. beersi. If the variability displayed by D. jonesi is typical of the five closely-related species of Dileptus, then macronuclear characters are of no use in discriminating among these species.
10.2307/3226535|The euglenoid flagellate Colacium libellae exhibits a docking sequence that consists of an approach, spiral maneuver, pellicular contact with the substrate, flagellar resorption, and stalk extrusion. This sequence of behavior occurs during the transition of the organism from a free-swimming, flagellated to an attached, non-flagellated cell. Upon initial cell contact, the flagellar beat becomes uncoordinated and the flagellum becomes paralyzed into a helical waveform. A planar component of flagellar movement persists throughout subsequent resorption. Microvideographic analysis indicates that flagellar resorption is linear with time.
10.2307/3226536|Valve morphology of Plagiotropis lepidoptera var. proboscidea is described. Morphologic data suggest affinity of Plagiotropis with the family Naviculaceae and only superficial affinity with the genus Entomoneis and the Entomoneidaceae. Characters substantiating this suggestion include raphe structure, valve ornamentation, and the lipped process, formerly interpreted as a helictoglossa. If the latter is interpreted as a labiate process, doubt is raised as to the currently accepted theory regarding evolution of the raphe. An alternative hypothesis suggests that a partial canal raphe is present in Plagiotropis. Nomenclatural changes for related taxa are presented. There is reason to doubt a life-history relationship between P. lepidoptera var. proboscidea and P. arizonica.
10.2307/3226537| Constructional details are given for two small, inexpensive, string-operated centrifuges suitable for field use. One, based on the child's popular buzzer toy, is capable of sustained action, though its rotation is continually reversed. The other, based on the French top-like moulinet  noix, provides a short burst of rapidly decelerating energy sufficient-like that of its simpler partner-to concentrate large protozoans and other small organisms not requiring prolonged strong centrifugation. 
10.2307/3226538|The olfactiry lamellae of the bluegill sunfish (Lepomis macrochirus) are characterized by distinct sensory and non-sensory areas. Most of each lamella is non-sensory and covered with sparsely ciliated epithelia. The sensory region is adjacent to the midline raphe and at the base of each lamella. This region is populated with at least three cell types. One type is the sensory receptor cell, discerned by a knob-like projection with 5-6 radiating cilia. Non-sensory cells in the sensory region include ciliated indifferent cells and microvillous cells.
10.2307/3226539|From June through August 1981, blood samples were collected from 85 turtles representing five species from Murphy's Pond, Hickman Co., Kentucky and examined for hematozoa. Intraerythrocytic gametocytes of Haemogregarina sp. were found in the following (no. infected/no. examined): Sternotherus odoratus (26/27), Chelydra serpentina serpentina (3/5), Chrysemys scripta elegans (22/28), and Chrysemys picta marginata (4/11). Fourteen specimens of Terrapene carolina carolina were negative. Generally, prevalence among basking species was greater than entirely aquatic species. Chrysemys picta marginata presents a new host record for Haemogregarina sp.
10.2307/3226233|Examples are shown of two-phase and two-component systems, and both, in the lumina of major ampullate ducts of orb-web-building spiders. These establish a potential duality of the silk produced. The formation of a skin-core structure of major ampullate silk fibers, not previously known, is described and the dual materials are illustrated.
10.2307/3226234| Scanning electron microscope study of eggsacs produced by representatives of the genera Hyptiotes, Miagrammopes, Octonoba, Philoponella, Tangaroa, Uloborus, and Zosis shows them to contain silk of three diameter classes, the distribution of which does not mirror the family's phylogeny. The eggsacs of some taxa are constructed of a single layer of fine silk fibers having a diameter of about 1.0 m and others of two layers of this silk, judged to be of tubuliform gland origin. Others construct eggsacs lined by fine silk and covered by coarse silk fibers having a diameter of about 1.6 m. Eggsacs of Hyptiotes are made of two coarse layers covered by tufted silk having a fiber diameter of about 5.6 m. Both coarse and tufted silk camouflage eggsacs, tufted silk possibly also serving to collect moisture and protect eggs from mechanical and insect damage. Coarse and tufted silk may be produced by ampullate glands. 
10.2307/3226235|This is the second report of Microplana terrestris in the United States, confirmed by description of a sexually mature specimen from Jamestown, New York. Characteristic features include abundant prepharyngeal testes, well-developed penis bulb and papilla, female system with abundant eosinophilous glands entering full length of the vagina, and a genito-intestinal system with an irregular shaped sac or seminal vesicle with three genito-intestinal canals entering the intestine.
10.2307/3226236|Specimens of the western cottonmouth (Agkistrodon piscivorus), yellow-bellied water snake (Nerodia erythrogaster), diamondback water snake (N. rhombifera), and midland water snake (N. sipedon) were collected in Perry County, Alabama, during 1979 and 1980. Upon necropsy, 10 species of parasites were found. Trematoda: Dasymetra conferta, Ochetosoma ancistrodontis, O. aniarum, Pneumatophilus foliaformis, P. leidyi; Cestoda: Proteocephalus marenzelleri, P. perspicua; Nematoda: Ophidascaris labiatopapillosa; Pentastomida: Kiricephalus coarctatus, Porocephalus crotali. The euryphagic snakes A. piscivorus and N. sipedon demonstrated greater endoparasite diversity than stenophagic N. erythrogaster and N. rhombifera. Four new host records and 10 new locality records were established.
10.2307/3226237|Pikas, Ochotona hyperborea (Lagomorpha: Ochotonidae), were collected at six localities in northeastern Siberia (Magadansk Oblast') and examined for helminths. Cestodes of the genus Schizorchis (Anoplocephalidae) were found at two localities. Schizorchis yamashitai is reported for the first time from the Eurasian continent, and S. ryzhikovi n. sp. is described. In addition, S. nepalensis n. sp. is described from O. roylei in Nepal. The relationships and zoogeography of these cestodes are discussed.
10.2307/3226238|The localization of colloidal gold particles in the form of ingested aurothiomalate was studied by transmission electron microscopy using the ciliate Tetrahymena rostrata. Organisms were incubated with the compound for a total of 69 hours. Samples were withdrawn at 0, 2.5, 20, 28, 45, and 69 hours of culturing. Particles of colloidal gold were first observed associated with membranous surfaces on the exterior of the cell. They appeared later both in food vacuoles and endoplasmic vesicles. Although a considerable cellular autophagy occureed when the organisms began to encyst at 28 hours of incubation, no gold deposits were observed to be associated with numerous secondary lysosomes present in the endoplasm. This result is surprising in consideration of the behavior of gold particles with lysosomes in other cell systems.
10.2307/3226239|Fifty 400-ml beakers containing 300 ml of soil-water media and 50 2,000-ml beakers containing 1,800 ml of media were inoculated with replicated subsets from a species pool consisting of green, blue-green, and golden algae, ciliates, a rotifer, a dinoflagellate, and euglenoids. These species were added at two different average rates over a six-month period, resulting in four replicated sets of microcosmic communities. Five beakers from each of the four-beaker size/invasion rate categories were selected randomly for quantitative sampling. Species importance value curves were developed for each beaker and tested for homogeneity between and within experimental categories. Common species diversity indices are presented.
10.2307/3226240|Four species of the genus Trichodina, one new to science, are reported from fishes and tadpoles of Cuba: T. jadranica from the gills of Citharichthys spilopterus, T. cubanensis n. sp. from the skin of Cichlasoma tetracantha, T. hypsilepis from the skin of tadpoles, and Trichodina sp. from the skin of Lepomis gibbosus. For each species, photomicrographs of silver-impregnated specimens and morphometric data are presented and aspects of their taxonomy discussed. Trichodina borealis is rejected as a nomen dubium. Zoogeographical analysis of ectozoic fresh-water species of Trichodina common to North America and Eurasia reveals six Holarctic species: Trichodina truttae, T. acuta, T. reticulata, T. fultoni, T. tenuidens, and T. domerguei. Records of Trichodina pediculus from North American fishes and amphibians are considered erroneous.
10.2307/3226241|Intrahepatic development of Eimeria funduli was studied in semithin sections of epoxy-embedded liver of Fundulus similis. Because E. funduli requires an intermediate host, uninfected wild specimens of F. similis were fed cephalothoracic tissues from the grass shrimp Palaemonetes pugio, which had been fed liver containing sporulated oocysts from wild F. grandis. Liver tissue was examined from fish killed periodically 4-35 days after being fed the infective grass shrimp. Eimeria funduli developed mainly in hepatocytes, but also in pancreatic acinar cells. Development of all stages, except penetrating merozoites, occurred within parasitophorous vacuoles that appeared to be limited by host cytoplasm. At least two generations of merozoites developed, each formed by exogenesis. Mature first-generation meronts occurred within 4-6 days and the second generation within 9-11 days postinfection (p.i.). At 12 days p.i., macrogamonts with numerous amylopectin granules and microgamonts in various stages of differentiation occurred. Fertilization probably took place near 13 days p.i., after which time microgamonts no longer were present. A typical eimerian oocyst wall was not formed. Sporoblast formation was well advanced by 21 days p.i. with sporonts forming four spherical sporoblasts. The sporoblast had a dense nucleus and numerous cytoplasmic granules. A veil-like membrane surrounded each sporoblast. At 23 days p.i., sporoblasts were fusiform with one end rounded and the other tapered. At 28 days p.i., the sporoblast's wall thickened and sporopodia developed. By 35 days p.i., sporocysts contained two sporozoites curled around one another.
10.2307/3226242|The following nomenclatural corrections and new taxa are given for the protozoan phylum Apicomplexa. New Order: Ixorheorida; New Families: Ixorheidae, Haemohormidiidae; New Genus: Echinoocysta; New Species: Anisolobus theodoresi, Pyxinia trogodermi, Haemoproteus sudani; New Names: Gregarina noncylindrica, Eimeria dacunhai, Eimeria elerybeckeri, Isospora spermophili; New Combinations: Selenidium annulatum, Paraophioidina eucopiae, Paraophioidina korotneffi, Nematopsis foresti, Xiphocephalus karnatakaensis, Xiphocephalus serpentula, Echinoocysta phalangii, Haemogregarina sonomae, Hepatozoon rhipicephali, Eimeria (?) navillei, Eimeria (?) tatusi, Plasmodium caprae, Babesia brygooi, Babesia macfiei, Babesia meri, Babesia mungo, Babesia passeritae, Babesia rhombomys, Babesia vespertilionis, Haemohormidium anseris, Haemohormidium hareni, Selenidioides grassei.
10.2307/3226243|The family Cryptosporidiidae is redefined, and the coccidian genera Cryptosporidium and Epieimeria are assigned to it. Both of these genera have merogony in the brush border or surface of their host cells and not within the host cell proper.
10.2307/3226244|A device for breaking wide glass (Ralph) knives is described. The principle of the device is the application of steadily increasing force on a strip of glass until fracture. Information concerning the production and staining of glycolmethacrylate sections is given.
10.2307/3226182|Epifluorescence microscopy has been used to discriminate between phototrophic and heterotrophic nanoplankton from natural plankton samples prior to examination by electron microscopy. In this procedure, sea-water samples are dried onto Formvar-coated transmission electron microscopy grids and examined with epifluorescence microscopy to denote the location of all photosynthetic microorganisms, visible because of chlorophyll fluorescence. Both the photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic cells can then be located by transmission and scanning electron microscopy after shadow-casting or coating with AuPd for critical examination of taxonomic features. This technique allows the detailed characterization of, and discrimination between, numerically dominant phototrophic and heterotrophic nanoplankton species in natural plankton populations, including cells that evade study by culture methods.
10.2307/3226183|The production of lytic algal viruses, or virus-like particles, by symbiotic algae isolated from Hydra viridis and Anthopleura xanthogrammica was monitored by sucrose-gradient fractionation of the algal lysates and by transmission electron microscopy. Viral particles were detected readily in algae isolated from H. viridis; however, virus-like particles were absent from either of the two species of symbiotic algae isolated from A. xanthogrammica. We propose the following hypothesis: the presence of lytic algal viruses in fresh-water algal-invertebrate symbiosis and the apparent absence of such viruses in marine algal-invertebrate symbiosis may represent a fundamental distinction, not previously recognized, between fresh-water and marine algal-invertebrate symbiosis.
10.2307/3226184|The growth rates of four species of amoebae (Amoeba algonquinensis, Saccamoeba limax, and two species of Vannella) were determined over the temperature range 5.0-12.5 C. Generation times were within the range 19 h (S. limax, 12.5 C) to 178 h (Vannella sp. I, 5.0 C) and decreased with increasing temperature. The minimum temperature for growth in three of the species studied fell below 5.0 C. It is concluded that predicting growth rates at low temperatures (either from Q
10.2307/3226185| Oocysts of Caryospora duszynskii n. sp. (Apicomplexa: Eimeriorina) are described from the feces of Elaphe guttata (corn snake) and E. obsoleta obsoleta (black rat snake) from the United States, and their morphology is compared with that of similar Caryospora described from reptiles. Oocysts of C. duszynskii are spherical or subspherical, 25.7 x 24.3 m (23.0-28.5 x 22.0-28.0), with a bilayered wall about 1.5 m thick. Micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent. One, rarely two, polar granules are present, 1.8 x 1.6 m (1.5-3.5 x 1.5-2.0). Sporocysts are ovoid, 18.3 x 14.8 m (17.0-21.5 x 13.5-16.5), with prominent Stieda and substieda bodies. Sporocyst residuum present, 11.4 x 6.3 m (9.0-13.5 x 5.5-7.5), consisting of numerous granules 1.0-2.5 m in diameter. Sporozoites are elongate, 15.8 x 3.6 m (13.0-19.5 x 3.0-4.5), lying lengthwise and parallel within the sporocyst. Each sporozoite contains a spherical anterior and ovoid posterior refractile body. 
10.2307/3226186| Oocysts of Caryospora ernsti n. sp. (Apicomplexa: Eimeriorina), from the feces of the green lizard, Anolis carolinensis, are described. Oocysts are spherical, 12.5 (11.0-14.5) m, with a single-layered wall about 1.0 m thick. Micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent; a polar granule is present. Sporocysts are ovoid, 10.7 x 8.3 (10.012.5 x 7.5-9.0) m, and possess Stieda and substieda bodies. A sporocyst residuum is present, 5.6 x 3.8 (3.6-6.3 x 2.7-5.4), and consists of numerous granules 0.3-1.5 m in diameter. Sporozoites are elongate, 9.7 x 2.0 (8.0-11.0 x 2.0-2.2) m, lying lengthwise and parallel within the sporocyst. Each sporozoite contains a spherical anterior and spherical or ovoid posterior refractile body. 
10.2307/3226187|Gonadal tissues of Ilyanassa obsoleta were incubated in sterile isosmotic saline plus antibiotics and in modifications of two established in vitro maintenance media for molluscan tissues. The efficacy of these two media was determined by measuring the oxygen consumption of the gonadal tissues following incubation, and by examining the tissues histologically and ultrastructurally. Tissues incubated in either of the two media had significantly higher mean levels of oxygen consumption per gram dry tissue when compared to tissues incubated in isosmotic saline at 6, 12, 24, and 48 hours. Furthermore, histological and ultrastructural examination of tissues maintained in media revealed fewer pathological alterations than in those tissues maintained in isosmotic saline at these time periods.
10.2307/3226188|The teratogenicity and embryotoxicity of the herbicide monosodium methanearsonate (MSMA) to early embryos of Xenopus laevis has been studied. The 96-hour LC
10.2307/3226189|Gastrocnemius and diaphragm muscles from adult and neonate rabbits were fixed in glutaraldehyde, critical-point dried and dry-fractured for scanning electron microscopy (SEM), or post-osmicated and sectioned for transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The SEM of adult fibers showed an orderly arrangement of intermyofibrillar mitochondria and elongated, frequently-paired mitochondria, which cross at the I-band region of the myofibril in both muscles. However, a three-dimensional arrangement of irregularly-shaped mitochondria and other sarcoplasmic organelles was demonstrated between the myofibrils in both muscles of neonates. The myofibrils in neonate skeletal muscle were more loosely arranged than the myofibrils in neonate diaphragm muscle. The TEM confirmed the SEM observations, and, in addition, showed mitochondrial ultrastructure and the presence of glycogen bodies in the sarcoplasm of the neonate fibers. In diaphragm muscle from neonates, the occasional occurrence of longitudinally arranged cristae was ascertained with the TEM. It was concluded that the arrangement of mitochondria in adult and neonate rabbit muscle fibers appeared to be similar to previously reported observations for similar tissues from rats and mice, and that diaphragm muscle of rabbits is further developed at birth then gastrocnemius muscle.
10.2307/3226190|The somatic and pharyngeal musculature of the planarian Dugesia tigrina was studied by histochemical methods. Unfixed frozen sections were incubated for activities of nicotinamide dinucleotide tetrazolium reductase, succinic dehydrogenase, myophosphorylase, non-specific esterase, and myofibrillar adenosine triphosphatase preincubated at four different pH ranges. Modified Gomori trichrome stain for muscle, hematoxylin and eosin, and periodic acid-Schiff stains also were applied. Uniformly strong and specific staining was demonstrated in muscle cells and not in other cells. Different fiber types could not be distinguished. Planarian muscle thus is metabolically differentiated from other tissues, as in higher invertebrates and vertebrates. The histochemical reactions are consistent with ultrastructural evidence that the unique unstriated somatic myofibers of platyhelminths resemble early stages of myogenesis in more advanced phyla, before the organization of sarcomeres or the divergent development of smooth and striated muscle. Dugesia represents an early stage in the evolution and specialization of muscle.
10.2307/3226191|A new interstitial arthrotardigrade, Renaudarctus psammocryptus n. gen., n. sp., is described from high-energy marine beaches of Fort Pierce and Boca Raton, Florida. It is found in sediment consisting of stratified layers of coarse quartz sand and shell hash. The tardigrade is distinguished particularly by its dorsal cuticular plates, toes, and claw structure. The Renaudarctidae is established as a new family in the order Arthrotardigrada. A recently described tardigrade, Neostygarctus acanthophorus from a marine cave in Italy, originally placed in the family Stygarctidae, is included in the Renaudarctidae based on toe and claw structure. The phylogenetic relationships of Renaudarctidae to other families in Heterotardigrada are discussed. Seven other species of tardigrades found with the new species included: Parastygarctus sterreri, Stygarctus gourbaultae, Halechiniscus remanei, Raiarctus colurus, Raiarctus sp., Tanarctus tauricus, and Batillipes bullacaudatus. Only B. bullacaudatus and H. remanei have been reported from the U.S.A. previously. The vertical and horizontal distribution of the tardigrades in the beaches appears to be related to granulometry more than to other physical or chemical factors, including depth in the beach.
10.2307/3226192|The periostraca of the embryonic shells of three species of viviparid snails were examined using scanning electron microscopy. Campeloma decisum, a burrowing species, has a relatively simple periostracum consisting of spiral rows of low ridges. Viviparus georgianus has more numerous rows of short hooked hairs and ridges. Cipangopaludina chinensis has the most elaborate pattern with two apical and three body whorl rows of long hooked hairs, additional rows of very short hooked hairs, and ridges.
10.2307/3226193|Twelve species of Chrysopyxis have been described, but only two, C. bipes and C. stenostoma, have been reported previously from the United States. The author has found a third species, C. urna, growing as an epiphyte on Mougeotia in a small marsh in western Kentucky. C. urna is distinguished by its urn-shaped lorica with an elongate neck, single chromatophore, basal contractile vacuoles, and rhizopodium. This paper reports the occurrence of C. urna in the United States and the author's observations of this alga.
10.2307/3226194|Algae mounted in a sugar-solution medium maintain their color and structure satisfactorily in a semi-permanent (or perhaps permanent) preparation. This technique requires little time or financial expense.
10.2307/3226195|Egg-laying behavior and egg development time were observed for the acoel turbellarian Neochildia fusca. Neochildia laid clutches of 1-13 dark brown eggs in a single, clear jelly capsule. An average of about two clutches per gravid individual were produced over a four-day period. Average hatching time of the eggs was about four days.
10.2307/3226468| Ten sensilla and new substructures of the antennal system of adult Nasonia vitripennis (=Mormoniella) were analyzed. Scanning electron microscopy detected spatial and numerical patterns of the distal subsegments and new ultrastructural components reflecting sexual dimorphisms. We describe two new female multiporous plate sensilla (MPS) and a distinct third male type. The three MPS are characterized by their pore concentration, length, extension over the distal edge of the subsegment, and plate thickness. Fractured, KOH-cleared thin-walled chemoreceptors have 40-nm external pores and an internal pore chamber of 110 nm. Longitudinally grooved thick-walled chemoreceptors have terminal pores with either circular, or open and closed, serrated orifices. Randomly-dispersed 55-100-nm pores are seen on the flagellar surface, as well as on the pedicel, scape, and head. Pores are arranged in a circular pattern around tactile hair bases located on the flagellum. The basiconic capitate pegs consist of 11-15 ridges in females and invariably 12 ridges in males. Sensilla campaniformia are located on the pedicel and subsegments 4 and 8. After exposure to organic solvents flagellar companiform sensilla consist of 11 finger-like projections defining a central orifice in both sexes. Infrequently occurring new sensilla are found on subsegments 3, 4, 8, and 11. This study clarifies antennal interrelationships of a haploid-diploid-triploid experimental system and establishes a morphological basis for analyses investigating the genetics of insect behavior. 
10.2307/3226469|The location of the nuchal organ in embryonic and neonatal individuals of Daphnia is a useful characteristic for distinguishing the two subgenera, Ctenodaphnia and Daphnia. In Ctenodaphnia, the organ is located anterior to the insertion of the second muscle of the antennae at the level of the eye, while in species belonging to the subgenus Daphnia, it is located at the posterior insertion of the third muscle of the antennae dorsal to the heart.
10.2307/3226470|Ephydatia fluviatilis will form reduction bodies in response to environmental stress of short duration. A laboratory culture procedure was employed that permitted (1) control of the length of time over which the reduction process occurred, and (2) control of the length of time over which fully functional sponges were regenerated from reduction bodies. The system provides unusual opportunities for cytological and biochemical examination of both degenerative and regenerative processes at selected intervals.
10.2307/3226471|Further study of the ultrastructure of Frontonia leucas reveals some details previously unresolved. From the nematodesma situated at the anterior right part of the oral zone, a filamentous reticulum emerges which has a polygonal network formed by granules and microfibrils. Such a net links the anterior nematodesma with the basal granules of the paroral kinety and with the kinetosomes of the first peniculus in its anterior right portion. From the nematodesmal plates of the third row on the right side of the oral zone, several microfibrillar bundles emerge which go toward the pellicle to terminate as a striated structure. The other nematodesmal plates are located beneath the third peniculus and connect with the deep fibrillar net. From this net and near the first kinety of the first peniculus, a bundle of fibers emerges having a striated structure. The postoral suture is limited by membranes, located on both sides of the postoral suture. Along the postoral suture and perpendicular to the membranes, there are microfibrils crossing one another. The channels of the contractile vacuole are formed by funnel-shaped structures.
10.2307/3226472|The parasite, Ichthyophthirius multifiliis, is bordered on its outer surface by one to several layers of host (Ictalurus punctatus) epidermal cells. With reference to the position of the parasite relative to the dermis, there intervenes between parasite and dermis: (1) several layers of epidermal cells and an intact basal lamina; (2) a single layer of epidermal cells and an intact basal lamina; (3) a single layer of epidermal cells and a discontinuous basal lamina; (4) a discontinuous layer of epidermal cells and an intact basal lamina; and (5) a discontinuous basal lamina. In some instances, the epidermal cells are extremely attenuated. Very little or considerable space intervenes between the host cells and the parasite. In no instance did a parasite penetrate into the dermis. Parasites did not feed on host red blood cells. The possibility is noted that host defense mechanisms destroy infecting parasites.
10.2307/3226474|A survey of 38 patients in clinical practice for oral protozoa revealed six (15.7%) with Trichomonas tenax. Organisms were recovered from patients by cultivation of samples of calculus and plaque in a suitable growth medium. None of the samples was positive for Entamoeba gingivalis. Trichomonad isolates from the study were examined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Evidence of ingestion of bacteria in cultured isolates was seen in cells examined by electron microscopy. Similar bacterial and food particle ingestion probably occurs in the oral cavity.
10.2307/3226475|A new species of Proterometra, P. edneyi n. sp., is described and illustrated. Under laboratory conditions, the cercaria emerges from the snail host, Goniobasis semi-carinata, between 1000 and 1800 hours. Behavior of this small distinctive cercaria consists of irregular, worm-like movements which rarely propel it through the water. Correspondingly, little acetylcholinesterase activity is localized histochemically in that region of the tail where flexions occur. The adult differs from the seven previously known species in being the smallest in size and having the fewest number of eggs in utero. This is the first species of Proterometra reported to use a darter fish, Etheostoma sp. (Percidae), rather than a sunfish (Centrarchidae) as the final host.
10.2307/3226476|Ascocotyle gemina n. sp. from Louisiana and Mississippi is described and differentiated from its sibling species in California, A. sexidigita, on the basis of the possession of 7-10 versus 6 pockets in the gonotyl, larger average egg size, and infectivity of metacercariae for Cyprinodon variegatus but not for Fundulus parvipinnis; uterine configuration may differ in the two species. Ascocotyle gemina utilizes as hosts the hydrobiid snail Litterodinops monroensis, the sheepshead minnow, Cyprinodon variegatus, and the clapper rail, Rallus longirostris. Cercariae from L. monroensis are capable of developing into metacercariae which are infective for ducks and chicks in C. variegatus, but not in Fundulus grandis, F. similis, F. pulvereus, F. parvipinnis, Poecilia latipinna, or Gambusia affinis. Both the staining properties of the cyst wall and the relatively loose matrix of host encapsulation in some sites are similar to those of A. pachycystis. The redia and parapleurolophocercous cercaria of A. gemina bear close morphological resemblance to those same stages of A. pachycystis and A. leighi, which infect the bulbus arteriosus of C. variegatus and P. latipinna, respectively. The metacercaria of A. gemina, however, differs by encysting in musculature and visceral organs other than the bulbus arteriosus of C. variegatus and by being incapable of infecting P. latipinna.
10.2307/3226477|Phagicola nana is resurrected from synonymy and redescribed based on syntypes from the arctic fox, Alopex lagopus, and adults from an experimental infection in the Virginia opossum, Didelphis virginiana. Natural definitive hosts include the great blue heron, Ardea herodias; least bittern, Ixobrychus exilis; and possibly gannet, Morus bassanus. The Virginia opossum, northern raccoon, laboratory white mouse, Syrian hamster, and domestic chicken serve as experimental definitive hosts. Natural metacercarial infections by P. nana occurred in the largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), redear sunfish (Lepomis microlophus), bluegill (L. macrochirus), and orangespotted sunfish (L. humilis) collected in estuarine bayous and rivers of Mississippi, Florida, and Georgia. Metacercariae caused minor histopathological alterations in fish hosts by inducing formation of fibrotic host capsules. They encysted primarily in sites already containing fibroblasts. Phagicola nana may have broad host specificity for piscivorous birds and mammals inhabiting estuarine marshes. Moreover, humans probably may become infected with P. nana by ingesting raw or inadequately prepared centrarchid fishes.
10.2307/3226478|Exsheathment and midgut penetration by microfilariae (mff) of Brugia pahangi were studied in intact Aedes aegypti (black-eyed Liverpool strain) and in isolated midguts maintained in vitro in Aedes saline. Penetration of the midgut occurred within 150 min postingestion (PI) of an infective blood meal, with the majority (60%) migrating out from 61-105 minutes. Penetration occurred anywhere on the midgut, and mff were capable of penetrating the foregut, hindgut, and Malpighian tubules. Approximately 60% of the mff ingested migrated out of the midgut in the mosquitoes examined. Exsheathment of mff rarely occurred within the midgut. Nearly 97% of 894 mff examined from the midgut after 5-150 minutes PI were sheathed, and approximately 75% of 288 mff retained their sheaths after midgut penetration. Data suggest that the sheath is likely weakened or broken at the anterior end of mff during midgut penetration, and that they completely free themselves of the sheath in the hemocoel. Results from inoculation experiments indicate that mff are capable of exsheathing in the hemocoel without midgut exposure, and that occasionally they can develop within the microfilarial sheath.
10.2307/3226479|The adult digenetic trematode Allocorrigia filiformis resides with its posterior end often extending into the excretory bladder and its anterior end extending into the nephridial tubule of the antennal gland of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii. No host response at an histological level against the worms was observed. However, dark nodules containing trematode ova were present in the interstices of the nephridial tubule. Nodules apparently form when ova, trapped beneath the tubule epithelium, are encapsulated with melanin secreted by hemocytes.
10.2307/3226353| The process of spermatogenesis was studied in the obturate pogonophoran Riftia pachyptila from hydrothermal vents on the Galpagos Rift. Early divisions of presumed spermatogonia lead to the formation of curious "crescentic" nuclei that are found in the incipient cytophoric mass. An increase in numbers of these nuclei may be due to unobserved nuclear divisions, to nuclear migration into the cytophoric mass, or to deposition of these nuclei in the cytophore. Subsequent to a peripheral disposition of the crescentic nuclei in the cytophore, a partial cytokinesis results in the formation of grape-like clusters of apparent spermatocytes, connected centrally by cytoplasmic bridges to the cytophore. An increase in numbers of connected spermatocytes culminates in as many as 1,000-2,000 slender, helically coiled spermatids per cytophore. Later development into mature spermatozoa is accompanied by a loss of the cytophore and the grouping of from 300-700 spermatozoa each in sperm bundles. No spermatophores are formed by Riftia pachyptila. The time and site of the reductional meiotic division has not been determined. Later spermatogenesis in Riftia pachyptila appears to be similar to that of the perviate Pogonophora, but earlier stages appear to be at variance with those of the perviates. 
10.2307/3226354|Spermiogenesis in the vestimentiferan tube worm Riftia pachyptila was studied by transmission electron microscopy. Spermatids are associated with cytophores during all developmental stages. Dividing presumptive spermatogonia also were observed in association with one cytophore. The cytology of cytophores associated with early- and late-stage spermatids is described. Eight stages of spermiogenesis are arbitrarily recognized, based largely on changes in the organization of the nucleus, acrosome, and mitochondria. The mature spermatozoon is comprised of a head region with a helical acrosome and an elongated helical nucleus integrated with one mitochondrial helix, a short neck region, and a tail. The nucleus consists of an elongated posterior region filled with condensed chromatin and a shorter anterior region lacking chromatin, but having microfilaments associated with the nuclear envelope. Subsequent to their detachment from the cytophore, mature sperm are arranged in bundles that lack distinct walls. A comparison of sperm bundles and spermatozeugmata is presented. The association of developing spermatids and cytophores and the morphology of the spermatozoon are discussed. The sperm of R. pachyptila are compared to those produced by the perviate pogonophore Siboglinum ekmani. It is suggested that differences in spermatozoal morphology between the two species should be viewed, at the present time, as reflections of physiological or functional requirements.
10.2307/3226355| Dero digitata and Dero nivea were observed by scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy to have intermediate teeth in needle setae which gave them either a trifid or pectinate condition. There were seasonal differences in the percentages of worms having at least one intermediate-toothed needle seta for D. digitata. Overall, 48.1% of D. digitata and 100% of D. nivea examined had intermediate teeth. Percentage of needle setae with intermediate teeth per worm ranged from 41.3-68.4% for D. nivea and 1.4-4.8% for D. digitata. Plumosity on hair setae was observed for both species; projections giving the plumose appearance were up to 20 m long in D. digitata and those of D. nivea were up to 10 m long. Generally, there was 100% plumosity of hair setae per worm if plumosity was present. Seasonal differences also were seen for plumosity in percentage of worms having this character. There was no correlation (P > 0.05) of seasonal differences to environmental physico-chemical parameters and no anterior to posterior trends for either setal character. The appearance of these previously undescribed setal characteristics in D. digitata and D. nivea and their intraspecific variation shed doubt on the validity of these taxonomic characters as used in the subgenus Dero. 
10.2307/3226356|Cell volumes, growth rates, and 50% survivorship times during starvation were determined for Stentor coeruleus, Paraurostyla sp., Condylostoma vorticella, Paramecium caudatum, and Euplotes patella. Observations of the presence or absence of encystment ability also were made. Similar published data for Chaos carolinense, Amoeba proteus, Didinium nasutum, Paramecium primaurelia, Colpidium campylum, and Tokophrya lemnarum were examined. We compared relative growth (r/r) with survival times for these 11 species to determine if an inverse relationship existed between these two attributes. While survival time and relative growth are not significantly associated, survival time and growth rate are negatively associated in the 11 species. However, there are interesting exceptions to this generality. Survival time and growth rate also were examined for patterns of association with the presence or absence of encystment. Almost all possible combinations of the three attributes occur.
10.2307/3226357|Macronuclei of both stationary-phase and recently encysted cells of a species that resembles Euplotes rariseta were studied and found to contain three different types of inclusions: helices, crystalloids, and ribbon-like structures. Helices were present in both vegetative stages and, although somewhat structurally degraded, in cysts 3-4 h old. They appeared comparable to those typically formed in nuclei of amoebae and usually occurred clustered in small groups associated with either chromatin bodies or nucleoli. Crystalloids and ribbon-like inclusions were typically detected only in cells about to encyst. Probably, they represented adaptations associated with encystment. The crystalloids consisted of a lattice with a definite transverse and oblique striation (16 x 22 nm) and appeared regularly surrounded by, and structurally connected with, chromatin bodies. The ribbon-like inclusions always were deeply inserted into chromatin bodies and consisted of a dense central thin strand embedded in a less dense matrix having an average width of 14 nm.
10.2307/3226358|Before actual encystment, the volume of Oxytricha bifaria falls to about 20% of normal (47,700  m
10.2307/3226359|The germinal layer in the cyst of Echinococcus multilocularis was examined and compared by the freeze-etch technique and conventional thin-section electron microscopy. The germinal layer is a syncytium that is limited by an apical a plasma membrane. An electron-dense linear band, which appeared as an unbroken, membrane-like pleat or fold by freeze-etch, partitioned the germinal layer int proximal portion. The distal portion possessed microvilli and electron-lucent vesicles, while the proximal portion contained vesicles, mitochondria, and cytoplasmic internuncial processes extending to nucleated subtegumental cells. The protoplasmic fa plasma membrane, which encases the microvilli of the germinal layer, contained intramembranous particles (IMP) measuring 10.6 (7.0-15.1) nm in diameter with 2.399/ m
10.2307/3226360| The esophagus of the infective larva of Anisakis sp. has three regions: a long preventricular portion, a narrow transitional zone, and a conspicuous ventriculus. The preventricular region contains abundant radial muscle fibers plus glandular elements, whereas the ventriculus is largely glandular with some radial muscles. The dorsal esophageal gland opens into the esophagus at the level of the nerve ring and lies in the dorsal sector of the preventricular esophagus. In the transitional zone, the dorsal gland extends into the adjacent subventral sectors and, in the ventriculus, it surrounds the lumen. The subventral esophageal gland opens into the esophagus just anterior to the transitional zone. In the ventriculus, the subventral gland surrounds the dorsal gland. The subventral gland ends about 50 m before the intestine begins and the dorsal gland expands to fill the remainder of the ventriculus. The ventricular-intestinal junction is abrupt. We suggest that, in the normal host, secretions from the subventral gland are involved in intraluminal digestion and that those of the dorsal gland are used for extracorporeal digestion. These latter secretions also may aid the invasion of the gastrointestinal mucosa of abnormal hosts, such as man, resulting in the condition of anisakiasis. 
10.2307/3226361| Tetrazotized N,N-bis(2-aminophenyl)N,N-dimethylethylene diamine-HCI (OBED) was examined for its efficacy as a stain for the detection of polyphenols in the vitellaria of digenetic trematodes that produce tanned eggshells. In vitro tests, using a variety of phenolic compounds, supplemented light and electron microscopic observations on the vitellaria of Haematoloechus medioplexus. The reaction product was found to be osmiophilic, and its distribution coincided with previous reports as to the incorporation and distribution of labeled tyrosine in vitelline cells of several trematodes. In vitro experiments illustrated that only polyphenols (e.g., DOPA, dopamine, catechol, and pyrogallol) reacted with the salt, while free tyrosine was non-reactive. 
10.2307/3226362|Scanning electron microscopy was used to study Leucochloridiomorpha constantiae (Trematoda) grown on the chick chorioallantois for 3, 5, and 7 days and in the bursa of Fabricius of domestic chicks for 5 weeks. Chorioallantoic worms contained hollow papillae at 3 and 5 days. Seven-day-old chorioallantoic worms were plump and round; likewise, 5-week-old bursal worms were plump and round, contained hollow papillae, and had protruded cirri with spines.
10.2307/3226417|All stages (eggs, larvae, nymphs, and adults) of an unusual new species of Sperchon collected in lower Devil's River, Texas, are described herein. Sperchon (Mixosperchon) texana n. sp. exhibits a condition atypical of the Sperchontidae in that the greatly reduced genital flaps do not cover the acetabula. In addition, the genital acetabula are fused on each side, and the genital flaps are lightly fused laterally with the acetabula, a condition somewhat analogous to that found in the Limnesiidae. Although S. texana is only a highly modified Mixosperchon, and almost certainly an evolutionary endpoint, its structure does suggest one of the methods by which the morphological gap between the Lebertioidea and the primitive Hygrobatoidea could be bridged. Sperchon texana is rheophilic and inhabits travertine indentations on cobblestones and boulders in close association with immature Simulium, for which the parasitic latvae are highly specific. Most of the life cycle is spent in the immature stages, with peak oviposition occurring in early winter and nymph-to-adult metamorphosis occurring in late summer. Adults become sexually mature within three months, reproduce, and die after a brief adult life.
10.2307/3226418|A karyometric analysis of the diploid complement of Yungia aurantiaca (Polycladida: Cotylea) was conducted. The diploid number 2n = 18 was obtained from mitoses of regenerative blastemata. Chromosomes 1, 3, 4, and 7, whose centromeric indices vary from 47.86-38.85 are metacentric; chromosomes 2 and 6, whose centromeric indices are 28.21 and 27.30, respectively, have to be considered submetacentric, while chromosomes 8 and 9, whose centromeric indices are 8.68 and 10.06, respectively, are acrocentric. A comparison with the karyotype of Thysanozoon brocchii suggests similarities between the karyotypes of these two species.
10.2307/3226419|The morphology of the adoral zone of membranelles in Spirostomum teres and S. ambiguum was studied using the method of Fernandez-Galiano. Three regions can be observed in these structures. New quantitative and illustrative data are presented concerning the adoral zone of membranelles in these species.
10.2307/3226420|From the near-shore area of an impounded stream, 27 monthly samples were examined for the presence of the sessile predatory ciliate Tokophrya lemnarum. Cooccurring ciliate species also were sampled and identified. Tokophryae colonizing glass slides assumed an aggregated spatial pattern with the majority of individuals grouped in one area. The capture rates by T. lemnarum were measured in the laboratory on six of the commonest potential prey species found in the stream. The smallest species were captured at the highest rates. However, capture rates on medium and large-sized ciliates were not related directly to prey size. Paramecium caudatum, one of the largest prey species, was captured at the highest rate. A relatively high rate also occurred on another large ciliate, Frontonia leucas. At any time, most of the population of each of these species was resting on the substratum. Apparently, tokophryae in this stream are adapted to capture the large prey species that settle on predator-occupied substrates.
10.2307/3226421| A species of the hymenostome genus Epenardia, E. myriophylli (Ciliophora: Glaucomidae) is redescribed. This fresh-water ciliate is oval and measures 90-146 m x 80-120 m. The somatic infraciliature consists of 83-95 kineties, with 7-9 postoral meridians and a kinetal segment close to the buccal left edge. The contractile vacuole pore is found on the dorsal side of the posterior one-third of the body. The oral infraciliature is made up of three membranelles and a paroral membrane. The first membranelle (Ml) consists of eight rows of kinetosomes. The second membranelle (M2) has 10 rows of kinetosomes, and the third membranelle (M3) is the widest membranelle, with 15 rows of kinetosomes. The "X" body is a double row of kinetosomes joined in a zigzag pattern adjacent to the anterior end of the second membranelle. The paroral membrane is made up of two rows of kinetosomes. 
10.2307/3226423|Histopathological effects on the gonads of Ilyanassa obsoleta, infected with one of nine species of larval trematodes, have been observed over a three-year period. In addition, the gonads of two snails harboring double infections also were studied. The gonads of non-infected snails undergo an autumnal maturation and spring regression, with gametogenesis occurring throughout the winter months. Gonads of non-infected snails always contain either gametic precursor cells or mature gametes. However, gonads in most infected snails are distinctly retarded in comparison to those in non-infected snails collected simultaneously. Specifically, gonadal tubules in infected snails are: (1) in the immature (reduced) condition during a month in which non-infected snails possess mature gonads; (2) devoid of gametic precursor cells and gametes; or (3) completely missing. Moreover, reductions in the number of gonadal tubules and/or gametes within the tubules are observed in some infected snails.
10.2307/3226424|Attempts were made to culture the mesocercariae of Alaria arisaemoides, A. marcianae, and A. mustelae using the defined medium NCTC 135 or Triple Eagle Medium supplemented with varying amounts of different sera, with hen's egg yolk, or with chick embryo extract. Development of the three species of Alaria did not occur; however, the culture systems provided for prolonged periods of survival up to 27 days. The highest percentage of survival of A. marcianae was observed in NCTC 135 or Triple Eagle Medium with 30% calf serum and of A. mustelae in NCTC 135 with 50% inactivated fetal calf serum. Relative adverse effects of the supplements in the defined media were manifested by the number of lipid-like droplets appearing in mesocercarial tissues.
10.2307/3226425| Sphaeroplea robusta, a new species in the Sphaeropleaceae, is described from isolates of material collected in Texas. Like other species of Sphaeroplea, it is oogamous and produces long, unbranched vegetative filaments consisting of large coenocytic cells separated by crosswalls and plugs. Sphaeroplea robusta differs from all other species in the following features: (1) its relatively short antheridial cells (commonly 70-150 m); (2) its large oospores (up to 71 m); and (3) the distinct ornamentation of its oospore wall. 
10.2307/3226426| The algal flora of a subtropical acid marsh (pH 4.7-5.0) near Tampa, Florida was studied with respect to taxonomic composition, algal density (as cell volume), and physical and chemical characteristics: pH, temperature, water fluctuation, total phosphorus, orthophosphate, total nitrogen, nitrate/nitrite, ammonia, iron, calcium, sodium, potassium, and magnesium. One hundred-nineteen algal taxa were identified: 11 Cyanophyceae, 69 Chlorophyceae, 17 Chrysophyceae, 16 Bacillariophyceae, 3 Pyrrhophyceae, and 1 species each of Euglenophyceae, Cryptophyceae, and Chloromonadophyceae. Cell volumes peaked in December (102 l/liter) with a mean over the 5-sample period of 47.4 l/liter. The dominant algae by volume were the Chlorophyceae which included Hyalotheca dissiliens, Zygnema spp., and Chlamydomonas angulosa. Sodium and potassium levels were lowest during the period of greatest water depth (September). The minimal total cell volume also was recorded during September, suggesting an inverse relationship between water depth and algal density. The winter maximum of phytoplankton biovolume (102.2 and 79.2 l/liter), as well as the mean levels of total nitrogen (4.88 mg/liter) and phosphorous (0.63 mg/liter), suggest that production in subtropical acid marshes may be much greater than temperate acid systems. 
10.2307/3226427| A system is described for accurately measuring the depth dimension of small objects to the nearest micrometer. The apparatus determines vertical displacement of a microscope stage relative to an arbitrary plane of focus by measuring the rotation of the fine-focus adjustment knob. The measuring device can be interfaced with a microcomputer and a digitizer for automatic storage of three-dimensional data and calculation of morphometric parameters, or it may be used independently. Precise, accurate, fine-scale (0.6 m) depth measurements are obtained easily and should prove useful for biometry of plankton and possibly other organisms. 
10.2307/3226432|Male and female Bathynella riparia n. sp. are described. Specimens were collected in the groundwater of exposed gravel bars along the South Platte River, Colorado. This species does not appear to be especially closely related to any other one species, but it differs from the several common European species in having a combination of a compact male eighth pereiopod, a single small epipodite on the female eighth pereiopod, five generally similar stout spines on the caudal rami, and in the specific location and structure of the spines of the peduncle of the uropod. Habits of B. riparia are briefly discussed. Published and unpublished records of Bathynellacea in the U.S.A. are reviewed.
10.2307/3226433|Acanthocyclops plattensis n. sp. and Microcyclops pumilis n. sp. are described from hyporheic and phreatic waters along the South Platte River, Colorado. Both species are small but otherwise not especially adapted to subsurface aquatic habitats. The former is especially distinguished from its close relatives by the details of the caudal rami, the fifth legs, and the small accessory spines on the basal segments of the fourth legs. The latter is especially distinguished by the details of the caudal rami, the terminal endopod segment of the fourth leg, and the very small size range within the species.
10.2307/3226434| Previous zooplankton studies and my 10 years (1972-1982) of investigation determined that, prior to 1982, the southeastern Lake Michigan Daphnia community was numerically dominated by D. retrocurva and D. galeata mendotae. Beginning in autumn 1978, species tentatively identified as D. pulex and D. schdleri were commonly detected in the zooplankton community. Abundance of these taxa remained low until 1982 and 1983 when they dominated the offshore summer Daphnia community, and sufficient numbers of animals could be collected to investigate their morphology. The following measurements were made for each apparent species; body length, tail spine length, head: valve length ratio, and tail spine: valve length ratio. Reticulation of polygons between the ocellus and rostrum also was determined. Animals first identified as D. pulex and D. schdleri apparently were immature and mature specimens of the same species. The most recent taxonomic studies indicate that D. schdleri is a morphological variant of D. pulicaria. Thus, I conclude that the species newly dominating (1982, 1983) the Lake Michigan summer daphnid assemblage probably consists of a single species, D. pulicaria. 
10.2307/3226435|Calcification of the stylet apparatus in nemertean worms was investigated by fluorescence microscopy following incubation of living specimens in seawater solutions of tetracycline. The synthesis of nail-shaped stylets that contain calcium phosphate, and the composition of the granular basis that anchors the central stylet to the worm's proboscis, were examined in five species of nemerteans belonging to the order Hoplonemertea. After a two-week treatment with either tetracycline-HCl or chlortetracycline, the basis appeared intensely fluorescent in all specimens. Such observations, coupled with results from electron microprobe analyses, indicate that the basis is calcified. None of the developing stylets, however, exhibited fluorescence after incubation in tetracycline. Hypotheses accounting for the lack of tetracycline labeling by stylets are discussed.
10.2307/3226436| Seven hydrolytic enzymes (acid phosphatase, beta- glucuronidase, beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, acid-beta-galactosidase, and A-, B-, and C-esterases were demonstrated by cytochemical techniques in hemocytes of Mercenaria mercenaria prior to and following in vitro exposure to the dinoflagellate Isochrysis galbana. All of the hydrolases were localized in blunt granules; acid phosphatase, beta-glucuronidase, and the esterases also were found in dot-like cytoplasmic granules. Acid-beta-galactosidase, beta-N-acetyl glucosaminidase, and A-, B-, and C-esterases were observed within the phagosomes, while acid phosphatase and beta-glucuronidase were present only in the granules adjacent to these organelles. Following phagocytosis of algae, elevated levels of enzyme activity were demonstrated. 
10.2307/3226438|Metacercaria and unencysted juvenile and adult Protoeces maculatus are reported in the gastropod Crepidula convexa. The metacercaria and metacercarial cyst are described. Staining of the encysted worms and the cyst wall with toluidine blue and Alcian blue indicates that the metacercaria has cystogenous glands. The cyst appears to be of parasite origin, and there is no marked host response. Sexually mature worms found in C. convexa are true adults and not progenetic metacercaria. Ovigerous parasites migrate to the nephridium of the snail where eggs are deposited and may leave the host via the renal pore. The incidence of infection in snails collected at Breezy Point, New York was 7-75% during the year and was always higher in females. P. maculatus can complete its life cycle without a vertebrate host using C. convexa as an alternative definitive host.
10.2307/3226439|Trematodes found in two specimens of Ajaia ajaja from Galveston, Texas include Pygorchis americanus n. sp. (Philophthalmidae) and Mesoophorodiplostomum anterovarium n. sp. (Diplostomatidae). Pygorchis americanus is separated from P. affixus, the only previously described species, because the vitellaria are more extensive laterally, gonads are positioned more anteriorly, and a definite mid-body constriction is present. Mesoophorodiplostomum anterovarium is distinct from M. pricei,the only other existing species because the ovary is directly opposite the anterior testis and not intertesticular. The occurrence of Ascocotyle chandleri, Phagicola macrostomus, Phocitremoides butionis (Hetorophyidae); Carneophallus choanophallus (Microphallidae), and Strigea strigis (Strigeidae) represent new host records. Immature specimens of a diplostome species also were present.
10.2307/3226440|Metacercariae of Leucochloridiomorpha constantiae (Trematoda) were grown for 1-12 days on domestic chick extra-embryonic membranes maintained in ovo or in vitro. Histopathologic studies of serial sections of membranes that retained worms following fixation in neutral buffered formalin were carried out. Worms on 4- and 5-day-old embryos attached to the chorion and contained chorionic and yolk sac tissue plugs in their acetabula and oral suckers. Worms in 6-15-day-old embryos attached to the chorioallantois and embraced chorionic ectoderm, mesoderm, and host blood vessels within their acetabula and oral sucker tissue plugs. The chorionic ectoderm was hypertrophied in areas underlying the worms. Although worms became ovigerous within 4 days on the chorioallantois, worm eggs were seen only rarely on the surface of the membrane.
10.2307/3226441|Aplectana itzocanensis (Cosmocercidae), from anurans of southern Mexico and Costa Rica, is redescribed from Bufo woodhousei woodhousei collected from Long Beach, California. This helminth species most closely resembles A. incerta from Bufo marinus horribilis of southern Mexico, which also is redescribed. A. itzocanensis may be distinguished primarily from A. incerta in that it has relatively longer spicules and smaller eggs. A. hoffmani, described originally as a coparasite of A. itzocanensis, probably is synonymous with A. itzocanensis.
10.2307/3226442|From June-August 1980, parasites of six species infested the gills of Fundulus kansae in Nebraska: Protozoa-Myxosoma funduli, Trichodina sp., Scyphidia sp.; Monogenea-Urocleidus fundulus, Gyrodactylus bulbacanthus; and Copepoda-Lernaea cyprinacea (larval form). The negative binomial and log-series distributions were tested for good fits to all of the populations of parasites except for L. cyprinacea. Of those tested, only Scyphidia sp. was not provided a good fit by the negative binomial distribution. The log-series did not provide a good fit to the population of U. fundulus, probably because of the monogene's high k value in the negative binomial distribution. Only infestations by Trichodina sp. demonstrated significant differences between male and female fish and between young-of-the-year and first-year fish. Infestations by U. fundulus differed significantly between all age-classes except between young-of-the-year and first-year fish. No significant differences were detected in any infestations between the right and left gills.
10.2307/3226443|Monopylephorus rubroniveus, a cosmopolitan species known from littoral, estuarine, and salt-polluted inland sites, was the commonest benthic species collected from Capitola Lagoon, Santa Cruz County, California in June and September 1981. This species also was a common component of the benthos of Carmel Lagoon, Monterey County, California in August 1982. As human populations increase and coastal stream water sources continue to be monitored, additional range extensions may emerge.
10.2307/3226444|An improvement on the nitrocellulose-coating method for affixing small specimens is described. This technique is especially useful when all or most specimens that are being passed through reagents must be retained. It also is advantageous because the extent of background staining is reduced, and uniform results are produced when the Protargol method is employed.
10.2307/3226484|Copepods often live in association with other marine invertebrates. More than 400 species of copepods live with about 350 cnidarians, particularly in tropical areas. The greatest numbers of these associates occur with Anthozoa, especially scleractinian corals (172 copepods), although soft corals, gorgonians, and sea anemones combined have a nearly equal number of associated copepods. The order Poecilostomatoida contains by far the largest number of cnidarian associates, many of them with their bodies highly modified or transformed. Biological aspects of these associated copepods, such as immunity to nematocyst toxin, host specificity, effects on the host, feeding, larval development, means of dispersal, possible use of microniches in multiple infestations, and the role of the copepods in their ecosystems are either not well understood or unknown.
10.2307/3226485|Estuarine meiofauna was collected at two Gulf of Mexico sites for a 15-month period. Comparisons of major taxon densities and meiobenthic copepod species composition, densities, and diversity were described for an intertidal vegetated (Spartina alterniflora) marsh site and a nearby subtidal, non-vegetated bayou site. Intertidal marsh total meiofauna averaged 540
10.2307/3226486|The most rapidly cleared particle size has been reported to increase with the body size of the ciliate, a relationship attributed to changes in the morphological features of the oral apparatus. This study examined the possibility that the spacing of the adoral zone of membranelles (AZM) in Blepharisma japonicum could change or adapt to different sizes of prey. To test this hypothesis, specimens of B. japonicum were cultured on the bacterium Proteus vulgaris, the small ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis, and smaller individuals of B. japonicum, each of which represented a different size of prey. After completing the culture period, a portion of the AZM was viewed by scanning electron microscopy and measurements of intermembranellar spacing were made from the micrographs. Significant differences (P = 0.01) in intermembranellar spacing were found between treatments: the smaller the prey size, the greater the spacing between the cilia of adjacent membranelles. The relationship between body size and particle size in Blepharisma cannot be explained by the inverse relationship already noted. The possibility remains that other oral structures (e.g., the "gullet") may govern this relationship.
10.2307/3226487|The effect of alpha-tocopheryl succinate, phylloquinone, coenzyme Q
10.2307/3226488|The hypotrichous ciliated protozoon Pseudourostyla cristata possesses a high density of extrusive organelles. These have been examined by light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. They are secreted onto the surface of the cell when exposed to any of several LM and EM fixatives. After secretion, their form varies considerably and depends upon the fixative used. The normal form probably is a complexly folded mucoid covering that is secreted, we believe, during encystment. The cyst wall material covers intact cilia which remain on the surface of the pellicular membranes. The cytoplasmic, non-secreted extrusive organelle is unlike that of other hypotrichs. Their distribution within the cytoplasm and the retention of cilia after secretion may have ramifications for the phylogeny of the family to which it belongs.
10.2307/3226489|Mytilophilus pacificae n. g., n. sp. is described as an endocommensal scuticociliate found on the foot and mantle of the Pacific coastal mussel Mytilus californianus. M. pacificae is distinctive in its buccal apparatus which, while pleuronematine in organization, is dominated by the third membranelle. The third membranelle is a characteristic of the genus and distinguishes M. pacificae from other pleuronematine scuticociliates. The general size, body form, dense ciliation, and nuclear configuration are reminiscent of Peniculistoma mytili, which probably occupies a similar ecological niche in the bay mussel Mytilus edulis. Based on the strong correlation of characters of general morphology, buccal structure and habitat with P. mytili, M. pacificae is placed within the Family Peniculistomatidae. The close correspondence between these two organisms and their respective host species suggests that investigation of possible Mytilophilus-Peniculistoma-host interrelationships may provide instructive data for our understanding of speciation events and ciliate evolution.
10.2307/3226490|The objectives of this study were to examine the colonization process for diatoms and protozoons in a variety of Michigan lakes and in a southwest Virginia pond, and to examine artificial substrate colonization during the first day of immersion. We hypothesized that diatom and protozoan species accrual would be similar because the organisms are approximately the same size and share similar ecological conditions. Polyurethane foam substrates were placed in the littoral zone of these lakes, and species accrual was monitored after 1, 3, 7, 14, and 21 days of exposure. The species-time data were fitted to the MacArthur-Wilson equilibrium model using non-linear least squares regression. Protozoan species accrual fit the model in most cases; however, the diatom data did not. Further evaluations of species accrual by short-term (<1 day) exposure revealed a high number of diatom species in the water column. These results suggest that diatom species accrual on polyurethane foam artificial substrates does not follow MacArthur-Wilson predictions. Apparently, diatoms are present in the water column and do not traverse inhospitable terrain but are merely sampled by the substrates. Protozoan species accrual appears to follow predictions of the MacArthur-Wilson model. Sampling and study methods must be selected carefully, even for closely related taxonomic groups.
10.2307/3226491|Factors affecting the association of Synedra parasitica and Surirella robusta var. splendida in an epipelic habitat were investigated by manipulation of natural populations in the field and a quantitative assessment of the locale in which they co-existed. Scanning electron and light microscopy were used to assess the habit of the attachment to Surirella by Synedra. Synedra attaches firmly, but elastically, to the girdle band. Specimens were observed individually, in zig-zag arrays, or in extended rosettes. Relative to other habitats, epiphytism was most prevalent in swift current with flocculent substrate. Synedra epiphytes per Surirella individuals decreased from 6 cells/Surirella to 2 cells/ Surirella in populations kept isolated from current in the field. Numbers of Surirella cells epiphytized and Synedra cells/Surirella in current-influenced sites were almost double those of sites not influenced by current. Synedra loads were correlated with Surirella size (P < 0.05, r = 0.370), indicating that size may affect Synedra densities on Surirella. However, populations of S. robusta var. splendida did not differ significantly with respect to size at surveyed sites (P > 0.50). Surirella densities were greatest in quiet sites. Synedra parasitica was otherwise absent in habitats where Surirella robusta var. splendida was not found (e.g., plankton, submerged macrophytes). Synedra was able to survive in the epipelic habitat by way of its association with Surirella, which is well-adapted to an epipelic existence.
10.2307/3226492|Motile cells from a clonal culture of the marine, binucleate dinoflagellate Peridinium balticum were examined using scanning electron microscopy to determine typical thecal plate tabulation and to document variations. The plate formula consisted of an apical pore plate, a preapical (canal) plate, 4 apicals, 2 anterior intercalaries, 6 precingulars, 5 cingulars, 4 sulcals, 5 postcingulars, and 2 antapicals. The right sulcal plate has a previously undescribed list. Cells were unornamented and only slightly flattened dorso-ventrally. Six variations of the major plate tabulation were observed. Four variations probably were formed by divisions of plates. Similar observations of possible plate divisions have been noted by other workers. Investigators using natural populations to study the systematics of dinoflagellates should be aware that significant variations in plate tabulation have been observed in clonal cultures.
10.2307/3226493|A method utilizing time-lapse stereomicrography to study the development and germination of single somatic Dactylis glomerata embryos produced directly from cultured leaves is presented. Young embryos emerging from the leaf surface were photographed daily in order to document their developmental morphology. Of 12 presumptive embryos examined, three underwent ontogenetic sequences typical of zygotic gramineous embryos. Five developed for variable periods of time and ceased further growth, three spontaneously disorganized to form an embryogenic callus, and one developed into twin embryos attached to the subtending leaf by a common suspensor. Because somatic embryogenesis occurs without encumbering seed tissues, documentation of the complete ontogeny of individual embryos is possible. Reconstructions from numerous embryos, dissected from seeds, are not needed in order to gain a view of typical ontogeny. A more coherent view of normal and abnormal development is obtained since typical reconstructions are not relied upon.
10.2307/3226544|First, the historical background with respect to recognition of kingdoms of organisms is traced, emphasizing the strength of authoritarianism, territoriality, and tradition in the long maintenance of two such taxa only, the Animalia and the Plantae. Hogg and Haeckel, 125 years ago, appreciated the importance of microscopical data but failed to "sell" biologists on the idea of a third kingdom, the Protista. Within the past two decades, the highly significant evolutionary concept of a prokaryotic-eukaryotic split of the biotic world has been completely accepted. Now (especially during the past 10-12 years), the protists, under one definition or another, are being seriously reconsidered as a separate assemblage of "lower" eukaryotes, although controversies rage over important details. Based primarily on differences in the kind and degree of cellular organization (along with presence or absence of tissues), four definitive eukaryotic kingdoms are recognized and described here and considered sufficient for representation of the entire superkingdom EUKARYOTA: the Animalia, Plantae, Fungi, and Protista. Special attention is given to the author's neo-Haeckelian view of the last-mentioned kingdom, for him comprised of some 18 supraphyletic assemblages that, in turn, are considered to embrace 45 quite distinct phyla.
10.2307/3226545|Ephydatia fluviatilis and Spongilla alba in continuous laboratory culture utilize growth-limiting quantities of the bacterium Escherichia coli with different efficiencies. S. alba requires about 10 times more bacterial cells than does E. fluviatilis to realize a given limited growth rate, yet both species grow at the same maximum rate when bacterial cells are provided in excess. This growth response can be explained in terms of two different sponge feeding mechanisms. One is based on differential uptake of particles where preferred particles are ingested more efficiently than less preferred particles. The other mechanism is based on differential digestion and/or egestion of particles where all particles within a given size range are ingested at the same rate but preferred particles are retained longer and digested more rapidly than less preferred particles. A test of the differential uptake hypothesis was conducted by measuring uptake rates of two sizes of bacterial cells and two sizes of latex beads in cultures of both sponge species under several different experimental conditions. The results warrant rejection of the differential uptake hypothesis.
10.2307/3226546|Sensilla of the predaceous fresh-water leech Erpobdella montezuma were examined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Densities of sensilla and cilia within each sensillum were highest in the anterior-most annulus and were less in more posterior annuli. The most dramatic decrease was between annulus 1 and 3; there was little difference in densities of each from midbody to the posterior region. The highest densities of sensilla were found on the posterior sucker (
10.2307/3226547|A new meiobenthic species of Laophonte (Copepoda: Harpacticoida), described from Big Pine Key, Florida, inhabits subtidal coralline sediments near and within beds of the seagrass Thalassia testudinum. Laophonte confusa n. sp. differs from other members of the genus in its novel combination of swimming leg segmentation and setation. Based on leg setation and P
10.2307/3226548| The bifilamented eggs of Microcotyle sebastis leave the host and usually hatch in just over 12 days at 12-17C, but may take as long as 31 days. Oncomiracidia are fusiform, dorsoventrally flattened, and measure 231  46 m long by 51.8  8.7 m wide. Except for slight differences in hook shape, the larval morphology of M. sebastis is similar to other known larvae in the genus, indicating a common phylogenetic origin for the group. Presence or absence of ocelli or cilia within the genus appears to be associated with ecological adaptations to their hosts. Oncomiracidia die in 12-24 h unless a host is found; they are positively phototatic. Infestation of the host is thought to occur following attachment of larvae directly to the gills. 
10.2307/3226550|Peroxidase/myeloperoxidase, aryl-sulfatase, alkaline phosphatase, and gamma-glutamyltransferase were cytochemically demonstrated in hemocytes of Mercenaria mercenaria; both challenged and unchallenged hemocytes were studied. In each case, hemocytes that had phagocytosed algae demonstrated an increase in the level of enzyme activity as compared with unchallenged cells. Both aryl-sulfatase and peroxidase/myeloperoxidase were localized in the blunt and dot-like granules, but alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase occurred only in the cytoplasm closely associated with the phagosomal membrane.
10.2307/3226551|Microscopical methods have been used to demonstrate previously undescribed stages in the morphological development of the silica cell wall of the marine centric diatom Coscinodiscus asteromphalus. When the areolar patterns of immature sibling valves were compared with themselves and with their respective parental valves, no one-to-one correspondence in pattern was observed. Moreover, SEM examination of prematurely separated dividing-cells showed that the sibling valves were at markedly different stages in their development. These results show that pattern formation is an autonomous process, completely independent of existing valve structures. Removal of the silica frustules from cells of Coscinodiscus yielded "pseudoprotoplasts" which were encapsulated by an outer organic layer, termed the organic cell wall. The surface morphology of this wall showed a raised hexagonal pattern which was coincident with the areolar walls of the mature silica shell. The developmental sequence of cell wall morphogenesis of C. asteromphalus is similar to classical descriptions given for other species of Coscinodiscus.
10.2307/3226552| The method described uses the removable tower on standard Utermhl sedimentation chambers to introduce treatment solutions to the sample with minimal disturbance to cell distribution. A weak solution of sodium hypochlorite was used to remove and clean scales from silica-scaled Chrysophyceae and to clarify diatom frustule detail. This procedure increases precision of identification and enumeration of these species over previous methods. 
10.2307/3226553|Specimens of the fresh-water entoproct Urnatella gracilis collected from the Potomac River in Maryland yielded mitotic spreads with 2n = 28. Spermatogenesis was observed in one preparation, with 14 bivalents present in the first division. Chromosomes are small. The largest set is metacentric, but others show a range of morphologies. At least two sets are telocentrics.
10.2307/3226554|The potto Perodicticus potto from Kampala, Uganda, was infested by intestinal trematodes of the genus Phaneropsolus closely resembling P. lakdivensis from the slender loris. Phaneropsolus perodictici n. sp. is the first record of Phaneropsolus from African lemuroids and the first report from sub-Saharan East Africa. The validity of the subgenera Phaneropsolus and Primatotrema is discussed and that of the latter genus is considered to be useful taxonomically but not phyletically. Phaneropsolus philanderi is removed from Phaneropsolus and transferred to the genus Pleuropsolus.
10.2307/3226555|Twenty-one species of parasites, including one mite, one tick, one hippoboscid, three biting lice, two cestodes, five trematodes, seven nematodes, and one acanthocephalan, were recovered from 36 reddish egrets (Egretta rufescens) from Texas and Florida during 1976, 1977, and 1978. One bacterial infection (Salmonella typhimurium) and one avian poxvirus infection also were found. Organochlorine concentrations were examined in tissues of two birds. While only trace amounts (<1 ppm) of dieldrin, DDE, and PCB were found, the uropygial gland of one of the egrets contained 1, 2, and 8 ppm of these compounds, respectively.
10.2307/3226382| Hermaphroditism has been reported recently for many species of fresh-water gastrotrichs. The possibility of sexual reproduction is evaluated in the best known species, Lepidodermella squammata. In isolation culture, cohorts reproduce early in the ontogeny by parthenogenesis, probably apomictic, and then become hermaphroditic and survive for an extended period. The post-parthenogenic hermaphrodites, when reared alone, may deposit small eggs which degenerate or hatch into very small, short-lived juveniles. Hermaphrodites reared in small groups also produce eggs which degenerate or hatch. However, one-half of the hatched juveniles are of normal size, grow normally, and may even produce reproductive offspring (one case). This single case could be a first observation of sexual reproduction in a fresh-water gastrotrich. Although sexual repro duction has not yet been fully demonstrated, several features characteristic of the post parthenogenic phase suggest that this phase is subject to selection: (1) the anomaly of extended survival; (2) the presence of synaptonemal complexes in primary oocytes and spermatocytes, but not in parthenogenic eggs; (3) the orderly formation of sexual gametes; and (4) the shift in nutrient utilization from vitellogenesis by parthenogenic eggs to formation of secretion materials by secretory cells in the female gonads, including those of the developing X-body. Sexual reproduction by cross-fertilization is considered likely, but mechanisms for sperm transfer remain obscure. 
10.2307/3226383|Analyses of fossil spicules and whole gemmules of fresh-water sponges were performed on early Holocene sediments collected from a bog lake on eastern Graham Island, Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia. Anheteromeyenia sp. dominated the fossil record, and lived with a less abundant population of Spongilla lacustris. These species indicate shallow, standing, or slow-moving waters that probably were circumneutral to slightly basic, with moderate to low carbonate alkalinity, high specific conductance, silicon, and dissolved organic materials. The data corroborate interpretations made from fossil pollen and macrofossils of aquatic plants. Spicular components and whole gemmules of fresh-water sponges often are well-preserved, abundant in certain sediments, and identifiable at the species level, which makes sponges a valuable group of Quaternary paleoecological indicators.
10.2307/3226384|Pseudobradya lanceta n. sp., from Richmond Beach, Washington, U.S.A., is unique in the shape and ornamentation of the setae on the male and female (fx121-1). The previously rare Quinquelaophonte capillata has been rediscovered in South Carolina, U.S.A. Quinquelaophonte capillata is a valid species. My earlier partial rediscription published in 1976 was in error regarding (fx121-2) exopod setation. The description of setation is corrected and the mouthparts are described for the first time. A new key to the genus is provided.
10.2307/3226385| Mesodinium velox n. sp., a marine ciliate from Santa Catalina Island, California, is described. It extrudes a unique tubular attachment complex from the cytostome, shows singularly fast forward movement, and has an ovoid form. Body size varies between ~6 x 11 m and ~14 x 20 m. The cirri normally number 17, have a barb about two-thirds of their length from the proximal end, and bifurcate distally. They form an anterior and a lateral circle when at rest. The membranelles equal the cirri in number. There are internal green bodies. The taxonomy of the genus is reviewed briefly. 
10.2307/3226386| Two new species of the diatom genus Gomphoneis are described from Oregon (U.S.A.). Light and scanning electron microscopic observations of G. trullata n. sp. show that this diatom has striae with two rows of indistinct, slit-like puncta and an axial plate located circa - the way between the axial area and the valve margin. As in other species of Gomphoneis, the axial plate is responsible for the image of longitudinal lines characteristic of the genus. Gomphoneis trullata is distinguished from previously described species by its distinctively shaped valves, which are widest between the central area and the footpole, and by the position of the longitudinal lines. The second species, G. linearis n. sp., is a rare form known only from the Metolius River. It is distinguished by its linear valve outline, submarginal longitudinal lines, and distinct doubly-punctate striae. 
10.2307/3226387|Diatom frustules are rapidly and inexpensively cleared of protoplasts using commercially available bleach (5.25% sodium hypochlorite). A comparison of periphyton subsamples cleaned by the bleach method described, and the standard nitric acid/potassium dichromate method, showed little difference in the extent to which frustules are disjoined (hypotheca from epitheca). A community analysis of subsamples showed no differences in taxa or disappearance of small forms when comparing the two methods. No sample heating, subsequent treatment, or fume hoods are required for this procedure.
10.2307/3226388|Attachment of Dermophthirius carcharhini is described using light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. Adult worms place a cup-shaped opisthohaptor over the proximal dorsal surface of a placoid scale and are firmly attached by means of a cement composed of an acellular, tyrosine-rich lipoprotein. Adhesion is further enhanced by a scale-like topography of the cement and by longitudinal furrows on the ventral opisthohaptoral surface that are complementary with the surface structures and pattern of the host's placoid scale. Perhaps a reduced pressure within the opisthohaptoral cup, sealed by a parenchymatous rim, also contributes to attachment. The opisthohaptor depresses and erodes host epidermis and ruptures goblet cells in the area of attachment, presumably making the scale more susceptible to detachment by the worm.
10.2307/3226389|Post-larval growth of the monogenean Microcotyle sebastis, a gill parasite of Sebastes melanops, is described. The larval ciliated epidermal jacket and the four pairs of lateral hooks were shed by the 2 clamp-pair stage. The other hooks remained on the larval haptor which was lost between the 3 and 5 clamp-pair stage. Further post-larval growth involved the addition of clamps, development of genitalia, and expansion of the gut. Eggs were produced by the 20 clamp-pair stage, which was reached within 12 days following hatching. Worms reared on juvenile black rockfish (64-110 mm standard length) were significantly shorter at all stages of development than those found on adult rockfish (285-430 mm standard length). This appears to be the first reported case of stunting in the Manogenea. Extremely dense laboratory-induced infestations (760 worms/host) on adult black rockfish did not result in stunting, but fecundity was significantly reduced.
10.2307/3226390| Eimeria blarinae n. sp. was found in 3 of 6 specimens of Blarina brevicauda from Illinois. Oocysts were spherical to subspherical and measured 18-23 m x 15-20 m (mean, 21.3 x 18.4). A micropyle was absent, but an oocyst residuum and polar granule were present. Piriform sporocysts had a Stieda body and residuum, but lacked a substiedal body. Sporocysts were 12-14 m x 6-8 m (mean 13.2 x 6.7). Sporozoites had two prominent refractile bodies. 
10.2307/3226391|A large lesion is described from the side of the head of a sablefish (Anoplopoma fimbria). The lesion was shown to contain possible retrovirus particles and acid-fast bacilli.
10.2307/3226294|The toxic and osteolathyrogenic effects of benzoyl hydrazine were evaluated using the Frog Embryo Teratogenesis Assay: Xenopus (FETAX), a rapid and inexpensive in vitro test system. Osteolathyrism, a connective tissue lesion associated with decreased intermolecular bonding in collagen and elastin, is manifested in early embryos as alterations in the long axis of the animal. Morphological examination, including electron microscopy, reveals that gross effects were produced by changes in connective tissue fibers of the notochordal sheath. The effects of benzoyl hydrazine were concentration-, and to a lesser extent developmental stage- (incubation temperature), dependent. The 25 C 96-hour LC
10.2307/3226295| Analysis of the hindgut of the termite Reticulitermes flavipes shows an osmolarity of 150 mOsM and an anaerobic redox potential of -154 to -219 mV for the pH range of 6.7 to 7.0. Using these data, a medium that supported growth of Trichomitus trypanoides, isolated from R. flavipes, was developed. In addition to fetal calf serum, yeast extract, glycogen, and a balanced salt solution, flagellate growth required heat-killed rumen bacteria and living bacteria (Serratia marcescens). A maximum doubling time of 12.5 h at 27C was not affected by the presence or absence of cellulose, but was adversely affected by trehalose. Members of 10 clones derived from the primary culture exhibit a uniform size, shape, and morphology, and appear to be anatomically similar to non-cloned flagellates from the original isolate. Each cell, averaging 15.1 x 6.3 m, is dorso-ventrally flattened, possesses an undulating membrane-recurrent flagellum complex, a trailing flagellum, a prominent axostyle, and most possess three anteriorly projecting flagella. 
10.2307/3226296|Cloned cells of the trichomonad flagellate isolated from Reticulitermes flavipes possess three anterior flagella and a recurrent flagellum attached to an undulating membrane for about 75% of the cell length before extending as a free posterior flagellum. The undulating membrane complex completes only two shallow waves. Internally, the flagellate contains two parabasal filaments and a costa with Type A periodicity, a pelta, an axostyle projecting from the posterior end of the cell body as a long thin tube, and a single discoidal parabasal body. The kinetosomal complex has two rootlet filaments and a sigmoid filament that terminates near the peltar-axostylar junction. The fine structure of the cloned flagellate most closely resembles that of members of the genus Trichomitus. The original species epithet for the trichomonad flagellate from Reticulitermes has been retained and the protozoon has been classified as the species Trichomitus trypanoides n. comb.
10.2307/3226297|Based on new information as to wall microstructure, morphology as indicated in thin sections, and other morphologic features, some foraminiferal genera are revised and additional new genera, families, and subfamilies are proposed in the order Foraminiferida. The genus Dentalina is restricted, the genus Enantiodentalina is reinstated, and Dentalinella is reinstated as validated by Loeblich and Tappan in 1964. Jenkinsina is placed in synonymy with Chiloguembelitria. Camagueyia is redescribed on the basis of new material, and shown not to be agglutinated, but to have a thick lamellar calcareous wall, and to be referrable to the family Rotaliidae. The type species of Turbinulina (a synonym of Ammonia) is discussed. New family group taxa in the suborder Lagenina are the new family Ichthyolariidae, subfamily Spirolingulininae (family Vaginulinidae), and subfamily Falsoguttulininae (family Polymorphinidae); the suborder Rotaliina includes the new family Heronalleniidae, and in the family Rotaliidae, the subfamily Ammoniinae is transferred from family status. The 11 new genera, and included new species, are Laevidentalina and L. aphelis n. sp. (subfamily Nodosariinae, family Nodosariidae), Percultazonaria, Reticulopalmula, Prismatomorphia, and Psilocitharella (all subfamily Lenticulininae, family Vaginulinidae), Strigialifusus and Mitrapolymorphina (subfamily Polymorphininae, family Polymorphinidae), Gallitellia (family Guembelitriidae), Drepaniota and D. pachutaense n. sp. (subfamily Pleurostomellinae, family Pleurostomellidae), Rhodanopeza (family Cibicididae), Cocoarota (family Gavelinellidae), and Loisthostomata and L. exiguum n. sp. (family Parrelloididae).
10.2307/3226298|A new interstitial cyclorhagid kinorhynch, Echinoderes nybakkeni n. sp., is described from a high-energy marine beach at Carmel, California. The kinorhynch was found in coarse quartz sand taken from a 0.1-0.7 m deep stratum at the mid-tide level of the beach. Unique morphology includes heavy cuticularization of the ventral midline of segment 4 and a mid-dorsal fissure that establishes two bilateral terminal tergal plates.
10.2307/3226299|Microarchitectural changes in the ileum of mice infected with 5,000, 10,000, 20,000, or 40,000 sporulated oocysts of Eimeria vermiformis were studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Early changes (4 and 6 days after inoculation-DAI) included blunting and atrophy of villi, as well as swelling of enterocytes. Changes were most severe during the acute phases of the infections (8-10 DAI) and included villous tip erosion, villous fusion, enterocyte swelling, and microvillous distention. The severity of lesions, which was not dose-related, had decreased by 14 DAI, and complete restoration of ileal architecture occurred by 25 DAI. Many changes observable by light microscopy were confirmed by SEM.
10.2307/3226300|Midguts of adult and larval Tenebrio molitor were examined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy before and after infection by oncospheres of Hymenolepis diminuta. The oncospheres traverse the epithelium of both stages of beetles arriving at the epithelial basal lamina. The basal lamina is modified and appears to be reinforced with an electron-dense, heterogeneous substance arranged in a lattice-like subtructure, which may restrict further oncospheral movement in the larval insects. The reinforced basal lamina is incomplete in adult beetles, for it is present around the midgut but absent around the regenerative crypts that project into the hemocoel. Our observations support the hypothesis that the crypts serve as the major route of entry into the hemocoel by oncospheres of H. diminuta.
10.2307/3226301|The chemical nature of the metacercarial cyst of Clinostomum complanatum was investigated using histochemical techniques. The cyst consists of two distinct layers. The cyst wall was examined for acid mucopolysaccharides, basic proteins, carbohydrate, collagen, dityrosine, elastin, keratin-like proteins, sclerotin, and tyrosine. The inner layer contains collagen, but the outer layer is rich in basic proteins. Both layers are cellular and contributed by the host. This is a report of the entire cyst being contributed by the host as a consequence of defensive reaction at the host-parasite interface.
10.2307/3226302|The omphalometrid trematode Haplometroides eburnense of West African frogs is found in Rana fuscigula angolensis and Phrynobatrachus natalensis in Uganda. The genus Haplometroides from Paraguayan snakes is not suitable for H. eburnense; therefore, Phrynobatrachotrema n. g. is established, with an emended diagnosis and the first description of the excretory pattern.
10.2307/3226516|The property of encystment is found in a variety of structurally variant species in the hypotrich ciliate genus Euplotes. There are a number of redundant descriptions for some of these species. Given the inherent difficulty of establishing true biological species in ciliated protists by way of breeding tests, we propose a conservative scheme for morphological classification of the encysting members of the genus Euplotes. We propose that (1) the cirrotype and dargyrome be used in the identification of species of Euplotes, and (2) the characters of habitat and presence or absence of endosymbionts should be considered. Using this scheme, the encysting species of Euplotes, none of which harbor endosymbionts, are: Euplotes charon, E. elegans, E. indentatus, E. parkei (all marine), E. inkystans, and E. muscicola (freshwater). New observations of encystment in a different morphotype also are presented (cirrotype 8; double dargyrome; marine).
10.2307/3226517|Isolated spicules of the gorgonian Leptogorgia virgulata were decalcified and exposed to an artificial seawater solution to evaluate the capacity of the spicule matrix to recalcify. Decalcification was carried out in 0.5 M ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, pH 7.5, and the organic matrices remaining were examined with energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis for completeness of decalcification. Recalcification of the decalcified spicule matrices occurred after 48 h in the artificial seawater solution containing NaCl, NaCl
10.2307/3226518|Six new species of free-living marine nematodes of the order Enoplida are described from unvegetated, subtidal sediments from St. Andrew Bay and Lake Powell, Bay County, Florida, U.S.A. Pareurystomina floridensis n. sp. differs from the other members of the genus that have three circles of denticles in the stoma, in the length of the tail, and structure of the spicules and gubernaculum, and absence of post-anal papillae in the males. Pareurystomina agubernacula n. sp. differs from all members of the genus in the absence of a gubernaculum in the males. Epacanthion oweni n. sp. differs from the closely related E. oliffi in the structure of the spicules. The spicules of E. oweni n. sp. lack serrations at the tips and the tips are curved medially. Thalassironus americanus n. sp. differs from all members of the genus in the presence of five post-anal, supplement-like structures in the males. Trefusia honessi n. sp. differs from all members of the genus in the presence of a series of midventral, complex, supplement-like structures in the cervical region of the males. Trefusia longicorpa n. sp. differs from the closely related T. schiemeri and T. multipapillatum in the structure of the spicules, number of pre-anal papillae in the males, length of cephalic setae, position of the first circle of cervical setae, and the body length.
10.2307/3226519|Spiral and near-spiral growth patterns of the peripheral crossed-lamellar shell microstructure of the bivalve Corbicula cf. fluminea have been discovered. This is the first report of spiral microstructures outside of nacreous and "foliated calcite" deposits. The spiral growth surface in this corbiculid is underlain by a conical crossed-lamellar microstructure. This form of lath deposition is usually associated with high concentrations of organic material located beneath the undertucked periostracum along the valve's periphery. These structures can offer the bivalve additional resistance against predators that enter the valves through the shell's edge. Similar spiral structures have not been found in all "white" forms of North American Corbicula, in the "purple" form of North American Corbicula, nor in the corbiculids Polymesoda caroliniana and P. (Geloina) erosa.
10.2307/3226521|The marine ectocommensal polychaete Histriobdella homari moves over the surfaces of the gills of its host Homarus americanus using a duo-gland adhesive system in an anterior and posterior pair of appendages. Electron microscopy demonstrated that the glands in these appendages and their secretions are comparable to duo-gland organ components reported in other annelids. Cytochemical tests showed the viscid granules to be a basic glycoprotein and the releasing granules to be "biogenic-monoamine-like" in nature. The viscid granules provide the adhesive for attachment and small amounts remain on the substratum as "footprints" following release.
10.2307/3226522| Ichthyophthirius multifiliis theronts and their penetration into host epithelial tissue were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Parasites entered host tissues between epithelial cells, and numerous bacteria were found close to the entry site. Sloughing of host epithelium was evident by 72 hours post-invasions. Theronts measured 33.1 x 16.8 (30.1-35.0 x 15.1-20.1) m and the cilium-like filament has a mean length of 12.5 m, approximately 2-3 times the length of the somatic cilia. A posterior location for the cilium-like filament is proposed. 
10.2307/3226523|Histochemical and ultrastructural studies were conducted on the prostate gland and associated ejaculatory duct of the notocotylid trematode Quinqueserialis quinqueserialis. The prostate gland consists of numerous pyriform cells ly sac and grouped around the ejaculatory duct. These cells, rich in ribosomes, granular endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, Golgi complexes, and autophagosomes, are involved in the production of two types of secretions. Cells in the posterior prostate produce dense secretions composed of a glycoprotein, whereas cells of the anterior prostate secrete electron-lucent bodies containing a fluid component with some protein r from these cells pass along thin cytoplasmic ducts through the ejaculatory epithelium and muscle and accumulate in the lumen of the ejaculatory duct. Electron-dense secretions are limited to the posterior portion of ejaculatory duct; electron-lucent secretions are isolated in the anterior region. The ejaculatory duct consists of layers of longitudinal and circular muscle and an epithelium that forms thin projections enclosing prostatic secretions.
10.2307/3226524|A detailed study of trunk, proboscis, proboscis receptacle, testes, cement gland, and egg dimensions, as well as proboscis hooks and lemnisci length of male and female Neoechinorhynchus cylindratus in various size classes, revealed three patterns of growth. The first, involving an initial lack of growth followed by a gradual increase, was noted only in body diameter and is considered to be responsible for change of body form from anteriorly robust in juveniles to more uniformly cylindrical in larger adults. The second pattern was characterized by an initial surge of growth followed by slow or no growth and was evident in the proboscis, proboscis hooks, eggs, and proboscis receptacle. The third pattern, involving continuous and progressive growth in all worm size classes, was documented for the lemnisci, testes, and cement gland. The stability of proboscis and egg dimensions and proboscis hooks length confirm their taxonomic utility for worms beyond the juvenile stage. The proboscis receptacle might also represent a taxonomically important characteristic.
10.2307/3226525|A system for classifying the cell layers of extant dinoflagellate zygotic cysts and fossil sporopollelin dinoflagellate cysts is presented. The terms exospore, perispore, and mesospore are eliminated. The existing terms theca, endospore, auto-, peri-, and endophragm are retained and, in some cases, redefined. With transmission electron microscopic observations of zygotic cells and re-examination of light microscopic and scanning electron microscopic data, apparent discrepancies in the literature are resolved and homologous structures are identified.
10.2307/3226526|Myxomycete spores possessed intense fluorescent foci when stained with nitro-benzo-oxadiazole-phallacidin (NBD-Ph). Fluorescent foci concentrated at the spore periphery prior to germination were lacking once protoplasts emerged. Unstained controls or controls extracted with potassium iodide (KI) showed no fluorescence. Acid phosphatase activity was demonstrated in spores through the Gomori reaction, and the hypothesis that actin filaments are associated with lysosomes is explored. Several species of myxomycete swarm cells displayed fluorescence in the posterior region when treated with NBD-Ph. The anterior region, encompassing the basal bodies and nucleus, exhibited little or no fluorescence. The presence of actin was confirmed using a KI extracted control. Disrupted negatively-stained preparations viewed with a transmission electron microscope revealed a dense filamentous network that bound heavy meromyosin.
10.2307/3226278|The coelomic lining in the tube foot of the phanerozonian starfish Luidia foliolata is a complex myoepithelium consisting of longitudinally oriented retractor cells and flagellated adluminal cells. The relatively long flagella of the adluminal cells become distally coiled during fixation with buffered or unbuffered solutions of glutaraldehyde. These echinoderm discocilia, called turbinate flagella, exhibit as many as five gyres of the axoneme and the plasmalemma. The turbinate flagella will uncoil if subsequently exposed to buffered or unbuffered solutions of osmium tetroxide, but they then display other, less elaborate discociliary modifications. The substitution of cryofixation and freeze-drying for chemical fixation and critical-point dehydration most faithfully preserves the flagellar ultrastructure.
10.2307/3226280|A new method for preparation of sponge spicules for microscopy utilizes membrane filters for separation of spicules from cleaning fluids. The membranes with adherent spicules are cleared during mounting on microscope slides for direct analysis by light microscopy. The basic filtration procedure is also used to produce preparations for scanning electron microscopy. The main advantages of this procedure over a variety of traditional methods include preclusion of spicule loss during cleaning and significant reduction of procedure-introduced variation. The technique described offers promise for quantitative analysis of spicule complements.
10.2307/3226281|A new species of Bipaliidae is described from Collegeville and St. Davids, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. as Bipalium pennsylvanicum n. sp. This three-lined species is distinct in the United States, from Bipalium adventitium with one dorsal stripe and B. kewense with five dorsal stripes, as well as other three-striped species. The head is semilunate, the same width as the body, and the auricles are not recurved. Double rows of eyes occur around the periphery of the head, are concentrated at the neck, and extend along the sides of the body to the rear. Body color is pale brown or dirty yellow with some orange. Dorsal surface of the head has darker brown pigmentation and is without special markings. The mid-dorsal line, beginning on the head, extends to the rear of the body and enlarges over the pharyngeal and genital areas. Two broad lateral lines originate behind the neck, are closer to the edge, and are slightly broader than the median. The ventral surface is lighter pigmented, and forms a ciliated creeping sole with no ventral lines. Individuals may be over 80 mm long and 3.5 mm wide during locomotion. The copulatory apparatus has male and female canals opening separately into a common genital atrium; the sperm ducts enter the anterior wall of a small bulbar cavity, which is smaller than the voluminous ejaculatory duct, which in turn enters the elongate penis papilla. Ovovitelline ducts enter the posterior wall of the female glandular duct, which receives cement glands; the vagina continues as a narrow canal to open directly into the common genital atrium.
10.2307/3226282|A marine form of the ciliated protozoon, Aspidisca sp., is described using scanning and transmission electron microscopy, based on individuals belonging to two morphologically indistinguishable, but reproductively isolated, local populations; two different "cryptic species." Details of cortical, cytoplasmic, and nuclear ultrastructure are provided. Efforts to find some biological correlates (at supramacromolecular level of organization) of the evolutionary disjunction of the two cryptic species were unsuccessful. Similarities in ultrastructural characteristics between Aspidisca sp. and representative members of the family Euplotidae are remarkable, several intertaxal differences in pairwise comparisons notwithstanding. Such differences fall, however, within the range of variation for the family Euplotidae. The ultrastructural information accumulated to date seems to support the inclusion of Aspidisca in the family Euplotidae.
10.2307/3226283|Comparing results obtained from light microscopy with those from electron microscopy, we have determined the extent and position of the microfibrillar nets constituting the buccal apparatus of Urocentrum turbo. We can discern that the reticulated fibrillar system is thicker in the middle zone of the ribbed wall. In the anterior region of the buccal cavity, the microfibrils of the peniculi form a bundle that joins the left and right margins of the buccal cavity. In the middle region, the microfibrils emanating from the peniculi accumulate to form a fan-shaped bundle connecting dorsally with the microfibrillar net situated beneath the paroral kinety. Therefore, the microfibrillar bundles forming the buccal framework of U. turbo, in turn, form the R-shaped structure observed by light microscopy. At the bottom of the buccal cavity, adjacent to the peniculi and in contact with the food vacuolar membrane, a strongly argentophilic fiber, which is microfibrillar and surrounded on its concave side by foldings of microtubul
10.2307/3226285|The fine structure of the uterine epithelium of Mesocestoides lineatus was studied at three stages of development and in three distinct uterine regions. Observations by transmission electron microscopy revealed both temporal and spatial variation in some features of the epithelium. In early mature proglottids, nuclei of the posterior tubular uterus (U
10.2307/3226286|Histochemical studies were made of hydrolytic enzymes in cryostat sections and whole organisms of free metacercariae and young adults of Leucochloridiomorpha constantiae transformed in warm Hanks' balanced salt solution. Positive reactions were obtained for acid (AcPase) and alkaline phosphatase (AlPase), non-specific esterase (NSE), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), but not leucine aminopeptidase (LAP), in various organ systems of both metacercariae and young adults. Reactions for AcPase occurred in the tegumentary ridges of the metacercaria, the tegument of the young adult, and the subtegumentary musculature of both. Reactions for AlPase occurred within the flammiferous tubules of the excretory system, testes, ovary, uterus, and intestinal ceca of the metacercaria; the reaction in the intestinal ceca was less intense in the young adult. Reaction for NSE occurred throughout the nervous system and intestinal ceca of the metacercaria and was less intense in the latter site in the young adult. Reactions for AChE occurred in the nervous system of both the metacercaria and young adult.
10.2307/3226287|Blood flukes (Spirorchiidae) of the genus Hapalorhynchus have not been reported previously from African turtles. H. beadlei n. sp. is described and figured from the side-necked turtle, Pelusios williamsi lutescens, in Uganda. Comparisons are made with all previously known species, and all of these are from North America. P. w. lutescens harbored immature specimens of Allassostomoides sp., also unreported from African turtles; these specimens are briefly described and figured.
10.2307/3226288|This is the first report of branchiobdellids (Annelida: Clitellata) from Maine. Twenty-seven aquatic sites were surveyed in Aroostook County, Maine and two species of crayfish were collected. Cambarus bartonii bartonii occurred in all but two sites and supported three species of branchiobdellids, Bdellodrilus illuminatus, Cambarincola fallax, and Xironogiton instabilis; in most cases, specimens of all three species occurred on the same host. Bdellodrilus illuminatus was restricted to the branchial chambers, X. instabilis to the chelipeds, and C. fallax to the oral and ventral surfaces of the body. Specimens of Orconectes virilis were collected from two sites and only supported B. illuminatus.
10.2307/3226289|The fruiting body of Stigmatella erecta S12 was studied by transmission electron microscopy and found to have a basal zone, stalk, transitional zone, and sporangium. The basal zone contained packets of vegetative cells surrounded by mucus. The stalk exhibited low cellular density, being formed by mucus and very few cells. The transitional zone contained developing myxospores and the sporangium presented a membranous wall enclosing the mature myxospores which were loosely grouped.
10.2307/3226306|A study of the jelly coat of specimens of Holopedium from the eastern United States showed that two morphological types can be distinguished. The main differences occur in the shape of the "anterior jelly curl" and the sculpturing of the lateral portions of the jelly coat. An internal "dorsal space" is found in all jelly coats. The type of jelly coat present is correlated with the presence or absence of a basal spine on the postabdomen. Vorticella may occur as an epibiont on the jelly coat of Holopedium. Two other cladocerans, Sida crystallina and Ophryoxus gracilis, were also found to secrete a gelatinous covering onto their carapace.
10.2307/3226307|Scanning electron microscopy of the chorionic egg attachment structures of Electrogena zebrata permitted study of the organization of knob-terminated coiled threads (KCT's). With the exception of the micropyles, chorionic sculptures cover the entire cell surface. Each KCT is composed of many fine fibers tightly spiraled together to form a single thread terminating in a distinct knob. The KCT's are isolated by a ring of protuberances interconnected by thin strands. Available evidence suggests that upon attachment, KCT's extend individual threads and fix their rounded terminal knob to the substrate. A high concentration of KCT's attachment structures may represent a more specialized adhesion mechanism among the Ephemeroptera.
10.2307/3226308| Larvae of Psychoglypha alascensis were examined for their ability to respond to pieces of epon embedded within their abdominal hemocoel for 5 or 35 days at 10C. Five days after implantation, there was a discontinuous hemocyte response: 1-5 layers of cells accumulated only on some areas of the epon. This reaction ranged from 2-30 m in thickness. Thirty-five days after implantation, the response was much more extensive: many layers of hemocytes accumulated over almost the entire surface of the implant. The inner region of the capsule was up to 110 m in thickness and was composed of numerous layers of flattened hemocytes interspersed with dark, amorphous material that resembled melanin. The outer region ranged from 30-180 m in thickness and was composed of numerous, less flattened cells. This is the first demonstration of a hemocytic encapsulation reaction in a member of the order Trichoptera. The development of the capsule was significantly slower than reactions reported for similar implants in representatives of other taxa. 
10.2307/3226309| Four-pointed, crystal-like structures were found in the penis of two species of land snails. Those found in Anguispira alternata are regular tetrahedrons, but those of Anguispira kochi appear more like four-pointed "jacks." The penial "crystals" of both species range in size from 1 m to 25 m on a side. Energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis used in conjunction with scanning electron microscopy reveals the penial "crystals" of both species to have large amounts of sulfur, moderate amounts of calcium, potassium, and phosphorus, and trace amounts of magnesium, silicon, and sodium. Those of A. kochi also contain moderate amounts of chlorine, but those of A. alternata have only trace amounts of chlorine, if at all detectable. These crystal-like structures may function as stimulative devices during mating in these species. 
10.2307/3226310|The ability of the ciliate predator Didinium nasutum to survive and recover from a period of starvation is affected by the previous history of the predator. The size of D. nasutum increases with increasing prey size across a range of sizes of Paramecium species. This increase in the size of the predator when feeding on larger prey contributes to the survival ability of the predator under conditions of starvation. D. nasutum that had been conditioned to larger prey (and were themselves larger) were better able to recover from starvation than were predators that had been conditioned to small prey. D. nasutum conditioned to large prey may also be more likely to form resting cysts as a response to starvation.
10.2307/3226311|Based on wall microstructure as indicated in thin section and other morphologic features, some new foraminiferal genera are proposed. Magnesoina, a new genus of the Prolixoplectidae, differs from other genera of the family in having the final chambers uniserially arranged. The type species of the genus is Listerella antillarum. The family Prolixoplectidae is emended to include genera with a late uniserial stage. Strictocostella, a new genus of the Stilostomellidae, differs from other genera of the family by its costate test. The type species of the genus is Ellipsonodosaria modesta prolata. Torulumbonina, a new genus of the Nodosariinae, with type species Frondicularia bikiniensis, differs from other genera of the subfamily by its non-palmate chamber arrangement and knob-encircled aperture. Pleuroskelidion, a new genus of the Pleurostomellidae, differs from other genera of the family by its costate test. The type species is Pleuroskelidion unda n. sp.
10.2307/3226313|The origin of the retinacular muscles from a binucleate cell on the ventral surface of the inner wall of the proboscis receptacle is described, using light microscopy, in 14 species of Acanthocephala representing the classes Eoacanthocephala, Paleacanthocephala, and Archiacanthocephala. The termination of the retinacular muscles without extending to the body wall is described in eight species of Eoacanthocephala.
10.2307/3226314| An inexpensive, rapid, computerized method for counting mesenchymal cells in histological sections has been developed. The method has similarities to manual counting through a microscope eyepiece, but has many advantages over that classical procedure in terms of speed and minimization of human error. The system is built around an Apple IIe microcomputer using a Digisector video board and specialized image-analysis software. Contrast of Feulgen-stained serial histological sections is enhanced by the use of specific high-resolution, high-contrast film and printing on high-contrast paper. Our method has the advantage of providing large amounts of reliable data at minimal cost. It can be learned by assistants with a minimum of training and permits precise counting of mesenchymal cell density at different stages of development. The procedure is illustrated with reference to an analysis of Feulgen-stained sections of chick embryonic shank. 
10.2307/3226315|We describe a technique for light microscopy combining two morphometric procedures, computer-assisted tracing (CAT) and point-counting (PtC), for a model study in the quantitative analysis of leaf tissues (Liriodendron tulipifera) exposed to acidic misting (pH 5.6, 4.6, 3.6, or 2.6) alone and in conjunction with 0.1 ppm NO
10.2307/3226316| Macroscopically visible growths of Meridion circulare were observed in a small sand-bottomed brook in northwest Ohio each spring from 1983 to 1985. Colonies of Meridion appeared in abundance when water temperatures reached 7-10C and they persisted only for several weeks. The brown mucilaginous colonies were found attached only to unburied portions of sticks and leaves and never were seen lying freely on the sand bed. M. circulare is not a dominant component of the epipsammon, but it is able to form large populations in the brook because of available stable substrata. 
10.2307/3226317|Fourteen species of Neochloris, an algal genus represented both by aquatic and edaphic forms, were tested for sensitivity to nine selected antibiotics. The antibiotics were selected on the basis of their known inhibitory effect on related genera of algae. Distinct patterns of tolerance were displayed by the different species of Neochloris. From the results obtained, species could be characterized on the basis of their responses to specific antibiotics. Pronounced differences were noted between the responses of the aquatic and the edaphic species. Antibiotics derived from the soil fungus Streptomyces and from the bacterium Bacillus polymyxa inhibited growth of the edaphic species.
10.2307/3226318|Protists are concentrated by filtration and then embedded in 2.5% agar directly on mixed esters of cellulose filters. After staining, the filters are rendered transparent in xylene and mounted for permanent record. This method, which produces high-quality protargol and good Chatton-Lwoff stains, is more rapid and efficient than methods described previously.
10.2307/3226319| Gemmules of Eunapius fragilis survived enclosure within ice at temperatures down to - 20C for seven days. 
10.2307/3226320|Trichuris fulvi n. sp. is described from a Chilean rodent Ctenomys fulvus phillipiensis. The new species differs primarily from T. bradleyi and T. chilensis, two other species described from rodents in Chile, primarily in the presence of a distinct spicular sac.
10.2307/3226250|The endosymbiotic marine dinoflagellate Amphidinium klebsii was studied in situ using transmission electron microscopy. The asymmetrical alga is a symbiont of a possible new species of acoelous turbellarian belonging to the genus Amphiscolops. Electron micrographs of ultrathin sections show a theca characteristic of the "naked" or "unarmoured" dinoflagellates, and structures not previously shown: small trichocysts, microbodies, bacterial endosymbionts, chloroplast girdle lamellae, intrapyrenoidal lamellae demonstrating thylakoid reduction, nucleolus organizing chromosomes, and starch granules unassociated with the pyrenoid.
10.2307/3226251|Five new and one known species of the free-living marine nematode family Oncholaimidae are described from non-vegetated, subtidal sediments from St. Andrew Bay and Lake Powell, Bay County, Florida, U.S.A. Oncholaimellus patkellyi n. sp. differs from the closely related O. labiatus in the length and shape of the tail, length of the cephalic setae, length of the spicules, and shape and size of the amphid. A key to presently accepted nominal species of Oncholaimellus is given. Viscosia floridana n. sp. differs from the closely related V. viscosa in the length and shape of the spicules, presence of circumanal alae, and greater length of the cephalic setae. Viscosia bayensis n. sp. differs from the similar V. floridana n. sp. in the length of the cephalic setae, absence of circumanal alae, and shape of the spicules. Viscosia macrobursata n. sp. is unique in the presence of a thick, fleshy, muscular bursa and a series of cuticularized, circular, circumanal sensory organs. The male of Viscosia paralinstowi is described for the first time. Metoncholaimus parasimplex n. sp. differs from the similar M. simplex in the shorter spicules, position of the excretory pore, presence of a pre-anal elevation with a single duct, presence of a pair of setae on each lateral surface near the tip of the tail, and in females, the position of the excretory pore and exit pore of the demanian system.
10.2307/3226252| The sense organs on the palp of the harvestman Leiobunum townsendi are surveyed using scanning electron microscopy. A total of approximately 1,100 mechanoreceptive sensilla are present on each palp and these are strikingly similar to sensilla reported from spiders and other arachnids. They are differentiated into two forms: sensilla trichodea, averaging 76 m in length, and sensilla chaetica consisting of two types; type I is 57 m long and type II is 35 m long. Sensilla chaetica, especially type I, may be chemoreceptive in function, because they are similar to contact chemoreceptive hair sensilla in spiders. Structures that resemble the chemoreceptive tarsal organs of spiders are located on the tarsus, although dye penetration experiments seem to indicate that they are not innervated. Sensory structures are more abundant on the distal than on the proximal segments, as is the case in many arachnids and insects. 
10.2307/3226253|Fifty-five percent of 201 Caecidotea intermedius (Crustacea: Isopoda) collected in McLean County, Illinois were infected with larvae of Acanthocephalus dirus. Through measurements of isopod total length and first pereiopod propodus and dactylus lengths, I found that mean total length of infected female isopods was significantly greater (Student's t-test,  = 0.05) than that of uninfected females. Mean total length of infected male isopods was significantly less (Student's t-test,  = 0.05) than that of uninfected isopods. Corresponding differences were noted for first pereiopod propodus and dactylus lengths. Regression analyses demonstrated significant (F-test,  = 0.001) linear relationships between first pereiopod propodus or dactylus lengths and isopod total lengths for uninfected, male worm-infected, and female worm-infected isopods of both sexes. The maintenance of such relationships during infection was indicated by the lack of statistically significant ( = 0.05) differences between regression or correlation coefficients. Acanthocephalan volume mm
10.2307/3226254|Anatomical characteristics of the protoscolices of Echinococcus vogeli were examined by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy and compared directly with those of E. multilocularis. The tegument of E. vogeli exhibited numerous (60-80) circular pits, whereas that of E. multilocularis had somewhat irregular, longitudinal infoldings. The presence of vesicles in the tegumental cytoplasm, as well as in the lumina of the pits, suggested that the tegumental cells of E. vogeli have a secretory function. The evaginated scolex of E. vogeli also exhibited specific differences in characteristics of the tegumental microtriches.
10.2307/3226255|Seven species of diclidophorid Monogenea are reported from fishes of the eastern Pacific Ocean along the coast of California, U.S.A. and Baja California, Mexico. Neoheterobothrium mcdonaldi n. sp. (Diclidophorinae) is described from the gills of Synodus lucioceps (Synodontidae) collected from the Gulf of California. The new species differs from N. pugetensis and N. affine in clamp structure, the inverse orientation of the anterior pair of clamps, the number of genital corona spines, and the host families. The geographical distribution of Diclidophora embiotocae (Diclidophorniae) found on the gills of Hyperprosopon argenteum (Embiotocidae) is extended from the central Oregon coast to the coast of southern California. The geographical distribution of Cyclocotyloides pinguis (Diclidophoropsinae) found on the gills of Coryphaenoides sp. (Macrouridae) is extended from the coast of central Oregon to the Gulf of California. Orbocotyle elmernoblei n. sp. (Choricotylinae) is described from the gills of Prionotus stephanophrys (Triglidae) collected from the Gulf of California off Bahia Santa Ines. The new species differs from O. prionoti in the slender body, presence of an isthmus and terminal lappet, smaller and more numerous testes, and vitellaria restricted to the body proper; it differs from O. marplatensis in body shape, fewer testes, and number of marginal hooks on the terminal lappet. Orbocotyle exilis is transferred to Choricotyle. Choricotyle caulolatili (Choricotylinae) is reported from Caulolatilus princeps (Malacanthidae) from the Gulf of California, southeast of Isla Carmen. The geographical distribution of Choricotyle oregonensis (Choricotylinae) found on the gills of Antimora microlepis (Moridae) is extended from the coast of central Oregon to Guaymas Basin in the Gulf of California. Hargicotyle pacifica (Hargicotylinae) is reported from a new host, Umbrina roncador (Sciaenidae), and the geographical distribution is extended northward from the southern Gulf of California to the waters off La Jolla, California.
10.2307/3226256|In 1956, Wright and Smithers described a new intestinal echinostome, Pameileenia gambiensis, collected from an aquatic snake, Grayia tholloni, in Gambia. In 1971, flukes of the genus Pameileenia were recovered from the stomach of Grayia smythii in Uganda. The anatomy of the worms prompts a redescription and erection of a new subfamily, Pameileeninae.
10.2307/3226257|Specimens of Ascocotyle sesquiordoi n. sp., Echinochasmus donaldsoni, Tylodelphys americana, and Phagicola sp. were found in the intestine of a Wood Ibis, Mycteria americana, salvaged in Brazos County, Texas, U.S.A. The new species is proposed on the basis of the unique arrangement of one and one-half rows of coronet spines. Echinochasmus donaldsoni is a new record for this host.
10.2307/3226258|Evidence of phagocytosis by the thrombocytes of a yellow-bellied water snake (Nerodia erythrogaster flavigaster) was found on Wright-stained blood smears. The phagocytized inclusions in the thrombocytes appeared to be granules and cellular material released from basophils that were undergoing varying degrees of disruption. This is the first description of phagocytosis by ophidian thrombocytes and the first in which the endogenous phagocytized material could be identified.
10.2307/3226219|The distribution of ribonucleic acid (RNA) was studied in the central nervous system of two species of newts, Taricha torosa and Ambystoma tigrinum, using the fluorochrome acridine orange as a histochemical marker of nucleic acids. Among the various identified neurons in the adult newt brain and spinal cord, a wide spectrum was found ranging from barely perceptible to highly intense RNA fluorescence. In general, the brainstem and spinal cord contain a larger proportion of strongly fluorescent neurons than do the cerebral hemispheres or cerebellum; the optic tectum and diencephalon are intermediate. The septal nuclei and corpus striatum show more RNA fluorescence than do the hippocampus, piriform cortex, or olfactory bulb, although a few scattered neurons in these structures are strongly fluorescent. Glial cells show no demonstrable cytoplasmic RNA. Correlation could not be established between intensity of RNA fluorescence and distance of neuronal migration, unlike the human fetal brain. A correlation may exist between the type of neurotransmitter synthesized by individual neurons and the intensity of RNA fluorescence; those cells producing neuropeptides, acetylcholine, or monoamines exhibit stronger fluorescence than do those using simple amino acids as transmitters.
10.2307/3226220|Diet-induced lipid deposition was studied histologically in the aortic arch of old Sprague-Dawley and spontaneously hypertensive rats that were either sedentary or subjected to electrical foot shock. The objective was to identify and quantify specific vascular changes to determine the effects of external sensory stimulation in each strain, but allowing for qualified comparison between normotensive and hypertensive strains. All rats were maintained for 45 days on a fatty diet supplemented with 4% cholesterol. Over the last 30 days of that period, half of the animals in each strain were subjected to unpredictable, uncontrollable foot shock. Frozen sections of the aortic arch were stained with oil red O and lipid deposition was quantified as gross involvement and also according to histometric detail. Deposition was greatest among hypertensive individuals. Within each strain, deposition was significantly less in shocked individuals and occurred as fewer and smaller patches of oil red O. The various histological features of the stained areas were present in all animals, suggesting that in both strains the mechanism of deposition was the same and was not altered by shock treatment. Deposition was significantly more frequent away from the heart in hypertensive but not in normotensive animals, and this may be attributable to hemodynamic differences between the strains.
10.2307/3226221|The microscleres of the fresh-water sponges Spongilla alba, S. cenota, and S. lacustris were studied using scanning electron microscopy. The purpose of the investigation was to determine if microsclere structure among the three species is distinctive and if variations exist among specimens of S. lacustris from different geographical areas; the microscleres among the three species were distinct. Spongilla alba can be distinguished from S. cenota and S. lacustris by microscleres having blunt tips composed of four, small, recurved spines and by the distribution of simple, curved spines and complex, burr-like spines on the microscleres. Spongilla cenota can be distinguished from S. lacustris by the presence of burr-like complex spines with smooth pedicels increasing in length toward the middle of the spicule, and by the distribution of these spines. Spongilla alba and S. cenota were more similar to each other than they were to S. lacustris, but S. cenota had more features in common with S. lacustris than did S. alba. Microscleres of S. lacustris showed considerable variation, and specimens from different geographic areas could not be separated consistently based on spicule structure. In no case did variations in spicules of S. lacustris approach the distinctiveness of features among recognized species.
10.2307/3226222|A karyometric analysis of populations of Gyratrix hermaphroditus (Kalyptorhynchia: Polycystididae) from the Mediterranean and North Seas was conducted. The diploid number 2n = 6 was obtained from studies of spermatogonial mitoses. All three pairs of chromosomes-of slightly different lengths-are metacentric, but differences in values of centromeric indices between Mediterranean and North Sea populations were apparent. In the former population, all chromosomes are nearly isobrachial (centromeric indices, 48-49), but in the latter population the chromosomes exhibit lower values, the lowest centromeric index being 39.15 for chromosome 1. Differences in sizes of stylets also were observed between Mediterranean and North Sea populations. Such data suggest the existence of additional sibling species from marine biota, as are already known for freshwater populations of G. hermaphroditus. The congeneric G. proavus also has the diploid number 2n = 6 and reveals a similar karyotype. The same chromosome number was found in the related species Gyratricella attemsi. Phylogenetic relationships between marine and fresh-water populations of the G. hermaphroditus species complex are discussed.
10.2307/3226223|Using both transmission (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), we investigated the fine structure of the body wall of Capillaria catostomi, a nematode parasite of fresh-water fish intestines. A preparation involving direct dehydration of living worms in acetone with critical-point drying proved to be relatively artifact-free for SEM. Cephalic papillae of C. catostomi exhibited a typical hexaradiate pattern, with two amphidial pores. The cuticle was ridged both longitudinally and transversely, and was penetrated laterally by pegs from the cells of the bacillary band. Several previously unreported structures were seen at the terminal ends of males and females. The cuticle differed from that of other nematodes in lacking a fibrous layer with disinct striations, a clear basal lamella, and striations in the basal layer. The hypodermis was syncytial. Non-glandular cells and sensory endings were wanting in the bacillary band region. Bacillary band cells had dense cuticle-penetrating pegs, complex lamellae, and a fibrous material in some of their interlamellar spaces. Structural differences between C. catostomi and other trichuroid nematodes, such as C. hepatica, C. anatis, Trichurus muris, and T. vulpis indicated osmoregulatory adaptations to the fresh-water environment.
10.2307/3226224|Five new species of free-living marine nematodes of the order Enoplida are described from non-vegetated subtidal and beach sediments in St. Andrew Bay, Bay County, Florida, U.S.A. Anticoma asupplementa n. sp. differs from the similar A. strandi and A. platonovae in the shape of the spicules and gubernaculum. Enoplolaimus pararegius n. sp. differs from the closely related E. regius in the number of setae constituting the subcephalic circle in the male and in the shape of the gubernaculum. Mesacanthoides brevicaudatus n. sp. differs from the other members of the genus in the absence of a gubernaculum and in the shape of the spicules. Trileptium americanum n. sp. differs from the similar T. otti in the position of the pre-anal supplement, length of spicules, presence of three post-anal, supplement-like structures, the absence of pre-anal ducts, and the presence of distinct mandibles. Eurystomina olsonae n. sp. differs from the other members of the genus in the presence of large, broad spicules with a large, barbed, and hooked tip, in the shape of the gubernaculum, and in the presence of large, elevated, labial setae.
10.2307/3226225|Enoplolaimus asymmetricus n. sp. is described from subtidal non-vegetated sediments from St. Andrew Bay, Bay County, Florida. E. asymmetricus n. sp. has a distinct sexual dimorphism in the shape of the mandibles and position of the mouth and labial setae. The new species is most similar to Enoplolaimus punctatus, which is the only other species in the genus with a striated and punctate cuticle. Males of E. asymmetricus n. sp. differ from males of E. punctatus in the shape and asymmetry of the mandibles, in the position of the mouth and labial setae, in the absence of a gubernaculum, in the shape of the spicules, and in the presence of a pair of subventral post-anal sensillae. Females of E. asymmetricus n. sp. are difficult to differentiate from females of E. punctatus, except for differences in the relative lengths of the cephalic setae.
10.2307/3226226|A habitat perspective was employed during a five-day study of protozoa inhabiting Lakes Victoria and Naivasha. The great abundance of protozoa (36-43 species) in the weed-littoral zones and floating-submerged vegetation fringing papyrus swamps resembled summer littoral assemblages in temperate lakes. The oxygen-depleted waters of the papyrus swamps, however, supported bactivorous protozoa, mainly ciliates. A peritrich-cyanobacteria association was observed in the open water of the Kavirondo Gulf of Lake Victoria.
10.2307/3226227|Bodo crassus (Bodonaceae) previously known only from Sweden, was found in abundance in an Ontario beaver pond. The feeding habits of this species were found to be unusual. Despite the presence of several other algal species, B. crassus consumed only cells of Synura (Chrysophyceae) over a two-month period of observation in the laboratory. Specimens of Bodo were found with as many as 10 Synura cells in their cytoplasm, some of the latter appearing normal with functional contractile vacuoles. The feeding habit of Bodo crassus may represent an important biotic factor controlling Synura populations in some lakes and ponds.
10.2307/3226228|A histological study of the larval development of the primary sporocyst of Schistosoma japonicum in Oncomelania hupensis hupensis demonstrated unique features as compared with other species of schistosomes. The primary sporocyst can infect almost all tissues of the mollusc with a preference for loosely organized tissues or hollow organs (cavities of the circulatory, excretory, and respiratory systems, as well as the coelom). Hyperinfection is characterized by high colonization of the visceral areas (branchial, renal, circulatory systems, and female genital tract). This extension of the microhabitat is interpreted as a mechanism by which the parasite avoids intraspecific competition. The primary sporocyst is distinguished by its vermiform shape regardless of the microhabitat occupied, and by the presence of an apical structure similar to a birth pore. This constant form may be related to the larvae being bathed directly in the hemolymph; i.e., they exhibit no special morphological differentiation for digestive activity. Special features of primary sporocysts of S. japonicum suggest that they may have an intravectorial demographic strategy different from those described recently for other species of schistosomes.
10.2307/3226229|The role of the membranous body, a secretion of the Mehlis' gland of the trematode Haematoloechus medioplexus in eggshell formation was investigated by electron microscopy. In those organisms studied, eggshell globules were found to coalesce on one surface, the inner surface, of a membranous aggregate formed from the membranous bodies. In H. medioplexus, unlike the situation in Fasciola hepatica, the coalescence of globules begins at the aboperculate end and proceeds in a progressive fixed pattern terminating at the operculum. The margins of the operculum remain as electron-lucid areas, probably indicating a difference in sclerotinization of the margins from the remaining eggshell.
10.2307/3226230|The occurrence of Proctoeces sp., a cosmopolitan digenetic trematode, is reported from two different species of Australian oysters. The low prevalence of the helminth is attributed to the intertidal environment inhabited by the Australian oysters.
10.2307/3226399|Microbial species, including protozoa, are, and have been for many years, useful indicators of environmental conditions, particularly in surface waters, but, more recently, even in ground-water systems. Although microbial species have not been used for predictive toxicity tests as much as fish and macroinvertebrates, both the quality and precision of information that can be obtained with microbial species is now beginning to be recognized. This paper discusses why microbial species are not used more widely in environmental assessment, pollution prevention, and impact control, providing some ecological evidence as to why they should be so utilized. The principal obstacle, however, lies with practitioners who must understand why methods appropriate for pure culture research or theoretical ecological works are not always appropriate to pollution assessment, and also that the degree of precision should be a function of the decision being made rather than the application of academic standards that might be used for a taxonomic description.
10.2307/3226400|Lagenophrys limnoriae n. sp., a loricate peritrich, occurs on the pleopods of species of the marine isopod genus Limnoria. The new species is distinguished from other members of Lagenophrys by a combination of characteristics, including proportions of the lorica, an anterior bulge in the lorica, the shape and height of the lips of the lorica aperture, the frequent presence of rows of bead-like thickenings on the lorica surface, and the shape of the macronucleus. L. limnoriae probably benefits from food particles carried in the current that the hosts generate to ventilate their burrows.
10.2307/3226402|Lagenophrys aselli, an ectocommensal of fresh-water isopods that attaches to the host's pleopods, is reported for the first time from many localities in Canada and the United States. Aside from one occurrence on Lirceus, it was found only on species of Asellus. Size differences between samples of L. aselli from Canada and France can be attributed to differences in rate of growth caused by differing habitat characteristics. Samples of L. aselli from some North American hosts were dimorphic, consisting of two forms, differing in size and details of lorica shape, that were confined strictly to opposite surfaces of the host's pleopods. Dimorphism in L. aselli may be caused by a difference in force of current on opposing surfaces of the pleopods that affects lorica formation.
10.2307/3226404|The transformation from the feeding trophont to the dividing tomont was observed in the ectosymbiotic marine apostome ciliate Hyalophysa chattoni by light microscopy in vivo and in permanent mounts using silver impregnation to reveal the infraciliature and the Feulgen reaction for nuclei. Five morpho-physiological stages were recognized from the time the organism leaves its crustacean host's molt to the onset of reproduction by palintomy. The most important events in this predivisional sequence were: (1) resorption of the metastomial area; (2) reduced swimming activity, subdivision of the food mass, and migration of nuclei to the center of the cell; (3) settlement on a substrate and secretion of a cyst wall; (4) dedifferentiation of the infraciliature, rotation of macronuclear chromatin, and micronuclear mitosis; and (5) cytokinesis.
10.2307/3226405| A pellicular complex associated with the somatic, oral, and anterior ventral field cilia is revealed clearly by scanning electron microscopy in pre-reproductive (precystic) swimming individuals of the apostome ciliate Hyalophysa chattoni. The complex consists of two sets of pellicular outfoldings devoid of any enclosed cytoplasm. One structure is ribbon-shaped, 1-1.5 m wide, attached by its longer margin to the anterior of each kinety along its entire course. Segments of this ribbon form flaps over each of the scattered cilia of the anterior ventral field. The second structure is a series of earlobe-shaped outfoldings, ca. 1 m high, situated between cilia, perpendicularly to the ribbon on its posterior aspect. The ribbon persists throughout reproductive encystment; the earlobe projections apparently do not. The pellicular complex was not observed in the trophic stage. Both components of this complex correspond to what Chatton & Lwoff (1935) described as only one continuous structure, the "bandelette pectine," in the trophonts of other apostome genera. The function of this pellicular complex is as yet unknown; possible supportive and/or secretory functions are considered. 
10.2307/3226406|Stephanodiscus conspicueporus sp. nov. is described from sediment trap samples collected in Lake Michigan. The new entity is characterized by conspicuous marginal fultoportulae, easily visible in combination with other valve structure by light microscopy. Unlike most species of Stephanodiscus, it lacks internally domed cribra on the valve mantle puncta, but also lacks internally raised interfascicles on either the valve face or valve mantle, which excludes it from Cyclostephanos. The new species has been found only in Lake Michigan, where it occurs in nutrient-enriched, nearshore waters.
10.2307/3226408|The dinoflagellate Symbiodinium microadriaticum inhabits the gastroderm of the anemone Aiptasia pallida. The symbionts were isolated from their hosts and processed for transmission electron microscopy either immediately or after culturing for one day. Symbionts inside anemone tissues were compared with isolated symbionts. Cell wall structure of symbionts within anemone tissues was found to be similar to that of symbionts fixed immediately following isolation. In symbionts cultured for one day, the wall became much thicker and more homogeneous. This was thought to be related to a change in mitotic rate from 1.2% to 13.2% during the first day after isolation. Because of increased mitotic rates, entire new walls were synthesized in much of the population. The increased mitotic rate was maintained in culture. The younger walls were identified by their thicker and more homogeneous fine granular structure. A. pallida developed multiple membranes surrounding the symbionts, the abundance of which seemed to be associated with the length of time the symbiont remained undivided in the host.
10.2307/3226409|Copper and zinc are essential for the metabolism of most cells, but both metals are toxic at concentrations that are still relatively low as compared to concentrations of other elements in the cell. We report estimates of ideal and threshhold toxic concentrations of copper and zinc, as well as tissue responses to copper and zinc toxicity for the fresh-water sponge Ephydatia fluviatilis. Copper and zinc are required for normal sponge growth at concentrations of 10
10.2307/3226410|Five new species of free-living marine nematodes in the order Araeolaimida and one new species in the order Enoplida are described from non-vegetated subtidal and beach sediments in St. Andrew Bay and Lake Powell, Bay County, Florida, U.S.A. Plectolaimus supplementus n. sp. differs from the similar Plectolaimus magdalenae in the presence of tooth-like structures in the esophagus, longer spicules, and a greater number of pre-anal supplements. The males of Paraphanolaimus bayensis n. sp. differ from all other males in the genus in the shape of the gubernaculum and in the presence of numerous large cup-shaped pre-anal supplements as well as tubular supplements. Females of P. bayensis n. sp. can be differentiated from the other females in the genus by the presence of midventral pores. Odontophora brevispicula n. sp. differs from the only other member of the genus having short straight spicules (Odontophora mercurialis) in the shape of the spicules and gubernaculum. The males of Odontophora carrolli n. sp. and O. articulata n. sp. differ from the males of other members of the genus in the presence of large and distinct pre-anal supplements. They differ from one another in the shape of the pre-anal supplements and in the shape of the gubernaculum. Bathylaimus longicorpus n. sp. differs from the other members of the genus having teeth in the stoma in the number and arrangement of the teeth.
10.2307/3226412|Procedures commonly used for extracting nematodes from sediments do not provide sufficient quantities of living, chemically unaltered individuals required for biochemical studies. Microscopic hand-sorting and centrifugal flotation techniques either are too time-consuming or may be physically and/or chemically damaging to the organisms. A simple, time-efficient extraction procedure which modifies the Baermann funnel apparatus with a filtering layer of glass beads or sterile dune sand is described. With only three hours of technician time for set-up and harvesting, six funnels provided a combined yield of 35,000 living nematodes free of sediment and debris.
10.2307/3226453|The toxic and osteolathyrogenic effects of 15 chemicals reflecting modifications of semicarbazide [H
10.2307/3226454|The time interval between contractions of the contractile vacuole (CV) of Tetrahymena can be quantified as a means of defining intracellular changes produced by osmotic conditions or physiological/biochemical modifiers. A microcomputer is an ideal tool for collection and analysis of such time-related data. This paper describes an easily adapted application of a microcomputer to the timing of microscopically observed contractions of the CV. The computer program (written in GW-BASIC V.2 for the IBM PC and compatible microcomputers) is listed and defined; it may be used as shown, or modified for application to other microcomputer-assisted timing functions.
10.2307/3226455|The nuclear events of spore germination in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum were analyzed using the fluorescent nuclear stain Hoescht 33258. Both diploid and haploid spores of certain strains were examined after activation by heat shock, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), or proteose peptone. In all cases, the morphogenetic changes of the nucleus followed an identical sequence of events involving the initial migration of the nucleus into the primary spore protuberance, followed by its return to the central cytoplasm prior to amoebal emergence. A diploid strain showed a marked increase in nuclear volume during germination, but haploid strains did not. The importance of the nuclear morphogenetic changes remains an enigma, although their constancy in different strains after various means of spore activation indicate that they might be important for spore germination in the cellular slime molds.
10.2307/3226456|Mitotic division in the macroplasmodium of the true slime mold Didymium nigripes is asynchronous and lacks regular periodicity, contrary to expectations drawn from studies of closely related species. When mitosis occurs, it appears sporadically along the advancing front for as long as one hour. Frequently, interphase nuclei are found in samples containing dividing nuclei that are in different stages of mitosis. The presence of nuclei of several ploidy levels may contribute to mitotic asynchrony. Morphological characteristics of the intranuclear mitotic division are described as well as post-mitotic events. The process of plasmodial mitosis closely resembles that previously described for other myxomycetes, but in Didymium post-mitotic nucleolar reconstruction is more rapid than in Physarum, and growth of the nucleus to pre-division diameter is much slower.
10.2307/3226457|A total of 337 collections from 60 lakes in Connecticut and the Adirondack Mountain region of New York were processed by scanning electron microscopy for the presence of Mallomonas galeiformis. Populations were found in 35 of the collections and 11 of the lakes. Dome and domeless body scales of M. galeiformis are similar to, and often indistinguishable from, those of Mallomonas costata and Mallomonas trummensis. Posterior spined scales of M. galeiformis also are difficult to distinguish from those of M. costata. Apical domed scales with one prominent transverse shield rib, similar to ones found on Mallomonas intermedia, are described for M. galeiformis. Dome and bristle structure aid in separating M. galeiformis from morphologically similar taxa. M. galeiformis is a warm-water species that requires low specific conductance and slightly acidic conditions. The organism was more common in the Adirondack lakes, which were much lower in specific conductance values than were the Connecticut lakes. Because M. galeiformis is most common in slightly acidic conditions, but is noticeably absent below pH 5.8, it could be a pH indicator organism for use in reconstructing paleolimnological pH conditions, especially in regions having numerous water bodies with low specific conductance values.
10.2307/3226458|The marine triclad Sabussowia punctata is redescribed on the basis of type material and recently collected specimens from Louisiana, U.S.A. The species is shown to belong to the genus Pentacoelum. Clearly distinguishable lateral bursae in the recently collected specimens confirm that Pentacoelum must be placed in the Bdellouridae. The habitat of the species is in brackish water. In Louisiana, sexually mature specimens may be found throughout the year, but cocoon-laying appears to occur only in spring. The recently collected material indicates that the species has a disjunct, amphi-Atlantic distribution.
10.2307/3226459| Meganerilla penicillicauda n. sp. is described from coarse, shelly, subtidal substrate from the north shore of Massachusetts Bay. The caudal cirri are similar to the dorsal cirri in size and shape, and coupled with the dorsal cirri of the ultimate setiger, produce a brush-like appearance at the caudal end. A maximum of two large ocytes simultaneously undergoing vitellogenesis indicates direct development in the substrate rather than the typical nerillid brooding. 
10.2307/3226460|The nudibranchiate gastropod Tritonia diomedea contained capsules in the body wall, foot, mesenteries, and the lumen of the heart as well as on the salivary glands. Except in two instances of encapsulation of muscle, both capsules and their contents were formed from matrix cells which, I suggest, were transformed amoebocytes. Parasites or other extrinsic materials were not identified in capsules. Cysts, usually present around groups of capsules, closely resembled amoebocytic cysts, with small muscle and fiber components, and possibly a matrix cell involvement. Matrix cells occasionally were aligned in a parallel array to form a secondary cyst around a group of capsules. The absence of extrinsic materials in capsules and cysts indicated that self-encapsulation and self-encystment had occurred.
10.2307/3226461|New records are listed for several continental species of free-living cyclopoid and harpacticoid copepods (Crustacea) from Mexico, Guatemala, and Colombia. Diacyclops hispidus n. sp. and Nitocra lacustris colombianus n. ssp. are described from Colombia. The setation formula of Elaphoidella suarezi is corrected.
10.2307/3226462| Ochoterenella chiapensis n. sp. is described on the basis of 20 gravid females collected by E. Caballero in 1943 from the body cavity of the giant toad, Bufo marinus, in the state of Chiapas, Mexico. Microfilariae are described from these preserved adults and from specimens in blood films of B. marinus in Guatemala. The length and disposition (in m) of the midbody cuticular bosses of O. chiapensis (ca. 11 long, 34 between individual bosses, 43 between bands) distinguish it from most of the other known species. The female of O. chiapensis most closely resembles that of O. caballeroi, but the two are separated readily on the basis of the microfilarial stage: that of O. chiapensis is shorter and is abruptly attenuated at its extremities in contrast to the flattened cephalic extremity and gradually attenuated filiform caudal portion of O. caballeroi. With the addition of O. chiapensis, the total number of species in the genus Ochoterenella is brought to 12, all known from neotropical bufonids and leptodactylids. 
10.2307/3226499|The acontial mastigophores of Aiptasia pallida demonstrate an ordered framework of fibrillar components within the nematocyst capsule and its contents during several stages of nematocyst development. Electron-dense fibrils which traverse the developing capsular wall in early developmental stages are disposed as parallel arrays with frequent cross-bridging. The capsular wall exhibits a variable thickness and prominent infoldings. Circular aggregations of granular material appear to be bound to the developing inner capsular wall and later may appear as electron-lucent clusters. Maturation results in a wall of uniform thickness and the disappearance of the electron-dense fibrils. Formerly unreported in the capsular content is a spiral arrangement of electron-lucent fibers, approximately 22 nm in diameter, localized in the spiral pleats of the folded inverted tube. How these fibrillar and fibrous elements might be related to formation of the capsular wall, thickening of the inverted tube, maintenance of nematocyst structures, and to tube inversion and eversion are discussed.
10.2307/3226500|Ostrincola patagonianus, a new species of myicolid copepod, is associated with Brachidontes rodriguezi and Mytilus edulis platensis, intertidal bivalve mollusks on the Patagonian coast of Argentina. The copepod is distinguished from its congeners chiefly by details of the armature of legs 1-4, the shape and ornamentation of leg 5, and the proportions of the caudal ramus and its setae.
10.2307/3226501|Although varied and diverse, unilocular foraminifera are among the least understood group of the foraminifera. Part of the problem has been the inadequate number of taxonomic divisions within this diverse group. A new taxonomic framework has been proposed to make the group more useful to taxonomists and stratigraphers. Several additional new genera are proposed herein. The new genera Hyalinonetrion (type species H. sahulense n. sp.) and Pygmaeoseistron (type species P. hispidulum) are included in the Lageninae. Five new genera also are included in the Ellipsolageninae. These include Cursina n. gen. (type species C. adornata n. sp.), Exsculptina n. gen. (type species L. sidebottomi), Favulina n. gen. (type species Entosolenia hexagona), Homalohedra n. gen. (type species Lagena guntheri), and Laculatina n. gen. (type species Lagena quadrilatera striatula). Bifarilaminella n. gen. (type species Lagena advena Cushman) is included in the Sipholageninae. Three additional new species are described: Favulina epibathra n. sp., Pytine petaloskelis n. sp., and Sipholagena structiloides n. sp.
10.2307/3226502|The purpose of this investigation was to study the effect of island size on colonization of artificial islands by protozoa, algae, and micro-metazoa and to evaluate potential mechanisms for this effect. Four sizes of polyurethane foam (PF) artificial substrates, ranging from 1,000 to 200,000 mm
10.2307/3226504| Trophozoites, gamonts, gametocysts, and oocysts of Gregarina hylobii, obtained from two species of American pine reproduction weevils (Hylobius pales and Pachylobius picivorus), are described. Stages of this gregarine are parasitic in the posterior promesenteron and anterior metamesenteron of their respective hosts. In field-collected beetles, the prevalence of infection was higher in September than in March. Lower infection levels correlated with larger parasite specimens, some gamonts attaining lengths of up to 710 m. Size, morphology, and low level of pathogenicity of the gregarine obtained from American pine reproduction weevils suggest that this species is identical with G. hylobii previously described from Hylobius abietis in Europe. Based on the gregarine's large size, regular occurrence, wide distribution, easy laboratory maintenance, and exceptional longevity of its hosts, G. hylobii and American pine reproduction weevils are recommended as a convenient model system for the study of host-parasite relationships. 
10.2307/3226505|Acid-cleaned cells of Dimeregramma fulvum collected from anchialine pools on Ascension Island were studied by light and scanning electron microscopy. The girdle region consists of an epicingulum, which is composed of a series of three overlapping open bands. The first band, the valvocopula, underlaps the valve mantle. The three bands differ in the distribution of poroids.
10.2307/3226507|The biominerals of a Middle Eocene seagrass (Hydrocharitaceae) from Florida's west coast were compared with the present-day hydrocharitaceous seagrass, Thalassia testudinum. Light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, energy-dispersive X-ray analysis with elemental area maps, and acid treatment were used to determine biomineralization and elemental content. Clusters of calcium oxalate crystals were identified in the fossil seagrass, whereas, leaves of T. testudinum contained isolated silica deposits. Both calcium oxalate and silica deposits exhibited birefringence in polarized light. The fossil plant had high levels of calcium and sulfur with smaller amounts of magnesium, aluminum, silica, titanium, and iron. Major elements in T. testudinum were silica, sulfur, and chlorine, with lesser amounts of sodium, magnesium, phosphorous, potassium, and calcium. Tannins occurred in both plants.
10.2307/3226509|A new trematode, Ugandalubens banagei n. gen., n. sp., is described on the basis of specimens collected from an East African corvid, the piapiac, Ptilostomus afer. This is the first record of a Lubens-like dicrocoellid in Africa. The new genus is compared with Lubens and with the genera Skrjabinus, Conspicuum, Platynotrema, and Euparadistomum.
10.2307/3226510| From May through November 1987, 36 northern pygmy mice (Baiomys taylori) were collected within three separate counties in northcentral Texas and examined for coccidian parasites. Ten of 36 (27.8%) of the animals were infected either with a previously undescribed eimerian or Eimeria baiomysis or both coccidians. Oocysts of Eimeria taylori n. sp. were found in six of 36 (16.7%) of the animals and are ellipsoid, 20.0 x 14.7 (16.8-23.2 x 10.4-16.8) m; shape index 1.4 (1.2-1.8). A micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent, but a polar granule is present. Sporocysts are ovoid, 10.7 x 6.5 (9.012.0 x 5.0-7.2) m; shape index 1.7 (1.4-2.0). A Stieda body and sporocyst residuum are present but a substieda body is absent. The sporozoites are elongate and highly granular, 12.7 x 2.9 (9.6-15.2 x 2.4-3.6) m, each containing spherical anterior and ovoid posterior refractile bodies. A nucleus is located between the refractile bodies. The new species differs from E. baiomysis, which was found in nine of 36 (25.0%) of the animals, by its more elongate oocysts and granular sporozoites and by the lack of an oocyst residuum. 
10.2307/3226511|Two new taxa of scaled chrysophytes, Spiniferomonas genuiformis sp. nov. and Mallomonas parvula var. nichollsii var. nov., were found in fresh-water ponds, canals, and ditches in southern Florida. Scales and bristles of the silica armour were studied by means of transmission electron microscopy. Spine scales of the Spiniferomonas species are triangular with three wings that are bent slightly above the midpoint. Bristles of the Mallomonas variety possess numerous small projections along the basal one-third of their length.
10.2307/3226512|A rare planktonic ciliate, Tontonia poopsia n. sp., was collected in June 1985. Distinguishing features, revealed by protargol staining, are the number and position of anterior and ventral polykinetids, number and position of macronuclei, girdle position, and general cell size and shape.
10.2307/3226328|In a study involving 3,756 artificially induced infections of Eimeria tenella in 10-day-old broiler chicks of mixed sexes, the progress toward maturity of the first asexual generation was followed by observing the effect on the infection of single oral 50 mg
10.2307/3226329| The structure of the egg and oncomiracidium of Heteraxinoides xanthophilis was examined using phase-contrast, Nomarski, and scanning electron microscopy. Ovoid egg capsules measured 93-207 x 52-100 m. A long coiled filament 20-30 times the capsule length with a disk-shaped knob at its terminus occurred at the aboperculate end. Fusiform larvae measuring 125-299 x 55-155 m hatched 6-7 days following deposition at 22-23C. The alimentary tract consisted of a subterminal mouth, prepharynx, centrally located pharynx, and saccular gut containing yolk globules. Cephalic glands consisted of four groups of cells, whose contents discharged through two pairs of pores at the anterior terminus. The ocellus, located just anterior to the pharynx, consisted of numerous lipid-like droplets. The excretory system consisted of four pairs of flame cells distributed in a 2[(1 + 1) + (1 + 1)] pattern. The ciliated epidermal cells occurred in two bilateral zones and a caudal cone. Six pairs of marginal hooks and one pair of hamuli occurred on the haptor. The posterior-most pair was larger, lacked a domus, and had a flexible joint between the handle and blade. The general morphology of the oncomiracidium of H. xanthophilis is similar to other members of the subclass Oligonchoinea; however, the presence of hamuli at hatching, the morphology of the posterior hook, the flame cell pattern, and the epidermal ciliated cell patterns in the two bilateral zones clearly link it with the suborder Microcotylinea, in which the family Heteraxinidae has traditionally been placed based on adult morphology. 
10.2307/3226330|Mitotic responses to infection with miracidia of Echinostoma paraensei have been studied histologically in Biomphalaria obstructa, Helisoma trivolvis, and Physa virgata, all of which are incompatible hosts for this trematode. Whereas dividing cells were rare in tissues of non-infected controls, substantial numbers of mitotic figures were counted in most infected snails. In B. obstructa, mitoses were concentrated in the anterior pericardial wall and saccular kidney. In H. trivolvis, most mitoses occurred in the lateral pericardial wall and posterior end of the kidney. Finally, in P. virgata, the pericardial wall was devoid of mitoses, which instead occurred primarily in the mantle and kidney. A variety of cell types were involved in these mitotic responses, including circulating amoebocytes, blast-like cells in the pericardial wall, mesenchymatous cells of the saccular kidney, and in B. obstructa and H. trivolvis, renal epithelial cells.
10.2307/3226331|Two new species of helminths belonging to the genus Auritelorchis (Trematoda: Telorchiidae) from reptiles are described herein. A. harwoodi n. sp. occurs in the black swamp snake, Seminatrix pygeae, from Florida; A. mcdonaldi n. sp. occurs in Bell's hinged tortoise, Kinixys belliana, from Uganda; these new species constitute fourth and fifth species of Auritelorchis. Auritelorchis properly belongs in the subfamily Telorchiinae rather than the Auridistominae. Auridistomum thomasi is transferred to Allotelorchis n. gen. in the Allotelorchiinae n. subf. Keys are provided for subfamilies and genera in the family Telorchiidae.
10.2307/3226332|Lepidodermella squamata has become the most important research organism among freshwater Gastrotricha. Its widely cited specific name has been spelled inconsistently, however, since Dujardin introduced it in 1841. Today, the variants squammata (predominant in the United States), squamatum (predominant elsewhere), squamata, and squammatum all remain in use. Nomenclatural issues involved in this unacceptable situation are analyzed in detail and resolved in accordance with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN). Under ICZN Articles 30b and 31b, Lepidodermella (though often regarded as neuter) is feminine in gender and requires the feminine ending -a for the specific name. The more difficult problem of variations in grammatical stem dates from Dujardin's use of differing original spellings, squammatus and squamatus. No valid first-reviser selection of one of these spellings (ICZN Article 24) has ever been effected. Formal selection is therefore undertaken here, based on evaluation of several lines of evidence: squamatus is chosen. Dujardin's species accordingly now bears the single valid name Lepidodermella squamata. Additional nomenclatural corrections, involving gender endings and publication dates, are made for other species of Lepidodermella.
10.2307/3226334|A new member of the Chrysophyceae, Synura petersenii f. columnata forma nov., is described from a small, shallow, slightly acidic, humic-stained lake low in specific conductance, but high in total phosphorus. Scales of the new form differ from the nomenclatural type by the presence of post-like structures under the rim. The post-like structures are clearly discernible with both scanning and transmission electron microscopy.
10.2307/3226335|Light and scanning electron microscopical observations were made on Gomphoneis elegans, the type species of the genus. This species was shown to possess longitudinal lines formed by the edges of marginal laminae extending beneath the valve face, undifferentiated apical pore fields, and several stigmoids positioned around the central area. These features differ from those described for other species of Gomphoneis and suggest the existence of two subgroups in the genus. Longitudinal lines formed by marginal laminae are not considered homologous with those formed by an axial plate. Therefore, a new defining feature of the genus, namely presence of marginal laminae, is proposed. Gomphoneis elegans is known only as a fossil from western North America.
10.2307/3226336|This ultrastructural study of Frontonia depressa reveals details relevant to several unresolved problems. From each rib in the ribbed wall, an oblique bundle of striated microfibrils emerges to connect the ribs with the first row of nematodesmata. In the deep microfibrillar net, striated bundles to the left of the first row of the first peniculus kinetosomes emerge to connect the deep microfibrillar net with the epiplasm. On the right side of the oral zone, several striated microfibrillar bundles emerge from the nematodesmal plates; these link the nematodesmal plates with the epiplasm. The contractile vacuole is made up of membranes and vesicles. Comparing F. depressa with F. leucas they differ in the positions of their nematodesmata surrounding the oral zone and in the structure of their contractile vacuoles. On the basis of these observations, I suggest that F. leucas represents a more advanced evolutionary form.
10.2307/3226337|An electron microscopical study of the cytoskeletal components of Triton X-100-treated cells of Frontonia depressa revealed structural continuity between different microfibrillar nets. The filaments are Y-shaped, well-developed in the macronucleus, appear to run the same pattern as far as the cytoplasm, and connect with the infraciliary lattice as well as with the epiplasm. By a tenuous microfibrillar net, there appears to be continuity between the macronucleus and the nematodesmata. In the oral skeleton, there is continuity between the left and the right side by way of several microfibrillar nets. On the left side, the deep microfibrillar net connects with the epiplasm by means of the striated microfibrillar bundles. On the right side, the nematodesmata connect the deep microfibrillar net with the macronucleus.
10.2307/3226338|Perimeter and area of cross-sectioned hair was studied with computer analysis to quantitate morphological differences between head hair and whiskers. Samples were treated in basic and acid solutions to condition them before embedding, sectioning, and staining. Stained slides were projected and areas were traced. For each sample, 50 randomly selected individual cross-sections of hairs were traced and numbered. Inked drawings were scanned by an image analyzer connected to an Apple II microcomputer equipped with a digitizer board, and the t-test was used to determine differences between average perimeter and areas for head hair and whiskers from the same Caucasian individual. By use of these procedures, we were able to determine that the average perimeter and area for cross-sectioned whiskers were 2.60 and 4.26 times greater, respectively, than head hair.
10.2307/3226200|Members of the genus Schistosoma, as adult worms, inhabit the mesenteric venules of several mammals, including humans. A major component of these parasites' diet is hemoglobin derived from host erythrocytes. Ultrastructural, cytochemical, and biochemical studies have led to the premise that the esophageal region is the site of erythrocyte lysis, but digestion and absorption of hemoglobin occurs in the cecal lumen. Digestion of the globin moiety is viewed as a function of a battery of acid endo- and exopeptidases synthesized in the gastrodermis and secreted into the lumen via lipid-like globules. The endopeptidases are similar to mammalian cathepsins B and D, but the exopeptidases are similar to mammalian dipeptidyl aminopeptidases I and II. The end-products of globin digestion are probably diffusible dipeptides produced by the integrated action of these enzymes. The schistosome gut is considered a logical target for attack by chemotherapeutic agents as more information is gained regarding its physiology.
10.2307/3226201|A diverse assemblage of hematozoa was found in Rana esculenta from Corsica. These included Trypanosoma loricatum, Trypanosoma rotatorium, Trypanosoma neveulemairei, a small species of Trypanosoma, Haemogregarina magna, Haemogregarina hortai, Lankesterella minima, Dactylosoma ranarum, Aegyptianella bacterifera n. comb., and microfilariae of Icosiella neglecta. Eastern North American ranids have a similar blood parasite fauna whose members differ from the above primarily at the subgeneric level. The known or suspected vectors for these blood parasites (leeches: Batracobdella spp.; ceratopogonids: Lasiohelea spp.; and mosquitoes: Culex spp.) occur at both locations. Biochemical and immunological data on the ranid hosts suggest that these two groups of frogs may have had a relatively recent common ancestor. Eastern North American frogs may have arrived from western Europe by way of a North Atlantic land bridge during the middle or late Eocene. The correspondence of blood parasite faunas and hematophagous ectoparasites in these widely separated ranid populations would be explained by the existence of a common ancestral host. The ancestors of the hosts, parasites, and vectors might have been associated in their present biological relationships before the ancestral populations were isolated. Speciation of all of these organisms occurred subsequently. The taxonomic status of Trypanosoma rotatorium was reviewed in light of observations on various trypanosomes of Old and New World ranids; we concluded that this parasite has not been reported from North American ranids.
10.2307/3226202|The life cycle of the digenetic trematode Paucivitellosus hanumanthat n. sp. is described. The cercaria is biocellate, astomatous, furcocystocercous, and develops in the marine snail Clypeomorus clypeomorus from the Bay of Bengal, Visakhapatnam, India. Ingested cercariae developed directly to adults in the mullet Liza macrolepis. Natural infections were recorded from the mullet Mugil cephalus.
10.2307/3226203|Abnormalities are described for various species of Acanthocephala, Nematoda, and Cestoda collected from freshwater fishes in Wisconsin and elsewhere in North America. Abnormalities involved body form, body wall, proboscis, proboscis hooks and receptacle, lemnisci, and reproductive structures in acanthocephalans, as well as reproductive structures in nematodes and cestodes. Causes were attributed to metabolic, physiological, or mechanical (of the proboscis apparatus) dysfunctions and pathologic, developmental, genetic, or host related (gut physiology) factors. Findings were compared with related cases previously reported in the literature. Most abnormalities are reported for the first time.
10.2307/3226204|The major specific features of Rhynchodemus sylvaticus are its brown pigmented body, two dark brown longitudinal lines extending for most of the body length, and a dark pigmented spot or saddle in mid-body. Dark pigmentation obscures the dorsal lines. Examination of type specimens of R. americanus in glycerol instead of xylene reveals pigmented lines, as found in R. sylvaticus, rather than the dorsal blackish brown pigmentation originally described as uniform. Examination of slides of the copulatory apparatus demonstrated that the main features were similar to R. sylvaticus. Therefore, the two species are conspecific and Rhynchodemus americanus is a junior synonym of Rhynchodemus sylvaticus.
10.2307/3226205|Spermatogenesis and sperm ultrastructure of the Atlantic priapulid Tubiluchus corallicola are described by means of transmission electron microscopy and compared to male gametes in the Pacific species T. philippinensis. Sperm development and morphology are similar in both species, but differ considerably from all sperm cells described from other animal phyla.
10.2307/3226206|Cell borders on the basal side of imaginal discs of Drosophila melanogaster were delineated after impregnation with silver. Leg discs differ from antennal discs in the kind of cell arrangements found. The arrangements in the antennal disc of the Nasobemia mutant (in which antennae are converted to leg-like structures) resemble those of leg discs rather than antenna discs. This finding suggests that the disc-specific cell arrays have morphogenetic significance, and may in fact create a "pre-pattern" for the development of appendages.
10.2307/3226207|Shapes of larval bivalve shells documented with a scanning electron microscope can be grossly distorted because of minor misadjustments of machine settings. In particular, orthogonal accuracy is necessary; i.e., the magnification must be equal and accurate in both the horizontal and vertical directions. Calculated magnifications from the display system of the microscope are only approximate, vary with time and with maintenance visits, and are not adequate for discrimination of specimens within a similar size range. Preliminary calibration steps and the use of a standard grid minimize potential sources of error resulting from limitations of the microscope.
10.2307/3226208| Thompsodinium intermedium, Peridiniopsis quadridens, and P. potonicum were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Thompsodinium intermedium has a plate pattern of 4, 3a, 6, 6C, 4S, 5, 2, and no posterior intercalary plate. Peridiniopsis quadridens, though similar to P. cunningtonii, has a different plate tabulation pattern. The name Peridiniopsis polonicum is preferred over P. gymnodinium, although placement in Peridiniopsis is dubious. 
10.2307/3226209| Two new species of Cyclostephanos are described from Pleistocene diatomites near Lago de Atitln, Guatemala. In both species, radiating costae continue unbranched to the valve margin and the external expression of the single labiate process is an elongate pore on the mantle beneath a spine. Cyclostephanos lacrimis n. sp. is 7-75 m in diameter and has no central area strutted processes. Each mantle strutted process is located within a marginal alveolus directly adjacent to a costa; this unique location is usually visible with light microscopy. C. guatemalae n. sp. is smaller (5-23 m), with a single eccentrically-located strutted process and mantle strutted processes directly on every second or third costae. The best way to identify the two species on the basis of measured characters is to plot the total number of costae against diameter. Such a plot will almost completely separate the two species with slight overlap only among the smallest specimens of the two species. Costa density and valve diameter, often implicitly assumed to be independent characters, are found to have a strong curvilinear relationship in these two species and in C. fenestratus. 
10.2307/3226210|The cells of the strain S12 of Stigmatella erecta were observed using negative stains as well as with thin sections. Granular blebs and polar fibrillar structures were observed on the cellular surface. The granular blebs occurred along the entire cell periphery, as well as being dispersed in the medium. Intracytoplasmic packets of filaments were also observed in a subterminal position running obliquely to the cytoplasmic membrane. We believe that these structures may be active in gliding motility of strain S12.
10.2307/3226211| During mid-August 1987, feces were collected from a single house gecko, Hemidactylus mabouia, and two rosebelly lizards, Sceloporus variabilis teapensis, in Veracruz, Mexico, and examined for coccidian parasites. The gecko was found to harbor Eimeria boveroi, herein redescribed, but both S. v. teapensis were infected with E. sceloporis. Oocysts of E. boveroi are spherical or subspherical, 19.1 x 18.2 (16.0-21.6 x 16.0-20.8) m, with a smooth, bilayered wall; a micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent. A small, indistinct polar granule can be seen in about 50% of the oocysts, usually attached to one of the sporocyst walls. Sporocysts are ovoid, 8.6 x 7.3 (7.6-9.6 x 7.2-8.0) m, without Stieda and substieda bodies. A sporocyst residuum is present, normally consisting of granules scattered among the sporozoites, but occasionally as a small cluster of loosely arranged granules. Sporozoites are elongate, 13.0 x 2.4 m wide, and are arranged head to-tail and curled around either end of the sporocyst. Each sporozoite contains a spherical anterior and posteriorly located spherical-subspherical refractile body. A nucleus is located between the refractile bodies. The occurrence of E. sceloporis in S. v. teapensis represents new host and geographic records for the parasite. 
10.2307/3226212| Two new species of coccidia (Apicomplexa: Eimeriorina) are described from the intestinal contents of Peruvian reptiles. Oocysts of Caryospora peruensis n. sp. were found in one of three (33.3%) Oxybelis argenteus (Serpentes: Colubridae) and are spheroidal to subspheroidal, 28.5 x 26.3 (25.6-31.2 x 24.0-28.0) m, with a thick, rough, bilayered wall. A polar granule is present, but a micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent. Sporocysts are ovoidal, 19.5 x 13.6 (17.6-20.8 x 12.4-15.0) m, with large Stieda and substieda bodies. Sporozoites are elongate, each with two large refractile bodies, and coiled tightly around a large sporocyst residuum. Oocysts of Isospora tahuayoensis n. sp. were found in three of seven (42.9%) Anolis fuscoauratus (Sauria: Iguanidae) and are spheroidal or subspheroidal, 23.2 x 22.1 (20.0-24.8 x 18.0-24.0) m, with a thick, rough, bilayered wall. One or two polar granules are present, but a micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent. Sporocysts are ovoidal, 16.2 x 10.1 (14.4-17.6 x 9.6-11.0) m, with Stieda and substieda bodies. Sporozoites were normally indistinct, but each were found to contain a spheroidal anterior refractile body and a large, ellipsoidal, posterior refractile body. 
10.2307/3226213|Of 75 intact globular galls on Rosa blanda collected in November 1982 at Dunnville, Ontario, Canada, 65 yielded 434 wasps of seven species: 1 Diplolepis nodulosus (Cynipidae), which presumably caused the galls; 278 Periclistus pirata (Cynipidae), inquilines in the galls; 33 Habrocytus sp. (Pteromalidae), parasites; 60 Eurytoma discordans (Eurytomidae), parasites; 7 Ormyrus rosae (Ormyridae), inquilines; 1 Tetrastichus sp. (Eulophidae), parasites; and 54 Macroneura vesicularis (Eupelmidae), hyperparasites.
10.2307/3226368|The freshwater oligotrich ciliate Strombidium viride was examined by light and electron microscopy. Isolates contained sequestered chloroplasts derived from ingested chromophytic algae. The peripheral location of these plastids suggests that they were functional within the cell. The absence of dividing chloroplasts suggests that the association is transient. Ultrastructurally, the chloroplasts were identical, indicating that they originated from a single prey species. By examining the potential prey of S. viride at the time of sampling, we narrowed the possible source of plastids to one of five algal genera.
10.2307/3226369|All adult specimens of Anheteromeyenia ryderi sampled from May to August possessed spermatic cysts; no female reproductive elements were observed. The presence of numerous post-larval specimens on lily pads during late summer and fall indicates that females must have been present in the population, but were not sampled. Spermatogenic activity was quantified using stereology to estimate the volume fraction of the sponges represented by spermatic cysts and by enumeration of spermatic cysts per unit volume of sponge. Both methods show that spermatogenic activity is high in early May and then progressively declines. Apparently, however, stereology is the better method of measuring spermatogenic activity because during the peak of activity the cysts are larger than at other times. Post-larval sponges apparently do not engage in sexual reproduction. Gemmules are present within specimens of A. ryderi throughout the year. Gemmule formation by older specimens appears to be sporadic; some post-larval specimens produce gemmules during late summer and fall. Spermatogenesis and gemmule formation usually do not occur simultaneously within individual sponges.
10.2307/3226370|Calcium, magnesium, and sodium regulate some aspects of cell metabolism through their control of membrane transport processes. Although all three elements are required for normal membrane function, either unusually high or low extracellular concentrations are detrimental. Calcium is an important element in determining the distribution of freshwater sponges. Magnesium also may influence freshwater sponge distribution, but it is probably less significant than calcium. Both elements usually influence freshwater sponge distribution in a positive way such that higher concentrations are usually beneficial. Sodium, on the other hand, usually influences freshwater sponge distribution in a negative way such that higher concentrations, for example those characteristic of brackish waters, are usually detrimental. The effects of calcium, magnesium, and sodium on the growth rate of Ephydatia fluviatilis were measured in a 3
10.2307/3226371|The cuticle of seven males and three females of Chordodes morgani (Gordioidea) was examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and the detailed structure of areoles and posterior ends were compared with the previous light microscopic studies of Montgomery and Camerano published in 1901 and 1915, respectively. No additional types of areoles were observed with SEM. Some features were revealed that were not reported previously: (1) bilobed condition of the male posterior end; (2) spines in and around the cloacal aperture of the male; (3) grooves radiating from the cloacal aperture of both sexes; and (4) spinous processes along the sides of some areoles. We suggest that any redescription of Chordodes morgani include these new features.
10.2307/3226372|Ultrastructural studies of prepupal legs of Drosophila reveal that, after the externalization of the leg disc, cuticulin-covered indentations are present in the troughs between tarsal segments. I suggest that these indentations provide additional surface area for subsequent leg extension. Thus, cellular mechanisms, in addition to cell flattening and differential cell adhesion, may be required for leg morphogenesis. Inactive cell bridges are found in the basal regions of cells, and occasionally they protrude into the lumen. Spatially separated centrioles in non-dividing cells also are found, suggesting that, following replication, centriole movement may be independent of other signs of cytokinesis.
10.2307/3226373|Eight intertidal beach localities along the Pacific coast of the United States were surveyed: two in Washington, one in Oregon, and five in California. Seven species of marine Heterotardigrada were encountered including Stygarctus bradypus, S. spinifer, Halechiniscus remanei, Batillipes gilmartini, B. mirus, and Echiniscoides sp. A new species, B. tridentatus n. sp., from Washington and California is distinctive in possessing two pairs of lateral projections between legs III and IV, a prominent spike on the shank of legs IV, and a two-pointed caudal apparatus.
10.2307/3226374|Viewing avian and mammalian blood smears with dark-field illumination was found useful for detecting 27 of 42 species of hemotropic parasites examined. These parasites were conspicuous because certain structures obviously were refractive by this method. Other than the use of a dark-field annulus beneath the condenser of a standard light microscope, specialized equipment was not required. Using routinely stained, coverslipped slides, many parasites were detected readily at magnifications of 200x and 400x with dark-field illumination. Thus, this simple technique will improve the sensitivity of parasite detection, particularly when thin blood smears from hosts with low parasitemias must be examined.
10.2307/3226375| Ochoterenella complicata n. sp. is described on the basis of nine gravid females recovered from the retroperitoneum and mesentery of the giant toad, Bufo marinus, in the Pacific lowlands of Colombia. Males were not recovered. Microfilariae are described from blood films, from blood fixed in 2% aqueous formalin, and from specimens removed from the vagina of a worm. The exceptionally short (ca. 4 m), low cuticular midbody bosses of the adult female set this species apart from all others, except O. guyanensis and O. dufourae. Adjacent bosses of O. complicata are separated by approximately four times the distance of those of O. guyanensis, and the latter species has a tail twice the length of that of O. complicata. The cuticular bosses of O. dufourae, although of length and disposition comparable with those of the new species, are distinctly salient, and the shape of the tail of O. dufourae is broad and nearly truncate in contrast to the gradually attenuated, conical tail of O. complicata. The uniformly slender microfilaria of O. complicata with its prominent ovoid Innenkrper, rounded posterior extremity, and tendency to assume a tightly folded attitude in blood films is readily distinguished from that of all other species of Ochoterenella. A key to the gravid females of the 15 known species of Ochoterenella is provided. 
10.2307/3226376|Trophozoites of Entamoeba invadens IP-1 were cultured axenically in TPS-1 medium, transferred to axenic encystation medium (AEM), fixed in glutaraldehyde fixative, and examined by scanning electron microscopy. Anastomosed cord-like structures appeared gradually during cyst wall formation, covering the cell surface until the formation of the mature cyst wall was complete; the mature wall had a strongly pleated surface of raised ridges. Wall continuity between cysts was observed and explains the typical aggregation of cells of E. invadens in AEM. A surface cavity was usually observed on individual cysts.
10.2307/3226377|Paraffin tissue sections of the snail Physa virgata containing microsporidan spores were stained with Uvitex 2B, counterstained with hematoxylin, and examined with a fluorescence microscope. The spores appeared yellow-green and were highly conspicuous over the dark background.
10.2307/3226378|Freshwater sponges, Spongilla alba and Ephydatia fluviatilis, were collected from Lake Ilopango, El Salvador and studied with scanning electron microscopy. This is the first report of freshwater sponges from El Salvador and the first record of these species from Central America. Spicules of S. alba were malformed, and these malformations appear to have been caused by natural, adverse water quality.
10.2307/3226341|The saccular epithelium and the otolithic membrane in tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus, were studied by light and electron microscopy. The saccular wall is composed of three types of epithelia: sensory epithelium, transitional epithelium, and squamous epithelium with a patch of mitochondria-rich cells. The sensory epithelium is composed of hair cells and supporting cells. Apocrine-type secretory materials extrude from the apical surface of the sensory epithelium into the saccular lumen. Another type of secretion is performed by the vesicular dilations of distal ends of microvilli on the supporting cells. The transitional epithelial cells gradually change from cylindrical to cuboidal form away from the sensory area. Cells are characterized by microvilli at their apical surfaces, prominent rough endoplasmic reticula and mitochondria throughout the cytoplasm, and extensive Golgi zones in their supranuclear regions. Vesicular dilations at the tips of the microvilli are frequent; some detach from the microvilli into the subcupular space as vesicles. The squamous epithelium is a single layer of flattened cells with few organelles. The plasma membranes between adjacent cells show complex infoldings; canalicular networks occupy almost the entire cytoplasmic area. Mitochondria-rich cells containing dilated cisternae of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum aggregate in the squamous epithelium. The otolithic membrane consists of two distinct layers, the upper gelatinous layer and the lower subcupular meshwork. The subcupular meshwork extends over the entire undersurface of the otolith, whereas the gelatinous layer is limited to the macula region which corresponds to the center area of the otolith.
10.2307/3226342|Light and transmission electron microscopic observations indicate that bacteria in the epidermis of Aiptasia pallida are rod-shaped, possess a thin, undulant cell wall, and occur as a single morphotype in a colony. The absence of visible tissue damage suggests a symbiotic relationship between the bacteria and the anemone.
10.2307/3226343|Scanning and transmission microscopical analyses of the major organ systems of Meiopriapulus fijiensis were performed. The most important findings included the presence of an epithelium-lined multichambered system surrounding a portion of the foregut, a complex foregut structure with an eight-ridged pattern extending into the polythyridium, and a gland located anteriorly in the midgut. The ultrastructural organization of the protonephridia and the ovaries is more similar to macrobenthic priapulids than to members of other meiobenthic taxa. The flagellated spermatozoa are of a primitive type, having a globular nucleus, a cap-shaped acrosome, and four mitochondria. This suggests external fertilization, which stands in contrast to internal fertilization known for Tubiluchus.
10.2307/3226344|A new interstitial arthrotardigrade, Paradoxipus orzeliscoides n. gen., n. sp., is described from subtidal coarse-sand and shell-hash habitats, at 15 m depth, 8.4 km east of Fort Pierce, Florida, and from medium-sand of the dredged channel, 5 m depth, of the Intracoastal Waterway of the Indian River, north of Fort Pierce. The new species is distinguished by the presence of both suction discs and claws on the toes, two pairs of clavae, and pointed lateral and caudal alae. Interference-contrast optics were used to video-record living specimens of the new species in order to study the functional morphology of the suction discs. Comparisons of the legs of Orzeliscus and Paradoxipus n. gen. were made. The phylogenetic relationships of the new genus to other genera in Halechiniscidae and Orzeliscidae are discussed. On the basis of characters shared with Chrysoarctus, Paradoxipus is assigned to the subfamily Halechiniscinae. Complex seminal receptacles and two pairs of clavae in the new genus are considered plesiomorphic characters, and suction discs and transparent alae are considered apomorphous ones.
10.2307/3226345|Ultrastructural observations of periostracum formation and shell regeneration were carried out for the lingulid brachiopod Glottidia pyramidata. The periostracum is triple-layered, and its principal middle layer is dominated by rod-like structures. The basal cells at the anterior end of the periostracal groove form the initial periostracum and the pellicle, a transitory membrane covering the maturing periostracum. Further development of the periostracum appears to be accomplished by the vesicular cells on the inner side of the outer mantle fold. Those cells change their ultrastructure from one cell type to a second cell type, and then to a third. These changes are accompanied by sequential maturation of the periostracum. Shell regeneration processes were followed from day 1 through day 120 after piercing the anterior shell edges. First, shell debris are phagocytized by amoebocytes and partly released into the mantle canal. Concurrently, the cuboidal cells underneath the damaged area change to a columnar vesicular type. This change is accompanied by the formation of an organic pellicle sheet, followed by the formation of a periostracum-like layer. Between 60 and 90 days, the columnar cells change back to the cuboidal shape and come to contain abundant vacuoles filled with mineral granules. By day 90 and 120, a primary shell layer, which is the outermost mineralized layer, is formed. The periostracum-like layer matures to assume the normal periostracum structure.
10.2307/3226346| Ephydatia fluviatilis, grown in a continuous-flow laboratory culture system, was induced to regress and form reduction bodies by changing the pH of the culture solution from 7 to 6. Regeneration from reduction bodies, after they were returned to a pH 7 culture solution, was studied by light microscopy. There was an initial decrease in cell number and a resultant decrease in the size of each reduction body. In five days, cells had accumulated to form a sponge with choanocyte chambers, spicules, and ostia. Thus, as in E. mlleri, archeocytes making up the reduction body apparently differentiate into the several cell types of the sponge. 
10.2307/3226347|C-bands were observed in all chromosomes constituting the diploid complement of the freshwater triclad Dugesia lugubris. C-bands were limited to the centromeric regions and thus differ from those of the closely related species Dugesia polychroa. The two species appear to have had quite different mechanisms of genome evolution in spite of their supposed close taxonomic relationship. Differences between their karyotypes cannot be explained by simple chromosome rearrangements.
10.2307/3226348|The biochemical profile of Neoechinorhynchus cylindratus did not significantly vary with worm sex, developmental stage, or season. Nucleic acids were found predominantly in the reproductive structures, proteins and histones in reproductive structures, lemnisci, and body wall, phospholipids in eggs, carbohydrates and glycogen in all tissues except cement glands, and acid phosphatase irregularly in some eggs and in some body wall and giant nuclei parts. The distribution of nucleic acids in the eggs and of nucleic acids and histones in other tissues of N. cylindratus is reported for the first time.
10.2307/3226262|An ultrastructural investigation was carried out on the cuticle, epidermis, and sensory cells in the priapulid Meiopriapulus fijiensis. Whereas the ultrastructure of the cuticle of the mouth cone and introvert principally corresponds to that of other priapulids, the cuticle of the trunk region is composed of fibrils embedded in a light matrix, has a surface characterized by densely-arranged protrusions and shows similarities to the cuticle of annelids. The epidermis is characterized by a hitherto unknown system of irregularly anastomosing channels running along the anterior-posterior axis. Integumentary structures specialized as sensilla include the first three rows of scalids on the introvert, flosculi, trunk scalids, setae, and tubules on the anal hooks. Non-sensory cuticular structures include the teeth on the mouth cone, locomotory scalids, tubercles of the general body surface, and anal hooks.
10.2307/3226263|We redescribe the female and describe the male of Diacyclops navus, a cyclopoid copepod (Crustacea), from populations inhabiting discarded tires and woodland pools in Louisiana. These and other previously unpublished records greatly extend the known range of this species, heretofore known mainly from southern Canada and the northern United States. These also are the first records from artificial containers. In the laboratory, adults were observed to consume living first-instar larvae and the crushed bodies of fourth-instar larvae of the mosquito Aedes aegypti.
10.2307/3226264|Living and stained specimens from Spanish populations of Carchesium polypinum were studied by light microscopy. The infraciliature was stained by a silver-impregnation procedure. The buccal infraciliature is made up of (1) the peristomial region, consisting of the haplokinety and the polykinety, and (2) the infundibular region, consisting of the germinal row and peniculi 1, 2, and 3. In stomatogenesis, the new buccal structure originates from the germinal row and from the parental haplokinety. Individuals in our populations vary from those studied by other workers in: (1) the number of kinetosomal rows for peniculus 3, (2) the sizes of individual zooids, and (3) the shape of the macronucleus. We suggest that sustained isolation was necessary for the development of these variations.
10.2307/3226265|Capsule formation was induced in the freshwater ciliate Colpidium colpoda and subsequently studied at light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopic levels. Upon addition of a weak solution of alcian blue, a rapidly occurring, complete encapsulation of approximately 40% of cells ensued. Encapsulation resulted from the release of mucin from mature surface mucocysts. Individual cells moved freely within the mucoid capsule, and when encapsulated cells were returned to fresh medium, approximately 50% shed their capsules and continued to function normally. Encapsulated cells often were observed to form clumps of cells, with surface mucoid material coalescing between adjacent cells; ciliary shafts often projected through this material. Newly emerged cells were devoid of a majority of their cilia, and ciliary shafts remained associated with empty capsules. The capsule layer was thin (50-60 nm), and appeared as an electron-dense layer in cross-section. Biometric analysis suggests that only smaller cells survive alcian blue stress by forming capsules. Capsule formation behavior in ciliates may represent an inducible, quasiencystment protection mechanism.
10.2307/3226267|The repetitious activity of the contractile vacuole (CV) of Tetrahymena is vital to the integrity and homeostatis of the cell. Although the processes and morphology of the CV have been studied by several investigators, regulation of the expulsion of its contents remains unclear. This experimental investigation demonstrates that the known calmodulin inhibitors, N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-7), chlorpromazine (CPZ), trifluoperazine (TFP), and cadmium chloride CdCl
10.2307/3226268|Changes in hematological parameters were monitored in 25 adult male cotton rats infected with 20-25 third-stage larvae of Parastrongylus costaricensis and 36 age-and sex-matched control animals. The parasitic infection caused a decrease in the mean red cell count, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. There also were concomitant increases in the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration and red cell size distribution. No changes were found in the white blood cell counts, platelet counts, or in the distribution of white cell types.
10.2307/3226269|Mountain yellow-legged frogs, Rana muscosa, were hosts of a new trematode, Langeronia brenesi n. sp. in canyons of the San Bernardino Mountains, California, U.S.A. Tiny virgulate xiphidiocercariae occur in sporocysts where they sometimes encyst, but also leave the snails to enter and encyst in damselfly naiads (Ischnura, Enallagma). Tree frogs (Hyla regilla and H. cadaverina) and various birds and mammals that were examined were not infected with L. brenesi; apparently Rana muscosa and R. boylei are the normal hosts.
10.2307/3226270|Adults of Helisoma trivolvis were collected from five field sites in central New York state during August 1985. An hypothesis of feeding selectivity was tested by microscopic observations of diatom composition of snail stomach contents and of Aufwuchs mats upon which individuals had been feeding. Analyses resulted in the generic identification of 10,000 diatoms including 88 species from nine families. Although ingestion and trituration generally reduced diatom diversity among stomach contents, statistical analyses showed no evidence of feeding selectivity in this herbivorous gastropod mollusc.
10.2307/3226271|The central portion of the tufa curtain of Falling Springs is rock-like, three-layered, tightly compacted, penetrated by filaments of Phormidium incrustatum, and increases in thickness from the top to the bottom of the flow. Approximately 50% of the tufa surface in the central portion is exposed directly to light, but the rest is covered with a mat composed mainly of filaments of P. incrustatum. The left and right sides of the curtain are composed primarily of soft tufa penetrated by tubular cavities and masses of filaments of Cladophora and Rhizoclonium laterally fused along much of their length. Colonies of Nostoc, unicellular green algae, filamentous red algae, diatoms, oligochaete worms, amphipods, isopods, ciliates, rotifers, nematodes, and insect larvae and pupae are minor components of the surface biota. Mosses colonize the extreme left and right sides of the tufa curtain. The thickest tufa deposits occur on the left side and on the center of the curtain where flow and spray are continuous and most intense.
10.2307/3226272| The larva of the dendroceratid Dendrilla cactus is described on the basis of live observations and scanning electron microscopy. D. cactus broods its early developmental stages and produces a parenchymella larva that has uniform pink pigmentation. The larva is approximately 260 m in length and is regionated into three zones: a posterior region bounded by a band of elongate cilia, a uniformly ciliated lateral surface, and an anterior region that is cone-shaped with ciliated cells larger than those of the lateral surface. Of described dendroceratid larvae, the larva of D. cactus is most similar to those of Aplysilla spp. 
10.2307/3226273|The arrangement and morphology of the mouthparts of Metis holothuriae (Copepoda: Harpacticoida), inadequately described previously, were reexamined. The mandible, first maxilla, and second maxilla are highly reduced and aberrant, and are arranged in an oral cone of a form unique to this genus. The occasional presence of diatoms and bacteria associated with the mouthparts and preliminary observations of living animals suggest that the mouthparts of M. holothuriae are specialized for feeding in detritus associated with seagrass.
10.2307/3226274|Although the mirid phallus is recognized as the anatomical site for significant taxonomic characters, the translucent vesica and complex three-dimensional structure present problems in light microscopic study. A method of inflating, drying, and observing membranous portions of mirid phalluses for scanning electron microscopy (SEM) using the Freon-113 technique is described. SEM examination reveals that the gonopore of Mirinae is rimmed with a wreath of recurved spines; hairs and spines cover the membranous vesica.
10.2307/3226589|Lagenophrys labiata, a poorly known ectocommensal of freshwater amphipods, was rediscovered and is redescribed. Lagenophrys wallengreni, an ectocommensal of freshwater ostracods, was originally a junior homonym of L. labiata. Lagenophrys wallengreni was discovered to be L. discoidea, another poorly known species, and is redescribed under that name. Lagenophrys patina, an ectocommensal of freshwater amphipods misidentified in the literature as L. labiata, was rediscovered and is redescribed. A second species of Lagenophrys misidentified as L. labiata occurs on hypogean amphipods. It was found to be new and is described as L. stygia n. sp. Lagenophrys labiata possesses a prominent, crescent-shaped bulge anteriad of the lorica aperture, which clearly distinguishes it from the other three species. All four species are separated by marked differences in the structure of the lips of the lorica aperture and the shape of the macronucleus. Lagenophrys labiata, L. discoidea, and L. patina also are separated by differences in relative lengths and numbers of kinetosome rows that make up the penicular infraciliature. Instances of intraspecific and interspecific variation in the four species help to elucidate patterns of variation in taxonomic characteristics used in Lagenophrys. Some populations of L. patina were dimorphic, only the second such case found among species of Lagenophrys.
10.2307/3226590| An improved method for extraction of intact cytoskeletons in Euplotes and their preparation for viewing by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) requires only a small number of cells. Cytoskeletons are prepared by extracting with a cold non-ionic detergent mixture made up of 0.25 M sucrose, SEMT solution [1 M sucrose, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1% (v/v) -mercaptoethanol, and 10 mM Tris-HCl at pH 9.3], 10% (v/v) Triton X-100, and 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde. Each part of the extraction solution is added sequentially with gentle mixing in proportions of 6:10:2:1. Different components of the cytoskeleton are obtained by varying the time that the cells remain in the extracting mixture: 2-4 minutes reveals the argentophilic reticulum, 7-8 minutes illuminates the subpellicular microtubules, and 15 minutes exposes the kinetosomal structures (adoral zone of oral polykinetids, cirri, etc.) and their associated microtubules and cytoskeletal framework. The cytoskeletons are removed from the extraction mixture, washed in PBS solution, and attached to glass coverglasses with either 1% polylysine or by using a 1:20 dilution of a 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde and PBS solution. 
10.2307/3226591|An unusual specimen of the sandworm, Nereis virens, possessed two closely-spaced rows of supernumerary parapodia on the ventral surface of the posterior one-third of the body. Serial transverse sections revealed a bifurcation of several internal body organs; lateral ventral zones on each side of the body had a ventral blood vessel, a ventral nerve cord, and two bundles of ventral longitudinal muscles. Three anal cirri were present on the pygidium. The anomaly may have resulted from abnormal regeneration following injury during commercial sandworm harvesting.
10.2307/3226592|Scanning electron and light microscopical observations of seven enchytraeid species revealed details of their setae. Although setal morphology serves as an important criterion for generic classification within this family, our results showed only small differences in their shape. However, the arrangement of setae may serve as a generic criterion in some cases. By contrast with certain other oligochaetes, neither setal shape nor arrangement were found to vary as a function of environmental factors, but differences reflecting the life-history stages occur.
10.2307/3226593|The amoebocyte-producing organ (APO) of the gastropod Biomphalaria glabrata was transplanted from individuals of the 10-R2 laboratory stock into the hemocoel of individuals of the NIH albino stock using a newly described implantation technique. Implants were recovered from recipient snails at 3, 7, 14-15, 28, 52-63, and 146-151 days postimplantation (PI) and were examined histologically. There was no evidence of graft rejection, except for focal hemocytic encapsulation reactions at the periphery of grafts at earlier times PI. Based upon histological evidence, all grafts appeared viable and were attached to recipient tissues at the time of fixation. Moreover, a higher proportion of implanted APOs showed evidence of hematopoietic activity (mitotic figures among hematopoietic cells) than did preimplantation control APOs. This technique may provide a method for investigating the role of the APO in resistance to trematode infection among molluscs.
10.2307/3226594|Two siphonostomatoid copepods are associated with the crinoid Capillaster multiradiatus in Madagascar and in the Moluccas. Collocheres prionotus n. sp. may be differentiated from its congeners by the three pairs of small spines on the lateral margins of the female genital segment and by the absence of a palp on the mandible. Collocheres uncinatus is reported for the first time from this crinoid.
10.2307/3226595| Eimeria cyclopion n. sp. is described from the intestinal contents and feces of 10/15 (67 %) green water snakes, Nerodia cyclopion cyclopion, in northeastern Arkansas. Oocysts of the new species are ellipsoidal, 18.7 x 13.1 (14-22 x 12-15) m, with a smooth, thin, single-layered wall; shape index 1.4 (1.1-1.6). A polar granule and oocyst residuum are present, but a micropyle is absent. Sporocysts are elongate, 13.9 x 4.5 (12-15 x 4-5) m, each with two filaments that appear to arise from a thin membrane covering the sporocyst; shape index 3.1 (2.8-3.6). A Stieda body and sporocyst residuum are present, but a substieda body is absent. The sporozoites are elongate, 10.6 x 2.9 (10-12 x 2.6-3.2) m in situ, each containing spherical anterior and ellipsoidal posterior ref ractile bodies. A nucleus is located between the refractile bodies. The new form also was found in three sympatric congeners from the study site. In addition, two previously described eimerians were harbored by these hosts. 
10.2307/3226596|Telomermis amphiorchis n. gen., n. sp. and Gastromermis plumosus n. sp. are described from the larvae of Chironomus plumosus in the north arm of Lake Itasca, Clearwater County, Minnesota. Telomermis is distinguished from other mermithid genera in having a terminal mouth, four head papillae, a short S-shaped vagina, no visible cuticular cross-fibers, amphidal opening posterior to head papillae, two simple spicules, and a rounded posterior terminus. The post-parasitic juvenile lacks a larval horn. Gastromermis plumosus is distinguishable from most species of the genus by the mouth opening, amphidal opening and head papillae being at the same level. Four other adequately described species of Gastromermis have those characteristics. The length and shape of the spicule, amphids, and vagina is used to separate G. plumosus from the four species. Octomyomermis itascensis heavily infected the larvae of Chironomus plumosus from 1959 through 1962. In 1969-1970, it was replaced by the two new species. The 1969-1970 condition also existed in 1988.
10.2307/3226597|Scanning electron microscopical (SEM) observations were made on the surface topography of the lips, papillae, amphids, excretory pore, vulva, anus, caudal alae, cuticular bosses, and annular rings of larvae and adults of Pellioditis pellio. Cobb formula measurements and morphological characteristics agreed with those described previously for this species. SEM reveals for the first time: (1) "fleshy" appearance of the vulva; (2) spherical excretory pore; (3) crescent-shaped vent; and (4) biradial arrangement of oral papillae, lateral alae, and transverse bosses on the cuticle. Similarities to Caenorhabditis elegans are noted, suggesting that P. pellio may be a useful model for comparative neuroanatomical studies.
10.2307/3226598|Infection of the acanthocephalan Acanthocephaloides propinquus with the microsporidian Microsporidium acanthocephali was studied in two species of gobiid fishes: Gobius niger and Zosterisessor ophiocephalus from the Thau Lagoon (Herault, France). Acanthocephalans from G. niger are parasitized more frequently than those from Z. ophiocephalus; nevertheless, prevalences for both fishes are less than 1%. Intensity of acanthocephalans in the digestive tract of the gobies and the sex of the fish do not influence infection with M. acanthocephali. Developmental stages of the microsporidian usually are localized in the tegumentary syncytium. Spores sometimes occur in the pseudocoel of females, where they damage ovarian balls. The mode of transmission of M. acanthocephali remains enigmatic.
10.2307/3226600|Renicola williamsi n. sp., is described from specimens collected from the South Polar skua Catharacta maccormiki. R. williamsi differs from other renicolids by its short esophagus, linear and mediolateral arrangement of vitelline follicles, linear extent of intestinal caeca, gonadal shape, caecal width, reduced sucker ratio, and disposition of the uterus. Fifteen specimens were compared with existing morphological descriptions of adult Renicola and Nephromonorcha.
10.2307/3226601|Pleuropsoloides peirci n. gen., n. sp. (Trematoda: Lecithodendriidae) occurs in the common bulbul, Pycnonotus barbatus, in Uganda. Superficially resembling certain avian and mammalian lecithodendriids, such as Prosthodendrium and Lecithodendrium, actual affinities of Pleuoropsoloides are much closer to trematodes of Malayan birds and mammals, namely Odeningotrema and Pseudocryptotropa (subfamily Odeningotrematinae). Also present in the bulbul were two other trematodes. Brachylecithum sp. and Lyperosomum sp. in the liver, a cestode, Rallietina sp., in the intestine, and Diplotriaena sp., a nematode in the body cavity.
10.2307/3226602|Dufour's gland in the North American ant Formica glacialis consists of a monolayer of simple cuboidal to columnar epithelium enclosing a lumen. Individual cells, apically bounded by cuticle, exhibit multilamellar inclusions, numerous moderately electron-dense vesicles, smooth endoplasmic reticulum, free ribosomes, and a single ovate nucleus. At the lateral cell surfaces, plasma membranes are interdigitated. The gland is partially surrounded by a visceral muscle layer and nerves. The morphology of Dufour's gland in this North American species was found to be similar to that reported for Old World Formicidae, except that the apical cell surface exhibits numerous irregular, short microvilli-like projections.
10.2307/3226806|Lagenophrys johnsoni n. sp., a loricate peritrich, occurs on the gills of three North American species of the amphipod genus Gammarus in fresh and brackish waters. The new species is distinguished from other members of Lagenophrys by a combination of characteristics, especially the shape of the lips of the lorica aperture. Lagenophrys johnsoni frequently shares the same host with L. labiata, each species being strictly confined to different areas of the host's body. Two other site-specific pairs of Lagenophrys species are known to occur on Gammarus in North America and Europe, and the site specificity of all three pairs appears to be part of niche partitioning to avoid competition between species for space on the host.
10.2307/3226807|The application of rectangular glass microcapillary tubes (microslides) as laboratory microcosms for studies in community ecology is examined. Wheat foliage is used as a medium for bacteria which again serve as food for ciliate protozoa. Growth characteristics of three ciliate species show that carrying capacities between replicates are of the same order of magnitude. Species interactions in a two-species system of Paramecium caudatum and Colpidium colpoda show competitive exclusion of P. caudatum, regardless of colonization sequence. Experiments with multispecies systems show competitive exclusion of one species, reduced population sizes of the coexisting species, and effects of isolation on colonization and equilibrium number of species.
10.2307/3226808|Dugesia tigrina displays two sperm ducts. Each consists of three morphologically different segments. Their basic histological structure is that of an epithelium bounded by a basal lamina and a noncontinuous circumscribing musculature. The anterior segment has a permanent lumen and no surrounding muscle fibers. The middle segment, also lacking muscle fibers, is the spermiducal vesicle. The duct wall of this segment becomes thinner and finally ruptures when overfilled, allowing individual spermatozoa to escape into the surrounding parenchyma. Layers of muscle fibers increase in the posterior segment as the duct approaches the penis bulb. I postulate that peristaltic movement of the duct wall may be responsible for the portioned release of spermatozoa into the penis bulb. All secretory material found in the assembled sperm mass is contributed by two types of glands located in the penis bulb wall, their gland duct portions opening into the bulbar lumen. Following copulation, the penis bulb lumen collapses and only a slit-like space remains until the secretory cycle is reinitiated. Although no sphincter muscle occurs at the entrance to the ejaculatory canal, no spermatozoa or secretory material is released into the canal prior to copulation.
10.2307/3226809| The phenomenon of antigenic mimicry between larval stages of Schistosoma mansoni and its intermediate host, Biomphalaria glabrata, was examined by immunoscanning electron microscopy (ISEM). The organisms used in this study included schistosome-resistant (10-R2) and susceptible (PR albino, M-line) strains of B. glabrata and the NIH-Sm-PR-1 strain of S. mansoni. Antibodies were generated to in vitro-transformed primary sporocysts of S. mansoni (-sporo) and to serum (cell-free hemolymph) from schistosome-resistant (-10-R2) and susceptible (-M-line) B. glabrata. Normal rabbit serum was used as a control. For ISEM, protein A was conjugated to specially designed latex microspheres. In vitro-transformed primary sporocysts of S. mansoni were incubated with one of the antibody preparations, interacted with the latex sphere-protein A conjugate, and prepared for scanning electron microscopy. Sporocysts treated with -sporo antibody were characterized by a nearly uniform coating of beads as was treatment of parasites with -10-R2 antibody. However, use of -M-line antibody revealed much less binding of the spheres. Thus, this procedure revealed that there was more cross-reactivity between antibodies raised against serum from schistosome-resistant B. glabrata and sporocysts than antibodies generated against serum from susceptible snails. Because the titer of specific antibody of -M-line was the same as -10-R2, titer differences do not account for these observations. Rather, there appear to be specific binding differences. 
10.2307/3226810| Plagiorchis sp. cercariae were exposed to Chaoborus sp. larvae and filmed using 16 mm photocinemicrography. After contacting the host, cercariae crawled leech-like, constantly probing with their stylet (from this point until encystment the tail may be lost). Upon contacting an intersegmental membrane, stylet activity increased. The cercarial stage pushed inward on this membrane until it was entirely surrounded by it. The stylet moved generally in a 90 arc about every two seconds and cut through the membrane in approximately 2.45-10 minutes. Passage of the cercariae through the membrane averaged 66 seconds. Once within the hemocoel, the cercariae moved about until encystment. Initially, the cyst wall was elastic, flexible, and easily distorted by the rotation of the metacercaria. The initial 11 mean rotations per minute slowed over a 6-10 minutes period and then became irregular. At this time, a two-layered cyst wall of parasite origin was observed. Histochemically, polysaccharides, polysaccharide-protein complexes, and acid mucosubstances were observed in the ventral, dorsal, cystogenous, and penetration glands. The inner cyst wall originated from ventral and dorsal gland secretions of the cercariae and contained polysaccharides and proteins. The outer layer, from cystogenous glands, consisted mainly of acid mucosubstances and proteins. The third, host-produced layer, was formed from humoral elements and disintegrating hemocytes, and stained positive mainly for proteins. The tail contained high concentrations of glycogen. 
10.2307/3226811|Transmission electron microscopy of ultrathin sections reveals multitubular pod inclusions in non-pathological cockroach granular hemocytes associated with skeletal muscle cells and tracheocytes. Each pod contains up to 39 simple (i.e., single-walled) or compound coaxial (i.e., double- or triple-walled) tubules. Tubules are about 70-85 nm in diameter, depending on tubule complexity. The distribution of tubule types and tubule dimensions suggest that the outer tubule wall forms first, in the case of double- or triple-walled tubules. Tubule lumens usually are empty.
10.2307/3226812|Collections from acidic freshwater wetlands in parks in the southeastern District of Columbia and neighboring Maryland yielded seven species of cyclopoid and harpacticoid copepods. Notable records include the rare cyclopoid Diacyclops nearcticus and the new species Acanthocyclops columbiensis, described herein. The female of A. columbiensis is distinguished from all congeners by its antennule of 14 articles.
10.2307/3226813|A non-uniform mixture of the aromatic hydrocarbons benzene, toluene, methylcyclohexane, and xylene at an initial collective concentration of 18.8 mg/liter is capable of altering the glycoprotein coat normally associated with surfaces of the gill and nasal mucosa of the fathead minnow, Pimephales promelas. The fish were exposed for periods of 6, 12, 24, or 48 hours to hydrocarbons obtained from the water-soluble fraction of jet aviation fuel, JP-4. The glycoprotein layer, as monitored by ruthenium red binding, was reduced gradually on surfaces of the experimental tissues examined. The material also transformed physically from an initial relatively smooth and uniform contour to an uneven and fibrous appearance. Multivesiculated blebs lacking the glycoprotein coat were evident along surfaces of all experimental gills and nasal mucosa analyzed. Goblet cells, characterized by disassociated secretory granules and distended endoplasmic reticulum, were observed among tissues analyzed from the various exposure periods.
10.2307/3226814|The cloacae of females from the 11 currently recognized species in the salamander genus Desmognathus and from the monotypic genera Leurognathus and Phaeognathus were examined by light microscopy after preparation of microscope slides by standard techniques using paraffin-embedded tissues. Analyses included three-dimensional reconstructions of serial sections. All species possess spermathecae consisting of acini for sperm storage that evaginate from a common tube that passes into the cloaca. In P. hubrichti, the common tube passes horizontally into a cloacal chamber recess medial to the distal ends of the oviducts, and the spermathecae are anterior to the common tube. In the other species, no recess exists, the common tube passes ventrally into the posterior cloacal tube or anterior cloacal chamber, and the spermathecae are posterior to the common tube. Rudimentary cloacal glands called dorsal glands and ventral glands, which are symplesiomorphic characters for plethodontids, occur in some desmognathines. These glands vary from numerous in P. hubrichti and in large aquatic species (D. brimleyorum, D. monticola, and D. welteri) to absent in small terrestrial species (D. aeneus, D. wrighti). An anterior closed portion of the cloaca, the cloacal tube, is absent in D. quadramaculatus and L. marmoratus. Atavism and selection pressures for paedomorphosis, terrestriality, and/or miniaturization may be involved in cloacal variation among female desmognathines.
10.2307/3226815|Intestinal goblet cells are notoriously difficult to preserve for immunocytochemistry owing to the hydration properties of the mucins that they produce. Thus, to determine the optimum fixation protocol for rat intestinal goblet cells that would preserve morphology of the tissue without compromising antigenicity, segments of rat ileum were fixed by a number of different chemical agents. Paraformaldehyde alone, or in combination with varying concentrations of glutaraldehyde or acrolein, was used; some segments were postfixed subsequently with osmium tetroxide. Methacrylate sections then were stained by indirect immunofluorescence using antiserum prepared against high molecular weight components of homogenized rat intestinal epithelium. Tissues that were fixed with paraformaldehyde and glutaraldehyde (or acrolein) showed a high degree of autofluorescence and a general loss of antigenicity. Tissues that were postfixed with osmium tetroxide exhibited the best morphology, but also demonstrated a specific loss of antigenicity in their cell membranes. Paraformaldehyde alone was found to preserve both morphology and tissue antigenicity necessary for immunocytochemical studies of mucins in intestinal goblet cells.
10.2307/3226816|High molecular weight components of the rat intestine were purified by several methods previously employed by other investigators in quantitative studies of mucin secretion. Polyclonal antibodies against these high molecular weight components then were localized by double antibody immunofluorescence to determine the specificity of these techniques for mucins of goblet cell origin. Low-speed centrifugation of homogenized intestinal epithelium or luminal washes followed by gel filtration result in a localization of not only goblet cell mucin but also membranes throughout the epithelium. A higher initial rate of centrifugation eliminates much membrane staining but not the localizations in the brush border. All extraneous staining is eliminated through preparation of antigens by chromatographing a postmicrosomal supernatant on Sepharose 4B and utilizing the void volume fractions. The present study examines some of the difficulties inherent in quantitating mucin in synthesis/secretion studies. Previous studies employing methodologies that are not specific for glycoproteins of goblet cell origin must be interpreted cautiously, with at least consideration given to the possibility that what was measured was not exclusively mucin.
10.2307/3226794|Meiofauna, particularly benthic copepods, are the predominant food source for a variety of predators, but appear to be most important for juvenile fishes. Predation on meiofauna changes as the predator grows, as habitat complexity changes, with tidal stage and flow, and as the meiofaunal predators are eaten by other predators. The vertical distribution of meiofauna in the sediment, the specific mobility of certain meiofauna, and differential digestion of certain taxa all lead to finding proportionately more copepods in a predator's gut than occurs in the field. Additional research is needed to determine the nutritional value of meiofauna to predators and the impact of predation on meiofaunal population dynamics.
10.2307/3226795|The infraciliature of Astylozoon pyriforme is restricted to two regions, the oral and aboral regions. The peristomal infraciliature is constituted of one haplokinety and one polykinety. Two striated microfibrillar bands are situated on left and right sides of the polykinety. The left band has striations spaced at 120 nm, and the right band, located beneath the haplokinety, has an alternate periodicity of 270 and 90 nm. Moreover, the kinetosomes of the polykinety possess a complex fibrillar system: Z, J, and T fibrils. The Z fibers join the kinetosomes of each row in a zig-zag pattern, the J fibers course toward the left band, but the T fibers run toward the right band to connect with it at the level of the major striations. In the infundibular region, two more polykineties appear. The aboral infraciliature is made up of the trochal band and the scopula. The trochal band, in turn, is made up of pairs of barren kinetosomes that do not have an associated fibrillar system. The scopula, surrounded by strong pellicular foldings, possesses ciliophorous kinetosomes, which give rise to modified cilia.
10.2307/3226796|Several marine and freshwater sponges regress in response to stressful water chemistry and form reduction bodies-spherical structures comprised principally of archeocytes within an enclosing epithelium. Regeneration of a functional sponge from the archeocytes of the reduction body may be realized if favorable chemical conditions in the water are reestablished within a certain period of time. We present a scanning electron microscopical analysis of events in both reduction and regeneration in Ephydatia fluviatilis over a four-day period in laboratory culture. The first two days of the cycle were devoted to reduction; the third and fourth days were devoted to regenaration. After 24 h of reduction, the canal system was reduced drastically with the remaining canals becoming filled with debris. A few choanocyte chambers remained. After 48 h of reduction, degenerating cells showed pronounced vacuolation of the cytoplasm. A few choanocyte chambers could still be recognized, but their collars and flagella were almost completely degenerated, and debris was present in the center of the chambers. Neither apopyles nor apopylar cells were recognizable in these degenerating chambers. Twelve hours after removal of the stress, several fully formed choanocyte chambers were present. The mesohyl was less dense. After 48 h of regeneration, chamber regeneration was complete. Canal and ostia regeneration, however, was extensive but still not complete. The mesohyl was again open and archeocytes were limited to the narrow spaces between adjacent chambers and canals.
10.2307/3226797|Explants of Microciona prolifera maintained in long-term laboratory culture survived exposure to salinities as high as 44-45 ppt for up to 10 days when they were transferred from a salinity of 30 ppt to elevated salinities and back on a schedule that changed the salinity 5 ppt every three days. As the salinity was raised above 35 ppt, the pumping of water by the sponges was progressively reduced, and at 44-45 ppt, the sponges underwent reversible tissue regression. During this process oscula, canals, subdermal spaces, and choanocyte chambers disappeared. Sponges kept at 45 ppt for 16 days or at 48.5 ppt for 10 days did not survive.
10.2307/3226798| Three species of turbellarians were found in sea urchins from two localities in the Caribbean and one locality in California: Syndisyrinx (=Syndesmis) evelinae from Echinometra lucunter (St. Barthlemy); Syx. franciscanus from Strongylocentrotus franciscanus, Str. purpuratus, and Lytechinus anamesus (California); and Syndisyrinx collongistyla n. sp. from E. lucunter, E. viridis, L. variegatus, and L. williamsi (Jamaica and St. Barthlemy). Distinguishing features of Syx. collongistyla n. sp. include body size, color, testes shape, and penis stylet length. The new species most closely resembles Syx. (=Syn.) antillarum and Syx. (=Syn.) philippinensis. It differs from Syx. antillarum in size, 1.12.8 mm (x = 1.8 mm) vs. 1.0-1.5 mm, by the testes being compact lobes vs. dendritic in shape, in position of the uterus in the mid-body to posterior one-half vs. the anterior onehalf, in branch number and structure of the ovaries, in structure of the vitellaria, and in length of the penis stylet being - vs. - of the body length. The new species differs from Syx. philippinensis by being smaller in overall size, longer than wide, in position of the uterus in the mid-body to posterior one-half vs. in the anterior one-half, and in the length of the penis stylet being >- vs.  of the body length. 
10.2307/3226799|A new species of Haloschizopera, collected from 35-50 m depth in Auke Bay, Alaska, is described and figured. The presence of only two outer spines on the terminal exopod segment of swimming legs 2-4 make this species unique within the genus, but in other respects it appears to be most closely related to the H. exigua group of species. We show that the presence of sexually dimorphic structures on the terminal exopod segment of leg 3 is more widespread than was recognized previously within the family Diosaccidae.
10.2307/3226800|Ultrastructural analysis carried out on the panoistic ovarioles of Habrophlebia eldae (Ephemeroptera: Leptophlebiidae) demonstrated that the organization and activity of the follicular epithelium change according to secretory function performed during oogenesis. In previtellogenic ovarian follicles, the cuboidal follicle cells are packed into a columnar epithelium and are connected by gap junctional plaques, forming an oocytefollicle cell epithelium complex tightly interlocked by way of microvilli. The transition to vitellogenic growth is marked by the appearance of a complex endocytic apparatus in the cortical ooplasm. The plasma membrane folds to form coated pits and vesicles, both being adorned with a clathrin lattice-work. Upon initiation of vitelline envelope deposition, follicle cells flatten, retract their microvilli, and interconnect by means of septate junctions. Chorionic envelopes are laid down in sequence, creating a three-layered structure whose organization varies according to the chorionic pattern of longitudinal ridges. Each ridge is composed of several columnar projections. In the final secretory phase, follicle cell membranes become folded and release closely packed microgranules: (1) that adhere to both sides of the chorionic columnar projections; and (2) that form a sheet of amorphous material enveloping the egg surface prior to ovulation. The synthesis of these complex egg coverings and their role in this primitive insect group also are discussed.
10.2307/3226801|The strontium-lead protocol was used to localize, ultrastructurally, a ouabain-sensitive, potassium-dependent p-nitrophenyl phosphatase (K-pNPPase) of the Na,KATPase complex in the gastrodermis of the frog rectal fluke Megalodiscus temperatus and the blood fluke Schistosoma japonicum. K-pNPPase activity was observed on the cytoplasmic side of the gastrodermal microvillus plasma membrane of Megalodiscus and extracellularly on the parenchymal side of the gastrodermal basal plasma membrane and its infoldings of Schistosoma. A ouabain-insensitive ATPase, possibly Mg-ATPase, and nonspecific acid phosphatase activities were observed extracellularly on the luminal sides of the gastrodermal amplifications of both organisms. Active transport of Na
10.2307/3226802|A new species of trematode, Amblosoma reelfooti n. sp., from snails (Viviparus intertextus) at Reelfoot Lake, Tennessee, U.S.A., is described based on morphology of the unencysted metacercariae. Adult Amblosoma occur in water birds, principally ducks (Anatidae); feeding experiments with chicks and mice were unsuccessful. The nearest genus to Amblosoma is Thapariella. Thapariella prudhoei n. sp. is established for Thapariella sp. from African snails (Lanistes sp.) in Zaire. A key is provided for the genera and species of the family.
10.2307/3226803|Nanosylvanella, a new foraminiferal genus of the Sipholageninae differs from other genera of the subfamily in having an outer layer consisting of non-interconnected arrays of wall material radiating from isolated pillars. Nanosylvanella palmulina n. sp., the type species, is described.
10.2307/3226687|The Malpighian tubules of the primitive insect Grylloblatta compodeiformis were studied using light and electron microscopy. The wall of each tubule is composed of a single layer of cells. The tubule cells exhibit long, narrow, basal membrane infoldings associated with mitochondria. The closely packed microvilli at the luminal border contain elongated mitochondria and chains of vesicles. The apical cytoplasm contains coated vesicles, dense tubular elements, multivesicular bodies, and lysosomes. The spherical nuclei of the tubule cells contain exceptionally well-developed nucleoli. The cytoplasm is rich in rough endoplasmic reticulum, free ribosomes, vesicles, mitochondria, and laminate spheres. Significant differences in the fine structure of the tubule cells appear to be related to the metabolic requirements of adequate fluid secretion in a cold habitat.
10.2307/3226688|Fine structure of the mastigont system in Trichomonas gallinae conforms to that described previously from other species of Trichomonadinae. This pertains to the arrangement of kinetosomes 1-4 as well as to the rootlet filaments associated with the kinetosomes [i.e., kinetosomal filaments 1 to 3, parabasal filaments 1 and 2, the latter of which subtends the parabasal body (Golgi complex)] and the costa. The axostyle and pelta, which overlaps the left ventral surface of the anterior segment of the axostylar capitulum along the peltar-axostylar junction and is subtended by the sigmoid F
10.2307/3226689|The fine structure of the cell surface of a cultured endosymbiont strain of Porphyridium sp. isolated from the foraminiferan host Peneroplis pertusus is compared in vitro with the cell surface of free-living Porphyridium purpureum. Logarithmically growing cells of the Porphyridium isolate are surrounded by a compact, 300-900-nm thick cell wall. The wall has an electron-transparent matrix in which are embedded 3-5-nm thick electron-dense fibrils. Single-membrane-bounded secretory vesicles containing fibrils occur beneath the plasmalemma of both strains of Porphyridium. Vesicles discharge their contents by exocytosis into the cell wall. The peripheral endoplasmic reticulum of both strains forms a tubular network beneath the plasmalemma. Short channels diverge from the ER toward the cell surface in the cultured isolate. A layered cell wall and extensions of the plasmalemma into the wall may develop in older cells of both strains. Thickness of the cell wall is not significantly different between stationary phase cells of both strains.
10.2307/3226690| Striated skeletal muscle fibers from bovine psoas minor were flushed with phosphate buffer between pH 4.8 and pH 8. Optical path differences were measured with a de Snarmont compensator on a polarizing microscope (1,405 measurements on 13 fibers). At pH 6.5, path differences of single fibers ranged from 46 to 220 nm with a mean of 97 nm. Birefringence increased as pH was decreased from pH 8 and peaked at about pH 5.5-5.2. At lower pHs, birefringence was decreased. Overall slopes of relationships were significant, P < 0.001, and ranged from -4.5 to -26.0 nm/pH with a mean of -13.4 nm/pH and a mean coefficient of correlation of -0.85. 
10.2307/3226691|A karyological and morphological analysis of 71 specimens representing the Gyratrix hermaphroditus species complex (Kalyptorhynchia: Polycystididae) from various habitats (marine, brackish, freshwater) around Darwin (N.T., Australia) was conducted. Different karyotypes were found, distinct for chromosome numbers (2n = 4; 2n = 6), centromere position of corresponding chromosomes, and haploid genome length. Differences in the morphology of male sclerotized organs were found to be consistent with differences in karyology, thus revealing the existence of numerous sibling species of the complex in the Darwin area. Most species encountered were karyologically and morphologically distinguishable from previously known species of the complex. One Australian species was not significantly different from a European species, suggesting the possibility of extensive distribution. Evolution of karyotypes in the Australian species generally follows the pathways envisaged for the European species; however, the ecological distinction by which limnal species in Europe have 2n = 4 and marine species 2n = 6 did not hold among Australian species. This situation is ascribed to the peculiar environment of the Darwin area.
10.2307/3226692|The dinoflagellate floral assemblage of North Deming Pond, Lake Itasca State Park, Minnesota, U.S.A., is described from epipelic and epidendric bog mat samples The following dinoflagellate genera were represented by 32 taxa: Ceratium, Gonyaulax, Peridiniopsis, Peridinium, Thompsodinium, Amphidinium, Gymnodinium, Katodinium, Gloeodinium, Hemidinium, Cystodinium, Dinastridium, Phytodinium, Stylodinium, and Tetradinium. Twenty-two of these taxa represent new records for Minnesota of which 17 were U.S. records. The report of Dinastridium sextangulare in this paper represents the first published record of Dinastridium in the United States. Morphological observations are given for each species reported followed by annotations with respect to geographical distributions in the continental United States.
10.2307/3226693|The hemostatic parameters of adult male cotton rats infected with 20-25 third-stage larvae of Parastrongylus costaricensis were compared with those of age- and sex-matched control animals. The normal range for whole blood clotting times was 85-140 seconds. The parasitic infection caused a decrease in these clotting times. The coagulation assays, performed on the plasma of animals infected for 30-40 days, showed decreases in factors VII, X, XI, and XII and an increase in fibrinogen. The activated partial thromboplastin time was elevated; however, the decrease in prothrombin time was not significant. These findings imply that the blood of cotton rats becomes hypercoagulable following infection, and this may be a defence mechanism facilitating repair of the vascular bed of the intestine when damaged by hatching and movement of the larvae.
10.2307/3226694|Gill marsupia of Cumberlandia monodonta were observed to contain early developmental stages on 27 October 1982. This occurrence, in conjunction with histological examination of gonads from several specimens, documents the first record for autumnal reproductive behavior in C. monodonta, and lends credence to previous speculation that biannual periodicity occurs in this species. fn1_The Tennessee Cooperative Fishery Research Unit is supported jointly by the U.s. Fish and Wildlife Service, Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency, and Tennessee Technological University. Additional funding was provided by the Center for the Management, Utilization, and Protection of Water Resources, Tennessee Technological University.
10.2307/3226695| Polysporella genovesae represents a new genus of coccidian parasite found in the feces of 4 of 19 (21%) Galapagos mockingbirds (Nesomimus parvulus) on Genovesa Island, Galapagos Archipelago, during February and March 1987-1989. Sporulated oocysts of P. genovesae are ellipsoidal, 42.4 x 33.0 (36.5-48 x 28-38) m with a smooth, bilayered wall; a micropyle and polar granules were absent. Oocysts contained scattered residuum usually comprising 3-5 clusters of varying sized granules, 0.5-4.0 m, and 9-15 spheroidal sporocysts. Sporocysts were 11.0 (10-12) m in diameter and had a smooth, single-layered wall with no Stieda body. Each sporocyst contained two sporozoites, 14 x 5 m, tapering slightly to one end and lying loosely coiled around each other in the sporocyst along with extensive scattered nonuniform granular residuum. 
10.2307/3226696|Eleven species and one subspecies of rotifers were identified in sand and mud from beaches in Florida, U.S.A. Trichocerca (Diurella) taurocephala, Lecane inermis, and Encentrum striatum were found for the first time in saltwaters of the Americas. Lecane inermis, Notholca salina, and Trichocerca (Diurella) taurocephala, found in Floridian sand, are not recorded for European saltwater psammon. Colurella colurus and Encentrum marinum occurred most frequently, being found in six of the nine samples taken. Three of the 12 rotifers collected are considered psammobionts: Encentrum striatum, Lindia sp., and Trichocerca (Diurella) taurocephala.
10.2307/3226697|Numerous trophozoites of a Giardia sp. were found in the intestinal tract of four female Nematodirus helvetianus recovered from a sheep at necropsy. Although no cysts or dividing trophozoites were seen in these worms, the number and viability of the trophozoites indicated colonization of the intestines of these nematodes.
10.2307/3226734| The Ophryoglenina includes two families of histophagous ciliates, the Ophryoglenidae and the Ichthyophthiriidae. The organelle of Lieberkhn is the only feature that unambiguously establishes these two families as members of a monophyletic group. This organelle is a reniform cortical structure found in the oral cavity. Careful re-examination of the trophont of Ophryoglena sp. and the theront of Ichthyophthirius multifiliis has demonstrated similarities in their organelles of Lieberkhn. These include its placement between oral polykinetids 1 and 2, its being overlain by cytoplasmic ridges of cortical alveoli, its reniform shape, and the extreme density of the main body of the organelle. These organelles are homologous by the criteria of position and structural similarity. The suborder Ophryoglenina is corroborated as a monophyletic taxon. 
10.2307/3226735|Convoluta pulchra is a new species of acoel turbellarian belonging to the family Convolutidae. This species is widely distributed along the Atlantic coast of North America, having been found by us from North Carolina to Maine, and appears to be a common component of the meiofauna in lentic muddy sand beaches. C. pulchra is intermediate in its anatomy between the "vesicula-penis group" and the "antrum-penis group" of the genus Convoluta, as defined in 1968 by Antonius. This intermediate position, as well as the anatomical similarity of C. pulchra to Conaperta westbladi suggests the need for a revision of the genera Convoluta and Conaperta, if not of the entire family Convolutidae.
10.2307/3226737|A report is provided on the land planarian collection made by Dr. Ian R. Ball for the species Rhynchodemus sylvaticus in Ontario, Microplana terrestris from provinces of Ontario and Quebec, and Diporodemus indigenus from Quebec. We suggest that: (1) Microplana mahnerti is a junior synonym of Microplana terrestris, (2) that the Brazilian two-lined planarian Rhynchodemus blainvillei (=pellucidus) is a junior synonym of Rhynchodemus sylvaticus, and (3) that Microplana monacensis may belong to genus Diporodemus, even though it lacks a bursal pore.
10.2307/3226738| Studies of preserved specimens from a single population of Metopriapulus fijiensis indicate that, unlike all other species of the phylum Priapulida, this species has no loricate larval stage in its life history. Females commonly contain two or as many as eight oocytes. One oocyte matures at a time, reaching an approximate diameter of 250 m. This is nearly three times the diameter reported for other priapulid species for which data are available. Evidence suggests that the embryo is brooded by the female. A postembryonic stage, lacking anal hooks and functional introvert, of nearly the same linear dimension as the oocyte, is released from the female urogenital pore into the infralittoral fringe zone of coarse sand and shell-hash where it develops into a juvenile slightly larger in size. The juvenile is similar to the adult, but it has only 13 anal hooks instead of the adult number of 25 and lacks obvious indication of maturing gonads. Juveniles undergo a series of molts. The adult condition is reached by a length of approximately 800 m, at which size gonads are first observable in whole mounts. Adults continue to molt and attain a maximum trunk length of 2.15 mm. 
10.2307/3226739|Trophosomal tissue of Riftia pachyptila has been examined by scanning electron microscopy. Bacteria in bacteriocytes of adult trophosome appear to be interconnected by a complex lattice-like network of fibrils that resemble bundles of pili. In bacteriocytes of adult Riftia, these structures may help to maintain spacing between bacteria. We suggest that these fibrillar structures may play a role in establishing the endosymbiotic association in juvenile worms.
10.2307/3226740| Electron photomicrographs show that striae density in the Diatoma tenue species complex is greater than can be resolved with light microscopy, yet researchers frequently report 16-20 striae in 10 m for these taxa. Considering that the number of striae in 10 m is a critical character, this has added to the confused taxonomy of these species. We propose that the "striae" seen in the light microscope are really diffraction lines created by light interacting with the costae typical of this group. This leads to the conclusion that the species complex needs taxonomic review. The lectotype for Diatoma tenue is herein designated as collection #4307 ex herb. Agardh. 
10.2307/3226741|Pollen of two malvaccan species, Malvaviscus arboreus var. mexicanus (wax mallow, sleepy hibiscus) and Urena lobata (Caesar weed), were examined by electron microscopy. Both species have pollen that is typical of Malvaceae (i.e., large, spherical, spiny, polypantoporate, tectate and the endexine as thick or thicker than the ektexine. Malvaviscus arboreus var. mexicanus has spirals of short, stout, irregularly branched primary spines and shorter, stout spinules spaced at irregular intervals. The species has funnel-shaped apertures that are hidden by the tectum and surrounded by endexinous costae. Urena lobata has spirals of long, stout, pointed spines alternating in uniform rows with operculate apertures. Both species have basal cushions on their primary spines. This study clarifies earlier descriptions based on light microscopy and contributes information about exine layers, aperture morphology, and spine morphology that may be relevant to systematic investigations.
10.2307/3226742| Eimeria callispermophili and E. morainensis are reported for the first time from the feces of Mexican ground squirrels, Spermophilus mexicanus, in Kimble County, Texas, U.S.A. Oocysts of E. callispermophili were found in 1/6 (17%) squirrels and are spheroid to subspheroid, 21.9 x 19.5 (18-27 x 15-23) m; shape index 1.1 (1.0-1.2). A micropyle is absent, but a spheroid oocyst residuum and fragmented polar granule are present. Sporocysts are ovoid, 10.2 x 8.1 (9-11 x 6-9) m; shape index 1.3 (1.1-1.5). A Stieda body and sporocyst residuum are present, but a substieda body is absent. Oocysts of E. morainensis were found in 3/6 (50%) squirrels and are ellipsoid to ovoid, 20.1 x 17.1 (19-21 x 16-18) m; shape index 1.2 (1.1-1.2). A micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent, but one to several polar granule(s) are present. Sporocysts are ellipsoid to ovoid, 11.8 x 7.2 (11-13 x 6-8) m; shape index 1.6 (1.4-1.8). A Stieda body and sporocyst residuum are present, and, rarely, a substieda body, is present. 
10.2307/3226743|Metacercariae of the trematode Stephanostomum sp. commonly parasitize rex sole (Glyptocephalus zachirus) in the Pacific Ocean off Oregon. The worms locate primarily in the musculature at the base of the fins. Each metacercaria is surrounded by a cyst of parasite origin and by a host reaction of varying intensity. In most fish studied, the host response was limited and appeared externally as a small white capsule. Histologically, the capsule was characterized by the presence of macrophages surrounded by a fibrous layer. In some sole, the host reaction was massive, and macroscopic orange-colored capsules occurred around individual metacercariae. These capsules were characterized by a large region of necrotic macrophages adjacent to the parasite, a narrow layer of apparently viable macrophages, and an outer vascularized layer of fibroblasts and fibers. Perhaps differences in degree of host reaction were attributable to the age of the infection or to other factors. The metacercariae were capable of infecting lingcod (Ophiodon elongatus) in the laboratory, and the immature trematodes recovered most closely resembled Stephanostomum californicum.
10.2307/3226744| Scanning and transmission electron microscopy were used to characterize the external and internal morphology of cone-shaped, cuticular specializations on the heads of male brine shrimp (Artemia franciscana). Two groups of cuticular cones were situated on the anterodorsal margin of the "saddle" that is in contact with the dorsal surface of the female during clasping behavior. Of 15 male shrimp examined, there were 2-9 cones per group and a total of 5-15 cones per animal. Cone height varied from a few micrometers to nearly 50 m. Ultrathin sections revealed that cones are entirely integumental and lack sensory innervation. Each cone consisted of an epidermal core covered by cuticle. The findings support an earlier interpretation that cuticular cones help the male shrimp hold the female securely during clasping behavior. 
10.2307/3226748|Helicoprorodon multinucleatum has an ultrastructural anatomy like the haptorid ciliates. The somatic monokinetid has two sets of transverse microtubules, an overlapping postciliary microtubular ribbon, and a laterally directed kinetodesmal fiber. Most of the somatic rows of cilia terminate at the anterior end on a peribuccal spiral ridge. Two to three of the somatic kineties continue through the ridge and spiral around the anterior end. Anterior to these spirals are 4-6 concentric spirals or closed rings of single kinetosomes. The kinetosomes in these kineties have the same infraciliary fibers as the somatic kinetosomes and a nematodesma. These kinetosomes are homologous to the oralized somatic kinetosomes found in ciliates in the order Haptorida. Oral dikinetids form a ring surrounding the cytostome. These dikinetids are not the final few kinetosomes of the somatic kineties. The anterior kinetosome of the oral pair is not ciliated and has a transverse microtubular ribbon and a nematodesma. The posterior kinetosome is ciliated and has postciliary microtubules and a ribbon of microtubules that extend into the cytoplasm from the proximal, right side of the kinetosome. The cytostome is closed when the organism is not feeding. Mucocysts and two types of toxicysts are present. The toxicysts are found in the somatic cortex and around the oral region but not within the circle of nematodesmata. There are numerous ovoid macronuclei and micronuclei distributed throughout the cytoplasm. From these results, we may conclude that the genus Helicoprorodon belongs in the order Haptorida.
10.2307/3226749|A study of trichocyst structure in the swimming tomite and encysted phoront of the apostome Hyalophysa chattoni revealed a unique trichocyst cycle not found in other ciliates. The trichocysts, abundant in the tomite, are not involved in cyst secretion, but they detach from the cell's pellicle during the early stage of secretion and are digested eventually in autophagic vacuoles. The nearly complete elimination of the trichocysts during this stage accounts for their greatly reduced numbers during the remainder of the life cycle. Alternate trichocyst morphologies were obtained in the swimming, nonsecreting tomite, as was trichocyst discharge during the fixation of this stage. The apostome trichocyst has a distinct ultrastuucture, though its paracrystalline core is similar to the extrusosomes of other protozoa. Further, trichocyst transformation and secretion in H. chattoni produces a bag-shaped organelle that resembles secretory mucocysts in Ichthyophthirius, Tetrahymena, and Holophrya.
10.2307/3226750|Diurnal patterns of mating reactivity in the marine ciliated protist Euplotes vannus were investigated. Cells of complementary mating types grown in a 12-h light: 12-h dark schedule were subjected to a variety of other lighting regimes, starved for 24 h in salt water, and then mixed. The results confirm the existence of a daily rhythm of mating reactivity in these cells. The mating rhythm persisted under constant conditions and also under phase reversal.
10.2307/3226751|Spermatophore structure inside the male ejaculatory duct, immediately following ejaculation, and after exposure to seawater is described and compared for three species of Penaeus, P. setiferus (external attachment of the spermatophore to an "open" thelycum of the female) and P. duorarum and P. aztecus (spermatophore storage behind a "closed" thelycum). Detailed investigation of the origin and disposition of spermatophore materials in the ejaculatory duct permits hypotheses of homologies among the species of Penaeus investigated. The sperm sac of the spermatophore of P. setiferus is homologous to the main body of the spermatophore of P. duorarum and P. aztecus. The adhesive glands and material have been lost entirely in the latter two species, and the appendages of their spermatophores are homologous to the glutinous material of P. setiferus. Structures for mechanical attachment found in the externally attached spermatophore of P. setiferus are lost or reduced in the phylogenetically advanced P. duorarum and P. aztecus. Reduction in complexity of the spermatophore in the species with closed thelycum is postulated to have evolved concomitantly with spermatophore enclosure and storage. In the species with closed thelycum, exposure of the spermatophore to seawater causes a striking reaction, consisting of an unfolding of its "appendage." Spreading of the appendage material throughout the aperture of the seminal receptacle to insure its complete seal after insemination is suggested as the function of the spermatophore reaction. In P. setiferus, the spermatophore reaction consists of changes in the adhesive and glutinous materials, as well as in extrusion of the sperm mass.
10.2307/3226752|Thin-layer chromatographic (TLC), light microscopic (LM), and transmission electron microscopic (TEM) studies were made on neutral lipids in various organs of snails (Biomphalaria glabrata) maintained on a diet of hen's egg yolk (experimentals) or leaf lettuce (controls) for seven days. TLC studies showed that the triacylglycerol fraction of the digestive gland, head-foot, heart, hemolymph, intestine, kidney, and ovotestis of experimental snails increased 2-3 times greater than the values of the controls. TLC also was used to determine changes in the free sterol and free fatty acid fractions of these organs from snails on both diets. LM studies on cryostat sections stained with Oil Red O demonstrated that only the digestive gland and intestine accumulated significantly more lipid in experimental vs. control snails. TEM studies on digestive cells showed that the most conspicuous ultrastructural component, the digestive vacuole, was abundantly present in both experimental and control snails. TEM studies revealed a significant increase in lipid droplets in the digestive cells of experimental versus control snails. Snails maintained on the high lipid diet undoubtedly stored neutral lipids in their digestive cells.
10.2307/3226753| Upper alimentary tract tissues of ring doves (Streptopelia risoria), experimentally infected with virulent Trichomonas gallinae, were processed for scanning electron microscopy by three procedures. Preparatory schedules which included aldehyde fixation, tannic acid, and guanidine hydrochloride fixation, as well as osmium tetroxide fixation, permitted air drying of large tissue samples from Freon. Tissue samples prepared by this method revealed improved preservation of surface details and fewer structural artifacts when compared with tissues prepared by standard techniques and critical-point drying. 
10.2307/3226755| Eimeria palumbi is a new coccidian parasite described from one of eight (12.5%) adult Galapagos doves (Zenaida galapagoensis) living on Genovesa Island in the Galapagos Archipelago. Oocysts of the new species are ovoid to ellipsoid, 24.2 x 21.7 (2722 x 24-19) m, colorless, with a smooth, double-layered wall; shape index (length/width) is 1.16 (1.05-1.21). A micropyle and polar granules are absent, but an oocyst residuum is present, composed of several irregularly shaped granules loosely held together. Sporocysts are ellipsoid, 15.3 x 8.1 (17-15 x 8-8.5) m with a smooth, single-layered wall and a protruding, nipple-like Stieda body and no apparent substieda body; shape index is 1.89 (2.12-1.76). Sporozoites lie head-to-tail in the sporocysts, each with one large refractile body near one end and the sporocyst residuum composed of scattered nonunifoorm granules covering the midregion of the sporocyst. No other parasites were found in the fecal contents. 
10.2307/3226756|The description and illustrations of Hapalorhynchus beadlei (Digenea: Spirorchidae) published by Goodman in 1987 were based on material, which has been lost for almost two decades, from the freshwater turtle, Pelusios sp., in eastern Uganda. The holotype and paratypes of H. beadlei, collected from Pelusios williamsi lutescens in western Uganda in 1986, were determined to be Hapalorhynchus tchalimi. The International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature has set aside the holotype of H. beadlei and designated Goodman's fig. 1 as the lectotype for this species.
10.2307/3226655|Thirteen genetic strains were identified in a Louisiana population of Ephydatia fluviatilis on the basis of histocompatibility of tissues. Gemmules from single individuals were juxtaposed, and coalescence or noncoalescence of tissues was observed after hatching. Tissues of the same strain merged and formed a single functional sponge. Tissues from different strains did not merge, forming instead a line of noncoalescence between them. Strain frequencies were measured in three years of a four-year period. Frequencies were relatively stable within strains from year to year, but ranged from 0.25 to less than 0.04 among the several strains. Histological analyses of samples collected from the population during a seasonal period of sexual activity revealed that individuals of a strain could be either male or female, but not both phenotypes at the same time, and that the sexual phenotype of an individual sponge could change from male to female or vice versa within a single season. A genetic model is presented to explain the pattern of fusion and nonfusion of tissues and the expression of sexual phenotype in E. fluviatilis.
10.2307/3226656|Pisione hermansi n. sp., is described from the interstices of very coarse and granule-size sand collected intertidally below mean lower low water from five Sonoma County Beaches. This species is similar to the cosmopolitan species Pisione remota, from which it is distinguished primarily by the structure of the male reproductive appendages. The following points of the male anatomy differentiate this species from previously named pisionids: (1) as many as 11 reproductive segments (one pair of testes and tubular organs per segment) beginning at two-thirds of the length of the body or at approximately segments 55-75; (2) a boot-shaped reproductive appendage extending from a secondary branching structure; (3) an elongate, ridged, golf club-shaped appendage; and (4) a horseshoe-shaped appendage extending from the copulatory organ.
10.2307/3226657|A new species of land planarian is described from specimens collected from Monroeville, Monroe Co., Alabama in 1981 and from Little Rock, Pulaski Co., Arkansas, U.S.A. in 1974, and represents the first definitive species of Geoplana from the southern United States. Geoplana arkalabamensis n. sp. has an elongate, flattened body that is tapered at both ends. The pale ciliated creeping sole is as broad as the ventral surface. The mouth and gonopore are located ventrally in the posterior one-third of the body. Individuals are 40-65 mm long and 5-10 mm wide. Body color is black to blue-black dorsally with a single median less pigmented pale zone extending for most of the body length. Anteriorly, the dorsal pigmentation has a mottled, reticular, or streaked appearance. The eyes are located along the sides of the body, extending dorsally on each side for nearly one-third of body width. The testes are dorsal. The copulatory apparatus has a well-developed penis papilla. The female canal, as is typical for the genus Geoplana, enters the genital antrum dorsally and receives the oviducts anteriorly; a posterior diverticulum is present.
10.2307/3226658| The planktonic ciliate protist Strombidinopsis cheshiri n. sp. is described from Protargol-stained preparations of cultured cells. The specimen reacted unsatisfactorily to commonly used fixatives; 87% disintegrated in Bouin's fluid, leaving only oral polykinetids. Cell shape changed from spherical in recently divided cells to long and tapered in pre-division cells. The range of cell size was 34-110 m (l) x 32-60 m (w). Fourteen to sixteen external oral polykinetids had oral membranelle cilia 14-16 m long. Four inner oral polykinetids were found within the infundibulum. Twelve to fifteen somatic kineties extended for the entire length of the cell, with 18-32 dikinetids per kinety. Both kinetosomes of each kinetid bore cilia 4 m long. Incomplete kineties were common. Two roughly ovoid macronuclei and one micronucleus were found per cell. S. cheshiri was algivorous in laboratory culture. 
10.2307/3226659|Water samples were collected from 59 sites by managers of federal recreation waters across the United States. These were processed for the pathogenic ameboflagellate Naegleria fowleri. Thermotolerant amebas were recovered and identified from 34 sites, including N. fowleri from the Tennessee River at Wheeler National Recreation Area (Alabama), Yosemite Creek in Yosemite National Park (California), Owl Creek at Shiloh National Battlefield Park (Tennessee), Lake Meredith National Recreational Area (Texas), Spirit Lake at Mt. St. Helens National Volcano Monument (Washington), and Firehole River at Yellowstone National Park (Wyoming). Principle components analysis was performed on the variables temperature, dissolved iron, species diversity index, and environmental condition. Recently disturbed environments had a significant effect on the occurrence of N. fowleri. This finding supports the flagellate-empty habitat hypothesis of Griffin, which stressed that the ameba is most likely to be found where the environment has been cleared of competitors and predators. An informal probability index for the occurrence of N. fowleri is proposed as a useful tool for managers of recreational waters.
10.2307/3226660|This is the first report of ultrastructural alterations induced by Eimeria separata and previously unreported alterations induced by E. nieschulzi. Rats were infected with 4 x 10
10.2307/3226661|Forty-five specimens of Thubunaea intestinalis n. sp. (Nematoda: Spiruroidea: Physalopteridae) were recovered from the small intestine of 16 of 489 preserved specimens of Yarrow's spiny lizard, Sceloporus jarrovii. Prevalence of infection was 3%, mean intensity 2.8. These nematodes represent the fifth known species of Thubunaea from the Western Hemisphere. This species has the shortest esophagus/total length ratio and the most anteriorly situated vulva of the Western Hemisphere species.
10.2307/3226662|Although the importance of spatial patterns of structure to dynamics of ecological communities is well recognized, this aspect of community organization often is not considered in the study of periphyton assemblages. The extent of algal accumulation on glass coverslips placed in slow- and fast-current regimes for short (4-day) and long (12-day) periods was measured using two levels of spatial resolution. When a coarse level of spatial resolution (31.5 mm
10.2307/3226764|Members of the genus Acanthamoeba are free-living amebae that are major predators of bacteria. They serve as important laboratory models for understanding the cellular biology and biochemistry of locomotion, phagocytosis, and cell differentiation. Some species of Acanthamoeba can be opportunistic human pathogens, causing amebic meningoencephalitis and keratitis. There also is reason to think that they may be symbionts of plants. Human keratitis caused by Acanthamoeba spp. has been clearly linked to contact lens wear. Once transmitted by the lens to the surface of the cornea, acanthamebas are able to attach to the surface by using junctional complexes formed between trophozoites and surface epithelial cells, as well as by manipulation of the acanthopodia between cell junctions (possibly seeking bacteria). Penetration of the cornea beyond the surface squamous layer may involve both elaboration of enzymes and active phagocytosis.
10.2307/3226766|The seminal receptacle of Dugesia tigrina forms the proximal end of the ovovitelline duct. It consists of the ampulla, a plug-shaped structure of highly modified cells, a muscular sphincter, and the seminal receptacle proper. Spermatozoa are present in the lumen of the ampulla and receptacle proper. The ampulla is attached to the ovary by a closing epithelium. Associated with the dorsal wall of the ovovitelline ducts are numerous yolk-funnel cells. The funnel cells show phagocytic activity at their basal ends where they are in contact with vitelline (yolk) cells and also show secretory activity at their apical ends. Each funnel cell connects to the ovovitelline duct by way of a semicircular space called the funnel-cell atrium. Funnel cells and their secretory products may control the release of vitelline cells into the ovovitelline duct, furnish a control mechanism for cocoon formation, or represent a second type of vitelline cell observed previously in planarian cocoons. Observations of animals in the late phase of their annual sexual cycle suggest that seminal receptacle cells are active in the phagocytic removal of spermatozoa and degenerating oocytes.
10.2307/3226767|Adult specimens Gnathostoma spinigerum were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Worms bad an anterior head-bulb with one pair of lateral lips. The head-bulb was armed with 7-10 transverse rows of hooks. On the anterior one-half of the worms, multidigitate cuticular spines are spaced unevenly on the outer edge of transverse striations. Small unidentate cuticular spines also are located on the posterior one-half of the body. Other structures included labial papillae, amphids, cervical papillae, an excretory pore, caudal papillae, small flat papillae, and phasmids. Eggs from the uteri of female worms are covered with pits of irregular size, shape, and depth.
10.2307/3226768|A sample of sand from the shallow subtidal waters of St. Augustine Inlet, Florida, U.S.A. yielded a new genus of turbanellid gastrotrich. Prostobuccantia is distinguished from its congeners by an anterior projection of the buccal capsule beyond the mouth, by the occurrence of the pharyngeal pores in a submedial position, by paired caudal lobes that bear adhesive tubes only on their posterior borders, and by two unusual adhesive tubes of unequal length that are fused at their bases and occur on either side just posterior to the pharyngeal-intestinal junction. In the adult condition, P. brocha is characterized by the serrated border of the forward-projecting buccal capsule, by an inflated trunk, and by few (4-5) adhesive tubes of equal length on each of the anterior and the posterior appendages.
10.2307/3226769|Kinorhynchus paraneapolitanus is redescribed from a single holotypic male collected near Lazarevskoye, U.S.S.R., along the Caucasus coast of the Black Sea in 1963. A narrower rhomboidal-shaped midsternal plate, well developed midventral thickenings of the posterior sternal plates, and distinctive crescent-shaped cuticular scars anteromesially on sternal plates 5-11, and a single elongate lateroterminal protuberance on each sternal plate of segment 13 distinguish K. paraneapolitanus from K. giganteus, the only other European species. Kinorhynchus giganteus, known from both the northern coasts of Europe and the Mediterranean Sea, is similar to the Black Sea species in size and general shape.
10.2307/3226771|Recent discoveries and a re-examination of older publications strain the definition of the earthworm genus Trigaster. The genera Borgesia n. gen., Neotrigaster n. gen., and Zapatadrilus n. gen. are created to accommodate elements of Trigaster, including three of four Trigaster species recently described from Puerto Rico, and Borgesia montana n. sp. and B. wegei n. sp., both described here from Puerto Rican material. The redefined Trigaster includes metandric species with incomplete lateral commissures and incomplete ventral vessel. These species are confined to the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. Borgesia differs in having more than eight setae in some or all segments, an intestinal typhlosole, and a muscular sheath on the vas deferens. Neotrigaster is holandric with three gizzards, but Zapatadrilus is holandric with two gizzards. A preliminary phylogenetic analysis indicates that loss of the anterior pair of testes took place independently in Trigaster and Borgesia.
10.2307/3226772|Three new species of benthic foraminifera are described from Holocene cores in the Queen Charlotte-Hecate Strait region of coastal British Columbia. Lagena fidicularia n. sp. is characterized by deep longitudinal costae on the test body becoming spirally arranged on the neck; Procerolagena simulampulla n. sp. is distinguished by 10 longitudinal costae and a phialine lip, and Pleurostomella delicatula n. sp. has a distinct arcuate, narrow test and elongate chambers.
10.2307/3226773|One adult and one juvenile marmoset were infected with the Achiote strain of Plasmodium vivax. The animals were killed when the peripheral parasitemia was approximately 2%. Organ-tissue crushes were prepared from the brain, heart, lung, liver, kidney, spleen, and bone marrow. Microscopic examination of the respective tissues showed a higher concentration of schizont-infected red blood cells in the liver, lung, and spleen of juveniles.
10.2307/3226774|A new species of free-living marine nematode, Thalassironus thalassinus n. sp., is described from subtidal sediments from St. Andrew Bay, Bay County, Florida. T. thalassinus n. sp. is most similar to Thalassironus britannicus but differs from T. britannicus in the presence of only two cervical sensilla on each lateral surface, position of the cervical sensilla, and the shape of the spicules and gubernaculum in the male.
10.2307/3226720|Heart allografts were implanted heterotopically into the hemocoel of the snail Biomphalaria glabrata, and their fate was followed for six months. Most implanted hearts continued to beat, although relatively weakly and asynchronously, for the duration of the study. Histological changes that occurred in implants included: (1) temporary infiltration and encapsulation by hemocytes, (2) formation of a fluid-filled sac around the implant, (3) decreased organization and staining of the myocardium, (4) hypertrophy and exomigration of epicardial cells, and (5) formation of vesicles from kidney, mantle, and prointestinal epithelia that were included inadvertently in the implant. Histochemical tests showed that, relative to preimplantation controls, the amount of collagen in some implants had increased slightly by 120 days, and the number of glycogen granules associated with individual myofibers increased significantly by 15 days PI. Only two of 45 implants examined histologically underwent necrosis. Based upon these results, the heart may be a useful model organ in studies of molluscan transplantation immunity.
10.2307/3226722| The branchial flabella ("gill rakers") of the green shore crab Carcinus maenas originate from the first three thoracopods. Each flabellum is a flattened blade that projects posteriorly to lie between the phyllobranchiate gills and the walls of the branchial chamber. Numerous setae emerge from cuticular depressions along the edges of the blade. These setae may be categorized on the basis of length: "long" setae are 3.72  0.35 mm in length, and "short" setae are 1.50  0.38 mm in length. The "long" and "short" setae exhibit an elaborate ornamentation, and a progression of structural changes is apparent along the shafts. A circumferential ridge, or annulation, divides the setal shaft into preannular and postannular parts. The preannular shaft has an irregular topography, characterized proximally by nodular protrusions and distally by longitudinally oriented, anastomosing ridges. The proximal sector of the postannular shaft is smooth-surfaced. This smooth contour gives way to a line of three (sometimes five) stout books and then to two rows of denticles. On the contralateral surface of the shaft, bundles of foliate setules align with the hooks, and a continuous band of foliate setules parallels the denticles. Splaying of the two rows of denticles creates the endpiece of a seta. This pattern of setal ornamentation is considerably more elaborate than any previously attributed to decapod crustaceans. 
10.2307/3226723|The mite Varroa jacobsoni, an important ectoparasite of the European honey bee, was first recorded from the United States in 1987. In the present study, adult females were collected from infested Apis mellifera in Wisconsin during autumn and winter of 1987-88 and were examined by SEM. Bee colonies were infested heavily; up to 6 mites per host were recorded. Adult female mites were flattened and had a dome-shaped dorsal shield. The flat ventral surface was composed of a series of plates. A unique respiratory structure was found, as well as four different types of setae. Legs of this mite appeared to be modified for ectoparasitism and each was tipped by one of two types of distal empodia. Mouthparts appeared to be well modified for its diet of bee hemolymph, and apparently these are unique to this species. Although V. jacobsoni appears to posses numerous modfications for parasitism, it has yet to establish a relationship with Apis mellifera that is as close as with the Asian bee, A. cerana, in that V. jacobsoni continues to have a devastating effect on A. mellifera.
10.2307/3226724|One hundred thirty-four specimens of Oochoristica bezyi n. sp. were recovred from the small intestine of 44 of 278 preserved specimens of the desert night lizard, Xantusia vigilis vigilis, from California. Prevalence of infection was 16%, mean intensity 3 (range, 1-11). This new species represents the eighth species of Oochoristica known to infect North American lizards. Oochoristica bezyi is the smallest of the species of Oochoristica thus far described and is second only to O. bivitellobata in fewest number of proglottids.
10.2307/3226725|A new species of the genus Ophryoscolex from the rumen of the chamois Rupricapra rupricapra is described and compared with other species of the genus. The oral and dorsal bands, fibrillar system, and skeletal plates of O. monoacanthus n. sp. are similar to those of the other species of the genus. However, the structure of the caudal complex does not coincide with that described for other Ophryoscolex. A brief hypothesis of possible phylogenetic relationships is offered. We believe that our new species may be placed between O. inermis and O. buissoni.
10.2307/3226726| Two new species of coccidia were recovered from the feces of flat-headed snakes, Tantilla gracilis, from Texas and Arkansas, U.S.A. Oocysts of Caryospora gracilis n. sp. are spherical or subspherical, 23.7 x 22.5 (21-25 x 21-24) m, with a thick, bilayered wall and a shape index (length/width) of 1.06 (1.00-1.12). A micropyle is absent, but an oocyst residuum and polar granule are present. Sporocysts are ovoidal, 17.1 x 12.7 (1518 x 11-13.5) m, with Stieda and substieda bodies. The sporocyst shape index is 1.34 (1.29-1.40). Oocysts of Isospora wilsoni n. sp. are spherical, rarely subspherical, 17.2 x 17.0 (15-19 x 14.5-19) m, with a thick, bilayered wall and a shape index of 1.01 (1.001.11). A micropyle, oocyst residuum, and polar granule are absent. Sporocysts are ovoidal, 10.9 x 8.4 (10.5-12 x 8-9) m, with Stieda and substieda bodies and a shape index of 1.30 (1.24-1.40). In addition to these new coccidia, a check-list of the coccidian genera Isospora and Sarcocystis representing species misidentified from snakes, which places most members within the genus Sarcocystis, is presented. 
10.2307/3226728|The intestinal coccidian of rats, Eimeria nieschulzi, was detected in extraintestinal tissues utilizing indirect fluorescence. Sections of intestinal and extraintestinal tissues were examined at 3, 8, 42, 72, 96, 120, and 192 hours postinoculation (PI). Eimeria nieschulzi was observed at all intervals in spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, and small intestine (jejunum) but was found only at 72, 96, and 120 hours PI in liver. Although E. nieschulzi was more prevalent in the jejunum, results demonstrated that the coccidian was not restricted to host enterocytes and could be found in extraintestinal tissues.
10.2307/3226729| The pattern of giant nuclei was studied in 300 specimens of Neoechinorhynchus rutili collected from carp, Cyprinus carpio, from the Mcha Lake fishpond system, Czechoslovakia. The giant hypodermal, lemniscal, and cement gland nuclei usually were spheroid or ovoid in prereproductive stages, elongate or lobulated in reproductively active adults, and spheroid in postreproductive adults; the latter stage was rarely encountered. Reproductive activity extends well beyond the season(s) during which gravid females are recovered in the field. Structural changes of giant nuclei were associated with the initiation and retention of the reproductive state of N. rutili. This pattern is similar to that reported for three other species of Neoechinorhynchus and thus may be of common occurrence in neoechinorhynchid acanthocephalans. Moreover, the pattern in N. rutili shows some overlap of stages and abbreviation of the postreproductive stage similar to the pattern of Neoechinorhynchus robertbaueri, which has a short lifespan (2-4 months) in its fish definitive host and a brief reproductive period. 
10.2307/3226665|Populations of freshwater sponges in Adams Pond (Richland County, near Columbia, South Carolina) were sampled 18 times from May 1985 through December 1987. Field observations and samples collected for microscopic analysis were used to describe the life cycle of Spongilla lacustris. Living sponges could be found every month of the year. Gemmulation seemed to occur in the spring, and gemmules were found most frequently in the early summer (May-July). Numerous spermatic cysts and some embryos were present in April; sperm and embryos were numerous and some eggs were present during May. One of the sponges sampled was a hermaphrodite. Some sponges apparently disappeared for a month or two in the summer; gemmules may have served to maintain the sponges throughout the summer, although no samples consisting entirely of gemmules were seen. Gemmule hatching may have occurred in the late summer and fall. Sponge masses were more extensive, as were the components of the flagellated canal system, during the winter and spring.
10.2307/3226666|Asexual reproduction plays an important role in the propagation of Scyphozoa. The rhizostomid Cassiopea xamachana asexually reproduces via the production of free-swimming planuloid buds. These buds arise as evaginations of adult scyphistoma ectoderm, mesoglea, and endoderm. After detaching from the scyphistoma, planuloid buds swim in the water column, and after receiving an appropriate stimulus, metamorphose into a scyphistoma. The process of budding and bud metamorphosis involves five morphologically distinct stages: forming bud, free-swimming planuloid bud, hood, tentacle bud, and young polyp. This study describes, by way of scanning electron microscopy, the internal and external morphology of these metamorphic stages. Results show that bud axial polarity is established before detachment from the scyphistoma; i.e., the distal end of the attached bud will form the stalk of the scyphistoma, but the proximal region of the attached bud will form the head structures of the scyphistoma. Hence, cells comprising the distal end of the bud exhibit adult stalk cell features, although cells comprising the proximal end of the bud exhibit adult head cell characteristics. Bud metamorphosis entails changes in cell shape and overall body shape and does not appear to require massive cellular migration or cellular differentiation.
10.2307/3226667|Rhabdoids and rhabdoid gland cells in Bothromesostoma personatum were studied using transmission electron microscopy. Rhabdoids are formed by gland cells whose bodies lie between the parenchymal cells. Necks containing rhabdoids emerge from the rhabdoid gland cell bodies and extend to the body surface where they release the rhabdoids. The fine structure of both rhabdoid gland cell bodies and necks is described in addition to rhabdoid origin and ultrastructure. Three types of rhabdoid gland cells are distinguished based upon the formation mechanism and ultrastructure of mature rhabdoids. Type I and type III rhabdoids are formed from Golgi-apparatus-derived vesicles. Type II rhabdoids are formed from autophagosomes. These rhabdoids are compared with those of other rhabditophoran species, and, on the basis of their formation mechanism and ultrastructure, they are considered to be true rhabdites. Some considerations on the significance of their ultrastructure for phylogeny in Typhyloplanoida are given tentatively.
10.2307/3226668|Fifty-nine spotted frogs, Rana pretiosa (26 juveniles, 33 adults) from five pond sites in northern Idaho were examined for endoparasites. Halipegus occidualis was found in the eustachian tubes and oral cavity of eight spotted frogs. This finding represents a new host and new state locality for this trematode parasite. H. occidualis was found only in adult frogs (8/33, 24%; 8/59, 14% in all frogs) and occurred in a mean intensity of 4.0. Oral suckers were smaller (0.35 mm vs. 0.47 mm, diameter) than those reported for eastern specimens. The left testis always was anterior to the right. Infections of H. occidualis were from three of the five localities. Two other trematodes, Haematoloechus varioplexus and Haplometrana intestinalis, were found in the lungs and intestinal tracts, respectively. The greatest mean intensity of infection in adult frogs was 16.9 for H. varioplexus. When all frogs were considered, Haplometrana intestinalis was most prevalent (30/59, 51%).
10.2307/3226669|This study of the sessile, tentacle-bearing protozoan, Heliophrya sp. (Ciliophora: Suctoria), employed cytochemical techniques and transmission electron microscopy to examine morphological changes in the macronucleus and micronuclei during successive stages in the life cycle. The single, branched macronucleus of the trophont contains interconnected chromatin bodies, numerous round nucleoli, and discrete nuclear inclusions. By contrast, the small, spherical micronuclei consist almost entirely of thick, fibrous chromatin strands. Major ultrastructural changes occur in the free-swimming, ciliated tomite stage, during which macronuclear chromatin appears fragmented and dispersed. The organization of micronuclear chromatin into large pieces, indicative of mitotic prophase, suggests that mitotic division of micronuclei continues after the tomite emerges from its parent. Following tomite attachment to the substratum, the macronucleus undergoes intense nucleic acid synthesis, growing lengthwise to achieve the branched, trophont pattern. During this period, both chromatin and nucleoli appear as elongated strands, each with its long axis parallel to the direction of macronuclear elongation.
10.2307/3226670|A new species of heliozoa, Pterocystis ebelii, found in the state of Tamil Nadu, India is described using electron microscopy. Two types of siliceous scales are present: spine scale consisting of base-plate with a hollow shaft tapering to a rounded or capitate distal end seated eccentrically in the ovate to circular base-plate that possesses a marginal rim and radiating ribs possessing small papillae; plate scale is curved with thickened median area and a margin of parallel ribs.
10.2307/3226671|Two ciliated protozoa, Balantidium zebrascopi n. sp. and Paracichlidotherus leeuwenhoeki n. gen., n. sp., were isolated from the intestines of the surgeonfish, Zebrasoma scopas. They were fixed in aldehyde and studied by light microscopy after protargol silver staining. Limited scanning and transmission electron microscopic examinations were performed. B. zebrascopi is a short and unusually narrow species with a straight vestibulum and differs significantly from other balantidia found in fish intestines. The form of the new genus Paracichlidotherus is compared with three related genera, Cichlidotherus, Nyctotheroides, and Nyctotherus, with emphasis on somatic kineties, the macronucleus, and a putative anterior thigmotatic structure found in two genera. Paracichlidotherus differs from these nyctotheran genera with respect to several of these features, and its host, a marine herbivorous fish.
10.2307/3226606|Inland waters and coastal marine waters contain a spectrum of complex organic materials, called humic substances, that are formed primarily in soils and reach rivers and lakes by way of runoff. Traditionally, humic substances are separated into three fractions, fulvic acids, humic acids, and humin, which have certain structural similarities but differ in molecular weight and functional group content. Fulvic acid is the least polymerized of the fractions, is highly oxidized, stable, and water-soluble. Humin consists largely of high-molecular-weight colloidal particles. Nonhumic substances are a class of low-molecular-weight organic substances that are formed primarily in water rather than in soils and are derived from degradation of larger humic compounds, from secretion by phytoplankton, and from autolysis of microorganisms. Both humic and nonhumic compounds of less than 700 molecular weight realize 2-6 times the chelation efficacy of the heavier weight fractions. They are more soluble than heavier weight fractions, tend to remain in solution, and contribute much of the yellow stain in waters. We report the results of culture experiments with Ephydatia fluviatilis wherein low-molecular-weight, naturally occurring organic molecules were used as chelators in an effort to establish a culture medium in which chelation was representative of natural waters. Experimental results indicate that various chelators have differential effects on sponge growth rate, and that the total concentration of chelators influences sponge growth rate.
10.2307/3226607|The penis papilla of Dugesia tigrina is a glandulo-muscular organ, conical in shape, and located within the male antrum. The epithelial cells covering the penis papilla are "insunk," but the centrally located ejaculatory duct is lined by a simple cuboidal epithelium. The tissue present between inner and outer epithelium consists mainly of gland cells, although some parenchymal cells can be found. Two layers of muscle cells are seen below the covering epithelium and a protonephridium is a consistent feature found within the papilla. A folded epithelium lines the male antrum. A ring of muscle cells surrounds the inner part of the male antrum and the base of the papilla. All epithelial cells seen in the papilla and antrum display epitheliosomes. During copulation, the papilla is extended in length. The "insunk" basal cell parts of covering epithelial cells move to the surface. Many epitheliosomes disappear, but at the same locations a dense granular material appears in the lateral interepithelial spaces. The lumen of the protonephridial duct remains open, or even may become wider, indicating that the protonephridium may function as a hydrostatic duct with considerable rigidity during copulation. The sperm mass is transported through the ejaculatory duct as a viscous mass. Experiments with different fixatives indicate that the presence of an open ejaculatory duct lumen in the resting stage probably is a fixation artifact. Fixatives with higher osmolarity values always result in a closed duct lumen and decidedly better preservation of cellular details.
10.2307/3226608|Seven key morphological characteristics were used to describe and distinguish three developmental types of plerocercoids of Proteocephalus ambloplitis from the body cavity of Lepomis macrochirus, the body cavity of Micropterus spp., and the gut lumen of Micropterus spp. No single definitive morphological indicator effectively separated plerocercoid types from each other. However, averages of a long series of measurements from individuals of each type identified by host species and site of infection were useful. Informative diagnostic characteristics included plerocercoid length and accessory sucker diameter and its anterior displacement. Differential growth and development of initial and middle plerocercoids when present in various body cavity sites of L. macrochirus and Micropterus spp., appear to affect their length as well as characteristics of some scolex structures.
10.2307/3226609|New anatomical details are provided for the free-living marine nematode, Cricolaimus elongatus, from sediments in the Gulf of Mexico, Bay County, Florida. Three new species of free-living marine nematodes, Diodontolaimus parasabulosus n. sp., Trefusia americana n. sp., and Trefusia spatulata n. sp. are described from non-vegetated sediments from St. Andrew Bay, Bay County, Florida. D. parasabulosus n. sp. differs from Diodontolaimus sabulosus in the shape of the gubernaculum. Trefusia americana n. sp. is the second species of the genus with large, complex, supplement-like sensilla in the cervical region. It is differentiated from the other species with similar cervical structures, Trefusia honessi, in the shape of the spicules and cervical sensilla. Males of Trefusia spatulata n. sp. are most similar to males of Trefusia monodelphis in the presence of a gubernaculum without a lateral piece and in the shape of the spicules and gubernaculum. It differs from T. monodelphis in the absence of three teeth at the anterior end of the buccal cavity and in the presence of two ovaries in the female.
10.2307/3226610|The cephalic regions of 10 nematode species of the family Desmoscolecidae were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). They belonged to two genera, Tricoma and Desmoscolex, which were collected from off the coasts of Japan, Caribbean Sea, Clew Bay (Ireland), and Thailand. The basic structure of the lip region was the same within Tricoma regardless of geographic region, but a distinct intergeneric difference was found. In species of this genus, six conspicuous outer labial sensilla protruded from the smooth lip surface, and the circular ridges corresponding to the boundary of the closed oral aperture, the external rim of the labia, and the anterior rim of the cephalic concretion ring were distinctive. On the other hand, the labial surface of specimens of the genus Desmoscolex was covered by a variety of small, tuberculate structures. These cephalic tubercles were 70-240 nm in diameter and recognizable only by SEM examination. The shape of the cephalic tubercles and the area of the head covered by them were constant within the same species, but differed among species. The labial sensilla were surrounded and obscured by specialized cephalic tubercles in Desmoscolex. The cephalic tubercles were found only in adults of Desmoscolex. These results suggested that the presence of cephalic tubercles is a synapomorphic character of Desmoscolex, and that it is useful for phylogenetic studies of the Desmoscolecidae.
10.2307/3226611|Among the described North American species of the clam shrimp family Limnadiidae, Eulimnadia agassizii is poorly known, having been reported from only two localities in extreme southeastern New England. Though recently reported as nonexistent, the original specimens of this species are in the type collection of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University. Specific data regarding the collection and an emended and expanded description of the type material are provided, using traditional and contemporary characters, to complement recent studies of the group.
10.2307/3226612|This first collection of Copepoda (Crustacea) from fresh waters in the Florida Everglades yielded 13 species: the calanoid Osphranticum labronectum, the cyclopoids Acanthocyclops robustus, Eucyclops bondi, Macrocyclops albidus, Mesocyclops americanus, Microcyclops rubellus, Microcyclops varicans, and Tropocyclops prasinus mexicanus, the harpacticoids Cletocamptus deitersi, Onychocamptus mohammed, and Phyllognathopus viguieri, and two previously unknown species: Thermocyclops parvus, described elsewhere, and Eucyclops conrowae, n. sp., described herein. Eucyclops conrowae is distinguished principally by the posteriorly produced pedigers 2-4, caudal rami 3.5 times longer than broad, median terminal caudal setae with short coarse spiniform setules, antennule reaching posterior margin of pediger 2, leg 4 exopodite article 3 with some setae flanged, and leg 4 endopodite article 3 with lateral and distomedial setae short, sclerotized, and blunt. The neotropical species E. bondi is newly recorded for the United States. Specimens of M. albidus resemble tropical rather than European populations in having short caudal rami. As a result of this collection and additional material examined, the known range of M. americanus is extended from Ontario south to Florida and west to Indiana. The previously unknown male of M. americanus is described from specimens collected in the Everglades. The ornamentation of the anal somite and the relative lengths of the leg 4 endopodite article 2 terminal spines distinguished populations ascribed to M. rubellus and M. varicans. The Everglades copepods, collected from a shallow slough, have few species in common with assemblages reported from mainly planktonic collections in central Florida. Especially diaptomid calanoids, common in central and northern Florida, were absent from the Everglades collection.
10.2307/3226613|The eggs of the mayfly Ephemerella ignita (Ephemeroptera: Ephemerellidae) are characterized by a polar adhesive structure, the epithema. The epithema prevents egg drift following deposition in water by extending a network of threads. Mated females lay an aggregate of eggs that is attached to the last abdominal sternites. Within the aggregate, eggs with differently shaped epithemata are arranged in a well-defined pattern. Three types of eggs were defined by three types of epithemata, namely short, bulging, and long. In addition, histological observations confirmed the thread-like composition of the epithemata and their peculiar arrangement in each type. Short and long epithema egg types differed also by their total lengths. Structural changes in the architecture of the epithemata are discussed in relation to a different function of such devices.
10.2307/3226703|A new species of cyclopoid copepod, Acanthocyclops pennaki, is described from the hyporheic zone of the South Platte River, Colorado, U.S.A. The species differs from congeners by the combined characters of the antennule of 12 articles, lack of the antenna exopodite seta, spine formula 2,3,3,3, setal formula 4,4,4,4, caudal ramus without hairs on the medial surface, lateral terminal spine of the leg 4 endopodite article 3 slightly shorter than the medial terminal spine, and leg 4 endopodite article 3, 1.8-2.2 times longer than broad. Acanthocyclops plattensis is a junior synonym of A. vernalis.
10.2307/3226704|The generic diagnosis of Schilbetrema is emended to include information on internal organ systems and haptoral and copulatory structures; 10 species, 4 new, of the genus are reported from schilbeid fishes of Togo, Africa: S. quadricornis, S. acornis, S. aegyptica, S. calamocleithrum n. sp., S. undinula n. sp., and S. vacillans n. sp., all from Schilbe intermedius; and S. hexacornis, S. eutropii, S. spirocirra, and S. torula n. sp., from Schilbe mystus. New species are based primarily on comparative morphology of haptoral and copulatory sclerites and on features of the reproductive system. Schilbetrema eutropii is raised from subspecific to specific rank. Haptoral sclerites of all previously described species are figured based on type specimens. Schilbetrema quadricornis schilbae is considered a junior objective synonym of S. q. quadricornis. Syntypes indicate that S. bicornis (considered species inquirenda) is based on specimens of more than one species.
10.2307/3226705|Seventy-one specimens of Oochoristica islandensis n. sp. were recovered from the small intestine of 11 of 21 (52%) preserved specimens of the island night lizard, Xantusia riversiana, from San Clemente Island, California, U.S.A. Prevalence of infection was 52%, mean intensity 6.5 (range 1-44). This new species represents the fourteenth species of Oochoristica described from North America and the eighth species known to infect North American lizards.
10.2307/3226706| The occurrence of Nosema sp. (Microsporida: Nosematidae) in cells in several tissues in the abdomen of the parasitic wasp, Pediobius foveolatus (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae), is described from light and electron microscopy of thin and ultrathin sections. Infected wasps showed no outward signs of infection. The ultrastructural features of the sporonts and immature spores indicate the designation Nosema sp. (probably N. varivestis). The nuclei of the sporonts and immature spores are diplokaryotic, and the microsporidia develop directly in the host cell cytoplasm. Adipose tissue, intrinsic midgut muscle, gut epithelium, Malpighian tubules, and egg cells all are invaded by the microsporidia. The spores are ovocylindrical and measure about 2.0 x 4.5 m. They contain a polar tube with 17-19 coils. The plasmalemma of the sporonts is coated with a thin layer (about 200 nm) of electron-dense material interrupted by electron-lucent vesicles or tubules. The coating material gives rise to strands, individual or chains of granules or tubules, and larger clumps of electron-dense material. Microsporidia are noted intranuclearly in cells of the visceral muscle. 
10.2307/3226707|Transmission electron microscopy was used to examine the organization of the cytoskeletal components of 0.5% Triton X-100-treated cells of Frontonia leucas. The study revealed structural continuity of different microfibrillar and microtubular nets in the oral region and in the postoral suture zone with the somatic cortex.
10.2307/3226708|The benthic diatom flora of Mono Lake is described from samples taken from three localities at depths of approximately 1, 5, and 10 meters on rock and sediment substrates. Relative abundances of 30 taxa were recorded from duplicate counts of 500 valves from each of 18 samples. Dominant taxa included Navicula crucialis, Nitzschia frustulum, N. latens, N. reimerii sp. nov., N. monoensis, sp. nov. and Anomoeoneis sphaerophora var. minor var. nov.; taxonomy, morphology, and distribution of these taxa are considered. Navicula crucialis, previously recorded from saline lakes in North Africa and highly variable in outline, was most abundant in sediment samples. Anomoeoneis sphaerophora var. minor, Nitzschia reimeri, and N. monoensis were most abundant in deeper waters whereas both N. latens and N. frustulum occurred most frequently in collections from shallow waters. Smaller individuals of N. latens were broader than larger specimens, and some N. frustulum cells resembled N. austriaca. Nitzschia monoensis has numerous girdle bands and prominent external distal raphe ends. Navicula crucialis, A. sphaerophora var. minor, and Nitzschia monoensis were observed with internal valves.
10.2307/3226709|An alkaline solution of azure II and methylene blue has been used successfully on glycol methacrylate sections. Brilliant staining is achieved by treating large, semithin sections with the working solution (0.5% azure II, 0.5% methylene blue, and 0.25% sodium borate) for 60-90 sec at ambient temperature. The sections, with or without counterstaining, are suitable for both black-and-white and color photomicrography; they are particularly useful for surveying large specimens and for reconstructing three-dimensional relationships of organs, tissues, and cells. After staining with azure II and methylene blue, the images of glycol methacrylate sections are virtually indistinguishable from those of epoxy resin sections.
10.2307/3226710|Recent studies on marine protozoa in planktonic ecosystems have focused primarily on taxonomy of ciliates and flagellates and their role in aquatic food webs. Comparable studies of marine amoebae however, have received considerably less attention. The present investigation was carried out in the coastal waters of Sapelo Island, Georgia to obtain a data base and to assess the diversity of genera and species of marine amoebae in the nearshore waters of the southeastern United States. Twenty-nine species, representing 15 genera of marine amoebae, were identified from Georgia coastal surface waters. Paramoeba aestuarina, Platyamoeba langae, Clydonella vivax, Vannella mira, and Mayorella gemmifera, were the most common species observed in culture.
10.2307/3226711| Isospora sagittulae n. sp. is a coccidian parasite here described from the fecal contents of three of three (100%) spotted antbirds (Hylophylax naevioides) collected in rain forests of northwestern Ecuador. Oocysts of I. sagittulae are ovoid to ellipsoid, 27.5 x 21.8 (25-30 x 21-24) m, colorless, with a smooth, double-layered wall; shape index (length/width) is 1.27 (1.2-1.4). A micropyle and oocyst residuum are absent, but the oocyst contains 1-3 (usually 2-3) polar bodies. Sporocysts are subspherical to ovoid, 14.8 x 12.4 (13-16 x 12-13) m, with a smooth, single-layered wall, a thin, dense Stieda body, and an arrow-head or triangular-shaped substieda body that protrudes into the Stieda body; shape index is 1.19 (1.1-1.3). Sporozoites have one prominent ovoid, posterior refractile body and a small, ovoid centrally located nucleus; they appear to be stuffed randomly among scattered residuum in the sporocyst. Several unidentified tapeworm onchospheres also were found in one of the fecal samples. 
10.2307/3226777|The functional morphology of the neodermata digestive system is compared with that of rhabdocoel turbellarians. This approach is predicated on the premise that the parasitic flatworms evolved from the rhabdocoel branch. The rhabdocoels, and turbellarians in general, display a greater diversity in the structure and function of their digestive systems than do the parasitic worms. The digestive systems of most flatworms are comprised of two regions, foregut and cecum, the latter ending blindly. The foregut region is the most specialized region of the digestive system and is primarily responsible for the processing of exogenous food prior to the digestive and absorptive processes that occur in the cecal region. Most rhabdocoels and monogeneans digest food intracellularly. Rhabdocoels usually display a limited degree of extracellular digestive capacity. The digeneans constitute the only group in which digestion occurs extracellularly. Because of the limited number of studies, the question of intracellular vs. extracellular digestion in the aspidogastreans remains controversial.
10.2307/3226778|In flatworms, excretion is accomplished by the epithelial lining of the gut, by the body wall, by exocytosis of vesicles, and by protonephridia. Osmoregulation in flatworms has not been demonstrated conclusively, but is thought to take place in the protonephridia. There are two types of protonephridia described from flatworms, a single-cell type (composed of a blindly ending tube of cytoplasm) and a two-cell type (composed of a terminal cell that interdigitates with a proximal tubule cell). Numerous structures associated with the protonephridium have been used to study phylogenetic relationships among the flatworms. The Catenulida are the only flatworms that have an unpaired protonephridial system and a unique terminal cell type. The Macrostomida and the Proseriata have a two-cell protonephridium with processes from the terminal cell external to those of the proximal tubule cell. The Prolecithophora, Lecithoepitheliata, Typhloplanoida, Kalyptorhyncha, Dalyellioida, Temnocephala, and Tricladida have a single-cell protonephridium. The Neodermata also have a two-cell protonephridium, but the processes from the terminal cell are internal to those of the proximal tubule cell. Based on protonephridial characteristics, the Neodermata appear to be more closely related to the Macrostomida and the Proseriata than to the Rhabdocoela and the Lecithoepitheliata.
10.2307/3226779|The roles of oocytes, yolk cells, and female accessory glands in formation of egg capsules are compared among the major taxa of flatworms. The lack of extracellular coats around oocytes prior to capsule formation is seen to be of special functional significance in that it permits the incorporation of multiple cells per egg capsule. In archoophoran flatworms, oocyte cortical granules and accessory gland secretions provide precursors for the capsule wall. In most neoophorans, the role of oocyte cortical granules is taken over by shell-forming granules in yolk cells. In at least some neoophorans, however, oocyte cortical granules appear to have retained a role in production of hatching sutures. New ultrastructural evidence is presented to document that hatching sutures in capsules of neoophoran turbellarians self-assemble as a result of physical and/or chemical interactions between cementum precursors, presumably derived from cortical granules of oocytes, and wall precursors from shell-forming granules of yolk cells.
10.2307/3226780|Nine colubrid snakes including six Mimophis mahfalensis and one each of Mimophis madagascariensis, Dromicodrys bernieri, and Liophidium vaillanti from Madagascar were collected and examined for helminths. The following parasites were found: Oochoristica crassiceps (Cestoidea), Ophidascaris sp. (Nematoda), acanthocephalan cystacanths, and Raillietiella belohaensis n. sp. (Pentastomida) in Mimophis mahfalensis, and Kalicephalus (Variabiliformis) viperae (Nematoda) and Raillietiella madagascariensis n. sp. (Pentastomida) in Liophidium vaillanti. The two new raillietiellids appear to be most closely related to Raillietiella ampanihyensis from Malagasy colubrids, but can be differentiated readily on the basis of hook and spicule sizes. Both new species may be distinguished from the only other previously described raillietiellid from Madagascar, Raillietiella chamaeleonis from chameleons, by having more annuli. Further, the two new species are different from all other known snake raillietiellids from other zoogeographical areas.
10.2307/3226781|Chemotactic responses of Acanthamoeba castellanii to bacteria, several representative bacterial products, and chemotactic peptides were studied by following migration of amebas under agar. Amebas showed a positive chemotactic response to all bacterial species tested, even to those which were not ingested by amebas because of toxic pigments. Lipopolysaccharide and lipoteichoic acid, components of the outer membrane and cell wall, respectively, of Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, evoked a neutral response from the amebas indicating that they are not attractants. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate, either as a bacterial product or as a pure compound was not an attractant. The chemotactic peptide formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine served as an attractant, but the antagonist peptides N-t-boc-norleucyl-leucyl-phenylalanine and N-t-boc-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine did not. Amebas respond to these chemical stimuli, probably by means of membrane receptors.
10.2307/3226782|Lagenophrys crutchfieldi n. sp., a loricate peritrich, is an ectocommensal on two species of the marine amphipod genus Parhyale and becomes one of the few species in its genus known to occur on marine hosts. Differences in the distribution of L. crutchfieldi on the bodies of its two hosts may be linked to a difference in the force of their respiratory currents, which carry food particles to the ciliates. L. crutchfieldi is one of a small group of species in its genus hosted by talitroid amphipods, but there is no indication that members of this group have a close phylogenetic relationship.
10.2307/3226783|Gloeodinium montanum forms motile cells identical to Hemidinium nasutum. The cells of Hemidinium may act as gametes or zoospores. Fusion takes place during the dark phase of the light-dark cycle. The resulting zygote encysts as the Gloeodinium stage within 24 hours. It enlarges tremendously and divides; the division is thought to be meiotic.
10.2307/3226784|The presence of the pathogenic protozoan Haplosporidium nelsoni is documented for the first time in the American oyster, Crassostrea virginica, from South Carolina, U.S.A.
10.2307/3226786|The effectiveness of vital staining for assessing lethal and sublethal responses of juvenile mussels was examined. Neutral red was used to quantify survival of juvenile Villosa iris and Anodonta grandis after exposures to aqueous copper in 24-hour static bioassays. Live juveniles readily incorporated the stain, but dead individuals did not. Variation in stain intensity was associated with behavioral responses, permitting diagnosis of alive, dead, and sublethal responses of juvenile V. iris. The amber coloration of juvenile A. grandis prevented detection of variations in stain intensity, thus allowing only living-versus-dead determinations to be made.
10.2307/3226787|A two-component silicone rubber kit makes possible the fabrication of custom embedding molds for use with epoxy resins. The kit contains a base material and a curing agent, which are combined by weight, degassed under vacuum (if necessary), and poured into the reservoir of a cast. The silicone rubber mixture cures within 24 hours at room temperature, producing a strong mold that is both flexible and tear-resistant. A three-piece aluminum cast, especially designed for mold-making, consists of a frame surrounding the template that rests on the wings of a platform and forms a reservoir to hold the silicone rubber mixture.
10.2307/3226821|"HVEM-3D" software has been used to reconstruct the three-dimensional appearance of vertebrate embryos from thick histological sections. Owing to the value of such reconstructions in embryology teaching laboratories and to the growing popularity of computer-assisted instruction in the life sciences generally, we have endeavored to assemble a reliable and versatile system, but one with austere requirements for hardware and software. Output may be viewed on an EGA-compatible color monitor, as 35-mm color transparencies, or as black-and-white hardcopy generated by laser printer.
10.2307/3226822|We used scanning and transmission electron microscopy to investigate the structure of the membrane skeleton of Vorticella convallaria in whole cells and cytoskeletons prepared by treatment with Triton X-100 or saponins/glycerol. Both contracted and relaxed cells were examined. Beneath the membrane system, the cell surface is covered by two paracrystalline layers, the outer one of which defines the structure of the pellicular ridges. Beneath these layers is a meshwork of fibers that lies over somatic myonemes. At the center of each ridde is a dense fiber tethered between the two paracrystalline layers by smaller fibrils. At the apex of each ridge is a coiled fiber that appears to lace adjacent alveolar sacs to the ridge. The position and nature of the dense fiber and the coiled fiber makes them likely structures for maintaining structural integrity of the ridges during changes in their length and amplitude caused by contraction of the live cell. Apparently, the outer paracrystalline lattice is firmly bound to the overlying membrane system by structural elements that may extend inward from the plasma membrane. Perhaps the membrane skeleton is elastic and maintains the structural integrity of Vorticella by resisting deformation during the rapid and massive contractions typical of this genus.
10.2307/3226824|Trophomermis itascensis n. gen., n. sp. is described from chironomid imagos of Tanytarsus neoflavellus and Ablabesmyia (Karelia) illinoensis emerging from Lake Itasca, Minnesota, U.S.A. The genus is distinguished on the basis of being tetrapapillate, unispiculate, and hexacordal, and in having an acute posterior terminus and a straight diagonally directed vagina. Additionally, the new genus lacks a cross-fiber layer in the cuticle and has a terminal mouth and a long buccal funnel. The amphidal openings are posterior to the small cephalic papillae. No larval horn is present. The trophosome is unusual in that it abuts against the nerve ring and sometimes extends anterior to the nerve ring. In the male, the trophosome extends posteriorly beyond the genital pore as a separated unit. Information also is provided on bionomics and variants observed.
10.2307/3226825|June 1988-1992 collections of imagos of Chironomus plumosus, Chironomus tentans, and Chironomus atroviridis from Lake Itasca (Clearwater County), Minnesota, U.S.A., yielded two new species of post-parasitic mermithid nematodes in the genus Strelkovimermis. The hemocoelic nematode species from the first two hosts is described as Strelkovimermis itascensis n. sp. and from the third host, Strelkovimermis atroviridis n. sp. A long buccal funnel and an acute posterior terminus separate S. itascensis from the other seven species in the genus. A rounded posterior terminus, lack of a neck constriction, vagina with long terminal limbs, and spicules that lack terminal spines distinguish S. atroviridis. The six previously described species in this genus were reported from Russia, Argentina and southwestern Louisiana, U.S.A. S. itascensis resembles S. singularis most closely, and S. atroviridis most closely resembles S. viridis. The length of the buccal funnel is suggested as a useful diagnostic characteristic in mermithid nematodes.
10.2307/3226827|A new tardigrade species, Hypsibius roanensis, is described from epiphytic mosses and lichens on beech trees on Roan Mountain, Tennessee. It differs from other species of the genus by the presence of a sculptured cuticle with irregular tubercles that increase in size caudally. The buccopharyngeal apparatus consists of a narrow buccal tube, well-developed apophyses, and a spherical pharynx with two granular macroplacoids.
10.2307/3226828|Hosts for the glochidia of Alasmidonta atropurpurea were identified through examination of fish collected from the vicinity of mussel beds and by laboratory-induced infestations of fish. Five species of cypriniform and perciform fish collected during March 1990 harbored glochidia of A. atropurpurea. However, only on Hypentelium nigricans did glochidia occur consistently or were encysted. Of 12 fish species known to occur sympatrically with A. atropurpurea, induced infestations of glochidia resulted in the metamorphosis of juvenile mussels only on H. nigricans, confirming its role as a host.
10.2307/3226829| The saccharidal constituents of the surfaces of hemocytes of the American oyster, Crassostrea virginica, from Apalachicola Bay, Florida, and Galveston Bay, Texas, were determined by employing eight lectins with known sugar specificities (Con A, Tetragonolobus purpureas, Limulus polyphemus, Dilichos biflorus, Sambucas nigra, Glycine max, Triticum vulgaris, and Lathyrus odoratus). Known inhibiting sugar residues were used to inhibit clumping of lectin-treated oyster hemocytes. As a result, the following saccharides were demonstrated to occur on oyster hemocytes: N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, N-acetyl-D-galactosamine, methyl--D-mannopyranoside, D(+)-glucose, sucrose, D(+)mannose, -methyl-D-galactoside, -D(-)-fructose, L(-)-fucose, N-acetylneuraminic acid, and D(+)-galactose. In addition, D-glucuronic acid occurred only on oyster cells from Apalachicola Bay and an unidentified sugar that binds to the L. odoratus lectin that is neither D(+)-glucose nor D(+)-mannose, the usual inhibiting sugars, occurs on hemocytes from both Apalachicola and Galveston Bays. Quantitative and qualitative differences in the saccharidal constituents on the surfaces of hemocytes from oysters from the two collecting sites are attributed to strain differences. 
10.2307/3226830|The starfish Henricia sanguinolenta possesses complex organs (Tiedemann's diverticula), to connect its stomach with its five radiating pairs of digestive glands. In these, apposing layers of tissue adhere to form a series of oblique seams that delineate about 30 parallel ciliated channels. The resulting structure forms a highly effective ciliary pump that enables the animal to feed on suspended particles. The adhesion seams are developed from the apical juxtaposition of unique epithelial cells that possess interfolding groups of microvilli and desmosomes. Near the adhesion, the cells are strengthened with abundant microtubules and microfilaments. These extend from an adjacent cytoplasmic region packed with vesicles. Basal to that is a nuclear area connected by long, thin cytoplasmic stalks to the basement membrane. The compressed stalks provide space for adjacent mucous cells, which by this arrangement interfere little with the current-producing ciliated cells that line the channels. Basally, the seam cells spread out among nerve fibers and attack strongly to an underlying basal lamina that merges with a thin layer of collagenous connective tissue. Outside of the connective-tissue layer is peritoneum, consisting of monociliated myoepithelial cells with scattered microvilli facing the coelomic cavity.
10.2307/3226831|Tortaguttus stiloensis, a new species of benthic unilocular foraminifera of the suborder Lagenina, is described from Middle Pleistocene marine sediments of Calabria, Italy. This species is characterized by radiating elevated costae on the surface of a double marginal carinae connected by numerous cross-struts. Previously known occurrences of Tortaguttus are restricted to the Pacific rim. However, the occurrence of Tortaguttus stiloensis in the Mediteranean region indicates that this genus is cosmopolitan in neritic-depth waters. The widespread distribution of species referable to Tortaguttus so soon after its appearance in the Quaternary indicates either a highly efficient dispersal mechanism or that the genus has a much longer and yet unrecorded fossil record.
10.2307/3226677|The interstitial meiofaunas of two small rivers in southern Ontario, Canada were examined in cores taken along transects through their beds. Analyses of interstitial water revealed chemical discontinuities associated with the river margins; these discontinuities were deemed to represent the groundwater-hyporheic water interface. A classification analysis (TWINSPAN) showed that at Duffin Creek, tardigrades, mesostigmatid and oribatid mites, and enchytraeid worms occurred primarily in groundwater beneath the bank, whereas naidid and tubificid oligochaetes, prostigmatid mites, ostracods, and microturbellarians were more abundant on the hyporheic side of the interface. Nematodes and rotifers spanned the transect. In the Rouge River, enchytraeid worms, ascid mites, and Mononchus sp. (Nematoda) occurred on the groundwater side of the interface, whereas rotifers, naidid and tubificid worms, microturbellarians, tardigrades, lebertiid mites, and other nematodes were more common in the hyporheic zone. Ostracods spanned the transect. There were relatively few species common to the interstices of these two rivers; however, the cyclopoid copepod Diacyclops crassicaudis brachycercus was restricted to the hyporheic zones of both. The distributions of a few taxa were correlated with interstitial water chemistry.
10.2307/3226678|The testis of the sipunculan Phascolion cryptum extends as a narrow fringe of tissue along the base of the retractor muscle to the ventral nerve cord. Composed of groups of spermatogonia, it is, for the most part, covered by peritoneal cells. Clusters of germ cells are released from the testis into the coelomic fluid; the earliest stages in the coelom appear to be spermatocytes. Connected by intercellular bridges, the spermatocytes develop synchronously within a cluster. Proacrosomal vesicles, produced by several Golgi complexes, appear in primary spermatocytes. Also occurring as floating, synchronously developing clusters, the spermatids retain the intercellular connections. During spermiogenesis, the acrosomal vesicle, formed by a coalescence of small proacrosomal vesicles in the basal part of the spermatid, migrates to the apical part of the cell to complete the formation of the acrosome. Small mitochondria apparently unite to form the four or five large mitochondria of the midpiece of the mature sperm. The distal centriole has a pericentriolar complex consisting of nine radially oriented elements; it forms the basal body of the tail, which has a standard arrangement of axonemal microtubules (9 + 2). The structure of the fully formed spermatozoon is typical of the "primitive" type of sperm that has been noted previously for several species of sipunculans and some other marine invertebrates with external fertilization.
10.2307/3226679|The ultrastructure of the body wall of Neoechinorhynchus cylindratus is described for the first time. It is similar to that of Octospinifer macilentus, the only other eoacanthocephalan studied, and not significantly different from that of Archiacanthocephala and Palaeacanthocephala. The longitudinal muscle layer in juveniles characteristically contains ovoid giant nuclei that, in fertilized worms, become associated with spheroid structures provisionally termed membrane-forming bodies. The latter are comparable to the wall-forming bodies of other biological systems. The spheroid double membrane-bounded bodies are highly osmiophilic initially, probably of glycoprotein/Golgi origin, that granulate subsequently and then degranulate as they appear to form the expanded elongate-lobulated giant subcuticular nuclei characteristic of mature adults. The process of nuclear membrane formation is similar to that described in post-fertilization stages of many species of coccidians, e.g., Eimeria truncata and Eimeria nieschulzi, as well as in some mammalian systems such as rat bladder. The highly enfolded fenestrated giant nuclear membrane in young fertilized females of N. cylindratus may have a secretory function related to physiological processes involving the production of sex cells.
10.2307/3226680|Serum analytes of adult laboratory-raised cotton rats, Sigmodon hispidus, infected with Parastrongylus costaricensis were compared with those of age- and sex-matched control animals. Parasitism produced significant long- and short-term changes in some analytes. Long-term changes included reductions in levels of sodium, chloride, creatinine, triglycerides, and calcium as well as elevation of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels that occurred during the first 32 days of the infection. Short-term changes were correlated to specific developmental stages of the life cycle of the parasite. Thus, immediately after infection (when the third-stage larvae occur in mesenteric lymph nodes and vessels), an increase occurred in the levels of bilirubin, globulins, and proteins. As young juvenile worms matured in the mesenteric vasculature, globulin levels had a tendency to rise, and the elevation became significant at day 16. Egg laying was accompanied by decreases in levels of alkaline phosphatase (AP) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). Hatching of eggs and passage of first-stage larvae through gut tissues had the most profound effect. At day 24, a dynamic decrease occurred in LDH, ALT, and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) while a downward drift in AP occurred. An electrolyte disturbance occurred in which potassium (K
10.2307/3226681|Gyrodactylus catesbeianae n. sp. is described from bullfrog tadpoles of Rana catesbeiana from Stony Creek, Glenn County, in northern California. The new species differs from its nearest relative, G. stunkardi, by having a larger anchor complex and differing shield morphology.
10.2307/3226682|Histopathology of an acute skin infestation by mites (Hirstiella sp.) is described in a captive Yarrow's spiny lizard, Sceloporus jarrovii. The lesions consisted of an acute diffuse dermatitis. The granulomas and epithelial hyperplasia that characterize the chronic inflammation we observed in lizard species naturally infected with other ectoparasites were not present. Factors that contributed to the acute course of this animal's disease include blood loss along with probable weakness from the stress of captivity.
10.2307/3226561|The parenchyma of flatworms consists of a variety of mesenchymal cell types embedded in their associated extracellular matrices (ECM). As acoelomates, the flatworms are defined partially by this parenchyma; yet, it has not been studied as much as this fact warrants. From the limited data available, the parenchyma cells are known to include myocytes and neoblasts, as well as numerous types of specialized cells, most of which have unknown functions. The cells often are attached to each other and to their neighboring epithelial cells and ECM by intercellular junctions, most of which are gap junctions and hemidesmosomes. Flatworm ECM may be divided generally into basal and interstitial matrices, but there is considerable overlap and variation within and between the two. Substantial structural diversity exists among parenchyma cells and ECM in different species, developmental stages, and anatomical regions. Some of this diversity has apparent phylogenetic significance, but comparative data from which to draw many meaningful conclusions are too few. Depending on the species, parenchyma may function in providing skeletal support, nutrient storage, motility, reserves of regenerative cells, transport of materials, structural interactions with other tissues, modifiable tissue for morphogenesis, oxygen storage, and perhaps other functions that have yet to be determined.
10.2307/3226562|Rediscovery of type material of two poorly known eastern Canadian freshwater sponges, Eunapius mackayi and Spongilla johanseni, enabled reassessment of their taxonomic relationships to each other and to Eunapius igloviformis. The three species share a suite of common features, including two separate classes of spiny megascleres, gemmules occurring in distinct basal clusters, and gemmule foramina directed toward the substrate. Together, they constitute a single species which is known only from the eastern half of North America and which by priority is referred to spongilla mackayi. New information on characters of the species is incompatible with its most recent assignment to Eunapius. A new genus, Duosclera, is erected to accommodate it.
10.2307/3226563|The epidermis of two species of phoronids, Phoronis australis and Phoronis hippocrepia, was studied using transmission electron microscopy and histochemical techniques. Results were compared with information available for Phoronis psammophila. The epidermis of each of the three species is similar with respect to certain cell types, namely supporting cells, fine-granule-containing cells, and four types of gland cells. These species differ, however, in abundance and distribution of each cell type. Differences may be related to different degrees of lubrication produced in various kinds of habitats (epifaunal, rocky, and sandy habitats). On the other hand, these differences may be related to burrowing activities in the three kinds of substrates. We conclude that possible correlations among structural patterns of the epidermis and various habitats primarily involve the relative abundance and distribution of gland-cell types along the trunk and ampulla.
10.2307/3226564| Effects of temperature and cellular size on the interval between contractions (CIs) of the contractile vacuole (CV) of Tetrahymena pigmentosa were determined. The CIs were measured for periods between initiation of contractions by timing the microscopically observed contractile events with the aide of a microcomputer. Concurrently, the temperature at each contractile event and the cellular dimensions also were measured. The CI events were periodic (with a period of five contractions in the representative data subset) and oscillate about a mean. The runs test found the number of runs above and below the median to differ significantly (P < 0.0062) from that expected by chance in all tested data subsets. Autocorrelation and SARIMA techniques demonstrated periodicity (suggesting regulation) of the CI. A functional model for control of CV periodicity also is proposed. The CI varied significantly (P < 0.00001) and inversely relative to temperature. The CI also varied significantly and directly with cellular size. However, these relationships did not exist throughout the tested range of temperatures and cellular sizes. Apparently, within varying sized cells of this single species, cellular geometry constrained the CI. At lower temperatures (23-24C), the CI was not directly related to temperature, but regressed according to a second order distribution. Post-hoc comparison of CI values from smaller, mid-sized, and larger cells at 24C found significant differences among cell volumes (P = 0.0311 to P < 0.00001). At the lower temperature range (~23-24C), small cells with a low surface/volume ratio (reduced water influx) had longer CI values. At the same temperature, intermediate-sized cells (larger surface/volume ratio) had a shorter CI. Relatively, larger cells (having more internal space to accommodate a larger CV with greater output volume) had a longer CI. The CI values also varied significantly (P < 0.00001) over the range of unique cell volume-temperature combinations (covariance). 
10.2307/3226565|The radioprotective effects of a thrombocytopoiesis-stimulating factor (TSF or thrombopoietin) on bone marrow megakaryocytes were studied earlier, but splenic megakaryocytes have not been examined. Therefore, the work reported here was undertaken to determine the effects of TSF on splenic megakaryocyte size and number in mice exposed to 3.0 Gy of
10.2307/3226566| We compared direct epifluorescent microscopic bacterial counts using either acridine orange [AO; 3,6-bis(dimethylamino)acridinium chloride] or DAPI (4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) in the presence and absence of fine sediments. Differences in a time-series of population estimates obtained using either AO or DAPI direct-count methods were greater in sediment-amended cultures. In the presence of sediments, DAPI yielded significantly lower estimates of bacterial densities than AO. A sediment-addition experiment indicated that DAPI counts may be more sensitive to sediment presence than AO counts, although interaction between treatments (stain, sediment) clouds statistical interpretation. Variation between replicate cultures was greater than between subsamples of preserved combined samples. Mean differences attributable to choice of stain may be as great as differences attributable to potential masking effects of sediments. Despite culture variability, DAPI and AO methods yielded count estimates agreeing within an order of magnitude. Greater correspondence between counts was observed for turbid natural water samples spanning a more limited range of bacterial concentrations. 
10.2307/3226567|Two laboratory New Zealand white rabbits were inoculated with formalized suspensions of Naegleria fowleri. An agglutination method using methylene blue-stained N. fowleri and N. lovaniensis was used to determine if antibodies were produced by the two rabbits and at what titers. Blue-clumped amoebae were observed at 100x. A titer of 1:512 was produced against both species in one rabbit, and in the second rabbit a titer of 1:512 and 1:256 was found to N. fowleri and N. lovaniensis, respectively. Serum from animals inoculated with N. fowleri agglutinated both N. fowleri and N. lovaniensis, also a thermophilic, although non-pathogenic, species. Persons with limited training can use this procedure to determine whether antibodies to species of Naegleria occur in serum samples.
10.2307/3226574|Cura foremanii displays two ovaries, located in the head region. Maturing oocytes extrude vesicles from their nuclei into the surrounding cytoplasm and display large vesicles containing paracrystalline aggregates at the cell periphery. The morphology of these aggregates is identical to yolk globules seen in other triclad species wherein they are produced in association with the Golgi apparatus. Two ovovitelline ducts are present in C. foremanii. Both unite into a single common duct that enters the dorsal aspect of the female antrum. No yolk-funnel cells are associated with the ducts. Epithelial cells that line the duct lumen contain rod-shaped inclusions that resemble those seen earlier in Dugesia tigrina. The lining epithelium is insunk when no or few spermatozoa are present. It changes to a cuboidal condition when the lumen is enlarged by the passage of large numbers of spermatozoa. The penis papilla displays an inner ring of muscle cells that are closely apposed to the epithelium that lines the ejaculatory duct. A second ring of muscle cells is located beneath the covering epithelium. No protonephridium is present in the penis papilla. The presence of spermatozoa in all ducts of the male and female reproductive systems suggests continuous leakage of spermatozoa from the penis papilla. To date, sperm resorption has been observed in the penis papilla, bursa canal, seminal receptacle, and closing epithelium. Our observations suggest that dense ciliation of epithelial cells prevents sperm resorption.
10.2307/3226575|The first paucitubulatine chaetonotid gastrotrichs are reported from the Gulf of Mexico. Chaetonotus triacanthus n. sp. and Heteroxenotrichula texana n. sp. are described from sandy sediment collected along the northern part of Padre Island, Texas, U.S.A. C. triacanthus is characterized by short lamella-bearing spines on the dorsal side of head and neck, three long spines on the dorsal posterior end, and a pair of three-keeled scales on the furcal base. C. texana belongs to the "subterranea"-species group, and is characterized by pedunculated scales that cover the posterior half of the ventral surface.
10.2307/3226576|The morphological features of a species of the genus Diophrys are described with special reference to ciliature and infraciliature. These characteristics consist of: (1) the oral ciliature composed of an adoral zone of organelles and a paroral formation, and (2) the frontal, ventral, left marginal, transverse, and caudal cirri. A biometric analysis was carried out taking into account 31 morphological features; these included: (1) body size and nuclear apparatus components; (2) size of the oral ciliature structures; (3) size of the different cirri; (4) relative distances between the transverse cirri and the poles; and (5) the length of cilia beyond the infraciliature. Comparisons were made with other species of the genus, taking into account 11 structural variables. The present paper: (1) defines the morphological characteristics of populations of D. appendiculata by completing descriptions of certain infraciliature structures, supplementing data of earlier studies by way of biometric analysis, and providing, by means of a morphometric survey, an assemblage of statistically treated data that may be used to make taxonomic determinations with greater precision.
10.2307/3226577|We describe the ultrastructure of the envelope covering each cystacanth of Acanthocephalus clavula within the hemocoel of naturally infected amphipods, Echinogammarus stammeri, from the River Brenta (northern Italy). A fully developed larva of this acanthocephalan occupies a large portion of the host's hemocoel. The envelope bounding the parasite maintains intimate contact with the internal organs and hemocytes of the host. Intact amphipod hemocytes, as well as cells in varying degrees of degeneration, mainly on the outermost edge of the envelope of A. clavula, were observed. No melanized larvae of A. clavula were seen within the hemocoel. This envelope apparently protects the developing acanthocephalan larva from cellular responses of the host. The present paper reports light and transmission electron microscopical observations on this transparent acellular envelope surrounding the cystacanth of A. clavula. In the interface region of the parasite envelope with hemocytes of E. stammeri, cells were found adherent to the outer surface of the larval envelope and also between the inner edge of the envelope and parasite tegument.
10.2307/3226578|Transmission electron microscopy was used to determine the organization and fine structure of the gastrodermis of two species of Gyrodactylus. The gastrodermis consists of a syncytial epithelium characterized by large widely spaced nuclei, two types of vesicular structures, mitochondria with tubular cristae, Golgi complexes, and scattered rough endoplasmic reticulum; the luminal surface possesses few widely spaced, branched lamellae projecting into the intestinal lumen. Organization of the gastrodermis in the Monogenoidea is discussed; the syncytial gastrodermis is considered to be a possible synapomorphic feature of the Gyrodactylidea.
10.2307/3226579| The occurrence of ferritin crystals in abdominal fat cells and thoracic muscle and fat cells of the parasitic wasp Pediobius foveolatus (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae) is described based on transmission electron microscopy of ultrathin sections. This is the first report of crystals in a wasp and in the muscle of any insect. Ferritin crystals were seen only in rough endoplasmic reticulum cisternae of the vacuolar system and, rarely, in the cytosol. The crystal pattern of occurrence varies from crystals present in every cisterna of a group of cisternae, to crystals in alternating cisternae in a group. Crystals show some tendency to appear in cisternae near fat globules. The length of crystal rods or plates was 0.2-5.0 m. The diameters of individual ferritin particles in crystals were about 7.8-14.7 nm. With the exception of the length of the shortest rods, which are much shorter than reported in the literature, these dimensions are in close agreement with dimensions appearing in the literature. 
10.2307/3226580|Cytological and frustular details of Didymosphenia geminata were studied using transmission electron microscopy of ultrathin sections. The diatotepum is evident as a darkly staining layer against the inner cell wall, especially between costae and at the foot pole. The raphe of D. geminata is seen to be shaped like a question-mark in transverse section. Electron micrographs of the chromatophore and pyrenoid show the number of thylakoids in each to be three and two, respectively. Other features revealed include the nucleus, the mitochondria, Golgi apparatus, polyphosphate bodies, lipid bodies, lipid droplets, the silicalemma, and the silica deposition vesicles. The distribution of cell organelles also was clarified. Sections of cells revealed a ventral nucleus and dorsal chromatophore and pyrenoid. The relative positions of the nucleus, pyrenoid, and chromatophore as well as the appearance of the diatotepum indicate that Didymosphenia geminata is more cymbelloid-like than gomphonemoid-like. Observations of these cytoplasmic structures and features are sufficient evidence to link D. geminata more closely to the cymbelloid lineage than to that of the gomphonemoids.
10.2307/3226581| A heat-sensitive adhesive, Tempfix, developed for scanning electron microscopy of powders and small particles, provides consistently high-quality secondary imaging with a variety of pollen grain morphologies and preparation protocols. Tempfix was used successfully under all combinations of these conditions: (1) pollen air-dried from ETOH or artificially dried; (2) pollen transferred to naked or sputter-coated Tempfix; and (3) pollen transferred to solid (at room temperature) or tacky (40-43 C) Tempfix. In contrast to other adhesives, Tempfix: (1) does not react with the dehydration fluid ethanol; (2) permits control of depth of pollen penetration into the adhesive; (3) provides a high pollen retention rate with both air-dried and artificially dried preparations; and (4) has a smooth glassy background. 
10.2307/3226582|Chorionic fine structure of Neurocolpus nubilus eggs was studied by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The surface of the posterior three-fourths of the chorion is smooth with no surface sculpturing and is buried in the tissue of its many host plants such as Cephalanthus occidentalis L. and Rubus spp. The surface of the anterior portion has a polygonal pattern and an opercular complex that consists of a rim and cap. Both the rim and the cap of the eggs are highly modified in comparison with those of other mirid species. The rim is ribbed and has a granulated appearance. The cap is enlarged, flattened, and C-shaped. There are a single micropyle and between 40-42 aeropyles per egg. Internally, the chorion is composed of four distinct layers. The outermost layer is electron-dense and is covered by an encrusting material and the second layer is the thickest and less electron-dense. The third layer of the chorion, which is known as the aerostatic layer, is composed of hollow, columnar struts that are irregularly spaced, and the fourth is uniformly thick and homogeneous.
10.2307/3226583|Alloglossidium greeri n. sp. (Digenea: Macroderoididae) is described from gravid, unencysted specimens found in antennary glands of the Cajun dwarf crayfish, Cambarellus schufeldti, in Louisiana. Its elongate body shape, smooth-margined ovary, and cirrus sac extending posterior to the ventral sucker distinguish A. greeri from A. renale, a parasite of the Mississippi grass shrimp, which is more ovoid, has a scalloped ovarian border, and shorter cirrus sac.
10.2307/3226584| Two new species of Isospora were identified from the fecal contents of three species of ovenbirds from Ecuador. Oocysts of Isospora hyloctistum n. sp. were found in 2 of 2 striped foliage-gleaners (Hyloctistes subulatus assimilis). Sporulated oocysts are ovoid, 17.5 x 16.0 (15.0-21.0 x 14.0-19.0) m, with a smooth, colorless bilayered wall; shape index is 1.09. No micropyle or oocyst residuum is present, but the oocyst contains a single, large, irregular-shaped polar granule. Sporocysts are ovoid, 12.4 x 8.0 (11.5-15.0 x 6.0-10.5) m, with a smooth single-layered wall, a nipple-like Stieda body, a small rectangular substieda body, and contain a round sporocyst residuum composed of uniform granules. Sporozoites are vermiform with an ovoid, posterior refractile body larger than the anterior one and appear to be arranged side by side and tightly packed in the sporocyst. Isospora scleruri was found in 1 of 1 tawny-throated leaftosser (Sclerurus mexicanus obscurior) and 1 of 3 black-billed leaftossers (Sclerurus caudacutus brunneus). Sporulated oocysts are ovoid, 23.1 x 19.2 (22.0-25.0 x 19.0-20.0) m, colorless, with a smooth bilayered wall; shape index is 1.2. No micropyle or oocyst residuum is present, but the oocyst contains a single large, spheroidal polar granule or occasionally an additional smaller polar granule. Sporocysts are ovoid, 16 x 10 (15-17 x 10) m, with a nipple-like Stieda body and a prominent substieda body with a wavy lower border; shape index is 1.6. The spheroidal sporocyst residuum is composed of uniform granules. Sporozoites are sausage-shaped, with a posterior, ovoid, refractile body, and a large, ovoid, centrally located nucleus, and appear packed side by side in the sporocyst. 
10.2307/3226639| Particulate organic carbon (POC) flux and the distribution and abundance of crustacean zooplankton and bacteria associated with formation of a metalimnetic oxygen minimum were examined in a deep embayment of Kentucky Lake, Kentucky. POC measurements from sediment traps placed above and below the metalimnion yielded an estimate of the organic material that was metabolized in the metalimnion. This estimate was the molar equivalent of the oxygen that was depleted from the metalimnion. Calculated zooplankton respiration accounted for 26-31% of the observed oxygen loss, except in midsummer when it accounted for 15%. Estimated bacterial respiration accounted for  44% of the observed oxygen loss. The comparison of calculated oxygen demand with observed oxygen loss emphasizes the importance of in situ processes as the cause of the minimum and suggests that metalimnetic deficits may be useful to estimate productivity. The vertical distribution of three species of Daphnia changed as the oxygen minimum formed. Daphnia pulex became entirely hypolimnetic. Thus, changes in chemical structure influence spatial distribution of zooplankton species. 
10.2307/3226640| Several copepods associated with octocorals are recorded from the region of Nosy B in northwestern Madagascar, including Orecturus sakalavicus n. sp. from Coelogorgia palmosa. The female of this new siphonostomatoid may be distinguished from its four congeners on the basis of selected characteristics as follows: Orecturus grandisetiger (body large, average length 1.20 mm; third segment of antennule with enlarged seta); Orecturus excavatus (outer margin of first segment of exopod excavated, free segment of leg 5 oval); Orecturus forticulus (caudal ramus wider than long, innermost terminal seta on antenna very long and plumose, claw of maxilla stout); and Orecturus finitimus (free segment of leg 5 oval, caudal ramus wider than long). Two poecilostomatoids are reported: Acanthomolgus telestophilus from Coelogorgia palmosa (new host) and Telesticola angoti from Coelogorgia palmosa. 
10.2307/3226641|A new genus is proposed to accommodate a new species of harpacticoid copepod of the family Laophontidae which was discovered from a subtidal site in Lingayen Gulf, Luzon, Philippines. The description is based on three males from coarse sand and broken mollusc shell substrate. Elapholaophonte decaceros n. gen., n. sp. is easily distinguished from other Laophontidae by its unique cephalosome and dorsal thoracic ornamentation, the oblique orientation of caudal rami and caudal setae V, and a P4 exopod-3 with the first outer spine modified.
10.2307/3226642|A survey of the terrestrial tardigrades inhabiting algae, lichens, and mosses in the Larsemann Hills, East Antarctica was conducted at 61 sites during the austral summer of 1987. Five genera and six species of Tardigrada were recovered. Statistical analysis of biotic association was conducted and for most species-pairs, tardigrades occur randomly with respect to each other. The hypothesis is proposed that distribution of tardigrades in the Antarctic is more strongly influenced by dispersal capabilities than by climatic factors or biotic interactions.
10.2307/3226644|Green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus) possess an alimentary canal that has seven pyloric ceca, some or all of which may be parasitized by the acanthocephalan Leptorhynchoides thecatus. The microscopic anatomy of ceca with worms and the microscopic anatomy of ceca without worms in parasitized fish were compared to each other and to that of ceca from unparasitized fish. Parasites occluded ceca and caused significant distention (two-tailed Student's t-test, P < 0.05). Frequently, the proboscis was positioned in the lamina propria, but sometimes attachment was in the muscularis mucosa. Occasionally, the cecal wall was perforated. Epithelium was destroyed at the site of attachment and cell debris occurred in the lumen. The abundance of goblet cells in the mucosa of infected ceca was significantly greater than in ceca without worms whether in parasitized or unparasitized fish. Circular and longitudinal muscle layers in the muscularis mucosa were significantly thicker in parasitized than in unparasitized ceca. Additionally, muscle layers in unparasitized ceca of infected fish were significantly thicker than those in uninfected fish, revealing an effect of parasitism more general than necrosis at the site of attachment.
10.2307/3226645|Four hundred eighty-six specimens of Physalopteroides bahamensis n. sp. (Nematoda: Spiruroidea: Physalopteridae) were recovered from the gastrointestinal tracts of 61 of 72 preserved specimens of the Cuban treefrog, Osteopilus septentrionalis. Prevalence of infection was 85% and mean intensity was 8.4. Physalopteroides bahamensis belongs to the group of Physalopteroides species with a smooth left lip. The new species also is distinguished by number of teeth on the right lip, symmetrical caudal alae, unequal spicules, and arrangement of caudal papillae. These nematodes represent the third known species of Physalopteroides from the Western Hemisphere and the first report of the genus from the Bahamas.
10.2307/3226646|Lanceimermis minnesotensis n. sp. and Gastromermis parvispicularis n. sp. are described from adult chironomids emerging from Lake Itasca, Minnesota in June 1992. L. minnesotensis n. sp. is distinct from other members of the genus in the presence of a subventral mouth, location of the amphidal opening immediately posterior to the level of the cephalic papillae, presence of an excretory pore, presence of a dorsal commissure, and in the presence of supporting ligaments between the amphids and the anterior esophagus. Additionally, the terminal denticles on the non-ornamented spicule and the organization of the copulatory muscles serve to readily separate the males. A new combination L. canadensis is introduced. G. parvispicularis n. sp. is separated from other members of the genus by body length, esophagus length as a percentage of body length, six hypodermal cords, long buccal funnel, amphidal openings at the level of the cephalic papillae, suspensory ligaments between the anterior esophagus and the amphids, presence of a dorsal commissure, absence of an excretory pore, small size of the spicule, and short terminal limbs of the vagina. The practice of using only one sex or small numbers of specimens for species descriptions is discouraged.
10.2307/3226647| The trachea is a highly elastic organ subject to substantial changes in length under physiological conditions, and its surface epithelium is capable of swift longitudinal accommodations known to alter cell shape throughout the airway. Because the trachea undergoes substantial longitudinal collapse upon excision, morphometric studies of excised tracheas do not reflect conditions in situ. This study quantified for the first time the effects of airway elongation on cell counts made over fixed lengths of epithelium. To this end, counts were made on 60-m lengths of collapsed tracheas and on 60-m lengths of tracheas stretched by 50%. A third set of counts was made on 30 m of collapsed tracheas to determine if changes associated with elongation could be equated to changes caused by a decrease in the number of cells per epithelial length. Comparisons between the stretched and the collapsed showed significant differences in cell concentration, which were greater than shifts in cell populations known to occur with drug stimulation. Also, cell grouping patterns present in the collapsed 60-m specimens were not discernible in the stretched specimens. I concluded that morphometric evaluations of collapsed airways overestimate cell populations and spatial relationships of essence to mucociliary function. However, stretching of the trachea within the physiological range amounts to a significant reduction in sample size that affects the reliability of cell counts. An optimal morphometric protocol would involve airways maintained at in vivo dimensions and observations based on epithelial lengths averaging at least 15 cells. 
10.2307/3226649|A mutant of Dictyostelium mucoroides was isolated following treatment with nitrosoguanidine. This mutant produced morphologically aberrant sorocarps and macrocysts. The absence of a sorophore sheath and primary macrocyst wall was confirmed by light microscopy, fluorescence microscopy of both calcofluor and fluorescein-conjugated concanavalin A-stained specimens, and by scanning electron microscopy. Mutant sorocarps formed without a sorophore sheath were normally proportioned, but had weak, curly, cellular stalks. Macrocysts without the primary wall did not cluster as did the wild-type macrocysts and often were irregular in shape rather than spherical. These results suggest a common origin for the pseudoplasmodial and sorophore sheath and the primary macrocyst wall in cellular slime molds.
10.2307/3226650|Acanthamoeba castellanii was cultured on collagen shields and observed by scanning electron microscopy. The study revealed the presence of a cup-like depression, termed an amebostome, on the surface of the organism that aids in phagocytosis of cell material. Similar structures were found using transmission electron microscopy on the trophozoites from human corneal shields cultured in vitro.
10.2307/3226651| Three new species of the dinoflagellate genus Alexandrium are described. Alexandrium tamiyavanichi is in the subgenus Alexandrium in which the Po and 1 are connected. This species is closely related to A. cohorticula, but it differs by its general shape, the Po and 1, the shape of its left sulcal list, and some sulcal plates. The other two species belong in the subgenus Gessnerium in which the Po and 1 are completely disconnected. Alexandrium taylori has a pentagonal 1 and a ventral pore. It differs from the closely related species A. pseudogoniaulax (Biecheler) by the shape of 1, the position of the ventral pore, and all of the sulcal plates. Alexandrium margalefi is the only species of this genus described to date with a quadrangular 1; it also has a ventral pore. Of the three species, only A. tamiyavanichi is known to produce paralyzing shellfish poisoning 
10.2307/3226619|Three new species of Bertrana, tiny orb-weavers, and three new species of Amazonepeira are described. Bertrana benuta comes from the coastal forest of southern Columbia, B. poa from the Ecuadorean Amazon region, and B. urahua from the Ecuadorean Andes. The new Amazonepeira, A. manaus, A. masaka, and A. beno all come from the Amazon region. Also, there are new Amazon records of the previously described A. herrera, and the male of Aculepeira carrara is matched to females belonging to Amazonepeira. The species differ in structures of the genitalia, which are illustrated.
10.2307/3226620|In Florida, freshwater sponges grow abundantly in aquatic environments (i.e., ponds, streams, rivers, lakes, sinkhole ponds, and swamps), and their spicules are found in wet terrestrial environments (i. e., hydric soils). The isolation of spicules from surface soils and subsoils may be useful in understanding environmental change and in delineating terrestrial from aquatic systems. Therefore, objectives of this research were (1) to isolate and identify freshwater sponges spicules in selected Florida surface soils, (2) to study the distribution by depth of spicules in seven soils with various geneses and properties, and (3) to study the distribution of spicules across environments that range from dry terrestrial to aquatic. Small numbers (<1,000 spicules g
10.2307/3226621|The platyhelminth worm Hydrolimax grisea is the only freshwater species of the Plagiostomidae in North America. Earlier, the species was reported from New Jersey south to North Carolina. The range is now known to include southern New England. Histological examination of several specimens revealed certain minor differences in pharynx morphology from an earlier description. The pharynx of New England specimens shows variation in the composition and arrangement of outer muscle layers, ciliation of the pharyngeal cavity, and the presence of a sphincter at the anterior tip.
10.2307/3226622|Adenoplea nanus n. sp., belonging in the family Typhloplanidae, is the smallest member of the armata group, which also includes A. armata and A. paraproxenetes. The new species is distinguished from the two other members of the genus by its morphological features. The ease of rearing the species in the laboratory permitted investigation of its ecology.
10.2307/3226623| Branchiobdellids use anterior and posterior attachment sites to move in a leech-like fashion. The present study investigates the morphology of the adhesive organs in three species of branchiobdellids native to eastern North America: Bdellodrilus illuminatus, Cambarincola ingens, and Xironodrilus bashaviae. The anterior attachment organ is a glandular pad on the ventral surface of the peristomium. The posterior site is an adhesive disc formed from the terminal body segment. The adhesive organs consist of epidermal support cells and two kinds of gland cells, and thus seem to represent a type of duo-gland adhesive organ. One type of gland cell, the viscid cell, contains large (0.7-1.5 m), electron-dense, membrane-bounded, PAS+ granules that are released onto the attachment surface through pores in the cuticle. The perinuclear regions of the viscid cells are located subepidermally. Viscid granules are transported to the surface through elongated gland necks within which the central granular cytoplasm is delimited by a concentric sheath consisting of ER and longitudinally oriented microtubules. The second type of gland cell, the putative releasing cell, includes smaller (0.15-0.35 m) membrane-bounded granules. The perinuclear regions of the releasing cells are located among the viscid gland necks. At their apical ends, the releasing gland necks protrude into the cuticle, but pores were not observed. Both viscid and releasing cells are surrounded apically by epidermal support cells whose cuticle forms the attachment surface. Attachment at the anterior end appears primarily to involve chemical adhesion. The muscular structure of the posterior attachment disc suggests that suction, as well as adhesion, may be used here. Detailed similarities in adhesive-organ ultrastructure in several genera of branchiobdellids indicate homology of the adhesive organs within the Branchiobdellida. 
10.2307/3226624|The byssus attachment organ of zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) was studied using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. We demonstrated that the byssus consisted of a root, a stem, threads, and attachment plaques. The root displayed two types of filaments, one with bilateral projections repeating every 60 nm and one without bilateral projections. Root filaments interdigitated with retractor muscle cells and inserted into the basal lamina of muscle cells. Filaments in different arrangements also were the dominant structural elements in the stem and threads. Stem filaments were clustered into tightly and loosely packed parallel bundles. Some of the tightly packed bundles displayed 350-nm periodic cross-bands. Longitudinally oriented thread filaments displayed a core averaging 7 nm and an electron-dense boundary. The stem, threads, and plaque were covered by a dense sheath. The plaque contained numerous vacuoles embedded in a filamentous mesh, and the attachment surface, except for the extreme edge, was electron-dense with numerous granular "attachment spots" applied to the inner face of the attachment surface. Bacteria were found frequently within the plaque vacuoles.
10.2307/3226625|Several collections of pseudoscorpions from caves in Ohio and Indiana have revealed two new species and extended the known ranges of two other species. Cavernicolous pseudoscorpions are reported from Ohio for the first time; these are Chthonius (Ephippiochthonius) virginicus, Hesperochernes mirabilis, and an unusual new, blind species described as Apochthonius hobbsi n. sp. Additions to the sparse cave fauna of Indiana are Hesperochernes mirabilis and Hesperochernes holsingeri n. sp. and an undescribed chthoniid represented only by an isolated palp.
10.2307/3226626|Six species of tardigrades were found to inhabit the fresh waters of hyporheic zones and springs in southeastern New York. The most abundant species was Thulinia ruffoi, a member of a genus that has not been found previously in North America. Tardigrades were scarce at most sites, typically constituting less than 1% of the invertebrate community. However, tardigrades made up 18% of invertebrates in springs and 5% in the hyporheic zone of the East Branch of Wappinger Creek. At the latter site, there was seasonal fluctuation in the abundance of tardigrades, with peak densities and oviposition occurring in the spring.
10.2307/3226627|Comparisons are made between specimens from areas on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean based on metric, meristic, and eidostic characters. In the Batillipedidae, the morphology of Batillipes tubernatis from Massachusetts, U.S.A. is compared with that of specimens from Britain, Germany, and Florida, U.S.A., and B. dicrocercus from Poland is compared with specimens from Massachusetts, Florida, and Italy; in the Halechiniscidae, Tanarctus heterodactylus from Delaware, U.S.A. is compared with specimens from North Carolina, U.S.A. and Brazil. All of the specimens considered here fall within the range of acceptable morphology for their respective species. Broad trans- and cis-oceanic distribution, therefore, seems to apply to these species and, by extension, perhaps to other meiofaunal species as well.
10.2307/3226628|A ciliate was encountered in the blood of laboratory-held and wild Dungeness crabs, Cancer magister, over an eight-year period. Several silver-staining methods were applied to the ciliate to reveal both its morphology and stomatogenesis. It was found to be morphologically similar to previously reported, but as yet undescribed, histophagous ciliates of crustaceans from both the Atlantic and Pacific North American Coasts. The ciliate was determined to be an undescribed species of the recently created genus Mesanophrys, possessing three characteristic oral polykinetids, an oral dikinetid primarily composed of a "b" segment, and an oral dikinetid "c" segment. Early in stomatogenesis, a fourth transitional ciliary field occurs, suggesting that the first oral polykinetid (OPK1) is composed of two different but functionally related segments. This paper describes Mesanophrys pugettensis as a new species and discusses its relationship with other crustacean ciliates of the family Paranophryidae. However, because of a recent addition to the family and the systematic rule of priority, the family Paranophryidae is a junior synonym of the taxon Orchitophryidae.
10.2307/3226629|Cyatholaimus cirolanae n. sp. is described from specimens collected externally from beneath the carapace of Cirolana polita off the Scotian Shelf and near-shore waters of Sable Island in the North Atlantic. The new species is included in Cyatholaimus because of its distally fused gubernaculum and the absence of pre-anal supplements. The new species differs from other members of the genus in the shape of the distal swelling of the gubernaculum which bears many small teeth. In this respect, the new species resembles Paracanthonchus heterodontus and P. longicaudatus. The new species occurred in 20-40% of the specimens of Cirolana polita examined. The nature of the association is unclear but Cirolana polita was the only species infected of 26 species of crustaceans examined, and worms were specific in their site preference, occurring consistently as clumps of about a dozen individuals between the third and fourth abdominal segments.
10.2307/3226630| Effects of changes in cell-count protocol on the histometric evaluation of a mixed epithelium have not been reported previously. Variations associated with numbers of cells per count were compared to that associated with numbers of counts per animal using histological preparations of six rat tracheas. The control consisted of 100 counts per animal, each from an epithelial length of 100 m. Fifteen additional data sets were created by deleting either counts per animal or cells per count. Thus, the 16 data sets contained either 100, 75, 50 or 25 counts per animal, with either 100%, 75%, 50% or 25% of the cells per 100 m. Cell tallies were comparable among the data sets. However, discernment between two cell types required at least 16 cells per count (approximately 75 m of epithelium). Discernment of near-neighbor cell occurrences required 300 counts (50 per subject) and 16 cells per count. Cell groups of the same type required 300 counts with 21 cells per count (approximately 100 m). The most subtle attribute was a bias against large cell groups, which was not significant with less than 450 counts (75 per subject) and 21 cells per count. We concluded that the sampling protocol for a mixed epithelium should reflect the amount of detail expected from the observations, because there is room for compromise to achieve expediency. Cell counts exhibited the most variation with changes in numbers of cells per count, and to a much lesser extent with changes in numbers of counts per subject. 
10.2307/3226631|Birefringent granules are visible in some specimens of Trichoplax adhaerens (phylum Placozoa) viewed under a microscope fitted with crossed polarizing filters. These granules lie in a ring around the periphery of the animal, just inside the edge. Their absence from specimens collected at other times and places hints at an extrinsic source, yet their orderly arrangement suggests that they are an integral part of the animal. Their composition, structure, relation to surrounding tissues, and possible function remain to be discovered.
10.2307/3226632| A new species of coccidian is described from Hemidactylus frenatus in Hawaii. Oocysts of Eimeria frenatus n. sp. were found in 5/72 (7%) lizards and are elongate, 24.4 x 16.8 (22.4-25.6 x 16.0-18.2) m, with a smooth, bilayered wall. Sporocysts are ellipsoid, 9.1 x 7.6 (8.2-9.8 x 6.8-8.0) m, and have a smooth, single-layered wall. In addition, oocysts of E. rochalamai were found in 6/72 (8%) individuals of E. frenatus; this represents a new host record. 
10.2307/3226633| A new species of coccidian is described from the eastern coachwhip, Masticophis flagellum flagellum (type host), and southern black racer, Coluber constrictor priapus, in Arkansas. Oocysts of Caryospora masticophis n. sp. were found in 1/26 coach-whips and 1/24 racers and are spheroid, rarely subspheroid, 13.6 x 13.5 (12.8-14.4 x 12.8-14.4) m; shape index (length/width) 1.00 (1.00-1.06). Sporocysts are ovoid, 10.9 x 8.1 (10.4-12.0 x 7.6-8.4) m; shape index 1.35 (1.30-1.41). In addition, oocysts of Caryospora duszynskii, known previously from the genus Elaphe, were found in a single individual of M. f. flagellum. 
10.2307/3226634|Five specimens of Oochoristica ubelakeri n. sp. were recovered from the small intestine of 1 of 5 (20%) Agama atra knobeli from Namibia. Oochoristica ubelakeri n. sp. is most similar to O. theileri, originally described from the spiny agamid lizard, Agama hispida, in South Africa, but differs by having a much less muscular genital atrium, a lobed ovary, and an oval vitellarium. The new species may be differentiated readily from the two other species of Oochoristica from sub-Saharan African reptiles in that its testes occur in two clusters rather than one. In addition, O. ubelakeri n. sp. was found in 1 of 10 (10%) sand geckos, Chondrodactylus angulifer, also from Namibia.
10.2307/3226635|An organism resembling Spiniferomonas annulata, with a unique scale covering, is reported from New Zealand and India. These specimens have two types of scales, namely spine and plate. Current knowledge of scale structure does not permit specific recognition of this material. Perhaps further morphological studies of a greater range of species will elucidate relationships among species of Spiniferomonas.
10.2307/3226636|Microscopy in round glass capillaries does not give an acceptable image of the contents because of strong distortions. Square, and generally right-angle, capillaries provide a higher quality image, but no access to the cell. Capillaries of elastomers combine good optical quality with access to the cell, and a great variety of manipulation through the capillary and by the capillary. Three properties are most important for capillary cell manipulation: (1) extensibility or elongation limit of a capillary, reaching 7-8 times and more, with latex, polyurethane and silicone; (2) transparency, which is sufficiently high for transmitted light microscopy in thin layers of elastomers; and (3) hardness, low in elastic materials, permits puncturing the capillary wall to reach the cell. Capillaries, owing to their softness and flexibility, may be flattened easily to improve observation. Cell manipulations, then, are possible with extensible capillaries: (1) elongation of the cell into a thin strand 7-8 times longer than cell diameter, thus separating cell structures; (2) excision of cell parts; (3) precise microscopy of the nucleus and organelles not masked by the cytoplasm; (4) microinjection; and (5) stimulation of contraction and relaxation of the cell.
