4156797| The Clay-colored Sparrow is a common nesting bird in parts of Michigan, especially in the northern section of the Lower Peninsula. It is also found in much of the Upper Peninsula where the habitat is suitable. The nests are built in shrubs and small trees and average 50 cm. above the ground. In my experience the eggs were laid during the early morning hours, one each morning until the set was complete. Four was the average number of eggs. The eggs averaged 18.05  13.25 mm. in length and width and 1.53 grams in weight (1.3 grams just before hatching. The incubation period was 11 to 11 days. The young at hatching time averaged in weight 1.2 grams and one young bird at the time of leaving the nest weighed 10.3 grams. Both parents aided in feeding and brooding the young but only the female incubated the eggs. The nestling period was 8 or 9 days. 
4156798|Field and experimental data from Iowa and Wisconsin, chiefly obtained between 1929 and 1934, indicate that susceptibility to cold attending decrease in weight was usually much more pronounced in Bob-whites than in Ring-necked Pheasants and that the latter were also better able to retard and to endure starvation as well as to recover after temporary food crises.
4156799|Starlings showed a positive range of hearing 700 to 15,000; the English Sparrow range was 675 to 11,500; and the Pigeon, 200 to 7,500 cycles per second. All the birds showed decreasing sensitivity as the extremes were approached. Thus the Pigeons did not seem very sensitive to sounds below 500, though they could hear until 200 was reached, and the Starlings showed decided loss of sensitivity about 12,000, though they continued to hear till 15,000. Comparing the apparent hearing of these three species of birds to human hearing, we find that man hears about four octaves lower than Pigeons and five lower than Starlings and English Sparrows. At the high end of the hearing range, man normally hears at least as high as the two latter species and about an octave higher than Pigeons. The species tested are evidently deaf to tones in the moderate and low range of hearing, tones that man hears extremely well.
4156816|Much remains to be done on territory in Goldfinches. I draw the following conclusions on the basis of my observations on fifteen nests found in the open woods in the vicinity of the Biological Station in northern Michigan.
4156838|White Pelicans, Double-crested Cormorants, California Gulls, and Great Blue Herons have nested commonly during recent years on certain islands in Great Salt Lake. On July 11 and 12, 1938, a visit was made to the two most important, Gunnison and Hat Islands. Cormorants had all left the island by this time and nesting was well advanced for all the other species. On Hat Island we saw about 425 young pelicans and possibly 3000 young California Gulls and on Gunnison Island there were approximately 1600 pelican nests and 1800 young birds and a proportionately larger number of gulls. There were also 13 young Great Blue Herons. Young pelicans were highly communal and were segregated into compact social units (pods) according to size and remained together under all conditions. Young herons showed not the slightest tendency toward grouping when effort was made to capture them. The various species responded very differently to attempts at catching and banding their young. Parent gulls were most solicitous of their progeny, while pelicans and herons showed little or no concern. While fish-eating birds normally have rapid digestion, their nesting on islands 30 to 100 miles removed from their source of food supply suggests that they may have some mechanism for controlling the digestive organs and possibly also the rate of digestion. Young birds of Gunnison and Hat Islands that had just been fed by their parents were seen to regurgitate quantities of practically undigested food. The gulls seemed to be both scavengers and omnivorous feeders and disgorged undigested grasshoppers, garbage and fish, while pelicans seemed to be subsisting entirely upon non-game fish. Pellets and stomachs of herons showed that these birds had fed on ground squirrels, field mice, fish, young birds, insects, and plant fiber, while two large Golden Eagle pellets showed only the remains of muskrat.
4156840| 1. The abnormally warm weather of March 1935 started the nesting season earlier than usual. The female selected the sites and built three nests without the aid of the male. 2. Incubation began in all nests the evening following the depositing of the second egg and lasted for 12 to 13 days. The male did not cover the eggs or young at any time nor feed the incubating female. 3. The first egg of the first set was laid at 10:58 A.M., the second between 2 and 2:15 P.M. the following day. 4. One bird gave the food reaction when 6 minutes old; at 2 hours it peeped incessantly. 5. During incubation the female left the nest from 10 to 19 times a day, averaging 16.3 times. Forty periods on and off the nest averaged 44 minutes on and 11 minutes off (i.e. 80 per cent of daylight hours on the nest). 6. The male could see well in dim light, but the female could not. 7. For the first two days with both broods the young received between 81 and 84 meals per day; the third day they were given 89 and 90 meals respectively. During the rest of the time the first brood of 3 young received 82 to 99 meals per day and the second brood with 4 young 92 to 113 meals. 8. The young left when 14 to 16 days old. One could not fly as far as 14 feet, while two flew 20 feet and another 33 feet. 9. One Robin 4 weeks old monopolized the bird bath, threatening adults of 3 species. 10. A nesting female often left her eggs and attacked a neighboring male as he carried food to his young. 
4156841|Among the Herring Gulls of Hat Island there was a definite territorial division of the breeding grounds. The young, at least until they were half-grown, were fed almost exclusively in these territories. The adult gulls were discriminating and fed only their own young. Territorial boundaries were protected by the adults by vigorous fighting. Trespassing young from neighboring territories were frequently killed in this defense of territory by an adult gull. Adult gulls made no attempt to rescue their own young which had strayed out of the home territory and were then attacked by other adults. The food brought in by adults consisted usually of fish but sometimes of quantities of small beetles.
4156842|It may be stated in summarizing the data on Starling food for central New York State that insects (identifiable at least to order) constitute about 35 per cent of the material in adult stomachs, and 77 per cent in nestling stomachs. Vegetable matter makes up 41.4 per cent in adults and 4.9 per cent in nestlings, while mineral items are 0.8 per cent and 2.2 per cent respectively. The remainder of the food in each case is animal matter other than insects, especially millipedes, unidentified animal matter, and animal garbage. Intensive work in central New York indicates that the economic status of the Starling, as evidenced by analyses of stomach contents, does not differ fundamentally from that determined by Kalmbach and Gabrielson for six eastern States before this bird had attained its present numbers and distribution. The food habits are on the whole decidedly beneficial, especially in the case of the nestlings.
4156871|From the results of this study, it does not seem that the presence of Herring Gulls at the inland lakes of Maine need cause any alarm to fishermen. Most of the fishes taken by gulls are either species that are very abundant or else those having comparatively little value; predations on the abundant species cannot be considered as detrimental to sport fishing. The favorite game fishes, trout and salmon, were found to constitute one of the smallest items in the gulls' diet. Herring Gulls are not as yet very plentiful at any locality within the interior of the State except at Moosehead Lake, and unless a large population of the inland birds occurs in the future, it would seem unwise to practice any control. The taking of weak, dying, or dead fishes is probably of distinct benefit as a disease-control measure on behalf of the fish population. The general scavenger qualities of the gull are very commendable, especially in the summer resort areas. Fishermen and summer residents of Maine's lakes should not overlook the fact that, from the food-habits data at hand, the Herring Gull, in its present numbers, is an asset and not a liability.
4156873|A Cowbird was kept in the house from the age of 7 to 25 days, and the first appearance of different instinctive actions noted. Weights of nestling Cowbirds are given from five sources and the question raised as to the possiblity of a sex difference in size during nest life. The matter of instinctive and learned behavior is discussed. The eggs of the Cowbird show no adaptation for parasitism. There appears to be no conclusive evidence that the young Cowbird shows any such adaptation.
4156892|1. In northern Michigan, the Black-throated Green Warbler is found chiefly in developmental communities in which conifers are available in pure growths or mixed with deciduous growth. 2. Phases of the breeding cycle have the following time lengths: nest building, 4 days; incubation, 12 days; nestling life, 8 to 10 days; dependent period of fledglings, approximately four weeks. 3. Nests are placed at various heights in conifers. A rather extreme variation is noted in strength of nest structure. Materials used in nest structure apparently vary largely according to availability. 4. Both sexes (but chiefly the female) participate in nest building and care of young. In the present study the male was not observed to take part either in incubation or in feeding of fledglings. 5. Observations at 3- and 5-day stages of nestling life indicate an increasing feeding rate over the nestling period and a decreasing amount of brooding, which apparently ceased on the seventh day. Details of feeding frequency and attentiveness are given in tabular form. 6. The female fed more often, though the male brought more food at each visit. While the sexes appeared to be independent of each other in time of feeding, a coordinative behavior was detected in the use of song as an approach warning so that the male usually brought food during an inattentive period of the female. 7. Two songs are characteristic: zee-zee-zee-zee-zu-zwee and zrrr-zrrr-zu-zu-zwee; these are varied with a number of modifications. Call notes of both adults and young are also described. 8. The song, as given with relation to the male's approach with food for the young, is softened increasingly with approach towards nest to a whisper song having a ventriloquistic quality.
4156894|During the spring of 1937 a company of from 200 to 300 Robins roosted in a small grove of conifers on the Cornell University campus, at Ithaca, New York. Activities at this roost were studied from April 28 to July 10. The following facts were ascertained: On April 29 (the sun set at 6:56 P.M., E.S.T.) Robins were entering the roost at the rate of about fifteen a minute at 7:30 P.M. About twenty a minute entered the roost between 7:31 and 7:41, following which time not more than ten birds entered the roost during any one-minute period. The last bird entered the roost at 7:49. Robins came to roost from all directions, although few birds flew in from the northwest, where there was a heavy growth of large trees. The birds came from distances of more than half of a mile. A chorus of song was given by the roosting male birds. This chorus played no part in territorial behavior. A tree in which a Robin's nest containing two eggs was located was used as a roosting site by four Robins. Female Robins continued to use the roost until a day or two before they laid their first egg. Male Robins spent their nights in the roost throughout the nesting period, leaving their mates to guard and care for the nest. Young Robins began using the roost as soon as they were able to fly to it. A roost studied at Cresheim Creek, near Philadelphia, by Dr. John T. Emlen, was used by resident Robins and also by transients en route to a more northern breeding area. This fact was determined through the recovery of banded birds from as far north as Newfoundland.
4156923|1. A study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of two factors, increasing light and increasing activity periods, in producing an activation of the House Sparrow's pituitary. 2. The method of lengthening the daily light period was similar to that followed by most authors engaged in this work, i.e., the gradual lengthening of a basic light day with increments of electric light. For gradually increasing the daily period of activity, a revolving drum was used which forced the birds to remain awake in complete darkness. 3. The experiments were conducted during a period extending from November 16, 1938 to April 8, 1939. The duration of treatment ranged from 35 to 45 days. 4. Without exception the testes of Sparrows subjected to light treatment showed significant enlargement and progressive spermatogenic changes. A darkening of bill pigmentation accompanied the gonadal development. On the other hand, the bills of activity-treated males retained the light color characteristic of the sexually inactive male, and the testes remained in a quiescent state. The absence of any progressive spermatogenic changes was confirmed histologically. 5. A combination of forced activity and extra lighting stimulates the testes to a condition approximating that of the light treated birds. 6. In females neither increased light nor activity rations were effective in stimulating ovarian development. 7. The incomplete separation of the two factors, light and activity, is suggested as the possible explanation for the positive results of the enforced activity experiments of previous authors. 8. When the two disputed factors, light and activity, are completely separated there seems little doubt as to the importance of the former in regulating sexual activity in the Sparrow.
4156940|The investigation presents the available data on the extent and success to which the Redhead (Nyroca americana) nested in Clay and Palo Alto counties, Iowa, in 1938. This investigation showed that the nesting season extended from May 1 to July 16 and that of the 42 nests under observation, 23 (54.74 per cent) were successful. Instability of the water levels, resulting in flooded nests, was the most destructive factor in the production of the Redhead. Of the 19 (45.26 per cent) unsuccessful nests 10 (52.63 per cent) were flooded; 1 (5.26 per cent) was destroyed by Crows, and 8 (42.11 per cent) were deserted. Infertile eggs numbered 17 (4.42 per cent), while embryos were contained in a total of 30 (7.81 per cent) eggs left in the nests after the female had led the hatched ducklings away. Although 54.74 per cent of the nests were successful, only 38.29 per cent of the eggs successfully produced juveniles. As affecting the productivity of the Redhead, the most important plant species determined from this study were: hardstem bulrush, river-bank sedge, giant bur reed, cattail, sweet flag, reed, river bulrush, and slough grass. Approximately 340 Redhead were reared in the water areas under observation and entered into the 1938 fall migration flight. This number represented an average of 3.8 juveniles reared to a breeding pair of Redheads, and an average of one nest to 16 acres of vegetation-covered marsh land.
4156941|Mice formed the staple food of the Marsh Hawk during 10 months of the year. During June and July juvenile birds were the most important items of food. Many young birds were easily obtained at this season because of their exposure by mowing and harvesting. The effect of Marsh Hawks upon the pheasant population was negligible. There was no reason to believe that the hawks were a limiting factor on the other game species on the study area. The general food habits of the Marsh Hawk are beneficial to man, and this hawk is a decided asset to an agricultural community.
4156946|Bluebirds, permanent residents in Tennessee, have long nesting seasons, beginning in February and lasting into September. The seasons are divided into at least three nesting periods. Early nests have a higher percentage of success than those of later periods; the average number of eggs in a set decreases in each subsequent period; the number of entirely unsuccessful nests also increases in later periods. As the season advances there are increasing numbers of predators robbing nests for food; there are more disturbances due to human activities during summer, causing desertions and disastrously long absences of parents from nests. It is possible that extreme heat affects eggs adversely and also weakens newly hatched chicks. Five out of 133 sets of eggs were white instead of normally colored. Boxes placed in suitable open situations are quickly taken. Meadows are favored nest sites. Apparently boxes should be several hundred feet apart to allow sufficient territory for each breeding pair. They should be set out in winter because nest sites are investigated by Bluebirds on mild days throughout the cold season and territorial defense starts in early spring. Faithfulness to the chosen nest site is a common trait of females and probably of males also. The same site may be used for the entire season and from year to year unless depredations or other disturbances occur. Nest boxes placed at a distance from human habitations are more successful than those nearby. Bluebirds are easily disturbed by activities around a home and unlike some species, seldom adapt themselves to noises and movements of a household. Both male and female carry material into the box. Incubation and brooding in all nests is by the female; feeding and caring for the young by both parents. Incubation period usually is 13 to 14 days but occasionally extended to 16 days after laying of the last egg of the set. Young may leave on the fourteenth day after hatching but usually on the sixteenth. In 1939 Bluebirds used 53 of the 56 available boxes in Percy Warner Park, laying 576 eggs (133 sets), an average of 4.3 per set. From these there matured 290 nestlings, or 50.3 per cent of the number of eggs laid.
4156948|Acadian Sharp-tailed Sparrows were observed singing only during the morning hours; in the afternoon they were quiet and inconspicuous. Male birds, as many as three, were seen crowding over one female, perhaps attempting to copulate. This may mean that either the population of unmated males was greater than that of available females or that the males had polygamous tendencies. Repeatedly birds were seen copulating immediately after the male's descent from the song flight. One breeding female A. c. caudacuta was taken in a colony of subvirgata. Some of the specimens collected prove to be intermediates between caudacuta and subvirgata. There is no difference of coloration between the sexes. Plumage variation is described. The males, although only slightly heavier, average larger in linear measurements than females.
4156949|The banding of 714 Crows in south central Oklahoma during the winter of 1935-36 has yielded, during the three and one-half years following their release, 143 returns, slightly more than 20 per cent of the birds banded. Analysis of these returns shows that, of the 65 Crows recovered during the breeding and rearing season (April 1 to August 31), 49 (75 per cent) were killed in the Prairie Provinces of Canada. The dates and locations of numerous other returns recorded in the states north of Oklahoma indicate that many others of this group of Crows may have been on their way to or from Canadian breeding grounds. During this same period of the year not one of the winter-banded Crows was recovered in Oklahoma, clearly indicating that winter Crow control in Oklahoma can have little or no effect on nesting upland game or insectivorous birds of that state. Although winter Crow control in Oklahoma is destined to remove some birds that would enter the problem of Crow-waterfowl relationships in the Canadian provinces, the effect of this control is certain to be much "diluted" if the results are to be judged in a continental perspective. This comes about because only a portion of the Crows nesting in Canada can be classed as duck-egg predators, and because the Crow, in what might be termed destructive abundance, occupies possibly only a sixth of the duck-nesting area of Canada and Alaska. As a protective measure for late-maturing crops, particularly grain sorghums, winter Crow control in Oklahoma may be looked upon as fairly selective with respect to the removal of the very individuals involved in these depredations. Not only is this winter population quite sedentary during that season but the banding returns have shown that birds which survive are likely to return to the same general region in subsequent winters. The rapid decrease in the number of recoveries noted in successive years following banding leads to the belief that relatively few of these birds live for more than 4 years in this plains area where they are subject to gunfire throughout their migration route and on their breeding ground and to the severe toll of bombing in their winter roosts in Oklahoma.
4156971|This paper presents an ecological discussion of the breeding warblers of the central Allegheny mountain region, the area including extreme western Maryland, West Virginia, and portions of western Virginia counties west of the Shenandoah valley, and south to the southern border of West Virginia. Evidence is presented to show that breeding populations of birds in the area have had to face two critical problems within a very short time; the virtual destruction of all original timber stands, and the death of the American chestnut from the chestnut blight. Chestnut sprouts, and other brushy growth, now occupy millions of acres of mountainous country where, only a few years ago, virgin forests stood. The name "chestnut sprout" association is proposed for this temporary growth. In this association a highly diversified group of warblers breed. The group has representatives of both northern and southern affiliations, and includes Black and White, Golden-winged, Magnolia, Cairns's, Chestnut-sided, Mourning, Hooded, and Canada Warblers, Oven-bird, Yellow-breasted Chat, and Redstart. The Carolinian, Alleghenian, and Canadian life zones, with their breeding warblers, are discussed, and evidence is given to show that the Alleghenian is the most extensive, and perhaps the most significant, biotic division of the area. Range extensions of various warblers since the removal of the original timber are discussed, the discussion showing that many species have greatly increased the extent of their breeding grounds in the area. Many warblers in the area under consideration nest in habitats which are strikingly different from those occupied in other portions of their breeding ranges. Also a number of species here occupy a greater variety of habitats than in other parts of their ranges. Evidence is presented to show that a portion of the breeding population of Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsoni) is to be found in the central and southern Appalachian mountain region, at elevations up to 3000 feet. Here it occupies hemlock and rhododendron thickets. The breeding of 27 warbler species, with some additional races and one hybrid (Brewster's Warbler), is discussed.
4156972|In a study of nestling Eastern Red-wings made at Indian Lake, Ohio from June 18 to July 22 it was found that the young could be sexed by dissection at any time after hatching. With the age of nestlings known to the nearest day it proved possible to distinguish between the sexes by means of weights after the fifth day, and by means of tarsal lengths after the eighth day. The following sex ratios were found: Among 119 young, representing the full egg complements of 35 nests, 57 males: 62 females. Among 94 young which were successfully fledged, 47 males: 47 females. Among 21 young which died during the nesting period, 9 males: 12 females. The apparent deviation of the first and third of these ratios from the expected 50:50 could easily be due to random variation in sampling.
4156989|The known history of the nesting colonies of Ring-billed Gulls on islands bordering the north shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, which are the only recorded colonies of this species on the Atlantic Coast of North America, is briefly outlined. Six distinguishable nesting groups of Ring-billed Gulls occurring in that region are described. The total number of breeding Ring-billed Gulls recorded in these groups in 1940, when one group was not to be found, was at least 3538. The manner of the nesting of these Ring-billed Gulls, their conservation, and their voices are briefly described. The effects of periods of food scarcity and of an abnormally cold, late spring in reducing the reproductive success of these gulls and a possible relation between climate and their limit of range in this region are considered. Indications that the breeding range of the Ring-billed Gull possibly includes part of the southern interior of the Labrador Peninsula are discussed. A brief account of information about the migration and range of the Ring-billed Gulls of the Gulf of St. Lawrence that has been obtained as a result of banding 2,122 young in the colonies under discussion is provided.
4157014|Notes of special interest concerning the occurrence on Anticosti Island, Quebec, of 24 of the bird species observed there by the author during the period June 5 to 12, 1940, are presented. Sturnus vulgaris vulgaris, Vireo philadelphicus, and Dendroica tigrina are recorded from Anticosti for the first time. Certain features of a recent paper on the birds of Anticosti Island (Braund and McCullagh, 1940) are discussed. Objection is taken to the unsupported assumption of the subspecific identity of conspecific populations possessing close morphological similarity but occurring on ranges widely separated by the range of a different subspecies.
4157015|An eight year (1932-40) field study of central Iowa Bob-white populations not only began and ended with abundance peaks but also covered an interval of pronounced scarcity. Practically all of the traceable mortality associated with the decline took place during the winters of 1934-35 and 1935-36 and most of this proved to be of the familiar starvation-emergency types that may be expected on a greater or less scale nearly any winter; an inexplicably low rate of recovery of Bob-whites among other wild species during the breeding season of 1936, however, may suggest the operation of unknown factors, perhaps of periodic nature. Occupancy of given tracts of environment is evidently determined by the sociality of the birds as well as by food and cover conditions; and this is illustrated by Bob-white responses to crowding either on the part of their own or some other species as the Ring-necked Pheasant, by their occasional late-winter adaptiveness in establishing themselves in food-rich fields away from the bushy fence rows, woodlots, gullies, and water courses usually frequented, and by their apparent maintenance--despite annual changes in habitats and in covey composition--of toleration "traditions" peculiar to the most regularly used winter territories.
4157017|The nesting activities of two colonies of Yellow-headed Blackbirds, located in the vicinity of Utah Lake west of Provo, Utah, were studied from April to mid-September. Eighty-three females nested in the Provo River colony and 40 in the Lakeview colony. Egg-laying began May 7 and 61.8 per cent of the females laid their first egg within one day after the completion of the nest. The number of eggs per set varied from 2 to 5, with 4 the most common number (68.1 per cent). The females were not assisted by the males in any way in the incubation of the eggs, 56.6 per cent of them beginning incubation at the time the second egg was laid, with a tendency for the beginning of incubation to be delayed longer the larger the clutch. The length of the incubation period varied from 12 to 13 days, 74.6 per cent of the eggs hatching in 12 days. The attentive periods during incubation ranged in length from one to 41 minutes, with an average of 9.1 minutes. These periods were longest during mid-day when the females were seemingly protecting their eggs from the sun. During 83 hours of observation the females spent an average of 63.9 per cent of their time on the nest, with a range from 53.1 to 69 per cent. The inattentive periods ranged in length from one to 18 minutes, with an average of 5.4 minutes. These periods tended to be longest during the morning and evening hours when feeding was most intensive. The hatching success of the larger Provo River colony amounted to 75.7 per cent, while that of the smaller Lakeview colony was only 60.6 per cent, giving an average of 70.9 per cent for the two. Wind and predation were responsible for the destruction of 90 (20.3 per cent) of the eggs before the time of hatching, and 39 (8.8 per cent) failed to hatch because of being addled or infertile. The lesser degree of nesting success of the Lakeview colony was due to a greater amount of predation which in turn may have been the result of a more prolonged nesting season.
4157039|The incubation period of the Black Oyster-catcher is usually 27 days. During the winter Oyster-catchers congregate in flocks which are scattered at low tide for feeding and crowded together at high tide for resting and sleeping. The breeding territory of a pair of Oyster-catchers contains important feeding places; it is defended from April to August. Both male and female incubate, changing places each low tide. The non-incubating bird, when not feeding, stands guard near the nest. The piping ceremony variously expresses sexual excitement, territorial jealousy, or social excitement. Pecking at the ground and bowing indicate nervous emotion. Parents caring for chicks exchange places each low tide; one cares for the chicks for twelve hours, then feeds and stands guard for twelve hours.
4157040|The belligerency of the Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus) was studied during the summer of 1940 in New York State for the purpose of analyzing the relation of this fighting to the concept of territorialism. Other species of Tyrannidae also are belligerent. Three types of fighting occur: intraspecific, interspecific, and predator defense. The intraspecific type occurs between Kingbirds when a stranger intrudes upon the territory of a pair. Both sexes participate and fight throughout the breeding cycle. Experiments with dummy birds showed that both sexes fight against specimens of three species of Kingbirds. Interspecific fighting occurs between Kingbirds and other species. Only the male fights. He drives away intruders from the nest site under certain specified conditions. The fighting against a predator differs greatly from the other two types of belligerency. Both sexes go far from the territory to drive away a hawk or Crow. Observations on the life history show that single birds wander around looking for a mate and, after pairing, select a nest site and territory. The female selects the site, builds the nest, and incubates the eggs. The male assists in feeding the young. The territory is not used for food reserves. Fledging success was 79 per cent for 6 nests. In the two nests observed from laying to fledging, the incubation period was 16 days and the fledgling 16 and 17 days. One pair of birds built three nests, and deserted each in turn, without obvious reason. Analysis of the belligerency suggests the interpretation that the male defends the territory (nest site) and the sex-partner and the female defends the sex-partner only. The defense of the territory and the defense of the sex-partner are different psychological entities.
4157041|1. White-throated Sparrows and a Bob-white, which normally go through a partial pre-nuptial molt in spring as the days are increasing in length, were forced to molt out of season by artificially increasing the length of day, and this was followed by a new growth of feathers. 2. White-throated Sparrows, English Sparrows, and a Bob-white, all of which have a complete post-nuptial molt as days decrease in length in late summer and autumn, were forced into a similar molt out of season by artificially reducing the length of day to which they were exposed. This was followed by a new growth of feathers. 3. The time for beginning the complete molt and the rate at which the feathers were lost were accelerated by increasing the rate at which the length of day was artificially decreased. 4. The total time (65 to 73 days) required to molt feathers and completely grow new ones was approximately the same at all rates of decrease in the photoperiod and irrespective of the rate at which the feathers were lost. 5. The weight of the birds increased when they were placed on a better balanced diet and when they were subjected to longer photo-periods, but it decreased during the progress of molt and renewal of feathers.
4157062|1. An observation screen with a transparent mirror provides a situation in which the psychological factors are conducive to satisfactory experimental conditions. This is especially true when studying English Sparrows. The use of the screen in the study of wild birds in captivity is good technique for it reduces to a minimum the possible errors in making observations. 2. Keeping birds in total darkness between periods of observation and providing food only during observations (generally two hours per day) make possible the recording of a majority of the contacts and gives greater quantitative returns during observation periods. 3. The social order among White-throated Sparrows is of the firmly fixed, despotic sort originally described by Schjelderup-Ebbe. In our flocks of three, four, and five the straight-line type was shown to exist. In our flock of six two triangles developed. Peck triangle No. 2, having no territorial history, persisted after the reduction of the flock to five members. 4. In White-throated Sparrows there seems to be no correlation between sex and position in the social order.
4157090|There are two distinct populations of Hudsonian Curlew, breeding, migrating, and wintering on opposite sides of the American continents. A western group migrates up and down the Pacific coast, apparently passing overland across the base of the great Alaskan peninsula to northwestern breeding grounds. The spring and fall routes are substantially alike. The eastern group follows up the Atlantic coast to the vicinity of New Jersey whence it passes inland, stopping regularly, but momentarily, on the lower Great Lakes and thence to breeding grounds west of Hudson Bay. On the return trip birds make their way either by James Bay or through the interior of Ungava to the Gulf of St. Lawrence and to Nova Scotia and then over sea to the New Jersey region and southward along the coast. Though these two populations seem never to have opportunity of meeting and mixing, no racial distinction is detected between them and their separation seems to have been of comparatively recent date. We suggest that there may originally have been a Mississippi Valley group connecting the two breeding areas in the north but which was recently extirpated--perhaps along with the Eskimo Curlew, with which the species seems to have been closely associated in migration.
4157096|Night desertion of their nests, a behavior frequently initiated by a distinctive group flight at twilight and lasting till dawn, has been observed on the part of the Common Terns comprising the breeding colony at Starve Island in western Lake Erie. The underlying causes for this lapse in attentiveness, which has been studied during the past three breeding seasons, are as yet unknown. Accompanying it there have been repeated, complete nesting failures, contrasting with reports of past successes.
4157120|The myrmecophytic bull's horn acacia, offering as an inducement its big thorns, sweetish fluid, and food bodies, attracted an ant population that in turn defended the shrub. This symbiosis between plant and insect did not prevent certain birds from nesting in the shrub. In the case discussed, two flycatcher species nested simultaneously in a twelve-foot acacia. These flycatchers were not observed to eat ants and the ants did not molest the birds nor their nests. The smaller flycatcher (Myiozetetes similis) apparently chose to nest in the same shrub with the larger (Pitangus sulphuratus) because of the latter's ability to drive off larger enemies. The interesting association of plant, ants, and birds attracted a wild-life photographer who, in order to secure good pictures, was obliged to erect a blind close by. The blind was chosen by a Hooded Oriole as the site of her nest.
4157121|During the summer of 1939, five nests of Bell's Vireo were studied in central Illinois. These consisted of three attempts at nesting and a fourth successful nesting of one pair together with one successful nesting of a second pair. Nest building lasted 4 to 5 days. Incubation began after laying of the first egg and lasted 14 days. Nestling life lasted 11 days. Cowbird interference was probably the cause of desertion of the first two, and possibly three, nests of one pair. At each of these nests, desertion occurred after removal of one host egg. Nest building was done by the female. Both sexes participated in incubation and care of young. The female may sing. In Illinois, Bell's Vireo occurs in orchard thickets and groves of shrubby deciduous trees. It is known to occur in similar or the same habitats as two other shrub-inhabiting species of Vireo in regions where their breeding ranges overlap.
4157122|The Acadian Sharp-tailed Sparrow, Ammospiza caudacuta subvirgata, is found nesting as far north as Kamouraska on the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and there are sight records even from the Magdalen Islands. This race breeds southward all along the coast to Popham Beach, Maine, where intermediates with caudacuta are found. A. c. caudacuta breeds from Portland, Maine, to southern New Jersey, becoming particularly abundant along the coast of New York, and especially Long Island. Tuckerton, New Jersey, is in the area of intergradation of this race with diversa. A. c. diversa breeds south of Tuckerton, New Jersey, in the marshes of the Delaware Peninsula, and along the coast of Delaware, Maryland, and northern Virginia, to Chincoteague Island. This is the southernmost known locality of their breeding distribution. New York is without doubt the center of breeding abundance of this species. As one progresses northward and southward the birds become more local in their distribution. All the five races of the species may be found wintering along the Atlantic Coast. Their wintering range extends from Massachusetts to Florida, North Carolina and South Carolina being the centers of abundance. A. caudacuta nelsoni has been found in the winter from Cobb Island, Virginia, to Florida; altera is found regularly from New York City to Amelia Island, Florida; subvirgata has also been reported in New York, and south to Amelia Island, Florida. Typical caudacuta may winter all along its breeding range, south to Amelia Island. This race is often recorded from Massachusetts. A. caudacuta diversa winters south from Hog Island, Virginia, to Amelia Island, Florida.
4157145|A series of experiments designed to test the social relationships between members of different coveys of Valley Quail at Davis, California confirm earlier observations that social barriers of non-recognition and active exclusion discourage inter-covey mixing. It was further noted in the experimental coveys that strangers were attacked only by birds of their own sex (observations between January and April), that active exclusion gradually subsided with continuous association, that unacquainted birds did not mingle freely even in the absence of active exclusion, and that partially established members of a covey dominated aliens of subsequent introductions. It is suggested that the dominance of aliens by established residents is in large degree related to a favorable psychological attitude gained through familiarity with the physical features of the covey range. Aliens acquire the "confidence" fundamental to social recognition only after a period of residence on the range.
4157149|English Sparrows are hatched without natal down. The interior of the mouth of newly hatched young is bright red, but becomes pinkish-yellow before the young leave the nest. The egg tooth disappears and the edges of the bill change from white to lemon-yellow by the fourth day after hatching. The first appearance of the feathers and the sequence of their development in the various tracts and regions follows a very definite order which resembles very closely that found by Boulton in House Wrens and Weaver in Chipping Sparrows. The greatest development in the plumage of young sparrows is delayed until the latter part of the period in the nest. The greatest change in appearance of young English Sparrows occurs between the age of six and seven days, when most of the feathers emerge and many of them lose their sheaths. By the tenth day after hatching the color pattern is evident, showing a wing bar, and in some males a black bib. Practically all of the sheaths have disappeared from the contour feathers and all but one-fourth of the flight feathers are unsheathed by the fifteenth day. These sheaths may remain one to two weeks after the young depart from the nest. The greatest amount of sheath is present in the flight feathers on the eleventh day. The amount of sheathing present gives an accurate criterion of the age of young birds in the nest. Most of the young left the nest at about the fifteenth day, but English Sparrows may remain in the nest for seventeen days if entirely undisturbed. Males and females share about equally in the feeding of the young at the nest, but the females do the greater portion of the nest sanitation. Both birds may brood the young, although the female does the greater part of it and always stays in the nest during the night. The young are fed by regurgitation during the first part of the period after hatching. There was 70.5 per cent success of survival in thirty-eight nests which produced 127 young from 180 eggs laid. This corresponds closely to that reported for other hole-nesting species. The older young are able to command the most advantageous positions in the nest and thus receive relatively more food and often are able to leave the nest several days before the other young. The young can fly rather well upon leaving the nest, considerably better than do the young of most species that nest in the open. The young are fed by the adults for a period of two weeks, and probably more, after leaving the nest. The young have a strong bond for one another. The young, out of the nest, may be fed entirely by one adult or by both. A complete post-juvenal molt begins about five weeks after the young leave the nest. It began in early August and ended in mid-September at Ithaca in 1937.
4157150| A second-growth forest along the Sangamon River in central Illinois consisted of forty-six acres of four chief habitats--(A) a low moist floodplain (B) a high river bluff (C) an open upland forest and (D) a forest-edge. Trips were made to this area once or twice per week during the winters of 1939-40 and 1940-41. On each trip the distribution of the birds was carefully mapped and notes were taken on their activities. The average winter population during the two winters was 1.4 birds per acre, and included ten and eleven species respectively. A strong wind caused birds to seek sheltered areas and changes in the direction of the wind brought about day-by-day movements from one part of the area to another. A slight wind had little or no effect. Low temperature caused birds to feed almost constantly and to sing little, whereas a rise in temperature decreased feeding and increased singing. Black-capped Chickadees, Tufted Titmice, Downy Woodpeckers, and White-breasted Nuthatches showed a tendency to form flocks at temperatures below 25 and to scatter when the temperature rose above 25. As far as could be determined, sun and precipitation had no effect on the winter activity of birds in this study. 
4157172|Twenty-one nests were found in an area 600 yards long by 200 yards wide. The activities at twelve nests were recorded. The nests were found in oak, maple, pine, and birch trees at an average distance of 3.63 meters from the ground and 2.06 meters from the trunk. The nest was a bulky cup-like structure of loose construction. Six days each were required for building two nests; five days were required for building a third nest. At two nests both birds shared the nest building activity equally. At a third nest the female was the chief builder. The average incubation period for eighteen marked eggs was 11.7 days. The maximum period was thirteen days, the minimum eleven. The average clutch was 4.0 eggs. The nestling stage averaged 15.5 days. The maximum period was eighteen days, and the minimum fourteen. The female Waxwing did all the incubating and brooding. As the nestling grew the feeding rate increased, the brooding time decreased, the duties of the male became more important, and the female spent less time at the nest. The fledglings apparently remained in the vicinity of the nest until they were at least one month old. Of the 44 eggs laid in eleven nests 47.7 per cent were successful in producing fledglings.
4157174|A small community of nesting pairs of four species, Western Flycatcher (Empidonax difficilis), Creeper (Certhia familiaris), Bewick's Wren (Thryomanes bewickii), and Oregon Junco (Junco oreganus), is described. All used man-made structures for nest sites. The walls of a Western Flycatcher's nest were rebuilt for a second brood in the first season, and again rebuilt and used for one brood the following year. There was antagonism between the nesting pairs, especially between the flycatcher and wren, and junco and wren. Along with this, however, the male junco fed nestling wrens. Similar behavior in other species is discussed. Antagonistic display by both male and female wren is recorded, and the circumstances detailed. Both male and female wren roosted in flycatcher nests. Other records of interspecific antagonism are discussed, and it is suggested that further study of such behavior might lead to greater understanding of the original causes of territorial behavior.
4157204|In northern Michigan the Black-billed Cuckoo was found to nest usually in woodlands but occasionally in more open areas. A total of six nests were observed during the summers of 1939 and 1941. Nest elevation varied from 19 inches to 20 feet, the average being 5.9 feet. Possible cases of courtship feeding were observed. The egg-laying interval varied from one to three days. Both sexes took part in incubating the eggs, one adult apparently assuming the greater responsibility. The incubation period, determined in two cases by marking the eggs, was found to be 10 and 11 days respectively. Insect larvae made up 90 per cent of the food brought to the nestlings; the remaining 10 per cent consisted of miscellaneous insects. The Black-billed Cuckoo nestling is exceptionally precocious. The most outstanding reactions displayed upon hatching or shortly thereafter are its grasping-reflex, call-notes, and enthusiastic food-responses. Observations showed the average attendance-period of the parents to decrease somewhat less than 50 per cent between the 2-day-old and 5-day-old stages of nestling life. During cool windy weather, length of attendance-periods increased. The young left the nest at the age of 6 or 7 days, with the juvenal-feather tubes just beginning to open.
4157206|At Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, eight nests of three pairs of Killdeer were studied in 1942. In one nest, the clutch was complete by April 11, an early date for this region. This nest, when it contained only two eggs, was covered overnight with six inches of snow so that the observer was unable to find it, though the Killdeer found it without difficulty, cleared it of snow, and laid the third egg. There were seven clutches of four eggs, one of five. Periodicity of egg-laying was found to be variable, not only between females, but in the same individual. In three nests, incubation began immediately or shortly after the last egg was laid. The incubation period varied from 24 to 26 days. When the incubating female was collected at one nest, another bird (presumably the mate) took over the task of incubation. The period of parental care for two broods was 39 and (about) 42 days. One female apparently laid four clutches of eggs during the season (April 6 to June 14). The second clutch produced young which died, and the fourth produced young that were perhaps raised successfully. Two pairs were double brooded. Three new nests (two unused) were made by one pair before the second nesting.
4157207|Physiographic and climatic conditions in the Texas Panhandle present excellent opportunities for highway hawk-censuses. During a highway census covering a 39-month period (1938-1942) 6,175 hawks (including kites, vultures and eagles) were observed in 26,768 miles of travel. With Swainson's Hawks and Marsh Hawks far outnumbering all others, 15 species were recorded out of a possible total of 18. Hawks were seen at the rate of 232.5 per 1,000 miles, or one bird per 4.2 miles.
4157208|Comparison of 54 specimens of the genus Haematopus in natal plumage led to the following original conclusions: H. palliatus frazari chicks are darker than those of the nominate race and tend to be marked more often with black on the parietal region. H. bachmani chicks have a dark, drab face; H. palliatus subspp. chicks have a pale, buffy face. Chicks of H. ostralegus occidentalis and H. leucopodus are very similar. Several differential characters (of both adult and young) are listed which distinguish Old World and New World oyster-catchers. H. leucopodus from the Falkland Islands and South America seems to be the nearest thing to a living connecting link between eastern hemisphere and western hemisphere forms. In this species the plumage of both adults and young is close to the Old World type, the adult flesh colors are those of the New World type, but the configuration of the adult toes and toe-nails is unique.
4157231| A pair of color-banded Wood Thrushes in suburban Baltimore remained together through two broods of three young each; nesting success was 100 per cent. The second nest was built 90 yards north-northeast of the first; the general locations of the two were similar; the placements differed. The immediate proximity of a stream was not found, as by some other observers, to be a habitat requirement. The female alone incubated. Attentive periods at the first and second nests averaged 31 and 27 minutes, respectively; inattentive periods 8 and 6 1/10 minutes; the percentage of daylight hours spent on the nest was 78 and 80.3. The incubating bird's behavior during rain and during high wind is described. The first-brood hatch extended over two days, that of the second brood over three. The hatching hour of one egg was 6:59 A.M., 2 hours 17 minutes after sunrise. The shell was carried away. The female alone brooded the nestlings. Brooding lasted throughout the young's nest life. No progressive daily decrease in the brooding was found, nor any clear correlation between weather and amount of brooding except at temperatures of 93 F. and above, when attentiveness changed from covering to mere attendance--without shading. Both parents fed the young. The male made many more feedings than the female, but the female showed the better appreciation of the nestlings' needs; on the young's first days she gave them softer food than did the male, and she also trimmed certain portions away from some of the food he tendered. During comparable series of observations the average rate of feedings at the first nest was 9.3 per hour, at the second nest only 4.7, with equivalent food loads. Both parents were somewhat less attentive to the second brood than to the first. For example, the male guarded the first nest between almost all of the female's sittings, but guarded the second during only 60 per cent of her absences. At the first nest single periods of brooding by the female often encompassed two or three food trips by the male, but the female almost always flew away from the second nest the moment her mate arrived. The parents were equally responsible for the 50 per cent drop in feeding rate from brood to brood. The nestlings' excreta were usually eaten, by both parents, but two or three times, during morning twilight, were carried away. All of the first brood left the nest on the same day, when 12 and 13 days old. These birds were doing some of their own foraging by the age of 20 and 23 days; they continued to be fed by the parents to the age of 25 to 32 days; they left the territory, presumably independent, at 28 to 32 days. Two broods seem to be the rule at Baltimore. First-brood territory was about 100  100 yards in extent, second-brood territory probably 100  125 yards. Both adults defended territory against their own species, but not especially vigorously; the observed defenses are described. On the other hand, the female once fed a juvenile of a trespassing family that remained in the territory five days. The study pair were very tolerant of several other species, displaying hostility only toward a Blue Jay and a Purple Grackle. The notes uttered by male, female, and young are described, with comment on their uses; the female's use of a note suggesting song is mentioned. Partial albinism in the female was not inherited in the juvenal plumage by any of the six young. 
4157233|During the early spring of 1939, a study of territoriality, display, and certain ecological relations of the American Woodcock was undertaken at Urbana, Champaign County, Illionois. From a small concentration of migrant Woodcocks present on the semi-wooded study area from March 5 to April 3, three established males were studied. They were confined to more or less definite feeding areas and to open-country, crepuscular-display territories. A call-note of advertisement and warning, peent, is given repeatedly on the display territory when the occupant male is not performing a song-flight. Competition among neighboring males accelerates rate of calling. Normal, day-to-day variations in temperature do not appear to affect rate of calling. But the length of the crepuscular calling period tends to correlate directly with temperature variations; that is, calling periods are longer when daily temperatures are higher. There is undoubtedly a relation between light intensity and beginning and ending of crepuscular calling, but other factors complicate this relation. The cackle note is given by an established male in assault and threat toward other birds who invade his territory or who occupy neighboring territories. The song-flights of the male Woodcock function chiefly in territorial advertisement but may also function in intimidation. Neighboring males may compete through more frequent performance of the song-flight. The frequency with which the song-flight is performed does not appear to be affected by temperature. First song-flights were given during evening display periods when the light intensity fell to 1.0 to 0.5 foot-candles. Length of singing period as well as length of calling period tends to vary according to day-to-day temperature fluctuations. Only the display sites of males are known to be defended, and at present only these can be termed territories. Manifestations of territoriality among established males are seen in competitive selection and maintenance of singing-fields, combat, overlap of display territories, efforts to displace neighbors through aggression, and increased vigor of singing and calling among closely neighboring males. Feeding areas occupied by three males were 250 to 300 feet in diameter. Calling sites ranged from 50 to 75 feet in diameter, but territorial claims are asserted over larger areas, defined in part by outer limits of display flights. Single flights may cover areas of 1/3 to 2/3 of an acre. All flights of a single male may cover a total area of two to five acres. Both male and female Woodcocks may strut when excited. Strutting is not necessarily a courtship display preliminary to mating. Territorial males resent all intruders and assault them with the cackle note. Events subsequent to any intrusion are determined largely by responses of the intruder to intimidation. American Woodcocks may become temporarily established on territories during the period of spring migration.
4157259|The autumn feeding and flocking habits of Mourning Doves were studied in south-central Missouri from 1939 through 1942. Mourning Doves, being unable to scratch or to cling to vertical stalks, select their food from seeds available on the surface of the ground. The periodic adjustments in their fall feeding habits are apparently conditioned by changing availability of surface foods. Wheat fulfills the Mourning Dove's needs until the stubbles become nearly exhausted. The birds then change to foxtail if a crop has been produced; if not, they make shift on the stubbles until the later weeds and crops ripen. Mourning Doves apparently reject Korean lespedeza, although quail prefer it. Part of the local Mourning Doves migrate, and an increasing degree of gregariousness is evident among the remaining birds. Winter concentrations begin to form on the best feeding grounds in September. There is a tendency toward sexual segregation among the wintering doves, some of the adult males forming into separate flocks.
4157260|The nesting habits of the Common Redpoll (Acanthis l. linaria) were studied at Churchill, Manitoba, from June 2 to July 22, 1940. Common Redpolls were relatively abundant. Nine of the season's nests were found, containing a total of 33 eggs. Seventy-two per cent of the eggs hatched; 39 per cent of the eggs resulted in fledglings. Placement and structure of the nests are described. The egg-laying interval varied from one to two days, though one day was the more usual. The incubation period was 10 to 11 days; the nestling period, 11 to 12 days. Incubation and brooding were performed by the female. The active day sometimes extended from 3 A.M. to 10:30 P.M. The attentive and inattentive periods ranged from less than a minute to over one hour, averaging respectively 22.8 minutes and 20.9 minutes. The maximum activity (feeding and nest cleaning) occurred between 3 and 6 A.M.; the maximum brooding (except from midnight to 3 A.M., when the nests were not observed) between 6 A.M. and noon, and between 9 P.M. and midnight. Nestlings were fed usually by the female, sometimes by regurgitation, sometimes directly. They were fed occasionally by the male. According to the stage of nestling development, average intervals between feedings were: 38 minutes (age one to four days); 23 minutes (age 5 to 7 days); and 19 minutes (age 8 to 10 days). The nests were frequently cleaned, usually immediately after the young were fed. Daily increase in weight of nestlings is recorded.
4157261|A reliable measurement or index of general size is needed in avian taxonomy both as a direct measure of differences in general size and as a standard of comparison for measurements of appendages. Linear indices of general size are usually either too variable to be reliable, or are not available in sufficiently large series to be of general use. Weight has moderate variability and reflects differences in general size more sensitively than do linear measurements. When used as a standard of comparison for linear measurements, the cube root of weights should ordinarily be used. The use of weights in taxonomic studies is demonstrated. Weights of birds should be recorded whenever possible, to aid in taxonomic and other problems.
4157262| Wing and tail lengths, body weight, body temperature, heart rate, breathing rate, and muscle tremors (the latter three variables being measured with the cardio-vibrometer) of wild Black-capped Chickadees were studied. Wings ("maximum measurement") varied from 61 to 69 mm., with wings of males as a rule longer; hence wing measurements were an aid in sex distinction. Tail measurements varied from 60 to 65 mm., and were not an aid in sexing. Males averaged 0.7  0.2 gms. heavier than females. Rensselaerville (New York) birds averaged 0.8  0.15 gms. heavier than Gates Mills (Ohio) birds, when records from the same months were compared. The study birds weighed less in June than in winter, but weight differences between winter and spring were not significant. There are two types of inherent, more or less rhythmic, variation in heart rate, one correlated with breathing, the other probably of variable cause. Basal heart and breathing rates were measured at three temperatures, 43, 70, and 90F. With rising temperature heart rate decreased, but at 90 breathing rate increased; this acceleration (probably reflexive) is undoubtedly related to the special role of breathing rate in the control of heat loss, 90 being above the critical temperature, especially for Black-capped Chickadees in winter. Heart rate probably may be considered a rough index to heat production, and breathing rate a rough indicator of heat loss. Heart rate was consistently and significantly higher in summer, and usually higher in spring, than in winter. Breathing rate, on the other hand, at 90 was lower in summer than in winter. These changes indicate an important seasonal adjustment of basic physiological rates (including the rate of metabolism), and are undoubtedly significant in the species' successful adaptation to changing seasonal conditions. Physiological development of the nestlings was similar to that of the House Wren. Weight increase followed a sigmoid curve. Temperature regulation was established gradually, the most rapid changes taking place during the middle third of nest life. A peak in both heart rate and breathing rate was reached at about nine days of age, after which both decreased as the control over heat loss became more effective. 
4157286|The breeding habits of wild Killdeers were studied in 1931 and 1932 at 15 nests in the Finger Lakes District of New York. The two sexes shared in incubation and care of the young. Sexes were indistinguishable in the field, but the birds at six nexts were marked, and one of each pair was observed to be more attentive during the latter part of the incubation period and in the care of the young. The adult birds continued normal care of the young even though the nests were fenced in to prevent escape of the young. Parental care consisted of brooding, guarding against enemies, and warning of danger. The young were never fed by the parents. In 1932 five eggs taken from nests in the field were hatched in an incubator and the young Killdeers hand reared along with five young Killdeers hatched in the field. In 1933 two of the captive birds mated and produced three young. The male made the nest. During egg-laying the male was more solicitous for the eggs than the female. He shared at least equally in the incubation. When the young were several days old the male assumed almost entire care of the brood. The young were brooded for 23 days. The three young hatched in captivity seemed entirely normal.
4157287|After an interval of some 20 years, the Ring-billed Gull was again reported nesting in the Great Lakes region about 1926. Between 1926 and 1941, at least twenty-nine thousand Ring-billed Gulls were banded in the region. The data indicate that from the earliest of these recent colonies, St. Martins Shoals, the Ring-billed Gulls scattered throughout upper Lake Michigan, upper Lake Huron, and Georgian Bay; they have been found nesting on at least 26 islands in the region. The colonies do not always remain stationary, but sometimes shift from island to island. A colony on Scarecrow Island, Alpena County, Michigan, has become the largest single colony in the Middle West. Winter returns from banded Ring-billed Gulls extend the known winter range northward; summer returns indicate that some of these gulls spend all their first year in the south. Four returns from North Carolina, made during the breeding season of the third year after banding, point to the possibility of a nesting colony of Ring-billed Gulls on the North Carolina coast. Fall and spring returns indicate migration routes along the upper Ohio River and the Mississippi, and along the St. Lawrence waterway and Hudson River. Returns indicate that mortality is highest in the first six months of life, followed closely by mortality in the first calendar year after banding. The oldest Ring-billed Gull we have yet recorded was ten years old.
4157303|A study was made of the group movements, dates of molting, and variant plumages of Bonaparte's Gulls on the Niagara River and eastern Lake Erie from the spring of 1921 to 1943. The adults arrive in late March and early April, leave during May, return in late July and August, and depart in September, October, and November. The young of the previous year arrive in May, drift northward in late May and early June, and probably compose a large portion of the great November and December flocks. Juveniles are surprisingly rare in fall, and it seems necessary to conclude that they follow a different route southward. Dates of prenuptial and postnuptial molts are given. The band-headed plumage of adults and immatures is described.
4157305| The Cardinal was studied in the Nashville, Tennessee, area from 1931 to 1943, a total of 1,621 individuals being banded. Young Cardinals begin to sing a distinctive warbling song at three or four weeks of age, and use phrases of adult song at least by the age of two months. Cardinals have at least 28 different songs, but male and female song are indistinguishable. Cardinal song may sometimes be heard the year round, but full song for the male usually extends from February to September, and for the female, from March until July or August. Whisper singing, antiphonal singing, and night singing are all common with Cardinals. Cardinals begin late in February to take up territory and choose mates. Each sex defends territory against intruders of its own sex, but Cardinals as a rule show little belligerence. The female of a pair tends to follow her mate throughout the winter. Males are mildly dominant over the females during the winter months. The male feeds the female during courtship and the first nesting. Nesting, as a rule, begins in April, sometimes in March, and frequently extends into September. The nest is usually built by the female alone; all incubation and brooding is by the female; the male assists in feeding the young and in nest sanitation, taking full charge of fledglings when the female proceeds with another nesting. Four nestings in a season are not uncommon. The usual clutch is three eggs; eggs hatch 12 or 13 days after the last egg is laid; young leave the nest from 7 to 11 days, usually 9 or 10 days, after hatching. There is some parasitism by Cowbirds. Banding records indicate that individuals remain in the same garden for breeding and wintering for several years, and an individual rarely if ever wanders farther than four miles from its birthplace. The winter groups or flocks (of 6 to 25 individuals) are apparently composed chiefly of young of the year. Of 1,135 Cardinals whose life span could have been three or more years, 30 (2.6 per cent) have reached the ages of three to six years, the oldest female being 4 years old; two males reached the ages of six years. A male and a female 10 years of age and a male 13 years are cited from the literature. Weights of Tennessee birds are compared with those of Ohio birds. Only one Cardinal was found with ecto-parasites; a few were found with injured beaks, feet or eyes; seven cases of baldness were recorded; no albinism or melanism was found. 
4157324|The Emerald Toucanet was studied in Chiapas, southern Mexico, at intervals from 1933 to 1943. The habitat in Chiapas is virgin forest, at altitudes above 1,000 meters (3,280 feet), the occurrence and movements of the birds being determined by a definite degree of atmospheric humidity. The breeding range in Chiapas is above 2,000 meters (6,560 feet) on the Pacific slope, and above 1,750 meters (5,740 feet) on the Atlantic slope. The birds spend the non-breeding season at lower altitudes. The birds live in flocks during the greater part of the year. The adults leave the flocks in February, but yearlings (not yet sexually mature) remain in flocks. The population density is very low. An occupied nest was found on April 15, 1942, and observed until April 20, when a weasel killed the parent bird (a female). No male was noted near the nest during the five days of observation. Intervals spent in brooding were about equal to intervals spent away from the nest (20 to 30 minutes). The two young (about 10 days old) found in the nest were naked except for bristles on the hand and tail. Both eyes and ears were still closed. Wings and legs were still very undeveloped. The tubercles on the heel-pads seemed to be neither definite in pattern nor constant in number. The bill of the young was flattened, and the lower mandible projected beyond the upper. The tongue was still soft and freely moveable. Young birds, though similar in plumage and body-size to the adults, can be distinguished in the field by the smaller size of the bill for some months after nest-leaving. The Toucanet's calls are loud and varied and include imitations of many local species of birds. All of the Toucanets examined (eight birds at different seasons) had only vegetable food in their stomachs.
4157326|Five nests of the Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) were studied at Douglas Lake, Michigan, in late June, July, and August, 1942. The preferred habitat was second-growth maple, but nests were found in every kind of forest. Little territorial defense was observed. The males were in full song until mid-July, when song gradually decreased, stopping in early August. Only the female was observed to incubate or brood. Except at one nest, male and female shared in feeding the young. Incubation intervals averaged 22.1 minutes, brooding intervals, 9.1 minutes; intervals between feedings, 12.3 minutes. Fecal sacs were eaten during the early part of the nestling period; later they were carried away.
4157327|To illustrate the value of semi-captive birds in the study of bird behavior, an account is given of detailed observations, made in 1939, on two pairs of Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (Hedymeles ludovicianus) which were kept in semi-captivity near Erindale, Ontario. Song is not fully developed until about the first of May, but a faint early song, different from the later territorial and courtship songs, begins near the middle of March. Territorial behavior is evident during the latter part of April. Courtship song and display (here first described in detail) begin in late April or in early May. One female laid four eggs, the other three eggs, in the first nests of the season (built in the aviary in the latter half of May); three eggs were laid in each of the second nests (built outside the aviary). All 13 eggs hatched and all 13 young were raised to maturity. The parents shared in incubating, in brooding, and in the care of the young. When the females started the second nests, the males took almost complete charge of the first brood. The incubation period was 12 to 13 days; nestling period, 10 days; period of dependence of young after nest leaving about 20 days. The parents used a signal song when exchanging places on the nest, and also sang on the nest while incubating and brooding. When allowed freedom after the first eggs were laid, the birds regularly visited the woods to feed on insects, ceasing almost entirely to use the artificial food provided in the aviary. The young were fed insects, greenstuff, and a little earth (a small quantity of artificial nestling food was given them just before nest leaving). The excrement was eaten by both parents during the first days of the nestling period; later, it was sometimes eaten, sometimes carried away. Both pairs observed territorial boundaries. One male several times fed the nestlings of the other male, when these were neglected by their parents. The Grosbeaks lost none of their natural alertness in semi-captivity. They found the entrances to the aviary without difficulty after foraging in the woods. The prenuptial molt (not complete) extends from January to April, postnuptial molt (complete) from July to mid-September. In the first prenuptial molt some flight feathers are renewed, but the adult retains the flight feathers from the previous year. The third prenuptial molt perfects the body plumage, the second postnuptial molt produces the full adult plumage in the male. At the time of spring and fall migration, the captive birds showed night restlessness, which decreased as the birds grew older.
4157328|A study was made of 23 nests of the Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus) during the years 1930 to 1932 near Winnipeg, Manitoba. Spring migration extended from about April 10 to April 18. Fall migration began with flocking (the young gathering first) on the out-skirts of the nesting areas; the last stragglers had left by the end of September. Courtship and territory selection began in the latter part of April and early May. Territories were roughly circular, from 25,000 to 45,000 square feet in area. Most of the nests were placed in low grass with little concealment. Egg laying in Manitoba began in late May (two weeks later than DuBois found for Montana). Clutches varied from 4 to 6 eggs, the average of 10 clutches being 4.8. (No six-egg sets were found by DuBois in Montana.) Two nestings per season seemed to be usual, and three nestings occasional. Later sets were smaller than the first. Incubation was by the female only, but the parents shared in caring for the young. The incubation period (determined at three nests) was 10 days; the nestling period, from 9 to 11 days. The young were independent 24 days after hatching (14 days after leaving the nest). Nesting success for 10 nests was 72 per cent. Except in its ending, the flight song conformed almost invariably to one pattern. In addition to the flight song, the Longspur used a variety of call notes. The postnuptial molt (which is complete) began about July 20; the prenuptial molt is incomplete. One female was recorded whose plumage resembled that of the male.
4157348|The published observations of egg-laying (six instances) and of egg-removal (eight instances) by the Cowbird (Molothrus ater) are summarized. A female Cowbird carried off and ate a Song Sparrow egg at 9:45 A.M. on May 28, 1944. She returned to the nest at 4:30 the next morning to deposit her egg. She was frightened from the nest when a photograph was taken, but returned after eight minutes and was photographed on the nest while depositing her egg. The Song Sparrow laid three more eggs (five in all, including the one removed by the Cowbird). Two sparrows and the Cowbird hatched and were reared successfully until the Cowbird was seven, the sparrows, six days old, when the nest was destroyed by a predator.
4157349|A study was made of the Blue-throated Toucanet (Aulacorhynchus caeruleogularis) near Vara Blanca, Costa Rica, from July, 1937, to August, 1938. This toucanet dwells in the mountain forests of Costa Rica and western Panama. Its recorded altitudinal range is from 2,500 to 7,600 feet above sea-level. These birds nest in woodpecker holes and similar cavities, which they sometimes slightly enlarge. The doorway of the nest is barely large enough to permit the passage of the adults through it. Six occupied nests were found; these were placed at heights ranging from 7 to 90 feet above the ground. Even before the first egg was laid, one or the other member of a pair of toucanets spent much time by day in a newly carved hole they had stolen from Hairy Woodpeckers. Of three accessible nests, two contained four eggs and the other, three eggs. The eggs were white, laid on successive days, and rested upon wood fragments in the bottom of the unlined cavity. Incubation was carried on by both sexes. The toucanets were restless on the nest, often going off without awaiting relief, leaving the eggs uncovered. At one nest the incubation period was 16 days. The young are hatched blind, perfectly naked, and with the lower mandible both longer and broader than the upper. They are equipped with large heel-pads upon which they rest during the long nestling period. Both parents brooded and fed the nestlings. Their food consisted chiefly of fruit, varied with small insects, and now and then the nestling of some other species. The parents kept the nest perfectly clean until just before the young were ready to depart. The nestlings developed with extreme slowness. Their eyes did not open until they were about 25 days old, and they were not completely clad with feathers until 35 days old. One or the other of the parents stayed with the nestlings each night, at least until two days before nest-leaving. The young toucanets left the nest when 43 days old, before 9 A.M. They now resembled their parents in plumage and color of bill, with certain minor differences, but their bills had not yet reached full adult size. Two pairs reared two broods in a season. Blue-throated Toucanets were not found sleeping in holes. The Blue-throated Toucanet sometimes falls prey to the White-throated Falcon (Falco albigularis). Aside from this, the adult appears to have few harmful enemies. /// The length of the toucan's bill is important in bringing within reach food that would otherwise be inaccessible. The bulk and bright coloration of the bill intimidate the small birds whose nests they despoil, thereby preventing attacks on the toucans by angry parents.
4157351|During the breeding seasons of 1931, 1934, and 1938, weight data were collected during field work on the north shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence on four species of Alcidae: Razor-billed Auk (Alca torda), Atlantic Murre (Uria aalge), Black Guillemot (Cepphus grylle), and Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica). The average weight of 38 eggs of the Auk was 85.4 grams; for 15 eggs of the Murre, 103.4 grams; for 23 eggs of the Black Guillemot, 49.2 grams; for 30 eggs of the Puffin, 55.9 grams. The average weight of adult breeding birds were as follows: Auk (7 adults), 686 grams; Murre (89 adults), 964.7 grams; Black Guillemot (69 adults), 419 grams; Puffin (29 adults), 476.1 grams. Seven Black Guillemots known to be four or more years of age averaged 398.5 grams in weight, which is less than 5 per cent below the average of all adults weighed. Adult banded Black Guillemots recaptured on different days and at different hours of the day showed great fluctuation in weight, obviously a reflection of their feeding habits. One bird showed a fluctuation of 26 per cent between the two weights listed. The growth of young Murres is shown in relation to the length of time spent at the nest site. These young normally leave the nest between 18 and 24 days of age. They are likely to leave earlier if a food shortage comes after they are 14 days of age. If the shortage comes before that, the young die at the nest site. The supply of food to the young is intimately tied up with feeding ceremony. When this relationship is not going well (possibly due to internal parasites weakening the young) the role of external parasites becomes significant to an undetermined degree. Wing measurements of adult Murres showed no close correlation with weight.
4157376| The migration and breeding habits of the Eastern Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina passerina) in Michigan, particularly at Battle Creek, were studied from 1918 to 1944, and a detailed study of six nests was made in 1944. This sparrow is usually observed singly during the spring, in flocks during the fall. It usually arrives at Battle Creek during the second and third weeks of April and leaves in October, being present an average of 186 days of the year. Territory is taken up immediately on the male's arrival. An area around the nest from an acre to an acre and a half is defended against other male Chipping Sparrows, but pairs often feed side by side outside these areas. Territorial behavior stops about mid-August. The male sings almost continuously from arrival until mating but sings very little between mating and the beginning of incubation. The female builds the nest (usually during the early morning), taking (as a rule) three or four days to complete it. For eight nests the average weight was 4.7 grams; average diameters at top, 48.3 mm. (interior) and 112 mm. (exterior); average depths, 37.3 mm. (interior) and 56.8 mm. (exterior). Nest materials were dead grasses, rootlets, and hair. In one nest 1,079 pieces were used. Favorite nesting sites were conifers. Nests were found placed progressively higher from the ground as the summer advanced (averaging 109 cm. from the ground in May, 229 cm. in July). Eggs were greenish-blue, spotted in a wreath or cap at the larger end. Twenty-four eggs averaged 12.82  17.23 mm. in diameter and length, 1.6 grams in weight. Eggs were laid at daily intervals, usually between 5 and 7 A.M. The average number of eggs per set (45 clutches) was 3.62. The earliest laying recorded was May 8; the earliest hatching, May 21; the earliest fledging, May 27. The latest record for laying the first egg of a set was July 26 (calculated date); the latest for nest-leaving, August 15. Of 66 nests, only three were parasitized by Cowbirds. The male was once found on the eggs, but as a rule the female alone incubates. The incubation period was 11 days. The young were fed less than an hour after hatching. The male occasionally brooded for a few minutes on cool mornings. Brooding decreased as the young grew older and stopped when they were six and seven days old. Male and female shared in feeding the young and in nest sanitation. Feedings increased in frequency as the young grew older. The down of the Chipping Sparrow is longer and darker than that of the Clay-colored and Field Sparrows. Feather tracts began to show at two days of age; sheaths of primaries protruded 2 mm. at three days, 9 mm. at five days, and 18 to 19 mm. at seven days. Rectrices began to show at three days. Average weights of nestlings increased from 1.28 grams at hatching to 10.3 grams at 10 days of age. The nestlings began to show fear when they were six days old. At 10 days of age the nestlings could hop to low branches of bushes; at 12 days they could fly a few feet; at 14 days they were capable of sustained flight. Young were fed by their parents until they were 33 (perhaps 35 or 40) days old. Of 50 nests (mostly near dwellings), 33 (66 per cent) produced young; 31 (62 per cent) produced fledglings. Of 152 eggs, 104 (68.42 per cent) hatched; 93 (61.18 per cent) produced fledglings. In spring and fall, Chipping Sparrows feed on weed seeds; in summer, on larvae and grasshoppers, which they also feed to the young. 
4157377| Holboell's Grebes (Colymbus grisegena holbllii) have been seen in numbers up to 48 in the region between Hamilton and Toronto, on Lake Ontario, during 11 of the 14 summers from 1931 to 1944 inclusive. During the summer of 1943, at least seven nests were built by Holboell's Grebes at Burlington. Four contained eggs, but none was successful--due, apparently, to storms and to human interference. During the summer of 1944 two pairs of grebes nested at Burlington. One pair raised at least two young from four eggs; the other, at least one young from three eggs. One young (about seven weeks old on September 18) was observed at Lorne Park. 
4157378|A population and food-habits study of hawks and owls was made in northcentral Oklahoma between May, 1939, and June, 1942. Both trapping and field observation in 1939 indicated an abundance of Barn Owls, Marsh Hawks, Short-eared Owls, and Screech Owls, as well as the presence in smaller numbers of nine other predatory species. Populations of rodents, particularly cotton rats, were similarly high. Pellet analysis indicated that over 66 per cent of the total food items of the predatory birds in 1939 consisted of cotton rats. Following an unusually cold period in late December, 1939, and early January, 1940, both populations of rodents and species of predatory birds whose food had consisted primarily of cotton rats showed a notable decrease or disappeared altogether. The Great Horned Owl, whose food habits are more generalized, and the Cooper's Hawk, which feeds primarily on small birds, were recorded in their usual numbers after the period of unusual cold. In 1941 and the spring of 1942 populations of predatory birds showed a slight increase, and a few cotton rats were again trapped in late June, 1941, the earliest record following January, 1940.
4157394|Data from 855 Robins (Turdus migratorius migratorius) banded as young and subsequently recovered were studied from the standpoint of age groups, longevity, and life expectancy. The age-group composition of the Robin population throughout the range of the northern race (excluding young that have not reached their first November 1) was found to be as follows: 1st year birds, 53 per cent; 2nd year, 25 per cent; 3rd year, less than 14 per cent; 4th year, less than 6 per cent; 5th year, less than 2 per cent; and 6th year or older, less than one per cent. The ratio of adults to young of birds throughout the range was found to be 88:100. In the northeast area, it was found to be 111:100. The mortality rate for all birds that have passed their first November 1 is slightly more than 50 per cent per annum. The mortality rate is probably the same for all age groups. The age-group composition in the wintering-area population is similar to that in the breeding-area population, indicating that there is no differential mortality rate according to age during spring migration. The adult survival rate of Turdus migratorius (47 per cent per annum), as determined in this study, is slightly lower than that of other members of the genus for which it has been determined. The average natural longevity of Robins that survive their first November 1 is about 1.7 years. This is comparable with the figures for other passerine species. The average natural longevity (1.7 years) is only a fraction of the potential natural longevity (at least 9 years) and of the potential longevity (at least 13 years, perhaps as much as 20 years). The turnover period is about six years. Life expectancy from the first November 1 to the third November 1, and hence for more than 90 per cent of the population, is 1.2 to 1.3 years and apparently does not change with the age of the bird. These results are in agreement with those for European passerine species. Life-expectancy figures calculated from the number of birds shot and from the number of birds killed by cats were similar to those calculated from the total sample. A hypothetical calculation indicates that the mortality rate from the nest to November 1 (an average of about 5 months) is probably 70 per cent, as compared with an estimated adult mortality rate of about 25 per cent for the same five-month period.
4157411|In the spring, during favorable weather, trans-Gulf migrants that do not breed in the Gulf coast region or in the lower Mississippi valley do not come down immediately on reaching land but fly far inland before descending. During unfavorable weather, incoming migrants of all types are precipitated, sometimes in tremendous concentrations, on the first available land. They pile up on coastal islands and cheniers, at times even in coastal marshes and other unfavorable places. Migrants which are forced by weather to stop on the shores of the Gulf coast resume their northward flight with the first favorable weather and pass over a vast area of the southern United States before again descending. Since, depending on the state of the weather, incoming migrants either fly far inland or descend on the very edge of the Gulf coast, the intermediate area becomes an extensive "hiatus" in the path of the trans-Gulf flyway. Within this area, transient migrants are extremely rare, highly intermittent in their occurrence, or even wholly absent during many consecutive spring migrations. The lack of spring records from the Gulf coast and the lower Mississippi valley for certain species is shown to be an insufficient basis for assuming that they are not trans-Gulf migrants. Trans-Gulf migrants that breed in the Gulf coast region and in the lower Mississippi valley are regular in their arrival at their breeding grounds, although they may be rare or absent at places a few miles away. Analysis of weather conditions in the Yucatan-Campeche region preceding specific dates on which migrants are known to have been precipitated on the coast of the United States because of weather barriers reveals that, in all cases examined, birds left the Yucatan-Campeche region under auspicious conditions. For those periods when unfavorable weather is known to have extended across the Gulf to the Yucatan-Campeche region, the available evidence shows that the northward flow of trans-Gulf migrants was stopped, only to be resumed, and in increased magnitude, when the weather permitted. The data indicate that the "waves" characteristic of spring migration in the Mississippi valley are caused primarily by two factors, both dependent on weather conditions: the alternate passing over or dropping down of migrants that is recorded in the Gulf regions; and the recurrent interruptions of the stream of migrants leaving the Yucatan-Campeche region.
4157430|The Mexican Violet-ear (Colibri thalassinus) is primarily a bird of the mountain forest. Its breeding habitat in the mountains surrounding the Valle de Mexico is the oak-pine-cypress forest. Since the destruction of the forest and the cultivation of the land, the Violet-ear has adapted itself in some degree to the new environment. In its northern range the Mexican Violet-ear is in part a migratory bird. The females, the young, and a varying percentage of the adult males go south in October and early November and return to their breeding range in July. The presumed winter range is in the mountains of Chiapas, Guatemala, and farther south. Environmental conditions greatly influence the percentage of males that migrate, as well as the time that migration takes place. According to reports from 1873 and 1874, all Violet-ears then migrated in winter. The non-migratory males usually stay as vagrants in the fir forest (2,900 to 3,500 meters) at places where there are flowering plants even in winter. In dry winters, however, all the males leave the area by the second half of February. Immediately after their return in July, the females begin building the nest. There is but one brood. Substitute broods are attempted only if the eggs have been destroyed during the first half of the breeding cycle. The males attract the attention of the females by their loud calls and display flights. There are several phases of song, expressing different stages of sexual excitement. After completing the nest, the females look for the males, and courtship flight takes place. The nest is usually situated low down in small oaks. As an adaptation to the new conditions, other low plants are also used. The nest is easily identified by the long grass hanging down from its sides. The most important building material is moss. Occasionally the Violet-ear steals nesting material from the nest of the White-eared Hummingbrid. /// The young hatch after an incubation period of 16 to 17 days (determined at only one nest). They leave the nest after 19 to 28 days (sometimes possibly more--under normal conditions they leave after 23 to 25 days). They are fed for 5 to 7 days after leaving the nest. In general, a period of 55 to 65 days is required for the nesting cycle--from the beginning of nest construction to the complete independence of the young. The rate of growth of the young is largely dependent on the weather. Therefore the degree of development at any given age shows a marked variation. The speed of flight is, under normal conditions, more than 90 kilometers per hour. This can be accelerated to more than 150 kilometers per hour (recorded in one instance).
4157470|Field observations over a two-year period (1938-1940) were made in the Boise National Forest on the cover preferences, seasonal movements, and food habits of Richardson's Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus richardsoni) and the Idaho Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus phaios). From October through March, Richardson's Grouse lived on the higher ridges, where they were dependent on scattered stands of conifers for both food and cover. In May, June, and early July, they stayed at lower elevations and ate chiefly the flowering parts of various plants. In late July and early August, broods and females were concentrated along water courses, while single birds (those identified proving to be adult males) were in the higher timber types. The food at this time consisted largely of insects, berries, fruits, and leaves of various shrubs. By mid-September the females and broods had moved to the higher ridges, where at first they continued to feed on berries and leaves of shrubs and later shifted to a diet of conifer needles and buds. Idaho Ruffed Grouse were found in the overmature ponderosa pine and Douglas fir-spruce types at middle elevations throughout the year. During the winter they fed largely on the buds of a wide variety of shrubs which grow under openings in the forest canopy. The movements of this grouse are apparently quite restricted. Both species of grouse were dependent during the entire year on coniferous trees for escape cover. The movements of the Richardson's Grouse seem to be influenced by the differing rates of plant development at different altitudes. The summer range of the Richardson's Grouse is in areas intensively used by man and livestock, but the winter range is in areas relatively unaffected by man. Although some lumbering is carried on in the range of the Ruffed Grouse, it does not seriously endanger the grouse habitat. Grouse hunting has decreased in recent years. Brood counts along water courses in August furnish a dependable basis for estimates of yearly population increase. Continued improvements in range management practices on the spring and summer ranges and the use of a flexible September hunting season based on August brood counts should be adequate to build up the grouse populations of the area.
4157485|Observations were made on 19 species of Mexican hummingbirds to determine the composition of their food, techniques of procuring food, manner of drinking and bathing, and method of pollinating ornithophilous flowers. The food of hummingbirds is determined by the ecological conditions under which the individual species live. Every degree of difference occurs between feeding, at least temporarily, exclusively on animal food to feeding temporarily exclusively on nectar. In areas with pronounced dry seasons, in the high mountains, and in the temperate zones, a medley of small animal organisms constitutes the principal food. In many of these regions the birds migrate at seasons of unfavorable feeding conditions. In tropical habitats, nectar predominates in the food. Under natural conditions, hummingbirds are conditioned to the color (varying with the species, and with locality and season) that corresponds with the color of the flower that is the most productive source of food. As long as nectar from flowers is available, it is the preferred food. When the supply of nectar is inadequate, insects are eaten, preferably from flowers, but when these are insufficient, hummingbirds are forced to feed on insects gathered from other vegetation and from crevices, or captured in flight. Hummingbirds feed while on the wing whether they are extracting nectar or insects from flowers, gathering insects from the vegetation, or capturing flying insects. The method of capturing insects in flight varies from species to species. The animal food consumed by hummingbirds includes all sorts of small organisms, size, apparently, being the only limitation. Pellets are formed of the larger pieces of chitin and regurgitated. Hummingbirds drink and bathe far more often than is generally supposed. Two flowers especially adapted to pollination by hummingbirds occur in Mexico (Marcgravia sp. and Marcgravia mexicana). Both hummingbirds and ornithophilous plants are tropical in origin, having spread in recent times into Mexico from the south. In many cases where pollination by hummingbirds occurs, pollination by insects is also possible. Hummingbirds were originally insectivorous. At a later stage of development, nectar became their principal food. Paralleling this change, the tongue developed as a suction pump. With the general deterioration of climate in the latter part of the Tertiary and the colonization by hummingbirds of the subtropical and temperate zones, certain species were forced to return to a greater utilization of insects as food.
4157542|Autumn courtship was principally confined to displays upon the water, such as head bobbing and short display flights. Both sexes, but particularly the females, were rather silent. They were exceedingly wary and ceased to court if alarmed. Occasional pairs were observed copulating. Winter courtship in open holes in otherwise ice-covered bodies of water consisted primarily of splashing, milling, and dashing about, sometimes with many males in pursuit of a female, or in a sort of play where every bird seemed to chase his neighbor. With the appearance of open water in spring, pairs of Black Ducks appeared near their nesting sites. Early spring courtship was similar to autumn courtship until the time the female began to leave the male for portions of each day. After that, courtship was primarily confined to flight displays over water, sometimes ending in copulation. After egg laying had presumably begun and in the earlier days of incubation, courtship flights were confined to dusk and were principally over land; these flights were later continued by the female without the male. Throughout spring the pairs were quite fearless and were very vociferous when courting. About South Bass Island, many adult Black Ducks were in pairs throughout autumn and until they left the region. The male of a pair courted persistently; sometimes courtship ended in copulation. Observations in winter, made chiefly in central Ohio, indicated that pairing was at a minimum during the coldest weather. But most of the ducks were in pairs, even when in flocks, upon returning to South Bass Island in late winter and early spring. The pairs that remained about the island to nest chose a territory and spent as much time in it as climatic or other conditions permitted. The male left the female and territory after incubation was well advanced.
4157569|On or about June 22, 1946, a pair of Acadian Flycatchers (Empidonax virescens) completed their nest at the Edwin S. George Reserve, southeastern Michigan. On June 27 the nest contained three Flycatcher eggs; on June 29, one Flycatcher egg and one Cowbird (Molothrus ater) egg; on July 12, a young Flycatcher and a young Cowbird; on July 13, only the young Cowbird. The young Cowbird was fed and brooded by one of the Flycatchers on July 13. On July 19 the Cowbird was on the ground below the nest, having apparently fallen through the bottom of the nest. The Cowbird remained on the ground, nestled in a depression in the leaves for two and a half days. It was apparently fed by the Flycatchers, since it remained in excellent condition. On July 22 the Cowbird had disappeared, and the Flycatchers were calling about 75 yards away from the nest.
4157571|In August 1944, 97 young Wood Ducks, hatched and partially reared in Illinois, were raised to about seven weeks of age and released at Madison, Wisconsin, 200 miles from the hatching site. A few wintered in the area of the release. Ducks of both sexes from the release returned to Madison to breed, both in 1945 and 1946. None of the ducks of the release was found in the area of hatching. A similar release of young Wood Ducks, hatched in Illinois, was made in 1944 in Indiana. At least four females returned to Indiana to breed.
4157597|In the course of a 10-year study (1936-1946) of the Yellow-eyed Penguin, Megadyptes antipodes, weights were taken at 7-day intervals from 56 days before the egg was laid to 48 days after hatching--a period of about 146 days. Males reach their peak weight at the end of the off-season and drop steadily during the pre-egg stage until just before egg-laying. Females reach their peak in weight a week later than the males, and for four weeks are heavier than the males, which again exceed the females in weight as the eggs appear. As incubation progresses, both sexes steadily increase in weight, but another drop occurs during the 48 days after the hatching of the chick. Weight fluctuations in two species of petrel, the Broad-billed Prion, Pachyptila vittata [= forsteri], and the Diving Petrel, Pelecanoides urinatrix, were also examined. The same pattern of fluctuation seemed to occur in these two species as in the penguin Megadyptes. The results of the study were compared with the findings of other workers on other species. They were found to follow closely the deductions of Wolfson, who studied migrant Oregon Juncos, Junco oreganus. They differ, however, from data on non-migratory birds, most of which apparently reach peak weights in the winter. Megadyptes resembles Juncos in that a heavy deposit of fat develops as the pre-egg period approaches. In both species this is coincident with growth of the gonads. The pattern of weight fluctuation indicates that incubation in birds is not the arduous task that it is supposed to be, but that feeding of young is a time of stress. The penguin Megadyptes reaches its peak weight for the year at the beginning of the molt, its minimum weight at the end; the petrel Pachyptila apparently does not lose weight during the molt. Evidence from other workers on other species indicates that in some birds there is a gain of weight during the molt; in others, a loss; in still others, no significant change.
4157642|This discussion of the releaser concept has two objects: first, to draw attention to a number of experimental facts proving the releaser function in those cases that have been critically studied with adequate methods; second, to stimulate further research, by pointing out the many requirements to be fulfilled in a really critical procedure, and by showing the incompleteness of the work thus far done. Part 1 defines the releaser concept and discusses experimental results in the fields of visual releasers (stickleback, robin, Flicker, Shell Parakeet, Herring Gull, lizards, cichlid fish, cuttlefish), of auditory releasers (crickets, birds), of chemical releasers (honey-bee, hyena, butterflies), and of tactile releasers (snails). A selection of observational (non-experimental) evidence on visual releasers is added. Part 2 presents certain principles which are of importance for planning experiments and for evaluating the results: Each innate reaction of an animal responds to a limited set of "sign stimuli," which do not influence the behavior as a whole but only special reactions or reaction patterns. What appears to be "a reaction" is often a chain of reactions, each of which is dependent on its own set of sign stimuli. The function of a releaser may be confined to any one link of such a chain, as, for example, in the chain of mating reactions of the stickleback. The "rule of heterogeneous summation," the additive effect of different stimuli, has important implications for experimental practice. Many reactions may occur even in the absence of one of the sign stimuli, provided the motivation, dependent on internal factors, is high enough. Any experiment on the value of releasers, therefore, has to compare the effect of two dummies that differ only in the one releaser to be studied. The releaser is an adaptation to the innate releasing mechanism, which, for reasons unknown, is dependent on a "simple" stimulus situation. Conditioned behavior responds to a much more complicated stimulus situation. Many reactions are dependent on repeated stimulation, each stimulus slightly raising the excitatory state, which by accumulation of the effects of repeated stimulation reaches a final state in which the reaction is released. Many of the so-called reactions released by releasers are not simple "motor responses" but are internal reactions by which the centers of whole patterns or major instincts are activated. Some releasers have a general excitatory influence and do not direct the reactor's response; in these cases experiments should be of the "successive," not of the "choice," type.
4157658| The Black-breasted Puff-bird (Notharchus pectoralis) lives among the crowns of the trees in the lowland forests of eastern Panam and northern Colombia. It perches motionless much of the time, breaking its long periods of immobility by sudden darts to snatch insects from the vegetation or from the air. The only notes heard were a low, weak peep and a nasal sound uttered when the birds were disturbed at their nest. On Barro Colorado Island a pair were discovered carving a nest-chamber into a big, black, arboreal termitary on March 28, 1935. The sexes alternated at this task, and they worked hard through much of the day over a period of two weeks before the nest was completed. During the 10 days which elapsed between the apparent completion of the chamber and the laying of the first egg, one or the other member of the pair guarded the nest much of the time. It rested quietly in front or at times sat within. Three pure white eggs were laid at two-day intervals. Male and female took turns at incubation, but usually one flew away before the other arrived to replace it. Their periods of sitting were most variable, those timed ranging from 7 to 162 minutes. During 7 hours of observation the eggs were covered only 70 per cent of the time. The eggs vanished before hatching, apparently taken by a snake. The parents made repeated inspections of the nest after their disappearance. After a few weeks a second set of three eggs was found in the same cavity. The White-whiskered Soft-wing (Malacoptila panamensis) dwells chiefly in lowland forest, but at times is seen in adjoining areas of older second growth and even in shady pastures. In its manner of catching insects it greatly resembles the Black-breasted Puff-bird. Its notes are weak peep's or high, thin whistles. A nest was found, on June 8, 1943, in a short burrow going obliquely down into a steep hillside covered by tall forest. The chamber at the lower end was lined with dead leaves, and a little heap of twigs and dead leaves surrounded and concealed the entrance. Although the burrow was apparently dug by the puff-birds, no excavated earth was found near it. Two white eggs formed the full set. The nestlings hatched quite naked. They vanished, apparently taken by a snake, when two days old. The Nun-birds (Monasa) appear to be more gregarious than other puff-birds. Their nests in burrows (as described by Cherrie) have points in common with those of the Soft-wing. The Swallow-wings (Chelidoptera tenebrosa) rest in pairs on the exposed tops of tall trees, whence they dart out or up in spectacular fashion to catch flying insects. Their notes are soft whistles. They nest in burrows in the ground, and the young are born naked. 
4157659|A female Wood Thrush, studied in Baltimore in 1943, frequently sang during the laying and incubating stages of her two nestings. Her songs differed in form from those of males, and were weaker and less musical. She sang less during her second nesting than during her first. She sang both from the nest and from perches out in the territory, chiefly in the early morning and the evening. The male's singing was the commonest stimulus observed. Except on one (apparently chance) occasion there was no coordinated responsiveness in the singing of the two birds. Only twice was the male observed to react to his mate's singing: both times he flew to her, once first responding with a few songs. This female showed no other signs of masculinity.
4157735| During 1946-47 and 1947-48, 247 weights of White-throated Sparrows (131 from banded birds, 116 from collected birds) were obtained over the 7-month wintering period of the species at Athens, Georgia. Two distinct cycles are evident from the data, a peak in weight being reached in mid-winter and another, greater peak in males, being reached just prior to northward migration. On arrival in October, birds were lightest, males averaging 26.0, females 24.9 grams. A gradual increase occurred with winter peak being reached (in both years) in early February, males 29.8, females 28.0 grams. The winter increase seems well correlated with temperature since the coldest periods coincided with peak weights; also, birds averaged heavier in the cold 1947-48 winter as compared with warmer 1946-47 one. During late March and early April, birds underwent prenuptial molt, and weight dropped below the winter level. During the last half of April all males increased greatly in weight, averaging 30.8 grams, with a number of individuals weighing up to 33 and 34 grams. A heavy deposition of fat appears largely responsible for this increase which may occur within 7 to 10 days, or perhaps less. Virtually all males had departed by May 1. Females averaged heavier in April (27.3 gms) but the increase was much less evident than in males and the response was irregular, some females becoming quite fat, others showing little change. Females lingering into May were generally light (average 26.6), many still molting, and some, at least, being first-year birds. Apparently many females leave the Athens region before or without evident fat deposition or weight increase. For the entire spring period, April 15 to May 15, males averaged 3.8 grams heavier than females as compared with a 1.7 gram sex difference during mid-winter period, Jan. 1 to Feb. 15. The difference between these differences is statistically significant, 2.1  0.69 gms. By way of general conclusion, it appears from observational and experimental data so far available that temperature is a factor, perhaps the chief one, in bringing about the winter increase. Light, that is, length of day, is apparently the chief factor in bringing about the spring increase, temperature being only a modifying factor. In species of birds which migrate early the significance of this difference is lost since the 2 weight peaks may coincide or be superimposed upon one another. A late migrant species, such as the White-throated Sparrow, is a more favorable subject for study since the 2 peaks are distinct and, therefore, may be studied separately. It is hoped that detailed study of collected specimens now in progress may further clarify the physiology of the temperature-correlated (winter) and light-correlated (spring) weight increases. 
4157736|A resume is presented of notes on Pigeon Hawks which nested in the same place at Pimisi Bay, Ontario, during at least three years in succession. The habitat was a burnt-over hill near the lake and the nests found were placed a little above the middle-sections of coniferous trees. The male falcon did most of the hunting and brought food to the female which, in turn, fed herself and the young. The hunting hawk usually took at least an hour's rest before going out on another hunting trip. Small birds and mammals on the hawks' nesting territory were apparently ignored, but larger birds and mammals were not tolerated. It is indicated that the hunting pressure of the hawks upon the smaller bird population was counteracted by two main factors, the extension of their hunting grounds and what seemed to be compensating fluctuations within the bird population itself. The young hawks, raised by hand for a week after their parents' disappearance, left the nest cage at about 4 weeks of age and reached full independence about 5 weeks later.
4157737|An ecological study of a nesting Red-shouldered Hawk population was made over a 185 square mile area on the Coastal Plain of Maryland in 1947. The courting and nesting season extended from late February until late June. During the nesting season a combination of fairly extensive flood-plain forest with adjacent clearings appears to meet the major ecological requirements of the Red-shouldered Hawk in this region. A total of 51 pairs was found in the study area, occupying about 42 square miles or 23% of the total area studied. The population density on the land that was suitable for this species was about 1 pair per .8 of a square mile, while the density for the entire study area would be only about 1 pair per 3.6 square miles. Nests were spaced fairly evenly over most of the flood-plain forests, especially in areas where the width of the flood plain was relatively constant. There was an inverse correlation between the width of the flood plain and the distances between nests in adjacent territories. The nests were all situated in fairly large trees and were from 28 feet to 77 feet above the ground, averaging 50. They were found in 14 different species of trees, all deciduous. The Barred Owl and Red-shouldered Hawk were commonly associated together in the same lowland habitats. Other raptores were all largely restricted to upland habitats. The average number of young in 47 occupied nests following the hatching period was 2.7 with extremes of 1 and 4. Only 3 out of 52 nests (6%) were found deserted at this time. The food habits of nestling Red-shouldered Hawks are very diversified. They feed on many types of warm-blooded and cold-blooded vertebrates as well as invertebrates.
4157738|Nesting birds were studied in a five-acre park area with arbor vitae and blue-grass lawn as the main cover types. A total of at least 15 species (94 pairs) bred on the area during the period of study. May and June were the months of highest nest density. On May 19-20 there were 9.6 active nests per acre. The average number of nests per acre for the season was 4.3. The total density for the season was 32.8 nests per acre. The high density did not produce any noticeable interspecific strife. Catbirds were the most successful breeders, producing fledglings from 51% of their eggs; Mourning Doves were the least successful, producing fledglings from 20% of their eggs. Those species suffering the greatest loss of eggs in the nest generally appeared to be the most successful in raising nestlings. Predation by an unknown avian form was the main cause of nest failures.
4157753|North of Mexico, Colima Warblers are known only from the Chisos Mountains, in Brewster County, Texas, where the species was first reported July 20, 1928. Numerous breeding birds were observed in the Boot Canyon section of the Chisos from May 22 until June 7, 1941. The local population, estimated from singing males, exceeded 15 pairs. Four nests discovered May 25, 28, 29 and June 6 were uniform in construction, the symmetrical bowl of each being woven from fine rootlets or grass stems, and embedded to ground level. Concealment was excellent. Four eggs constitute a normal clutch. Egg-laying occurs principally during the second half of May. The Chisos population has been reported absent since 1946.
4157754|1. At least in studies involving passerine species, it is suggested that calculations involving longevity, mortality rates, etc., using data from banded birds, be based on the first January 1 in the life of the bird as the initial date in accordance with the suggestion of Lack. The data on the American Robin, presented in an earlier paper have accordingly been recalculated and tabulated. 2. In the calculation of mean longevity (Y) from mean annual mortality rate (M) by the use of the reciprocal relation of M and Y in a stable population, Y must be based on the same initial date as used in the original calculation of M. Y is therefore to be defined as the mean longevity as of the prescribed initial date. If it is desirable to calculate a total mean longevity from birth, for those alive on the initial date, the mean period from hatching to the prescribed initial date must be added to Y. A true total longevity from birth for all birds hatched is difficult to estimate because of the high and unstable mortality during the first few months after hatching. 3. In the calculation of Y (as of the prescribed initial date) from M it is necessary to correct the simple reciprocal to allow for the continuous action of M throughout the year. This is accomplished in the equation,
4157755|From May 15 to July 20, 1944, 25 Cowbird eggs were laid, apparently by one female, on a 12.5 acre area in Pennfield Township, Calhoun County, Michigan. It was concluded that the eggs came from the same female because (1) they were very similar in coloration (2) no 2 were laid on the same day (3) the length of 11 similarly colored eggs had significantly less variability than the length of 22 not-similarly colored eggs. The eggs were laid in a nest of a Towhee and in 20 nests (belonging to 14 pairs) of Field Sparrows. Three or 4 pairs of Vesper Sparrows also nested on the area but apparently were not parasitized. Cowbird eggs were laid in relation to the laying of the first egg of the host as follows: 2 before the host had laid any eggs; 2 were laid the same day; 11 on the day after; 4 on the second day after (2 of these being second Cowbird eggs for the same nest). One Cowbird egg was laid 3-4 days after the completion of the host's clutch; one was laid when the host's young were 3 days old, and one when the host's young were 6 days old. In 1, possibly 3, parasitized Field Sparrow nests no Field Sparrow eggs were laid. At least 17 Field Sparrow eggs and 4 young (in 16 nests) and 2 Towhee eggs (in 1 nest) disappeared from the nests, presumably removed by the Cowbird (2 eggs were found with bill holes in them). From 3 nests no egg was removed. Eggs disappeared from the hosts' nests in relation to the laying of the first Cowbird egg as follows: 3 the day before; 7 eggs and 4 young on the same day; 3 eggs on the day after. From 1 nest 3 host eggs disappeared 5 days after the Cowbird egg was laid. Excluding from consideration the nest in which a Cowbird egg was laid when the host young were ready to leave, 15 out of 20 parasitized nests were deserted. In 1 nest the Cowbird egg was found on the ground below the nest 6 days after it was laid.
4157756|On the morning of September 10, 1948, approximately 300 birds were killed or incapacitated at the ceilometer of the Nashville Airport, and 248 of these were studied at the Nashville Children's Museum. The occurrence appears to be unique in that the birds did not collide with some object while in flight, but were intercepted upon crossing the vertical beam of the ceilometer light, down the long narrow column of which they fell, to be picked up dead, presumably from impact with the ground. The light itself is not a sufficient cause of the accident, as it has been in use for years without incident, and other such instruments are in use at other airports. Furthermore, visibility was high and the cloud level was at 5000 ft. or above during the accident. The actual combination of factors responsible remains a mystery.
4157757|In the course of a 12-year study (1936-48) of the Yellow-eyed Penguin, Megadyptes antipodes, it was possible to study the effect of age of bird on laying dates, size of eggs, and size of clutch. From 104 eggs laid by 59 young penguins which laid for the first time the mean date of laying was 26.06 September; from 100 eggs laid by 52 older birds the mean date of laying was 27.45 September. The difference is not significant statistically. In practice eggs laid by young penguins may appear at any time in the short laying period of approximately three weeks--age does not affect date of laying. Two-year-old Yellow-eyed Penguins produce significantly lighter and narrower eggs than older birds but although the difference in length is not significant, individual measures are dispersed over a wide range. Three-year-olds lay much heavier and wider eggs than two-year-olds but not so heavy nor so wide as do four-year-olds. Subsequently there is possibly a further slight significant increase in width and weight. In old age there appears to be a tendency towards a reduction in weight and towards irregularity in length but width of eggs seems to increase. Of 40 two-year-old Yellow-eyed Penguins, 32.5% laid only 1 egg to the clutch whereas of 218 older birds only 3.2% did so. Youth, therefore, in this species, does affect size of clutch. In Buller's Mollymawk, Diomedea bulleri, age does not appear to affect date of laying.
4157787|We believe we may be certain that the small goose flock is usually a family and that larger flocks are frequently multiples of families rather than mere aggregations of individuals, as are flocks of ducks. It seems likely that a count of several hundred small flocks arriving at a refuge in the fall might be a good index of the success of that year's hatch. Since the peaks in 4 of the curves presented correspond so closely, we think it likely that productivity in Canada Geese is very nearly constant from year to year. This is in sharp contrast to the productivity in Blue Geese, which in some years produce few or no young (McIlhenny 1932, Smith in litt.). Finally, a comparison of the flock-size most frequently occurring before and after the shooting season may give a measure of the shooting pressure sustained by that population. It would indeed be interesting to see a frequency distribution curve for migrating spring flocks.
4157805|Four observers have found that 4 species of Cowbirds lay in clutches and that the intervals between clutches last from 5 to 8 days and possibly longer. Eggs may be laid at daily intervals or 1 or 2 days may be skipped.
4157822| This paper studies barometric pressure-pattern factors which particularly stimulate spring migration in North America east of Long. 100 W. and south of Lat. 50 N. A distinction is made between an onrushing wave of birds actively migrating and an arrested wave of grounded migrants. Early North American references (prior to 1938), together with European findings of the same period, are cited to show what was written regarding the relation of barometric pressure-patterns to spring migration before meteorologists recognized the roles of air masses and frontal systems. These early investigations indicated that northward migration occurs in certain regions in the Northern Hemisphere when the pressure gradient falls from east to west. Recent North American investigations (1938-1948) are described. The basic agreement prevailing among all investigations, both early and recent, leads the authors to propose several hypotheses. The most fundamental of these states that, during the period of spring migration, pronounced movement will take place into or through a given region during the interval between the passage of a warm front through that region and the subsequent arrival of a cold front. To illustrate the mechanics of this basic hypothesis, the typical period of April 17-22, 1948, is analyzed meteorologically and ornithologically. A notable influx of migrants, which became apparent progressively eastward from Wisconsin to Massachusetts, is directly correlated with the advance and frontal development of a Low center which moved from Nebraska to the New England coast. 
4157823|An analysis of the uniformity of the postjuvenal molt of primaries in wild juvenile Bob-white by 2 independent procedures indicates that the standard deviation of the error of age determination is about 2.0 days. Cases have been found in which the postjuvenal molt of primaries both proceeded beyond the eighth juvenal primary or was arrested with the seventh primary. Adults have also been found with an arrested primary molt. A positive correlation was found between late postnuptial molt in adults and late postjuvenal molt in juveniles. This can probably be ascribed to late completion of breeding activities which delays the onset of the molt in the adults. A method is described for detecting unmolted primaries in both juvenile and adult quail on the basis of the fading of the gray color to brown, and another description enables a distinction to be made between yearling quail and older adults during the postnuptial molt.
4157824|Observations of the birds of the temperate North Atlantic were made by belt transects during stated periods of a day and month over an arc of sea approximately one-eighth mile from the after-deck or the bridge deck of a ship traveling an average of 14 knots of speed over a known course. The records show 36 neritic species and recognizable subspecies and 13 oceanic species in the late summer and fall of 1948.
4157845|An attempt is made to explain in evolutionary terms the apparent convergenc of two phyletic lines (genera) in the orioles. It is shown that selection of new lines of birds usually hinges on dietary modification of the bill and jaw musculature and that the two lines have arisen from opposite ends of the blackbird genus Agelaius by specializing its pre-adaptations. The fruit-adapted Icterus, including the Baltimore Oriole, increases the gaping power of the mandibles; the nectar-adapted Bananivorus, including the Orchard Oriole, reduces the mass of bill and skull. The segregation of the genera and species results from the isolating influence of geological events which have often operated indirectly through associated climatic change. The replacement of chestnut by yellow in the plumage of Agelaius is regarded as a time trend; the chestnut humeral patches of the relict A. humeralis on Cuba reflect the ancestral condition of A. thilius at the time it evolved the oriole Bananivorus in the pampas region of South America. No clear-cut characters separate the latter from Icterus because of the convergence but comparison of the two in the same region and life zone shows Bananivorus to be always smaller. It evolves from A. thilius north of the pampas without plumage change, simply by adapting to nectar and soft fruit, but adds yellow northward under obvious selection pressure to increase conspicuousness in its new forest habitat. The same trend is noted in the Caribbean where peripheral Bahaman and Lesser Antillean forms derived from B. dominicensis of the Greater Antilles increase yellow, and this is seen as a trend upward in time as well as outward in space from center of origin. B. prosthemelas of the Caribbean rain forest evolves arid zone forms which increase yellow still more to achieve the pattern convergent with that of Icterus forms in the same zone. Northward in the temperate zone, under apparent shift in selection, it evolves less conspicuous forms also convergent with Icterus forms there. The fruit-adapted Icterus arises in the pampas region from the yellow agelaiine Xanthopsar, its forms showing an opposite trend northward to reduce yellow which results in the arid zone convergence with forms of Bananivorus. Two lines branch from the key species nigrogularis--a humid-adapted chrysater group with a derived nectar-feeding form and the arid zone pustulatus group of Central America. The latter segregates among three species bill adaptations for fruit, seeds, and nectar existing as variants in the parent nigrogularis. Evolving from this group northward, bullockii splits off the Baltimore Oriole in the oak-hickory forest where it is convergent with the Orchard Oriole, evolved by B. prosthemelas via intermediate fuertesi. Certain trends and principles are illustrated by both genera. The importance of geographical isolation is emphasized, the splitting off of virtually each form being assigned a geological or climatic event. The convergence toward identical plumage in Central America suggests selection for conspicuous pattern; that northward suggests selection shift favoring inconspicuous pattern as the protection of thorn trees and wasp nests dies out. Although evolution of species from species is smooth the evidence of geographical isolation in the orioles does not support Kinsey's view that there are no centers of origin and no higher categories. The suggestion is made that numerous other cases of inter-generic convergence and especially parallelism may occur in passerine birds.
4157846|The development of a hand-raised Redwing from the age of 9 to 42 days closely paralleled that of Song Sparrows, the chief difference being that she was less of a ground bird than they and she did not lose the social bond to human beings after becoming independent. A table is given showing the ages at which 21 instinctive activities appeared in this bird, in Song Sparrows, and a Cowbird; these activities belong to Stages 4 and 5 in the development of passerines. The Redwing hopped at 10 days and walked at 12; at 4 weeks she walked exclusively. Exploratory pecking appeared at 13 days; 5 days later she was catching insects. A social bond existed between her and a young Nighthawk, and between her and human beings, but her reactions to a year old Meadowlark were largely hostile.
4157857|A 3-year nesting study with emphasis on behavior, territory, and breeding success was made on 24 acres of park and marshland in Madison, Wisconsin. The area was frequently searched for nests and their outcome determined by visits every 2 or 3 days. Seventy-nine birds were banded in the early stages of the nest cycle to facilitate behavior study and estimates of the population. Pair formation took place in May or earlier while birds were still in flocks. Elements of pair formation included courtship song, courtship flights, song flights, and true song. After pair formation, birds left the flocks, but did not take up territory until just before nesting began. The bond was maintained by the male feeding the female, as well as by song. Territory was defended vigorously by males, either by chasing, taking up prominent perches, or by song flights. Defense was strongest at the beginning of the cycle, but occasionally lasted until young were in the nest. It appeared again with renesting and second nesting. The territory did not necessarily include food, water, or nest material. In the area of densest population territories averaged 95 feet in diameter. Nest construction began in July and reached a peak the middle of July. New pairs continued to enter the study area until the middle of August, by which time some females had already completed nesting. Breeding densities on the area increased from 36 pairs in 1944 to 54 in 1946, and 60 in 1947. Nests in shrubs and forbs were usually from 3 to 6 feet high; those in trees 8 to 15 feet. Of 230 nests found 68% were in elderberry, the commonest shrub on the area, but 22 other species of plants were utilized to lesser degree. Nest construction took an average of 13.0 days in early July and decreased steadily to an average of 5.6 days in late August. Clutch size of 150 nests ranged from 2 to 7 eggs. Mean clutch size in July was 5.3 eggs, but for late August was only 3.7. Six records of renesting females indicated from 4 to 21 days were required between time of nest failure and subsequent egg-laying. A captive Goldfinch was raised to study behavior. It was eating independently at 19 days, was a strong flier at 20 days, and was shelling seeds at 30 days. Stimuli for gaping in young birds included tapping the nest, touching the bill, and the presence of other nestlings in an adjacent nest. Approximately 15% of Goldfinches start a second brood between August 5 and September 1. The female may change mates, but more often retains the same mate and territory. In 1 case the female started a new nest 3 days before the young in the first nest had fledged. A total of 7 females reared second broods. During the 3 years, 65% of all eggs hatched and 49% produced fledglings. This compares with 58% and 80.3% in 2 other regions. Storms were the only definite cause for nest failure, but Deer Mice, Garter Snakes, and death of the female were probable factors. The number of young produced per pair ranged from 1.7 to 3.0.
4157879|Through the breeding seasons of 1944, 1945, and 1946, at my home in Nashville, Tennessee, I studied the mating habits and territorial behavior of the Cowbird (Molothrus ater). My observations were principally of 29 color-banded individuals (18 males and 11 females), some of which lived about my home for two to four seasons. Upon their arrival in spring, male Cowbirds indulged in elaborate bowing ceremonies, intimidation gestures, pursuits and fights, striving for dominance among themselves. These activities were connected more or less directly with mating. Intimidation gestures and fights of a similar sort occurred among females also. Bows extended in courtship or greeting by males to females were of various sorts, but none was as elaborate as that given by the male in intimidating another male. One male became dominant among males, one female among females. I observed copulation one to three times a season between these two dominant individuals, and I observed no other copulation. I did not ascertain whether the male acquired his domain first and then his mate, or vice versa, or whether the dominant female first selected her domain and then accepted as her mate any male which proved to be dominant in that particular area. My observations furnish greatest support for the last-stated theory. The dominant pair held their dominance through the same intimidation displays as those practiced among the group early in the season. Most important of these in the male were the very elaborate "toppling forward" type of bow, the peck-gesture, the pointing upward of the bill, and the guarding of the female by moving quickly between her and another male. The female maintained dominance over other females by bill-pointing, peck-gestures, bowing (rarely), and guarding her mate from another female. Female display occurred less often than male display. With both sexes, intimidation gestures occasionally ended in a fight. Sexual jealousy was evident. All of my observations indicated that the species was monogamous, although a number of individuals of both sexes mingled freely throughout the breeding season, feeding and flying about together. I observed no evidence of true territorial behavior: no boundary lines were defended, and no Cowbirds were excluded from any area. The area (exact size undetermined) occupied by the dominant pair I have here designated as the domain because it was used as a mating station by the dominant male and dominant female exclusively.
4157880|The 'coastal hiatus' of our Gulf States appears to be a lacuna south of and between two great spring migration triangles, one extending north and northeast from southern Texas, the other extending northwest, north, and northeast from Florida. In this lacuna few transient species occur during fair, warm weather. Periodic cold fronts, with northerly winds, striking the northern sides of these migration triangles, push migrants down against the coast, where they are often seen in great numbers immediately after the passage of a cold front. Sometimes the cold fronts push birds out over the Gulf itself, where they have been mistaken for trans-Gulf migrants.
4157882|In the vicinity of Douglas Lake, Michigan, the Least Flycatcher's principal nesting habitat is more or less open second-growth aspen associes. Of 44 nests studied in 1942, 1944, and 1946, 20 were along the very edges of clearings, 18 were less than ten feet from the edges, and 6 were slightly more than 20 feet back from the edges. The population density of favored habitat (i.e., aspen woods intersected by roads and paths) was 200 to 271 pairs per 100 acres; that of unbroken aspen woods, not far away, 70 pairs per 100 acres. The territories of the 44 pairs studied were of two sorts: (1) that in which a pair mated, nested and fed throughout the whole reproductive cycle, and (2) that in which a pair mated and nested, but fed in a neutral or communal feeding area adjoining. These neutral feeding areas were not defended. Nest territories varied in size from .5 acres to .03 acres (average of 33 measured territories: .18 acres). Territories were defended principally by the males, their singing being an important means of advertisement, defense and maintenance. The male's morning song began before dawn and ended about sunrise. It was a continual repetition of the phrase che-bec. When most fervent (just before sunrise early in the incubation period) it was repeated about 60 times per minute. Daytime song was desultory and sometimes followed territorial dispute. A flight song, performed in the evening 75 feet above the ground, was a rapid repetition of che-bec phrases. I heard no twilight evening song at all comparable to the twilight morning song. Throughout that part of the reproductive cycle which I observed (egg-laying to the scattering of the young), males devoted a definite part of each morning to singing. During three visits of a pair of Cedar Waxwings which destroyed a Least Flycatcher nest in stealing material from it, the male flycatcher did not attack until the waxwings were at the nest, and the female flycatcher remained in the nest (which she defended to some extent by pecking) until the final visit, when the nest was pulled completely loose from its moorings. She then joined the male in aerial, but futile, attack. There seemed to be no friction between Least Flycatchers and such Wood Pewees, Crested Flycatchers, Phoebes and Kingbirds as nested in the vicinity.
4157907|The Blue-winged Warbler (Vermivora pinus) and the Golden-winged Warbler (V. chrysoplera) hybridize over an extensive area of eastern North America where their respective ranges overlap, producing two general hybrid types. The commoner, Brewster's Warbler, is considered to be the F
4157908|During three nesting seasons we identified the food brought by the parent birds of four broods of young Cooper's Hawks, to two young Red-tailed Hawks (two broods of one each), and to one young Barred Owl on the Edwin S. George Reserve, in southeastern Michigan. We used Errington's (1932) tethering technique. Of a total of 262 Cooper's Hawk food items recovered from the gullets of the young hawks, as not yet eaten prey, or as residual debris in the nests or at the tethered young, 84.4 per cent were small to medium-sized birds and 15.6 per cent were small mammals. Of 155 birds whose age we could determine, 25.1 per cent were adult and 74.9 per cent immature. At least 8.4 per cent were nestlings. Of 14 comparable mammals, 21.4 per cent were adult and 78.6 per cent immature. Nine bird and one mammal species constituted 73.7 per cent of the 213 completely identified food items brought to the young Cooper's Hawks, although the total list included 30 to 33 species of birds and 10 of mammals. The Chipmunk was the second most abundant item of prey. Three of the nine birds (English Sparrow, Starling, and Red-wing) occurred locally in concentrations, although the first two were decidedly scarce on the Reserve itself. Five characteristically leave cover and fly out across the open (Blue Jay, Flicker, Mourning Dove, Robin, and Baltimore Oriole). All of these eight species were moderately common in the neighborhood, although only one (Red-wing) was among the most abundant of the Reserve's nesting birds. The ninth (Ring-necked Pheasant) was represented only in 1941 and 1942, a time of relative abundance in the farmlands surrounding the Reserve, and not at all in 1946, a time of scarcity. The food brought the two young Red-tailed Hawks and one young Barred Owl was largely small mammals plus a few birds, amphibians, snakes and insects.
4157909|A study of Cowbird parasitism in Washtenaw County, Michigan, from 1946 through 1949 involved twenty host species and two additional species believed to be hosts. The Cowbird laying season extended from April 21 to July 26. Of 112 parasitized nests observed, 53 contained one Cowbird egg, 36 contained two, 15 contained three, six contained four, and two contained five. Of 196 Cowbird eggs observed, 60 (30.6%) hatched. Forty-three of these 60 young Cowbirds (21.9% of the 196 eggs) fledged. In each of four nests, a Cowbird egg was laid after incubation had begun: in two cases while eggs were still unhatched; in two cases after the young had hatched. Cowbird eggs were laid in seven deserted nests. The interval between nest-desertion and deposition of the Cowbird egg in five Song Sparrow nests varied from one to 26 days and averaged 10.2 days. The relative time of hatching of host and Cowbird eggs is important in the fledging success of the respective species. Host young were fledged from each of six nests of five species in which the host eggs hatched first. In only two of nine nests in which Cowbird eggs hatched first were host young also fledged. Both host and Cowbird young were fledged from two Song Sparrow nests in which a Cowbird egg and at least one host egg hatched the same day. Host eggs hatched first in two Song Sparrow nests which fledged three host and one Cowbird and four host and one Cowbird respectively. Cowbird eggs hatched first in two Song Sparrow nests which fledged three and four Cowbirds respectively but no sparrows. Parasitized nests of field-nesting species which I observed were in portions of fields bordered by a woodlot or thicket, whereas non-parasitized nests were not near such vegetation.
4157935|The summer bird life of the hilly, sometimes mountainous, plateau which extends from the mountains of New Hampshire southerly across Massachusetts and Connecticut to the coast of Long Island Sound is definitely northern in its affinities. The maximum elevations of this plateau gradually decrease to the southward, but among the breeding birds of Bigelow Hollow State Park, in northeastern Connecticut, are the Brown Creeper, Hermit Thrush, Blue-headed Vireo, Myrtle Warbler, Blackburnian Warbler, Black-throated Blue Warbler, Canada Warbler, Northern Water-Thrush and White-throated Sparrow. The Rusty Blackbird has been seen in summer. The Louisiana Water-Thrush, a southern species, breeds locally side by side with the Northern Water-Thrush, possibly as a result of drying up of the streams normally preferred. Most of the northern birds just mentioned have been known to inhabit northwestern Connecticut in summer, but their breeding in northeastern Connecticut has heretofore received little or no mention in the literature.
4157936|The Parula Warblers which inhabited Wilderness State Park, Emmet Co., Michigan, in the summer of 1949 seemed to be nesting principally in the forestedge along the shore of Lake Michigan. Four active and two old nests, situated in dense clumps of the lichen Usnea cavernosa, averaged 10 feet above ground. All six nests were in medium-sized, dead or nearly dead balsams (Abies balsamea). They were semi-pensile, and were made almost wholly of Usnea. Three of the four active nests were finished when found. The incomplete one was finished entirely by the female, while the male sang nearby and defended the territory. Complete clutches of 1, 3, and 3 eggs were observed. Grand total of eggs in the four nests: at least 9; of young hatched: 5; of young which lived to leave the nest: 3. At two nests the incubation period was not less than 12 nor more than 14 days. Incubation rhythm was regular. Incubation was performed exclusively by the female, who left the nest for a short period every 20 to 30 minutes. Both sexes fed the young, though the male was less active than the female in doing so. One young Parula Warbler left the nest prematurely at the age of 10 days.
4157937|1. Fifty-one House Sparrows of known age were obtained through the recovery of banded nestlings. The ages of these birds ranged from 15 to 240 days. 2. The crania of these specimens showed a progressive and symmetrical growth pattern. 3. Complete ossification had been attained in one specimen 181 days old, but another specimen 221 days old still showed small clear areas. 4. Skull sections from 12 birds reared in captivity show more variability and a less symmetrical pattern than do those of wild birds. There is also more abnormal bone formation, due, perhaps, to injury from caging and to artificial diet.
4157938| The existence of two distinct songs of the Alder Flycatcher, one eastern (phe-b-o), and the other midwestern (fitz-bew), is beclouded by the fact that there is no unanimity of opinion among ornithologists on this geographic segregation of song. The disagreement may result from factors human rather than avian. In Wisconsin the Alder Flycatcher appears to have added an extra syllable to the fitz-bew song, making it creet (pause) fitz-bew. Phonetic descriptions of Alder Flycatcher song by various writers are listed. The phonetic description of the call note, wheet, is generally accepted by ornithologists. This bird performs a song-flight which carries it 30-50 feet above the marsh. During the performance the creet, fitz-bew is repeated in rapid succession 8-12 times. This song and flight take place late in the day and continue until after dark. Song generally starts after sunset, and the time of starting and stopping varies in direct relation to the time of sunset. The onset of daily song is probably controlled by a light-intensity factor; cessation probably is not, inasmuch as it is totally dark (after civil twilight) when the singing stops. No correlation was found between measurable weather conditions and recorded aspects of song. Morning song also occurs but it is less vigorous and less regular. In 1944 and 1947 seasonal song was ended both in the morning and in the evening within a two-day period (August 9, 1944 and August 11, 1947). 
4157939| From a study of 884 records of the Song Sparrow's song the following facts are determined. Songs vary from 1.2 to 5.2 seconds in length, averaging 2.7 seconds. Pitch varies from D
4157967|The food of the Barred Dove in the Hawaiian Islands is almost wholly vegetable. Analysis of the food contents of 165 crops and 136 gizzards (from the same birds): 96.7 percent plant matter (principally small seeds); 3.3 percent animal matter (almost wholly beetles of the genus Carpophilus). Seeds most commonly eaten are from rapidly maturing herbaceous annuals and grasses which thrive in disturbed soil. Some grit is ingested--average amount in 12 crops and 60 gizzards: 0.2 cc. The dove feeds most actively in the afternoon. Birds may feed and roost in the same locality if conditions are suitable, but where good feeding areas are far removed from favored roosting places daily flights of from three to five miles may be taken. Since the dove obtains little moisture from its food it must drink: surface water is therefore an important range-requirement.
4157968|The frontal shield plays an important role in the life of the American Coot. Paired birds recognize one another at least in part by means of shield-shape and -size, and the social behavior of birds can be predicted from the size of the shield. Since territory defense and enlargement of the frontal shield are synchronous phenomena, it seems probable that both result from the same stimulus. Furthermore, the secretions governing shield-growth and territorial behavior are apparently also involved in migratory and sexual behavior.
4157969|In June and July, 1947, at Delta, Manitoba, I studied eleven Marsh Hawk nests, paying special attention to the food of the young hawks. The nests were all on dry ground in unburned, unmowed parts of the Phragmites-Fluminea ecotone. Some were close enough together to suggest semi-colonialism. Nesting evidently required dead vegetation as cover from the start. The best way to find a nest was through seeing a male hawk drop food midair to a female, then flushing the female direct from the nest. During about the first five days of their lives young Marsh Hawks observed by me were brooded almost constantly by the female. They were fed by the female but all food was brought in by the male. During this period the nestlings opened their mouths for food when I appeared at the nest. When the nestlings became about five days old the female obtained some of their food and she spent more and more time hunting as they grew. The male continued to bring food, but he did not feed the young direct. The young, warned by their parents' cries, hid in nooks about the nest. These nooks eventually lengthened, becoming escape lanes. Six of the nests observed were defended against my intrusion largely by the female, three largely by the male, one almost exclusively by the male. In a total of 56 pellets and 140 gullet-regurgitations obtained from 18 nestlings at five nests June 25 to July 20, the Meadow Vole, Red-wing, and Yellow-headed Blackbird, prolific and widespread forms, were the prey species most often represented. Other important prey species: ground squirrel, coot (young) and muskrat (young). Observations indicated such wide variation in the hunting habits of the several pairs of hawks as to suggest that conclusions based on a study of any one nest might be misleading. In part of the area I studied, six hawk nests and 21 duck nests (six species), were simultaneously active, yet I obtained no evidence that the hawks were preying on adult ducks and the only evidence that ducklings were being captured were the remains of two individuals at one nest, of one at another.
4157970|A late summer Red Crossbill nest in Colorado was 18 feet from the ground in a 20-foot lodgepole pine. It was started on or about July 26. The first egg was laid on or about July 29. The total clutch consisted of three eggs. Incubation did not begin with the laying of the first egg but may have begun with the laying of the second. On August 7 (about the ninth day of incubation), the female was on the nest continuously for 15 daylight hours except for six brief periods totalling 26 minutes. While on the nest that day she was fed three times by the male. The nest was deserted on or about August 11. The eggs were almost ready to hatch at that time.
4158010|An attempt is made on the basis of anatomical material, to show that the neotropical Honey Creepers (Coerebidae) are an artificial group composed of nectar-adapted warblers and nectar-adapted tanagers that have become convergently similar due to similar diet. Considerable care is taken to select for comparison anatomical characters likely to have been modified but little by such convergence. This precaution is necessitated by the close relationship of the warbler and tanager families due to their apparent common origin from ancestral vireos. Evidence from jaw muscle-pattern and horny palate relief is given special weight because of the constancy of these features in other passerine families studied anatomically. Tanagers and warblers have distinctly different patterns for both characters and it has been found that a clean separation of the Coerebidae into nectar-adapted warblers and nectar-adapted tanagers is possible. This dichotomy is in good agreement with plumage differences, the latter group having tanager plumage, the former, warbler plumage. A functional difference in the manner of feeding on nectar is also in agreement with this division. Such characters as bill shape and tongue specialization overlap convergently and are unreliable. On the basis of this analysis it is concluded that the family Coerebidae should be submerged as an unnatural group, and its genera distributed among the warblers and tanagers. The genera Coereba, Conirostrum and Ateleodacnis could be regarded as a nectar-specialized tribe of the Parulidae--the Coerebini. The genera Diglossa, Cyanerpes, Chlorophanes, Iridophanes, Hemidacnis, Dacnis and Euneornis, and probably also Xenodacnis and Oreomanes, could be regarded as a nectar-specialized tribe of the Thraupidae--the Dacnini.
4158012| The trachea of the male Hooded Merganser is from 3 to 8 inches shorter, and much narrower, than that of the male American Merganser, Red-breasted Merganser, or Smew. It possesses but one dilation, this being in the posterior quarter. The trachea of the male Red-breasted Merganser also has a single dilation, but it is much larger than in the Hooded Merganser and is just anterior to the midpoint of the trachea. In the male American Merganser there are two dilations. In the male Smew there is none. The tympanum, which is present in the male in all four species discussed, varies in configuration and dimensions. In the Hooded Merganser it differs decidedly in proportions and in the number of fenestrae from that of the Smew; and while somewhat similar in shape and number of openings to those of the American Merganser and the Red-breasted Merganser, it is but half as large. The trachea of the female Hooded Merganser is shorter and smaller than in the female American Merganser, Red-breasted Merganser and Smew. In all these species, however, the trachea of the female is much the same. 
4158015|The Rufous-winged Sparrow has a late postnuptial molt differing from that of most birds in lacking a regular sequence of molting the tail-feathers. Again in May and June it undergoes a nearly complete prenuptial molt. Parts of the wing and tail are not involved in this molt; in the tail it is limited usually to the middle pair of rectrices. It is later than the spring molts of other fringillids, and overlaps periods of sexual activity.
4158050|On the basis of specimens examined, I have outlined some slight extensions of the range of P. carolinensis to the northwest. My comparative data demonstrate some of the major variational trends within this species. The most prominent of these are a cline of increasing size from south to north, and one of increasing brownness from west to east. On this basis the most logical treatment appears to me to be the recognition of four races: extimus (large and brown) in the northeast; carolinensis (small and brown) in the southeast, of which impiger may be considered an extreme; agilis (small and gray) in the southwest; and atricapilloides (described above--large and gray) in the northwest. This can be done without radical change in our present concepts, save for the splitting of agilis into two forms; additional characters serve for further separation of the several races. No very precise range limits have been outlined here for any of the subspecies and I feel that this is neither possible nor necessary at the present time, considering the clinal nature of much of the variation. Of secondary concern, and presented only as a basis for further investigation, is the matter of general increase in tail/wing proportion in the larger populations of P. carolinensis (especially noticeable in P. c. atricapilloides), which tends to approach the reduced ratio of the smaller races of P. atricapillus. I have indicated the need for care in identification, and for much careful field work in critical areas.
4158051|1. The lower Arkansas rice district is a true prairie land with an impervious sub-soil, providing ideal conditions for rice-growing, and, in turn, nesting habitat for the Short-billed Marsh Wren. 2. Rice is planted from April to June and is harvested from late August through October. During the greater part of the growing season the fields are inundated. 3. The nesting season of the Short-billed Marsh Wren in Arkansas rice fields coincided in 1950 with the maturing of the rice crop in late August. 4. Fields selected for nesting are usually those with the rice furthest along in development in early August, and those with a greater number of weeds (sedges and grasses). 5. Late summer nesting dates are as follows: August 20 (6 eggs); August 29 (1 egg); and September 10 (5 young). 6. The nesting of this species in the Stuttgart area considerably extends southward the known limit of the breeding range. 7. That some correlation exists between nesting density and development of different varieties of rice is shown by the greater number of singing males in the earlier maturing varieties. 8. The nesting population is somewhat affected by harvesting operations. Machinery destroys some of the nests, causing the wrens to desert the field. Otherwise, the remaining stubble provides adequate cover for the surviving birds to complete nesting, particularly where the rice is combined rather than harvested with a binder.
4158079|The foundation of a nest of Lesson's Emerald was found on July 25, 1950. Nest-building lasted for about a week, except that maintenance and plastering of the nest with lichens continued until the first egg hatched. Incubation began with the laying of the first egg on July 31. The second egg was laid on August 2. The incubation period was approximately 16 days. The adult made one to four feeding trips per hour, but fed several portions at each trip. The young left the nest at 20 days; at this age they could fly well.
4158107| 1. During eight years of observations on the nesting behavior of Chimney Swifts living in a colony on the campus of Kent State University, I found 22 cases where three birds nested together and six cases where four birds nested together. 2. Certain individuals were often involved in, and seemed to prefer, threesome and foursome combinations. Of 40 individuals which participated in threesomes, 12 were involved more than once. Of 18 participating in foursomes, five were involved more than once. Nine birds have been part of both a threesome and a foursome at one time or another. 3. Thirteen air shafts have been used by these combinations; eight of them have been used more than once. 4. Males seem to be involved more often than females in extra-parental coperation. Twelve threesomes had an extra male, five had an extra female, and five remain with sex undetermined. Three foursomes had two extra males and three others had one extra male and one of unknown sex. 5. Some of the visitors are known to be birds in their first year and some are old birds in, apparently, their last year, but many are intermediate in age and engage in active reproduction in later years. 6. The parents and visitors often remain as a unit throughout the nesting season and share the work of incubation, brooding, and feeding of the nestlings. 7. Seven cases of brief visits by an additional bird just before nesting began were discovered. Some of these might have developed into continuing threesomes if they had not been disturbed by trapping, but in other cases the birds left after finding mates of their own. Probably some visitors are just waiting for an opportunity to obtain a mate. 
4158131|This paper is a regional study of grounded night migrants, based on a daily census of birds in Lincoln Park, Chicago, during the autumn migrations of 1946 to 1950 inclusive. The writer concludes that the bird waves that characterize the autumn migrations, the wide variation in the season counts of the abundant species, and other features of the census record are due chiefly to variable weather conditions, and particularly to the invasion of the north-central states by cold fronts, followed by periods of strong northerly winds. During the five-year study period, without exception, every important autumn bird wave was associated with an advancing cold front. As a rule the big migration waves of a given species accompanied cold fronts in the early or middle part of that species' migration period. In each year the great bulk of the migration had passed Chicago even before the first freezing temperature occurred at Chicago, and before temperatures more than a few degrees below freezing had occurred at Winnipeg or anywhere south of Lake Superior. The birds seen later were chiefly Slate-colored Juncos, Fox Sparrows, Tree Sparrows, and Golden-crowned Kinglets. The autumn migration waves are associated with cold fronts followed by strong NW to N winds. Cold fronts followed only by strong NE winds never brought migration waves to Lincoln Park and the census study produced no other evidence that birds migrate westward across Lake Michigan in any appreciable numbers. Conversely, it is believed that marked concentrations of birds migrating southeastward with NW winds occur along the west side of Lake Michigan. This results in a large count of birds at Chicago during subsequent days if later weather conditions do not cause a quick dispersal of the concentration. The large season counts of migrants passing through Lincoln Park are believed to be due chiefly to the southeast shift of birds migrating with NW winds, and resulting concentrations due to the barrier effect of Lake Michigan. Static weather conditions during the early and middle part of a species' migration period normally results in a low season count. The migration of warblers (excluding the late-migrating Palm and Myrtle warblers) is presented as representative of the early part of the fall migration, which begins during the late summer period of normally static weather conditions. Much of the early migration usually passes before the strong cyclonic circulation of autumn is well established, generally about mid-September. But the early migrants do take advantage of any favoring cold front winds in their southward migration. Early cold fronts in late August and early September were always followed by important warbler migration waves. Above average warbler counts are evidently due largely to a favorable sequence of early cold fronts, with southeast shift of migrants from the western parts of their breeding ranges, just as in the case of the later migrants.
4158133|Bell's Vireo has been recorded in eight Indiana counties from 1943 to 1952. The first specimen was taken August 10, 1951, near Lafayette, Tippecanoe County, Indiana. In Indiana, Bell's Vireo prefers areas where shrubby growths border, or are contained in, abandoned fields. Ground cover at the nest site is usually dense. Hawthorn is one of the favorite nest trees. Nesting apparently begins in mid-May in Indiana. The nest is placed low in the tree, at an average height of about 31 inches. Both adults participated in nest building and, apparently, incubation. Singing was heard from April 24 to September 3. Nolan reported a variation of the song which is apparently little known. Males sometimes sang at the rate of 17 times per minute; average for 15 minutes of one which was timed, 13. Cowbird interference resulted in a low nesting success.
4158151|The behavior of a young, pet Gyrfalcon was observed from August 23 to 30, at a mining camp in the Kougarok region of Seward Peninsula, Alaska. This behavior consisted of (1) attacks on inanimate objects and (2) abortive attacks on living animals. References to similar behavior for other species of falcons and for the Goshawk are cited for the first type. It is shown that these behaviors fall within the category of responses generally called "play." Various possible interpretations of this type of behavior are discussed, but the present data are too meager for positive conclusions.
4158152|1. Pied-billed Grebes arrived in northwest Iowa during the last week of March in 1948. 2. Breeding activity reached its peak during the last week of May and the first part of June. 3. Sometimes both sexes of Pied-billed Grebes took part in the defense of their nesting territories, but the male usually defended the area. 4. The Pied-billed Grebe nest was a floating, truncated cone of water-soaked vegetation and required from three to seven days for construction. 5. Over 85 per cent of the nests were located within 50 feet of an open water area in the marshes, the mean distance being 25.7 feet. 6. Egg laying began about the first week of May, 1948. 7. Of the 138 nests I examined, 97 (70.4 per cent) were successful. Approximately 541 young hatched from these nests. 8. Inclement weather was the major factor affecting nest loss (50 per cent). 9. The raccoon was responsible for about 25 per cent (10 nests) of the nest loss. 10. Analysis of the data indicated that those nests located near the shore were least likely to succeed. 11. Pale spike rush (Eleocharis macrostachya), hard-stemmed bulrush (Scirpus acutus), and soft-stemmed bulrush (Scirpus validus) occurred on more nest-containing quadrats than did other plant species. 12. Manipulation of the water levels appears to be the best means of making northwest Iowa marshes more attractive to breeding Pied-billed Grebes.
4158182| The White-throated Magpie-Jay inhabits the more arid lowland districts of Central America and southern Mxico. Its breeding season is extended, nests with eggs have been found in various parts of Central America from December to July. The nest, usually placed high, is a pile of coarse sticks holding a neat cup of wiry roots and fibrous materials. One clutch consisted of four eggs. Apparently only the female incubates. While engaged in this duty she is fed not only by her mate but by other, apparently unmated, individuals. One female in Guatemala was nourished by certainly two and probably three or more other jays, who fed her 47 times in 13 hours. During this period she sat for intervals of from 25 to 88 minutes, took recesses of from one to 21 minutes, and covered her eggs 86.4 per cent of the time. So much food was brought to her that she found it unnecessary to hunt for herself, and devoted her short absences from the eggs largely to preening and stretching her limbs. Instances are given of helpers at the nests of a number of other species of Corvidae. 
4158183|Songs of four individuals of Empidonax traillii were recorded and analyzed on an audio-spectrograph. The four spectrograms, two of the fitz-beu type and two of the fee-bee-o type are presented. The spectrograms show great similarity in the songs of different birds singing the same song type and conspicuous differences in the two song types. The actual recordings on tape are available from Cornell for further study, and these are, or will presently be, published on phonograph discs.
4158184|Incubation period can best be determined by counting the time from the laying of the last egg to its hatching. Audubon in 1831 appears to have been the first ornithologist to assign a ten day incubation period to any bird. Since then many such assertions--and even of shorter periods--have been made both in the Old and New worlds, but authenticated incubation periods of less than 11 days prove to be rare. Zosterops, the White-eye or Silver-eye, has attained world-wide fame for the shortest period of any bird--9 to 10 days. This rumor started in a careless observation in New Zealand in the 1880's. In eleven or more nests that have been carefully watched from 1870 to 1943 the incubation period lasted 11 to 12 days. For sixty years Cowbird eggs have been stated to hatch in ten days--"about the shortest period of any of our passerine birds." This myth was started through a guess by a friend of Major Bendire and was generally accepted, although no good evidence was ever produced. From 1918 to 1952 there have been 62 cases reported of Cowbird eggs hatching in 11 to 12 days and not one case in ten days. The unquestioned acceptance of these blunders for 60 to 80 years clearly shows that we need greater care in observation and less reliance on the printed word.
4158200|The color pattern of the Sparrow Hawk (Falco sparverius) embodies principles of countershading, disruptive coloration resulting in concealment of the eye, and deflective coloration, i. e., presentation of a false "face" in the rear and another in a postero-lateral position. These "misrepresentations" cover the bird's blind area, which is greater in hawks than in most birds, and conceivably are of service in deceiving prey and/or enemies.
4158201|This study was based primarily on observation of 3 pairs of Blackburnian Warblers occupying the same territory in 1946, 1948, and 1950 and, secondarily, on field notes obtained during the years 1943 to 1951. The spring arrival date for 9 years at Pimisi Bay was May 12, the median May 13. The females of given pairs were seen about 9 days later than the males. Habitat requirements of the species were mature evergreens, either in climax stands or sparsely intermingled with deciduous growth. A total of 34 hours was spent watching activities at 3 nests. The building of the nest was completed in an average time of a little over 4 days, but more time was spent on the early nests than on one started later. The female alone built the nest. The male accompanied her, displayed to her, and sometimes effected coitus during the nest-building. There was a notable decrease in building activity toward the end of the day and toward the completion of the nest. Nests were located in evergreens, most often in white pines, at heights varying from 26 to about 55 feet. A preferred site was on horizontal branches well out from the trunk. The nesting materials consisted mainly of dry twigs, fine grasses, rootlets, and evergreen leaves. Spider silk, collected during the first day of building, was an important item in two nests and was used to attach the nest to the branch. The female alone incubated. Her average duration of time on the nest was 22.0 minutes, with 5 minutes off for feeding and resting. The mean percentage of attentiveness was 77. The male exercised an influence on the length of the periods off and on the nest by causing the female to leave when she heard him sing loudly or call near by, and by delaying her return by distracting her with his company. One male fed his mate on the nest on 3 occasions during incubation. On the twelfth day at Nest C and the thirteenth day at Nest B after the female began incubating steadily, young were being fed. At Nest B the male undertook the larger share of the feeding of the young, while the female spent most of her time brooding. The female at this nest was killed by a Pigeon Hawk on the fourth day of nest-life, but the male did not respond effectively to the emergency and the young died the next day, mainly from lack of brooding. Five types of song as well as one courtship song and one call-note were recorded. The Blackburnian Warblers left their territories immediately after the nesting cycle was concluded and the postnuptial molt began. This occurred comparatively early, about mid-July. No third nesting was undertaken after two previous unsuccessful attempts. The birds began their southward migration through this region in the end of July. In the past 8 years, the mean date when the Blackburnian Warbler was last seen was September 2, but the median date was September 6.
4158204|North American warblers wintering in Cuba are either solitary or occur in flocks of one or several species. Large ground-feeding species and species which habitually feed near flowering plants usually occur as solitary individuals. Species feeding in open fields tend to occur in pure flocks. Mixed aggregations usually consist of small species which feed within canopies of heavily wooded areas. Perhaps these flocks have some survival value. They appear to be counterparts of Winterbottom's "nucleus" and "circumference" species. The solitary warblers seemed to be sedentary but the only species seen actively defending a feeding area was the Louisiana Water-thrush.
4158206|A study was made for 1947-1950 at Birmingham, Alabama of 227 spring records of 28 species of land birds that winter south of the Rio Grande and breed east of the Mississippi River. Daily weather at Birmingham was labelled cold front, adverse (north) wind, south wind, rain alone, and clear, warm, and the numbers and kinds of transient birds recorded on each day afield were tabulated and studied. These true transients (i.e., night migrating land birds wintering south of the Rio Grande and breeding east of the Mississippi, but not locally) were found in all types of weather but especially after a cold front (46.2%) and seldom in clear, warm weather (1.2%). Most of the individuals seen (58.6%) were of species that use both the Atlantic and Mississippi Flyways. Birds that winter in Central America and the West Indies were seen more often (44.5% of the records), but South American winterers were more numerous (61.0% of the individuals). Birmingham probably lies within the triangular hiatus of Williams (1950b: 178) on the eastern side near the apex.
4158242|Sakesphorus canadensis (Family Formicariidae) is a common bird in the undergrowth of the secondary forest in the coastal area of Surinam; it is equally numerous on the sand reefs, in the mangroves along the coast, and in the wastelands and plantations. The song, which is uttered by both sexes, is described. Courtship feeding occurs. I have recorded nests from January until May, and in September. The nest is a neatly woven basket in the fork of a twig, usually placed not far above the ground in shrubbery. Two successive nestings by one pair were observed and studied in some detail. The nest is built by both sexes though the male's share of construction is the larger. The clutch consists of two eggs which are laid on alternate days. Incubation starts after the laying of the second egg and lasts 14 days. The male and female share in incubation, the female sitting at night, and the male's share during the day being a trifle larger than the female's. The nestlings are fed by both parents but again the male's part is the larger. Daily weights of the nestlings are given as well as data on frequency of feeding. The nestlings are covered by both sexes during the day of hatching and later on, irregularly, during daytime. At night they are covered by the female alone. The young are fed insects, one at a time. Once they were given a small lizard. The food was secured in trees, in shrubbery, and on the ground. Feces of the young were swallowed or taken away when too large. Another kind of post-feeding behavior, "nest-probing," possibly consisting of the removal of nest parasites and food remnants, was observed.
4158259| The activities of a pair of Red Crossbills were watched from the time a half-built nest was found until the young left the nest 45 days later. Observation periods totalled 41 hours. The female built the nest with the male in close attendance. The nest was 16 feet 2 inches high in a small black pine on an estate bordering Gloucester Harbor, Massachusetts; there was abundant food in this grove of trees. During the nesting period temperature averaged 38F., wind velocity averaged 15 mph; the weather was cloudy or stormy 67 per cent of the time. The female alone incubated the eggs; she was fed on the nest by the male. For the first 4 to 5 days after hatching, the young were fed by the female after the male had fed her. Subsequently the pair returned to the nest together, the male always feeding the young first, and more briefly. Food regurgitated, whether to female or young, was a whitish "pap." In early stages this was thin and watery; when the young were half-grown it changed to a /// thicker substance transferred in soft balls. Usually it was the female who removed the excreta and swallowed it but the nest became fouled by excreta in the later stages of nestling life. Young left the nest at the age of 15 or 16 days. Various types of songs and calls are described. The young were not seen after the day they left the nest. One fledgling was collected and its plumage is herein described. 
4158260|Isolated from the main front of the Sierra Madre Oriental, the Sierra de Tamaulipas is surrounded by xeric thorny scrub of the Gulf Coastal Plain. A belt of arid pine-oak woods covering its higher slopes forms an environmental island of temperate forest for certain animals which reached this habitat from the Sierra Madre. Of 44 birds largely confined to pine-oak forests in the former, 20 were also found in the Sierra de Tamaulipas; however, virtually none of the amphibia, reptiles, or mammals restricted to this habitat in the Sierra Madre appeared in the Sierra de Tamaulipas. On the assumption of Pleistocene connection between the pine-oak belts of the two Sierras, we postulate both small habitat size and a post-glacial xerothermic effect as responsible for the observed faunal composition of the Sierra de Tamaulipas.
4158286|By keeping a close watch for migrants in some small park in a large city one is able to determine the nights of migration. When it is known on what nights birds are in flight, the appropriate correlations with weather can be made. The writer has been interested in this sort of observational research and has used the Botany Garden on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania for the field work. In the spring of 1953 it was found that the majority of migrants arrived on southerly winds or on temperate calm nights. Relatively few birds came in on nights with northerly winds.
4158290|The occurrence of wing spurs is noted for all species of screamers, some plovers, two jacanas, and two ducks. Additionally, knob or club-like wing armature is listed for several jacanas and a pigeon. These specialized structures occur on different parts of the wing and involve the radius, the radial carpal, or the fused metacarpals depending on the species. The structures are apparently used in fighting. The process of metacarpal I (for the attachment of the extensor muscles) has been modified into the spur in a great majority of cases. This process presumably arose in connection with the insertion of muscles, and its size and location are influenced by the type of flight. But another result was that this knob made the wing more effective as a striking organ. This knob was then acted on by a new set of selective factors, those involved in providing the bird with better weapons, and a spur was produced. However, in a few cases wing armature developed independently from other parts of the wing. Molt of an outer cap-like layer of the horny covering of the spur in a single piece is recorded in four species. In each case this molt was correlated with wing molt. It is possible that the annual molt may regularly include the outer covering of the spur.
4158326|Ninety two Mallard ducklings were imprinted on a male Mallard decoy speaking a rhythmical GOCK, gock, gock, gock, gock, through a loud-speaker installed in the decoy. In order to secure maximum imprinting, this model was provided with an articulated head, an internal heating element, and off-center wheels that produced a waddling motion. For testing, a female model with loudspeaker also was used. From 5 to 70 hours after imprinting, each duckling was given the following 4 tests, which we estimate to be in order of increasing difficulty: (1) Both models motionless, both call; duckling 1 foot away from each. (2) Female model louder and closer. (3) Both models silent. (4) Female model only calling and moving. In the test situation the imprinting object, or male model, was used against the female model. The female was provided with the recorded call notes of a female Mallard calling her young and the male was provided with the standard gock. Thirteen to 16 hours proved to be the critical age for imprinting in Mallards. Approximately half of the ducklings imprinted in this age-group were completely imprinted and went to the imprinting object in all tests. Only 3 of the remaining ducklings gave perfect scores. Three ducklings exposed to the standard gock call for 24 hours before and up to the instant of hatching showed no imprinting on that sound. Mallard ducklings were running normally in 3 to 4 hours. Fear responses did not appear until 24 hours. Beyond 28 hours no imprinting occurred ordinarily and only one duckling showed any imprinting beyond 24 hours. Four older ducklings (28 and 38 hours) were partially imprinted by association with well-imprinted ducklings during the imprinting runs. Twenty-four ducklings were tested for inherent preferences. None responded to either the male or female model when it was still and silent. In addition, 15 showed no preference to either call note when they were simultaneously presented. Ten of the 15 gave no response and 5 responded once to each call. Eight ducklings showed a consistent preference for the gock and one responded repeatedly to the quack. Four ducklings were imprinted on a motionless, non-articulated male model sounding the standard call. These four all made positive scores in Test 1, 2 and 3 and one, imprinted during the critical age, made a perfect score. Three additional ducklings imprinted by this method made scores over twice as good as another group of 3 ducklings imprinted on a box of the size of the model, giving the same call through an internal loudspeaker. Five ducklings in two different groups were imprinted for 24 hours on a male model. These ducklings stayed with this male model in preference to live parent females with ducklings of their own age. One group of these, with some experience in following a silent model, followed a silent floating model although one of the parent female ducks tried to lure them away. The other group followed the floating model briefly and then returned to the similar model with wheels on shore but did not go to the live parent duck. All but 2 of 13 bantam chicks tested for inherent preferences chose the recorded cluck of a mother hen in preference to the gock. None chose the gock in every test. Twenty-six bantam chicks were imprinted on the male model giving the standard call. These showed considerably less imprinting than Mallard ducklings. The critical age for imprinting chicks corresponds to that for ducklings.
4158327|Twelve instances of bird mortality at airport ceilometers have been reported, the number of birds reported killed in each varying from three to over a thousand. All instances occurred during a migration season, ten in the fall and two in the spring. Mortality has occurred only when there has been a large migration and a cloud ceiling of 5000 feet or less; weather producing this combination is more frequent in the fall. The species of birds killed seem in each instance to be a random sample of the migrants to be expected at that time and place. In size they range from the smaller warblers up to an American Bittern. Most of the birds killed were passerines, but a number of non-passerines was represented. The dead birds examined have almost certainly been killed by impact, either with the ground, or with another bird in mid-air, or with a building as observed at the Westover Air Base. The ceilometer beam itself is not believed to be a direct cause of death. The following is an outline of how bird mortality at a ceilometer may occur. On a night when there is a large migration and a relatively low cloud ceiling, birds are attracted to the ceilometer light. On reaching the beam they first fly through it, but some circle back to fly slowly or flutter in and about the beam. The brilliant light reflected from these birds may attract other migrants toward the beam. Mortality may result from birds being blinded and hitting the ground or rarely a building, or colliding with each other and then hitting the ground, or directly from mid-air collisions.
4158343|Audio-spectrographs of the songs of three individual Henslow's Sparrows show that the songs are much more complex than they appear to the ear. The song usually consists of a series of two or three note groups of decreasing pitch and increasing loudness, beginning with frequencies around 9,000 or 10,000 cps, and with the lowest frequencies in the lowest note about 3,100 cps. The lowest (and loudest) note in this sequence is usually followed by two fairly loud notes, the first a little higher in pitch than the second, and the second a little higher than the loud note preceding them. The ear seldom detects the first two or three note groups in the song, and the first note usually heard is the loud low note; the last two note groups appear to the ear as the "second" buzzy note of the song. Some of the graphs show what appear to be harmonics for the louder notes. The range in loudness between the weakest and the loudest note of a song represents a decibel range of at least 25 db. The songs of a given individual are extremely similar, while those of the three individuals are different. The songs of two of the three birds here reported were fairly similar; the third bird had a somewhat different song.
4158345|A mild, cold front on October 31, 1953, stalled at Tokyo, Japan, by a warm front for twenty-four hours, brought a flight of migrants which remained a few days. The most conspicuous of these was the Brown-eared Bulbul. Other species apparently arriving at this time were the Bush Warbler, Pale Thrush, Red-bellied Thrush, and Redstart. Most species moved on as the cold front overran the warm front and pushed on south. A second migratory wave appeared two weeks later with another front.
4158363|Winter territoriality is a prominent feature in the behavioral cycle of the American Kestrel (Falco sparverius). It functions primarily to maintain an adequate hunting ground for the individual. Experiments employing a captive, adult male, a captive female, a stuffed dummy-female, and a stuffed dummy-male were carried out to study this behavior. The reactions of wild kestrels toward the experimental objects placed in their territories ranged from apparent indifference to the most violent and persistent kinds of attack. There was no measurable difference between the reactions of males and females to the captive male, a majority of both sexes being highly aggressive; females also attacked the captive female as frequently as they did the captive male, but males showed a marked decrease in the frequency of their attacks on the captive female, especially of attacks resulting in bodily contact. This difference between the sexes is the reflection of a masculine submissiveness which has its earliest manifestations during nestling life. A comparison of the results produced by the live captives and the dummies indicates that movements and vocalizations are stronger releasers of aggressive behavior than are form or pattern per se.
4158364|An apparatus was designed to measure the degree of movement (kinetics) in the frontonasal hinge of the avian skull. Several tests demonstrated that the device produced reliable and consistent figures when operated over a period of time by one observer or when used by two different workers.
4158365|The Hairy Woodpecker is resident in the highlands of Central America, chiefly between 4,000 and 11,000 feet above sea-level. In the Guatemalan mountains a single woodpecker is often to be found in a mixed flock of small birds in the late summer and autumn, but before the end of the year these woodpeckers have mated and travel in pairs. Ten dormitory holes were found in Costa Rica. Adults, except males attending nestlings, always slept alone. Some of the females occupied chambers which were very old and dilapidated. The males used newer holes, and the only sleeping cavity actually found under construction was the work of a male. A dispute between two males was settled by much displaying and posturing but no actual fighting. In February or early March the woodpeckers begin to prepare their nest chambers, which are carved by both sexes working alternately. One hole was no sooner finished than a pair of Blue-throated Toucanets took it from the woodpeckers. Laying begins about March, and one set of three eggs was examined. Male and female alternate incubating the eggs by day but the male alone attends them through the night. He also broods the nestlings by night. Both parents feed the nestlings on insects and larvae brought in the bill rather than regurgitated as with some other woodpeckers. For the first 17 days or more one nest cavity was kept perfectly clean, both parents carrying away the droppings. But after the nestling was feathered, the sanitation of this nest was neglected. A lone nestling flew from the nest when 28 days old. Neither this bird nor a parent returned to sleep in the low nest cavity. After two other young woodpeckers left a very high nest, the father returned to roost in this cavity; the mother retired at nightfall into a neighboring hole, but the youngsters were left out in the rain.
4158367|There are many records of the Summer Tanager for Douglas County, Kansas, and scattered records for other parts of extreme eastern Kansas. Several pairs breed in the vicinity of the University of Kansas Natural History Reservation every year. Tanagers arrive approximately the last week of April. In one pair observed in 1953, nest-building extended over a little more than two weeks and was done entirely by the female. Incubation lasted eleven days. From a clutch of four eggs, three hatched and all the nestlings were fledged. At an age of one week all three young left the nest, one at a time, and fell to the ground. At this age, although nearing adult size, the young were still remarkably undeveloped, feeble, and nearly helpless, depending almost entirely on concealment in ground vegetation. After spending three days hiding in the grass near the nest site, the young became sufficiently strong and well feathered to fly into nearby trees. Soon they moved away from the nest site but remained in the parents' territory for nearly three weeks longer. Tanagers remain in the general area through August and September. Singing ceased abruptly after August 10. For the remainder of the season tanagers were usually silent and inconspicuous.
4158368|(1) The winter weights of 1300 Purple Finches at Chapel Hill, North Carolina, were compared with previous work on weight variation in passerines. (2) Over the period of study, no significant differences in weight among adult males, adult females, and immature birds were found. (3) The highest hourly weight occurred shortly after 3:00 p.m. (4) Average weekly variation in weight showed an increase from the last of December to the first week in February, and then a gradual decrease until the finches left the area in their spring migration. (5) An inverse, or negative, correlation was found between air temperature and body weight.
4158387|Evidence from twelve species of passerine birds points to higher heart ratios in high-altitude populations. Such variation in relative heart size, which might be expected on physiological grounds, lends support to earlier findings of Rensch (1931) based on three tropical species. Both altitudinal and sexual differences contribute importantly to variation in heart ratio in birds as illustrated by passerines, and these variables among others ought to be considered in the analysis of heart-ratio data.
4158388|A nesting study of the Little Blue Heron was made at Swan Lake, near Pine Bluff, Arkansas, in 1952, 1953, and 1954. This heronry, like many in the lower Mississippi Valley, was located in an old riverbed lake surrounded by cotton fields. Only adult (blue phase) birds nested at Swan Lake. Nesting associates were the American Egret, Snowy Egret and Anhinga. Most of the birds nested in buttonbushes. The earliest recorded spring arrival date was March 13, 1954. In the courtship display the performing bird moved from an upright position to crouch twice in a sort of pumping motion. At the conclusion of the pumping it assumed a normal standing position and swayed from side to side twice. Copulation took place at the nest. All males under observation engaged in promiscuous copulation. Nest building began in late March and early April. The male gathered most of the sticks, presenting them to the female at the nest. There was much stick robbing from nests by other Little Blues, Egrets and Anhingas. Five to eight days were required for completion of a clutch, depending upon the number of eggs laid. Clutch size in 50 nests averaged 4.04 eggs. During the egg-laying period, the male remained at the nest most of the time. Incubation usually began after the laying of the second egg. The incubation period was 22 or 23 days. Both parents shared in incubation and in brooding and feeding the young. At one nest, newly-hatched young were brooded 80 per cent of the time. During the first three or four days nestlings were fed upon regurgitated food dropped into the nest by the parent. By the end of the first week the young were taking food from the parent's bill. During the second week young stood up in the nest. Parents preparing to brood sometimes used their feet to push young downward in the nest. By the third week the young were spending most of their time on branches near the nest, and at about one month were making short flights. In 30 nests, 124 eggs laid produced a total of 92 young herons two weeks of age. One or more young, two weeks of age, were produced in 28 of those 30 nests. Principal cause of egg losses appeared to be nest robbing (for sticks) by other herons, egrets, and anhingas. Tracks leading to certain nests containing dead young indicated that the raccoon probably was an important predator when the lake bottom was dry. Analysis of pellets regurgitated by young Little Blue Herons revealed at least 30 different food items, among which aquatic beetles and their larvae, dragonfly nymphs, giant water-bugs, frogs and crayfish were important.
4158390|1. The Lapland Longspur was one of the commonest birds at the head of Frobisher Bay, Baffin Island, in the summer of 1953. It nested almost exclusively in wet, tussocky tundra. A nest built among moss and lichens, rather than among grass, was unsuccessful. 2. Of 22 nests found by us, 20 were lined with grass and with feathers or fur. Two were lined only with grass. None had been used previously. 3. The female built the nest and incubated the eggs. During the egg-laying and incubation periods the male rarely, if ever, went to the nest. We never saw a male take food to an incubating female. 4. After the hatching of the chicks, the male was louder-voiced than the female in sounding protest while we were near the nest. During a mid-day period of observation at one nest the male devoted himself wholly to giving alarm cries, the female to feeding the chicks. At another nest, the male fed the young regularly. 5. The average clutch-size for 19 nests was 4.5 eggs. 6. Egg-laying started about June 10 and continued at least to June 29. Earliest date for a newly hatched chick, June 25; for a chick well able to fly, July 12. Latest date for a chick ready to leave the nest, July 16; for a chick out of the nest, but still unable to fly, July 19. 7. A predator scattered the lining of one nest without breaking any of the four eggs. In each of several nests a single chick disappeared prematurely. Two of four eggs in a deserted nest were chewed at, probably by a lemming. 8. Three eggs in one nest, three in another, and five in another, hatched respectively within a 24-hour period. At one nest, two of the four chicks hatched between 10:00 a.m. and 3:10 p.m. At several nests hatching of the brood extended over a two-day, or even longer, period. 9. Chicks remained in the nest nine or ten days and left while quite unable to fly. Chicks ready to leave the nest never "exploded" in all directions when disturbed. 10. We color-banded nine chicks (two broods) in hope of ascertaining the exact fledging period, but failed to recover a color-banded individual. 11. Singing was at its height during the last week in June and stopped altogether on July 6--long before it did in other passerines. 12. Pairs separated and broods scattered within a few days after the young had left the nests. Between July 19 and August 2 we observed no longspurs in pairs or in separate family groups. After August 2 we frequently observed mixed flocks of longspurs and buntings.
4158412|Visual and auditory communication in food-finding behavior of Herring Gulls on the sea-coast of Maine were studied using recording techniques to separate the two mechanisms. The gulls can be attracted visually by flashing objects of suitable size and by a typical flight-pattern of individuals that have found food. The major attractant outside the visual field, however, is a special call emitted by gulls that discover food. A study of sounds made by non-breeding gulls at food sources allows the designation of at least four distinct calls: (1) food-finding call, (2) alarm call, (3) trumpeting, and (4) mew call. These were recorded in the field with a tape recorder, and the reactions of gulls to broadcasts of the recorded calls were studied. The food-finding call attracts gulls from distances up to 3 to 5 km. The alarm call repels gulls from food or resting places. Trumpeting elicits only chorusing of nearby gulls. The mew call evokes no consistent reactions under these circumstances. Gulls also have a number of single call-notes, the functions of which are not clear. The alarm call of Herring Gulls induces Great Black-backed Gulls and Laughing Gulls also to fly away from the source of the sound.
4158414|The kinetics of the avian skull, defined as protraction and retraction of the upper bill, can be a source of valuable information on the evolution of the feeding mechanism and consequently on the evolution of the species. But accurate and consistent quantitative studies of kinetics must be made before conclusions are drawn. This study has contributed the following information pertinent to the gathering of quantitative information and to the limitations on movement: 1. As just noted, there must be a sufficient number of specimens in a series for the results to have some statistical reliability. 2. Intact, fresh heads must be used; they may be measured as long as 24 hours after death. 3. Skulls prepared for museum collections do not permit reliable or consistent measurement; soaking, "bugging" or cooking, degreasing and bleaching these skulls give rise to great variability in kinetic movement. 4. Skulls may not even be used as an index to kinetics unless there has been established for a species a definite relationship between measurements on the skull and measurements on the complete, fresh head. 5. Heads preserved in formalin and glycerin show a decreased kinetic movement which makes measurements of them incomparable with measurements of other materials. 6. Although some species, such as the American Crow, possess definite bony structures which stop protraction, most limitation is imposed by soft parts of the head. Retractor stops of bone are present in many species. 7. The entire mass of cranial muscles, including muscles not apparently connected with protraction or retraction, restrains movement. 8. Ligaments, as might be expected, are of major importance in circumscribing kinetic motion. The limitations set up by the vomero-orbital and pterygo-palato-orbital ligaments are noted. 9. Even joint capsules, particularly the one around the articulation between the pterygoid and the basipterygoid process, reduce and limit kinetic activity. The effect of this one capsule was measured.
4158416|1. In spite of assertions to the contrary in the literature, Falco sparverius sparverius has a post-juvenal body molt. This occurs mostly in September and October, at least in males. 2. Certain characters which have been proposed as age criteria by various authors do not appear to have any significance in this respect. These include the size of the rufous crown patch, amount of spotting on the wing coverts of males, tail pattern of males, ground color of underparts, ground color of the ocelli of the nuchal region, width of dorsal bars of females, and consistency of breast feathers. 3. Immature males may be recognized by a combination of several characters, including spotting and streaking of the breast, barring of the anterior one-third of the scapular-interscapular region, brownish tips to rectrices, and dark gray shaft-streaks in the brown crown patch. 4. All of these characters except that of the tail-tip normally disappear during the post-juvenal molt. Young males in late winter or early spring may still be recognizable by the relatively greater wear of their rectrices. 5. Recognition of immature females is difficult. Two suggested criteria are the lack of a well-defined subterminal band on the tail and a crown with heavy shaft-streaking and poorly-defined brown and gray areas. 6. Adult males do not necessarily become less barred or spotted with successive annual molts.
4158434|From July 1, 1950, to January 1, 1953, nearly 3,000 birds were collected in Japan for serological study, and the majority were sexed and aged by dissection. The overall sex ratio was 120 males to 100 females. The ratio varied from month to month as changes in activities of each species changed their availability to the gun. The fall age ratio in passerines (based on ossification of the crania) was three immature birds per adult. Of 183 species collected, peak numbers of juveniles were taken in September. This peak came in August in the 12 most common passerine species.
4158435|The Eastern Willet (Catoptrophorus s. semipalmatus) spends about three months on the coast of Georgia and South Carolina in spring and early summer. This time is divided about equally among courtship, nesting and care of the young. Courtship takes place on exposed reefs in salt marshes and on tidal mud flats, whereas the nesting territories are located in grassy upland areas. I have found no evidence that molting occurs during the willet's summer stay on this coast. The Western Willet, (C. s. inornatus) passes through in fall and in late winter, and a few remain at other times of the year. This subspecies occupies a more restricted niche than the Eastern Willet, and may be distinguished readily from it in the field.
4158453|From 1948 through 1953 observations were made of a breeding colony of Red-winged Blackbirds, most of the members of which were individually marked with color-bands, at Madison, Wisconsin. Adult males arrived between March 6 and April 21. Females arrived between April 8 and May 7. Most of the birds left the breeding marsh by August, but two males were seen within three miles as late as October 23. More than half of all the marked birds returned at least once; a few returned for several successive seasons. Displays consisted of various movements or positions of the wings, and usually involved exposure and erection of the red wing-coverts. "Song-spread" was the most common of these and was prominent because of the loud vocal accompaniment. Although this is mainly a male display, an analogous display with a different song was given by females. Males also had a "flight-song" involving a different vocalization. Both sexes indulged in "bill-tilting," a threat display in which the beak is pointed upward to members of the same sex. This was most commonly seen between adjacent males meeting on the borders of their territories. Females often raised and flapped one or both wings when approached by their mates during the period when they were feeding young. The significance of this display was not clear. A tense crouching posture of the male seemed an indication of sexual interest since it appeared to be directed only toward the mate. Pair-formation began, or actually occurred, when the female entered the male's territory. The pairing bond existed only during the breeding period. The length of the period between pair-formation and the laying of the first egg averaged 20.7 days for four birds for which complete data were available. Single broods were usual, but three cases of double broods (all successful) were recorded. Polygyny was common, but no more than three females ever were observed with one male; two was average. Male "courtship" behavior consisted mainly in slowly flying away from the female down into the cattails. The male then displayed with wings elevated over his back, crawled through the cattails, bowed, and picked at nesting material. This sequence was termed "symbolic nest-site selection." A related, less common display was called "symbolic nest-building." Sexual chasing, or pursuit of the female by the male, was a common occurrence. Chasing occurred normally between members of a pair during the period between pair-formation and egg-laying. Copulation was never observed at the immediate end of a chase, but chases were seldom observed between members of a pair once copulation had occurred. Neighboring males sometimes joined a chasing pair, forming group chases. Sexual excitement in females was indicated by a quivering motion of the flight feathers accompanied by a soft whimpering cry. At a higher intensity the tail and bill were raised, the lattEer sometimes being open. In response to this "precopulation-display" of the female, males assumed a position in which the wings and tail were spread and lowered and then slowly approached the female. Copulation was always of short duration, and usually one mounting seemed to suffice.
4158481|The Short-eared Owl is a common winter visitant to the salt marshes around San Francisco Bay. Between four and ten owls live in the winter on the study plot of some 200 acres on San Pablo salt marsh. The owls forage mainly at night there. Of 638 items found in pellets, 75 per cent were mammals, 20 per cent birds, and 5 per cent insects. Mammals were responsible for about 90 per cent of the mass consumed, Microtus and Rattus being the most important kinds. The relationship of Short-eared Owl predation to the community food web is indicated by means of a diagram.
4158482|Sixty-five species of birds have been recorded from the Swan Islands. Seven or eight are resident; three are marine (Sula l. leucogaster, Sula s. sula, and Fregata magnificens rothschildi) and five are land forms (Columba leucocephala, Coccyzus minor nesiotes [resident?], Crotophaga ani, Mimocichla plumbea rubripes, and Dendroica vitellina nelsoni. The thrush, whose origin was in Cuba or the Isle of Pines, was extirpated between 1887 and 1908; the ani arrived within the same period. Deforestation may have been responsible for both events. The only endemic is Dendroica v. nelsoni, which was derived from Cayman Islands stock. The presence of many migrants suggests the occurrence of large-scale migration between the northern Antilles and Central America.
4158483|1. During the past 52 years the Cardinal has extended its range as a breeding bird into eastern South Dakota. The initial entry was made in the southeastern portion and to the present time it is distributed approximately over the eastern one-fourth of the state. 2. During this time it has appeared as a wintering bird in appreciable numbers in various places outside the breeding range in the eastern part of the state. 3. The extension of range of the Cardinal closely parallels major rivers and their tributaries. It would appear that these streams play an important role in the immigration of this species by contributing suitable habitat. 4. The Cardinal has not been reported in the area west of the Missouri until very recently. This peculiarity in distribution may be the result of lack of suitable habitat on the frequently-intermittent streams and their tributaries in the Bad Lands-Black Hills region and in the adjacent areas.
4158484|In Guatemala, Golden-olive Woodpeckers were found in pairs in October, among the shade trees of the coffee plantations. At an altitude of 5500 feet in the Costa Rican highlands, the roosting and breeding behavior of one pair were followed through most of a year. From August until the following April, a female lodged alone in various low cavities in stubs in a pasture surrounded by heavy forest. She occupied one dormitory for at least two months. After sleeping for some weeks in an old hole in a stub, she moved to a freshly carved hole higher in the same trunk, which had been used as a lodging by a Hairy Woodpecker. The high-pitched, clear, powerful, long-continued roll or trill of the male was heard from mid-February onward. At the beginning of April, four eggs were found in the cavity where the Hairy Woodpecker and then the female Golden-olive Woodpecker had slept. Now the male Golden-olive Woodpecker occupied this hole by night, while by day he took turns with his mate in warming the eggs. In the course of a day, the female incubated for three sessions lasting 297, 91, and 51 minutes, the male for two exclusively diurnal sessions of 82 and 118 minutes. Allowing 12.5 hours for the woodpeckers' active day, the female was in charge of the nest a total of 439 minutes, the male for 311 minutes (which includes extensions within the active period of his long nocturnal sessions). Although four nestlings hatched, only one was raised, the others apparently succumbing from malnutrition in inclement weather. Both parents fed by regurgitation at a very slow rate. With two 11-day-old nestlings, they brought food only 5 times in 4 hours 40 minutes. With a single 24-day-old nestling, they brought food 5 times in 4.5 hours. The male was the more active provider. The parents at first kept the nest clean, but neglected sanitation after the young took food through the doorway and they were no longer obliged to enter for feeding. The young woodpecker, completely naked at hatching, was well feathered at the age of 21 days and resembled her mother. Frightened from the nest when 24 days old, she flew with slow but sustained flight. After her departure, the fledgling did not return to sleep in the nest, which the male parent continued to use as a lodging. An Ecuadorian nest contained, in October, a feathered nestling which resembled the adult male, showing that in this species young in their first plumage resemble adults of the same sex.
4158485|Males established territories on the breeding marsh from which all Redwings except the mate, and sometimes other species of birds, were aggressively repelled. Returning males often held the same or nearly the same area year after year. The average size of the territories was about one-twelfth of an acre. Incomplete territorial behavior in migrants was shown by males settling for short periods in the tops of trees in non-nesting areas near the marsh. When adjacent territories were held by former neighbors, aggression was minimal, but new males created considerable disturbance. Territory boundaries were well-defined and usually remained in approximately the same position throughout the breeding period. New males obtained territories by moving into vacant areas, by "challenging" and forcing withdrawal or eviction through persistent attack, and also through sheer dominance. In one case a male seized a portion of a territory including a female and nest. Throughout the breeding period new males appeared and contested for vacated areas. First-year males do not generally breed, but occasionally they held territories for short periods, and to a large extent were treated as adults by the territorial adults. Females met the males on their territories and formed "sub-territories" within the boundaries of their mate's territory. Females were restricted to the mate's territory by the aggressive reactions of adjacent males. Considerable quarreling occurred among females within a male's territory over female-territories and later over actual nest-sites. Females also showed some seasonal persistence in nesting-sites, but frequently changed sites, as well as mates.
4158504|The very similar, roughly-allopatric, forest-inhabiting species of the thrush genera Catharus and Hylocichla often are found living beside one another in the areas of geographic overlap. Although each species differs somewhat in habitat, these habitats are shared with adjacent species, and differences in feeding niches have developed in response to selective pressures presumably stemming from competition for feeding areas. The typical order of overlapping replacement from south to north or from lower altitudes to higher ones is Hylocichla mustelina, Catharus fuscescens, C. guttatus, C. ustulatus and C. minimus. The differences in feeding niches involve both the height at which foraging takes place and the location with respect to forest-edge or forest-interior sites. By a simple alternation of these places of foraging a maximum amount of ecological diversification is accomplished with a minimum amount of biological "effort" (Table 6). Adaptive modifications of the bill, hind limbs, and wings enable each species to occupy its specific feeding niche. A broader, shorter bill is associated with arboreal foraging and shorter legs accompanied by longer femurs and shorter tarsometatarsi are associated with arboreal feeding. Conversely, a longer, narrower bill and longer legs with shorter femurs and longer tarsometatarsi are associated with ground foraging. Longer, more pointed wings are associated with a greater amount of flying than are wings that are relatively shorter and more rounded. The Olive-backed Thrush, the most arboreal of the forms considered, has the longest wing in apparent response to the long migration route and also to the fact that it spends much of its time foraging in the foliage and in flycatching. The amounts of adaptive difference, in these respects, between the various pairs of species tend to be in direct proportion to the amounts of association between them. Coefficients of association were computed for the species by using habitat-specific breeding-bird censuses with Cole's (1949) method for the computation of interspecific association. It is presumed that these species have achieved their ecological isolation by coming "rough sorted" as to habitat by virtue of their largely allopatric distributions and by developing differences in their feeding niches which allow them to occur sympatrically in the broad overlap areas.
4158508|Early records show that Long-billed Curlews were found at a number of localities in the Palouse prairie region of eastern Washington. These birds disappeared as the grasslands were plowed under, but they have reappeared with changes in land use. Distributional data tracing these population trends are listed by counties. At the present time breeding populations are scattered over the lower portion of the Cheney-Palouse River Channel south of the yellow pine zone; this area includes parts of Whitman, Adams, Spokane and Lincoln counties (Yocom 1951:52-56). Other population centers are located along the lower Snake River and the Columbia River in Franklin and Walla Walla counties.
4158509|Juvenile mortality was measured, and mortality factors were studied, in an island colony of 850 pairs of Ring-billed Gulls in northern Michigan. Thirty-seven carcasses of dead juvenile gulls were collected in plots covering 36 square meters of the colony area, indicating a total mortality, when corrected for subsequent deaths, of about 1.50 chicks per nesting territory. All size classes were represented among the carcasses collected, but the highest mortality apparently occurred in middle-sized birds, those large enough to move away from the nest but too small to defend themselves effectively against adult attack. Counts of chicks on two study plots revealed about 0.67 survivors per territory at fledging. Comparison with published data on the Herring Gull suggests that this low production rate may be adequate to maintain the population and hence normal for the species. Vigorous defense of the small, tightly-massed territories against both young and old intruders was the direct cause of the great majority of juvenile deaths. Predation by Herring Gulls was a secondary factor. Wandering of young from their territories during the absence of the parents indirectly contributed to juvenile mortality by necessitating returns for feeding through the defended territories of other birds. Destruction of shading vegetation and intrusion of the colony by human observers induced forced movements of chicks and thus aggravated the conditions producing mortality.
4158529|Numerical data are presented on seasonal differences in the epigamic display of several species of Anatinae. In the female Mallard, inciting and nod-swimming predominate in the fall. These displays are concerned with the establishment of bonds between the sexes and with the establishment of territory. Females also showed some homosexual activity at this time but not after mid-November. The periods of maximum display in the Gadwall, Mallard, Black Duck, and Green-winged Teal did not correspond. Peaks of activity were noted in the Mallard in December, the Black Duck and Green-winged Teal in January and the Gadwall in February. Competition among males in displaying before the female was noted in the Pintail, Redhead and Gadwall, but not in the Mallard and Black Duck. A paired display was observed in the Green-winged Teal, in which the female responded to the display of the male by the head-up, tail-up display; mean-while the male and female slowly swam about each other.
4158531|A knowledge of turkey foods in the White River bottoms of southeastern Arkansas was obtained by an analysis of 1026 droppings and 22 crops and gizzards collected from various habitats during the period 1950-1955. Acorns, sugarberries, pecans, poison ivy fruit, blackberries and blades of grass were important foods in the first bottoms; seeds of crabgrass dominated droppings collected from sand bars in summer and fall; while in dry ox-bow lake beds, feathergrass seeds were the principal food in the fall, and styrax fruit in the summer.
4158556|This paper describes the growth and sequence of plumages of young Redhead ducks and the weight changes and sequence of molts and plumages in adults. Information was derived from young Redheads reared at the Delta Waterfowl Research Station, Manitoba, wild juveniles which were dyed while in the egg or which were trapped, banded, and later recaptured. For adults, information was obtained from hatchery birds which were kept captive for as long as five years, from wild females trapped on the nest, from birds captured in banding traps, and from others killed by hunters. Cumulative curves of growth in weight of embryos and juveniles are presented and show typical sigmoid form. However, a decline in weight was noted during the period of remige formation. Males were heavier than females by the second week and remained so throughout life. Hatchery-reared birds tended to be lighter in weight than wild birds of the same age but other development was comparable. Growth of the culmen and tarsus was also recorded and showed a steadier progression than did weights. Weights of Redheads were influenced by age, sex, and season. In the fall, adult males were heaviest, adult females and immature males were similar in weight, and immature females were lightest. Birds of both sexes lost weight during migration and molt, and females lost during laying and incubation. Minimum weights were reached during the summer molt and maximum weights during the post-molt and pre-migration periods in fall. Pterylography and sequences in growth of feathers in juveniles are described. A diagram of feather development at weekly intervals, designed to aid in determining age of juveniles in the field, is presented. Ability to fly was attained at eight and one-half to nine weeks, although the primaries were not fully hardened until the juveniles were 10 to 11 weeks of age. Development of the first winter plumage started before the young were able to fly and was usually complete by mid-winter. A few birds were still molting in early spring after arrival on the breeding grounds. Sequence of molt was different in the two sexes. The female attained a breeding plumage by a partial molt in spring and a winter plumage by a complete molt in late summer. The adult male, however, had no spring molt but acquired an eclipse (=winter) plumage in late summer and a breeding plumage in fall. Some features of the plumages of hybrids between Redhead and Canvasback and Redhead and Ring-necked Duck are described.
4158559|Methods and criteria for aging incubated eggs and nestlings of the Mourning Dove are described. With the use of a portable egg candler and the aid of photographs of incubated eggs taken by means of transmitted light, incubation stages, except for 7 through 10 days, can usually be determined with accuracy. Descriptive notes are also furnished as an additional aid in determining incubation stages. Nestling Mourning Doves were aged by comparing them with photographs of nestlings of known age. An aging gauge showing the average and range of combined body and tail length also proved helpful. Descriptive notes that emphasize the "key characters" of age at consecutive days of growth are presented. The use of elastic adhesive tape in banding nestling doves is also described. Studies of captives and doves in the wild revealed that stunting in nestlings sometimes occurs. Also in some cases, the second hatched nestling may outgrow the first hatched nestling because of the former's more aggressive feeding behavior.
4158579| The Singing, or Long-toed, Quail inhabits a number of forest types from near sea level to about 10,000 feet in Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. Many of the populations are disjunct. The habitats occupied are extremely variable in climate, forest type and areal extent. Some dense undergrowth for cover is essential. Some populations occur in two, three or more vegetation types; others are restricted to a single type. These vegetation types include deciduous forest, semi-deciduous tropical forest, tropical evergreen forest, rainforest, oak-sweet gum cloud forest, mesic areas in pine-oak, pine-oak-fir-alder, oak-aguacate vapor forest, second growth cloud forest and coffee groves in areas of limited natural forest. Knowledge of biology and behavior of the Singing Quail is fragmentary. It escapes by short, rapid flights or by running or both. Much of its food of seeds, bulbs and invertebrates is obtained by scratching in the litter and humus. Flocks of as many as 12 individuals of both sexes and all age groups have been observed. Even during the breeding season more than two adults may be present in a small area. During two breeding seasons approximately 3.5 pairs per 100 acres were found in climax oak-sweet gum forest in Tamaulipas. Estimates based on this figure for the total populations of each of two isolated volcano populations in El Salvador do not exceed 500 pairs. The breeding season, which extends from February through October or later, is similar for all populations except for indications that in the deciduous forest of Yucatn it may be delayed until May following the three driest months. No nest has been described, but a female was reported to have been incubating five eggs; usually broods have had two to four young. The postnuptial molt begins in June and continues through at least the end of the year; during July and August most of the adult population is in molt. No completely satisfactory criteria were found for separation of first year from older birds. Song and other vocal notes are described. The song is usually in two parts: a series of about four loud, penetrating whistles followed by three to six rapid phrases of notes of differing pitch. The taxonomic history of Dactylortyx thoracicus is reviewed. Nine races had previously been described but one race without a valid name is given the name ginetensis. The following eight new subspecies are described: pettingilli, melodus, dolichonyx, moorei, edwardsi, calophonus, rufescens and conoveri. Over a part of the range of the species there are size and color correlations with altitude and climate respectively, the largest birds living at higher altitudes, the smallest near sea level. The darkest birds are cloud forest inhabitants; the palest occur on the Yucatn peninsula in both deciduous forest and rainforest. Color clines are strongest in the largely continuous Atlantic slope populations and are weaker among the Pacific slope and interior Chiapas populations. Clinal relationships are not apparent among some Honduras populations. In some of these small populations random differentiation seems to be present. The race devius from Jalisco exhibits some characters of the Sierra Madre Oriental populations suggesting a former connection with the eastern populations across the Transvolcanic Belt rather than across the Balsas Basin with melodus. 
4158581|In early September, 1955, an estimated 100 to 150 Ruby-throated Hummingbirds foraged, waged battle, and roosted in about four acres of Crotalaria in the Savannah River Plant area, Aiken County, South Carolina. Much of their food was nectar taken from the Crotalaria flowers. The birds' numbers declined after mid-September, and the last individuals were seen on September 24. Ten hummingbirds caught in mist nets were color-marked, but there were no repeat records. Both the shape of the sixth primary and the throat coloration provided criteria for distinguishing in the hand males and females among immatures. An adult female lacked the ventral buffiness characteristic of young females. The sexes were present in about the same numbers, but adults (male and female) seemed to comprise only about 7 per cent of the aggregation. Body weights for summer- and (especially) fall-collected hummingbirds (including some from Georgia and Florida) averaged about 3.8 grams for females and about 3.5 grams for males. Weights increased markedly after mid-September, as did fat content. Heart ratios, in contrast, decreased with increase in body weight and fatness; heart weight per se was relatively constant and was significantly greater in males than in females. Fat content, expressed as per cent of wet weight, ranged from about 11 to 15 per cent in June to about 41 to 46 per cent in heavy, premigratory individuals. The heaviest birds, each carrying about two grams of fat, were thought to have sufficient fuel to travel nonstop some 800 miles.
4158582|Actual observations of moving birds through mountain passes in California and Arizona are put on record. These passes are discussed under two heads--fault lines and erosion gaps. It is postulated that altitude is an important factor in the bird's metabolic economy during migration. Hence it may determine the migration route.
4158583|Observations and mechanical recordings were made of 7259 experimental landings by 11 domestic pigeons. During the five to 16 weeks of experimentation with each bird it was noted that seven pigeons used the right foot predominantly, three the left foot, and one bird showed no particular preference for either. Three birds used the right foot more than 90 per cent of the time. No individual showed such a significant choice of the left foot; no. 57 used the left foot 83 per cent of the time but only under abnormal conditions. One might say, therefore, that the right-footed condition was usual and that the left-footed pigeons were not as strongly left-footed as the right-footed birds were right-footed. To my knowledge, predominant use of right or left limbs has not been demonstrated previously in any animal except man. The pattern in pigeons does not, however, seem to be of the same kind as in human beings. In pigeons, although they may show an average preference for one foot over a long period of time, choice of foot seems in part to be a matter of daily preference. In general, there was less choice shown on the first day a pigeon was landed and on the first 20 to 40 landings each day. Analysis of records preceding day-to-day changes in footedness did not reveal any gradual change in choice of foot. There may, however, be a gradual change over a period of several weeks. It may be that there was a determining stimulus in the way the birds were handled, but all birds were treated in exactly the same manner and pairs of birds landed on the same days exhibited different patterns. If there was an external stimulus provided by the experimental situation, it did not affect all pigeons in the same way.
4158602|Observations on hawks and owls were made on a 52-square-mile area in southeastern Madison County, New York, from the fall of 1948 through the spring of 1952, with the exception of summers. The common, large raptors were Red-tailed Hawks and Horned Owls, and my attention was given to them, nearly to the exclusion of other species. Both species showed a strong tendency to use their respective woodlots in successive years. The owls appeared to be dependent upon the hawks for providing nests. The owls seemed restricted to larger woodlots with scattered hemlock to a greater extent than were the hawks. Beech was the preferred nest tree of the owls, whereas beech and sugar maple were equally important for the hawks. An estimated 11 pairs of Horned Owls and 23 pairs of Red-tailed Hawks on the area in the spring of 1952 gave breeding population densities of one pair per 4.4 square miles and one pair per 2.2 square miles, respectively. The combined population would have allowed 1.4 square miles per pair. Individual pairs of hawks and owls often occupied overlapping territories but attempts to use closely adjacent nest sites usually resulted in abandonment by the hawks. The hawks fledged 1.9 young per pair, and the owls, 1.7, on an average. The average brood sizes in 1952 were about half those in 1951 for both species. Nearly 40 per cent of the freshly constructed Red-tailed Hawk nests found in early spring had no young, probably because eggs were never laid in them.
4158614|Analysis of recent classifications of the ducks by refined serological techniques has validated the conclusions of Delacour and Mayr, in their uniting the genera Cairina and Aix in the single tribe Cairinini. To better the existing standard serological techniques, three separate protein systems were studied through the cross-reactions of the purified crystalline proteins with the testing antisera. Comparison of the final data derived from each set of experiments with those of the other sets served to reduce error possibly resulting from chance variations in single systems. As a check upon the cross-reaction as a true measure of species relatedness, absorption of the antisera by different heterologous antigens in the same protein species, followed by homologous titration, gave a measure of the common stocks of antigens shared. In certain cases, notably those of the Muscovy Duck proteins, the cross-reaction values indicated a much closer relationship than existed on the basis of common antigen stocks. Hence, the sole use of cross-reaction data requires that caution be exercised in their interpretation.
4158619|Bird populations were tallied in weekly observations made at sunrise during the periods from March 11 through August 26, 1953, and April 17 through August 25, 1954, on a 100-acre plot of upland farms and farmyards at Setagaya, near Tokyo, Japan. Twelve species, including one summer resident were regularly recorded. The two most abundant species were the Tree Sparrow (Passer montanus) and the Ashy Starling (Sturnus cineraceus). The total population recorded increased from fewer than two birds per acre in April to nearly four birds per acre in August. Population changes of the 12 species are discussed.
4158620|The western race of the Palm Warbler nests in coniferous woodland areas of southern Canada and adjacent portions of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and it is known only as a migrant or winter visitant in most of the eastern United States. Details concerning the first reported nestings in Michigan are presented, and breeding habitats discussed. Descriptive data for 31 nesting records of Dendroica p. palmarum are listed. Nesting areas used seem to be of two types. One is on dry plains grown to small jack pines, with clearings and a ground cover of low, spreading shrubs, such as bearberry, blueberry, wintergreen, trailing arbutus, and sweet fern. The Palm Warbler prefers such dry areas in the northern part of the lower peninsula of Michigan (the same habitat occupied by Kirtland's Warbler), and was found on similar dry ridges in spruce swamps in the northern peninsula. All nests were built in semi-open areas where the spruce and jack pine were neither too tall nor too dense, and where clearings were interspersed with patches of denser growth. The other type of nesting habitat was along the borders of spruce bogs, where clearings were grown sparingly to small black spruces, and the ground covered with sphagnum moss, leather-leaf, Labrador tea, Andromeda, and Kalmia polifolia. In northern Ontario and the treeless areas of the arctic slope of Canada, the species is found in second-growth deciduous shrubbery on the tundra. There, dwarf birch often is the predominant shrub. With what meagre information is available, it appears that the Palm Warbler prefers to nest on the ground at the base of a small tree or shrub. Small spruces, jack pines or tamaracks are the favorite trees in Michigan; bracken fern was also used, whereas two nests from farther north were at the bases of small dwarf birches.
4158621|About 7,000 Harris' Sparrow were banded at Fargo, North Dakota, from 1926 to 1955, four-fifths of them during fall migration. They arrive at Fargo about September 15 and are abundant until October 14 to 20, reaching the peak about October 2. Only one return record has been secured during this period and no birds banded at other stations have been taken. Many individuals remain in the vicinity for several (usually five to seven) days, occasionally as much as a month. Birds banded on certain days frequently seem to remain in the area while those taken on other days do not repeat. The number of birds taken each day was examined for peak records, as were the departure dates of individuals that were re-trapped. Southward flights seemed to follow the calendar and were not well correlated with weather fluctuations. Departures are commonly noted with the beginning of a rise in temperature and beginning of a south wind. Continued warm weather did not delay departures.
4158635|In Costa Rica the Violet-headed Hummingbird resides in the higher parts of the Humid Tropical Zone, chiefly from 1000 to 3000 feet above sea level. It is found both in heavy forest and in clearings, where it is especially attracted to flowers of the verbenaceous shrub Stachytarpheta. The distribution of this hummingbird is irregular; it abounds in certain districts, whereas in others a few miles away and still within its altitudinal range it is rare or absent. The males gather in assemblies to sing, each on his favorite perch, which is usually a slender, exposed twig from 15 to 60 feet above the ground. The assemblies are situated at or near the margin of forest or tall second-growth, in a forest-rimmed clearing with scattered trees, or in the fringe of trees along a river flowing through cleared lands. The several members of an assembly choose posts about 50 to 100 feet apart. The male's song is sharp and rapid but lacking in melody. Singing may begin sporadically on sunny mornings at the height of the wet season in October. Gradually increasing in amount, it reaches its peak in the sunny month of January, when the hummingbirds perform tirelessly throughout the day. As the ground dries and flowers become fewer, song wanes, until little is heard in late February and March. In April, when vegetation is again flourishing, there is a renaissance of song which lasts into May. Singing is most profuse just before and while the females are nesting, whereas it is in abeyance through most of the long non-breeding season. The song-perches are often situated where there are few flowers, while they are absent from neighboring areas with abundant blossoms. Hence the males appear to sing to attract the females rather than to advertise possession of a feeding territory. In El General nesting occurs from January (or possibly late December) until May, but nests with eggs are most abundant in the dry month of February. Of 11 nests, 10 were above streams, at heights of 39 inches to 12 feet above the current, and one was 15 feet above the ground in the forest at a distance from water. Most were attached to hanging vines or pendulous branchlets. Eight of these nests were found in a single week along about 2.5 miles of a narrow forest stream and its tributary. Here two occupied nests were 40 feet apart and another two were only four feet apart. The owners of these nests paid little attention to each other. No male was seen in the vicinity of any of the nests. One female built most actively between 7:00 and 8:00 a.m. In one period of 50 minutes she brought material 25 times, and once she came seven times in five minutes. The nest was built in four or five days. The nest is a tiny, thick-walled cup, composed largely of green moss and softly lined with light-colored seed down. The set regularly consists of two, elongated, white eggs, which in one instance were laid two days apart. One female, watched during the daylight hours from noon to noon, took 11 sessions that averaged 40.6 minutes, 12 recesses that averaged 15.2 minutes, and kept her eggs covered 72.8 per cent of the period of diurnal activity. She brought material to the nest only three or four times, all in the early morning. One fledgling left the nest as a small, harmless flycatcher flitted past, and the other departed spontaneously, in the absence of its parent, half an hour later.
4158636|1. Experiments were made with Blue-winged Teal, Mallards, and Wood Ducks to ascertain their ability to orient themselves when displaced artificially in some manner. Juvenal Blue-winged Teal were delayed in autumn migration until the species had left Illinois, and, in some cases, the United States. Mallards were transplanted in November from central Illinois to central Utah, 1,150 miles to the west. Wood Ducks hand-reared to flight stage in Illinois were released in Illinois, Wisconsin, and Indiana. 2. Blue-winged Teal were trapped in Mason County, Illinois, during September, 1952 to 1955, the adults banded and immediately released, while the juveniles were placed in pens. The juveniles were banded and released on November 11, 1952; November 30, 1953; November 10 and 23, and December 1, 1954; and November 22 and December 8, 1955. 3. A comparison of recoveries from Blue-winged Teal banded during their normal fall passage through Illinois with recoveries from the detained juveniles, revealed similar directions of migration for both groups. Some of the detained juveniles migrated to the southern part of the United States within a few days after release, but others remained near the release site for two or more weeks. There is ample evidence that detained birds did not follow other ducks to reach their destination, nor were air movements responsible for their southward flight. 4. Data on flock sizes and age ratios of Blue-winged Teal at Delta, Manitoba, suggest that many flocks depart in southward migration without adults to guide them. 5. Direct recoveries of bands from 470 adult drake Mallards and 425 juvenal drakes, trapped in Illinois and released, respectively, at the Ogden Bay Refuge and the Bear River Bird Refuge in Utah in November, showed no movement toward the Mississippi Flyway. Practically all direct recoveries were in the Great Salt Lake Basin. 6. Indirect recoveries after the breeding season revealed that about two-thirds of the adult Mallards returned to the Mississippi Flyway, whereas two-thirds of the juveniles remained in the Pacific Flyway. 7. Some Wood Ducks hand-reared at Havana, Illinois, were released locally and others were transplanted to Madison, Wisconsin, Medaryville, Indiana, and Wheaton, Illinois. All groups remained in the release area through late summer and into early autumn. Some of them were tardy in migrating southward, and a few remained over winter. 8. Young Wood Duck hens exhibited a strong homing response to the area they inhabited prior to their fall migration. There was no indication of the return of any transplanted Wood Ducks to their natal home. 9. The longer a duck remains in an area, the greater its homing attachment to the area. This suggests that increased propensity to home with increasing age is related to memory of topographic features. Homing on the basis of visual landmarks within familiar territory and exploration in unfamiliar territory has been classed by Griffin (1955:180) as Type I orientation. 10. Not all waterfowl migrate by means of Type I. Blue-winged Teal have an innate means of determining direction as shown by the southward migration of juveniles over unfamiliar territory. This has been classed by Griffin (1955:180) as Type II orientation. 11. There was no evidence in these experiments of what Griffin (1955:180) calls Type III orientation. This has been described as the ability of a bird to choose the correct direction of its home when transplanted to unfamiliar territory and direction.
4158637|The proposed generalizations or "principles" are as follows: 1. Class limitation, as determined by structure. 2. Species Limitation, or Exclusive Specialization: the impossibility that a species should excel in all the capacities of its class. 3. Minimum Versatility, or the Monotony Threshold: mutual exclusiveness of repetitiveness and continuity. 4. Maximal Continuity, or (in combination with the preceding) the positive Correlation of Continuity and Versatility. 5. Spatial Detachment of Continuous Singing from Feeding. 6. Correlation between Quantity and Quality: better singers produce more song. 7. Unequal Distribution of Musical Ability by Families. 8. Relatively Equal Geographical Distribution. 9. Ecological Distribution according to: invisibility; sexual monomorphism; territoriality; number of Oscinine species in the area; scarcity of strong-voiced, primitive species, sound-transmitting characteristics of the habitat; efficiency of feeding methods; mild weather. 10. Sex distribution according to Climate (female singing integral to the life-pattern of a good many species not subjected to cold weather or migration). 11. Innately-guided Imitation and Learning. 12. Possible Light-Dark Influence upon Exuberance in Song.
4158638|1. The relative aggressiveness of Common Pigeons was measured by means of paired encounters in a combat cage or neutral area. 2. Pairing behavior was facilitated through submissive behavior by the female. 3. The most aggressive males had precedence in pairing if under extreme competition with other males and when confined in flight cage. 4. Territorialism made it possible for all the males, irrespective of levels of aggressiveness or dominance, to establish pair-bonds, when the number of individuals of each sex was nearly equal.
4158639| Wood Thrush nest sites are chosen by the female; the male can influence her choice. Building is done by the female; rarely a male may work, but except during site selection none has certainly been seen to gather material. Height, placement, size and manner of building are described; like the American Robin, this species makes regular reversals of direction when molding. Nests are essentially complete after three days' work; slight touches are commonly given on two or three more days. Sexual flights, other possibly stimulatory acts, and an attempt at copulation are described. One egg is laid daily, beginning one to three days after essential completion of the nest. Observed clutch size was 1 to 5, with 3 and 4 most common; clutches smaller than 3 all followed some disturbance of the breeding cycle. Laying is usually done between 9:00 a.m. and noon, but sometimes not until early afternoon; it is done earlier on cool than on warm days. Two broods are usual; second clutches were begun 9 to 12 days after first broods left the nest, but sooner when first nests were destroyed during incubation. Cowbird parasitism apparently inhibited Wood Thrush laying at all of three nests. The brood patch develops within the week before laying starts. Incubation is by the female alone, beginning usually on the second laying day, and always before completion of the clutch; its gradual increase is described. Roosting on the nest begins with either the first or second egg. Some figures on amount and rhythm of incubation are given. Hatching most often occurs during day-light, and is spread over as much as 39 hours. The incubation period is about 12 days; an infertile egg was incubated 25 days; the female's incubating behavior is described. The incubation period of a Cowbird egg hatched by Wood Thrushes was about 11 1/3 days. One male learned of hatching by seeing the nestling and seeing his mate feed it, when it may have been but 17 minutes old; the male first fed it 17 minutes after that; it was fed three, probably five, times in its first hour. Feces are usually eaten, occasionally carried away. Brooding is by the female alone, throughout the nestling period of 12 to 14 days. The nestling period of a Cowbird raised by thrushes was 12 days. The thrushes do not seem to recognize the Cowbird as an enemy. Both parents feed the fledglings, but not indiscriminately: the broods are divided between them, except that just before females resume laying they apparently stop feeding first broods. Several fledglings became partly independent at age 21 to 25 days, were last seen to be fed at 24 to 27, and were last seen at 21 to 27. Figures on nesting success are given. The male's activities during each phase of the breeding cycle are described. Song on the ground and in flight, and possible song by a female, are recorded. 
4158656|Statistical data are presented on weights of 576 specimens representing 97 species of birds. All were collected in summer, from 1947 to 1956, in southern Georgia and adjacent parts of South Carolina. The general procedure and manner of presentation of data are explained. The data are broken down into three categories: species, sex, and age (adults versus fully fledged immatures). For each category represented by more than one weight, the mean value with the standard error is given both for weight and for sub-seasonal period of collection. For more or less fat specimens, semi-quantitative indications of fat condition are provided; these aid in the interpretation of certain weight values. Data for certain species are subjected to further analysis. In four species, males are significantly heavier than females; in four others there is no significant difference between the sexes. By our criterion (the validity of which is discussed), the difference between the means of compared samples, if it is to be regarded as significant, must equal or exceed 7 per cent of the weight of the male, or the difference must show a P-value that is no greater than .10. Among compared samples, immatures in most instances average slightly heavier than adults. The coefficients of variability of weight samples, if compared sex for sex, are on the whole significantly higher (P = .10) for immatures than for adults. This marked variability is due in part to increase in weight of young birds from early to late summer, a phenomenon well demonstrated by Baldwin and Kendeigh (1938). Northern representatives of seven bird species tend to weigh more, in some instances significantly more, than southern representatives of the same species. An exception is provided by the Rufous-sided Towhee, in which specimens from our series are significantly heavier than ones from Ohio and New England. This may be due to the hybrid origin of the southern population (Dickinson, 1952). In several species in which the northern birds are significantly heavier than the southern, the compared populations represent different subspecies or geographic races.
4158657|A partially-completed nest of an Acadian Flycatcher was discovered in a small second-growth woodland in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, on June 12, 1954, the female Flycatcher continuing to work on it that day and the following day. The first egg was laid between the morning of June 16 and the evening of June 17, and a second and a third egg on the two succeeding days. Incubation, in which the male seemingly played no part, continued for 14 days, through July 2. Two of the eggs had hatched before 1:45 p.m., July 3, while the third hatched during the next three hours. The young remained in the nest for 13 days, through July 15, with the female apparently doing all of the brooding. The male did, however, take part in the feeding of the young both in the nest and on at least the first three days after their departure from the nest. All three young, which left the nest on the morning of July 16, remained together through August 2, the parent birds also remaining in the woodland. On August 3, when observation was discontinued, only two of the young and the adults could be found.
4158659|Audio-spectrographic analyses of typical calls of various species of North American crows were made and the results presented. It was found in the cases studied that the Sinaloa Crow had the highest pitched voice of all the species, whereas the Tamaulipas Crow had the lowest. The similarity of the form of the voice of the Tamaulipas Crow to that of the American Raven was pointed out. The Sinaloa Crow was proposed as a new species, Corvus sinaloae, from Escunapa, Sinaloa, Mexico.
4158660| In 1954 and 1955, Canada Geese at Dog Lake, Manitoba, began nesting with all lake water frozen. Compared to two published studies for northeastern California, the start of nesting was about 43 days later, and the season normally shorter in this study. Of the 104 nests, 94 per cent were found on islands, most of which were small and without forest cover. Breeding densities at Dog Lake exceeded those reported for wild populations of the subspecies, Branta canadensis interior. Maximum density was expressed as 10 different pairs or 15 nests on one-sixth of an acre. The minimum distance between active nests was nine yards. Area differences in density were thought to be the result of habitat peculiarities. Annual insular densities at Dog Lake showed a 32 per cent increase from 1954 to 1955. Earliest nests on islands were not the maximum possible distance apart, and nearest-neighbor distance decreased as the number of nests increased. Site "selection" appeared to be influenced by social interactions between pairs. Nest success was 61 per cent in 1954 and 35 per cent in 1955. For the two-year aggregate, flooding accounted for more than 50 per cent of total nest failure, and predation and desertion together, about 40 per cent. The principal predators were foxes, gulls and man. Desertion was caused mainly by interspecific friction. The hatching period extended from May 28 to June 17 in 1954, and from May 15 to June 8 in 1955. Mean clutch size was 5.0  2.5 eggs in 1954, and 5.2  2.5 eggs in 1955. Despite the increase in young per successful nest from 4.8 to 5.5, the number of young believed to have left the nest was 129 the first year and 115 the second. 
4158661|1. Day-old ducklings when pressed swam an average of 0.9 foot per second or 0.6 of a mile per hour. 2. Day-old ducklings remained submerged a maximum of 13 seconds. One swam 16 feet under water. 3. One day-old duckling skittered over the water at the rate of 8.5 feet per second or 5.8 miles per hour. An adult male in the flightless stage of the postnuptial molt skittered at the rate of 14.0 feet per second or 9.5 miles per hour. 4. Three Wood Ducks at 3-4 weeks of age ran a maximum of 10.4 feet per second. The longest strides were 12.5 inches. The maximum running speed was 12 feet per second or 8.2 miles per hour by a bird 6-7 weeks of age. 5. The average flight speed of eight Wood Ducks soon after being released was 31.2 miles per hour. 6. Four Wood Ducks in flight made 7 to 7.5 wing beats per second, moving forward approximately 6.5 feet with each wing beat.
4158682| The Bananaquit is represented on the island of Tobago by the form Coereba flaveola luteola. It is the island's most abundant species of bird. Fifty-four nests were found within a half-mile radius of Bacolet Guest House, located on the south shore, during a six-week period, January 8 to February 21, 1957. On Tobago, the nests of the Bananaquit were built in exposed locations in a great variety of situations at all altitudes of the island, and at heights varying from one foot to 65 feet from the ground. The birds were most abundant in the cultivated lowlands. The Tobago birds did not exhibit the strong territorialism reported for some of the other races of the Bananaquit. The manner of constructing the nests is presented in detail. Four nests dissected were found to have from 404 to 650 items of nesting material. The nests are of two kinds: brood and roosting nests which are essentially similar in size, form, and materials. Brood nests may also be used as roosting nests before the eggs are laid or after the eggs or young are destroyed. Twelve eggs averaged 17.92  13.5 mm. in size, slightly larger than the size reported for other races. The number of eggs per complete set is 2 or 3. The incubation period in five cases was 12 days. The incubation period of other subspecies of the Bananaquit has been reported to be 12 or 13 days. The song is reported for other subspecies of the Bananaquit to be confined to the males and there is no evidence to the contrary in the subspecies luteola. An enemy of the Tobago Bananaquits is the native who traps the birds to sell as caged pets. The predation by other birds which feed on the eggs and young of the Bananaquits is considerable. The contents are taken by piercing the top or sides of the nests by means of the predator's beak. The chief food of the Bananaquits is the nectar of flowers. The method of obtaining the nectar is discussed, with several types of flowers given as examples. The Bananaquits have an insatiable appetite for sugar or sweetened water. Any sweet liquid substance such as honey or syrup is also taken when available. An unusual source of food was the liqueur from bottles and glasses in the bar rooms of the hotels. The great concentration of Bananaquits in the Bacolet area is probably due to the generous attitude of the people towards these birds as well as the abundance of flowers which supply the birds with nectar during all times of the year. 
4158699|1. The subdivisions of the genus Vireo are briefly discussed; apparently, selection has favored occupation of separate habitats rather than habitat co-occupancy for sympatric relationships. 2. The migration patterns of the various species are delimited according to Salomonsen's 1955 classification. 3. Trends of intraspecific variation in wing length for the genus appear to be in conflict with Bergmann's rule. Vireo solitarius, V. huttoni, and V. gilvus have the largest mean wing lengths in populations breeding in northwestern Mexico. V. griseus and V. olivaceus have smaller wing lengths (comparing continental populations) in the humid, tropical regions. Evidence for similar "aridity effects" (greater wing lengths in hot, arid regions and smaller wing lengths in hot, humid regions) for variation within other New World bird species is presented. 4. Speculations are made concerning the adaptive significance of such an "aridity effect." 5. For both intra- and interspecific comparisons, migratory forms have more pointed wing-tips than resident forms. 6. Intraspecific variation in tail length is positively correlated with wing length. 7. The variation in relative bill length does not accord with Allen's rule for climatic adaptation within the genus. 8. Within the wide-ranging species of Vireo, variation in intensity of melanin and lipochrome supports Gloger's rule. 9. The relationship between V. flavifrons and V. solitarius is analyzed; it is suggested that some of the ecological differences between the two sympatric species may be attributed to interspecific competition.
4158700|Twelve Red-headed Woodpeckers wintering in Maryland were observed to maintain small, individual territories over eight months in 1956 and 1957. The Red-headed Woodpeckers defended their stores of pin oak acorns against other birds, both related and unrelated, and appeared to be the most aggressive of the local species of woodpeckers. Conflicts with such birds as Tufted Titmice enabled one to mark the boundaries of the woodpeckers' territories with some precision. Each Red-headed Woodpecker had a roost hole within its territory. Calls and drumming expressive of a breeding urge did not become prominent until April. The woodpeckers had all departed by the first week in May. The pin oak crop was minimal in the fall of 1957, and under these circumstances only a single Red-headed Woodpecker returned to winter. This bird subsisted largely on corn from an adjacent field. Although it spent most of its time within a small circle of trees the lone woodpecker had no discernible territorial boundaries in the absence of neighbors of its own species.
4158701|Between January, 1955, and January, 1957, 24 monthly aerial surveys of egret populations were made along a 250-mile route through the Kanto Plain, Japan, from a helicopter flying at 500 feet altitude. The objective of the study was to learn if dispersal of juvenile egrets was correlated with the dissemination and infection of Japanese encephalitis virus in the Tokyo area. The following information resulted: 1. The egret population on the Kanto Plain in winter is low and composed mainly of Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta). 2. In April Plumed (E. intermedia) and other species of egrets arrive from the south and seek nesting locations or heronries. 3. The peak population in the heronries occurs in July and August. 4. Rapid dispersal of young from the colonies brings peak density over the plain in August and September when the population is 10-fold that of January. 5. Migration in October rapidly depletes the population. 6. Dispersal over the plain in late summer is widespread, and unused rice fields are sought out. 7. Flock size remains the same with wider habitat usage accommodating the increase in population. 8. In this one group of species the dispersal of young coincides with the peak of virus infection and dissemination among vector mosquitoes and mammalian hosts.
4158716|In Central America, the Black-throated Trogon is confined to the forests below about 2500 feet above sea level. Its diet consists largely of insects plucked from the foliage while the bird hovers in the air. Its mellow notes are low and weak. Some pairs begin to prepare their nests early in February, but laying seems not to start before the end of March, while the latest young are fledged in June or early July. Two white eggs are laid in a shallow, unlined niche carved into the side of a decaying, often tottering, slender trunk, at heights of four to 12 feet above the ground. The female incubates from the late afternoon until the following morning, and the male sits through most of the day, often taking one long session of about eight hours' duration. One male returned in the evening after his mate had replaced him on the nest, and the second time that this unusual behavior was witnessed he brought food and offered it to the eggs, then almost ready to hatch. In one instance, the incubation period was 18 days or a little more. The nestlings, sightless and perfectly naked at hatching, are feathered at the age of 11 or 12 days and leave the nest when 14 or 15 days old. They are brooded and fed by both parents. Their food appears to consist wholly of insects, many of them so large that they can scarcely be swallowed. The rate of feeding is usually slow, during the first week about once in two hours for each member of the brood; but after a period of neglect, a single older nestling received seven meals in little over an hour. One female ceased to feed her nestlings between their sixth and eleventh days, although she brooded them by night until they were 12 days old. But another female--and also a male--brought food to the nest after the disappearance of their single nestling, which would then have been 11 days old. In their first plumage, males resemble females. They have been seen in transitional plumage in April, when they could hardly have been much less than one year old. Apparently they do not breed until about two years of age.
4158717|Young Least Terns (Sterna albifrons) and Common Nighthawks (Chordeiles minor) were subjected to heat and cold stress under field and laboratory conditions and their responses in terms of body temperature were recorded. Very young Least Terns are imperfectly homeothermic; they regulate body temperature less well at low air temperature but better at high air temperature than gulls of similar age, and their capacity for temperature regulation is much better than that of altricial nestlings of similar size. Young Common Nighthawks are even more imperfectly homeothermic, and they appear to be intermediate between the precocial and altricial conditions.
4158718|The Fulvous Tree Duck is a locally common breeding bird of the rice fields of southwestern Louisiana. Observations made in 1955, 1956 and 1957, showed that this species was probably most abundant in the vicinity of Mamou, Evangeline Parish, and Roanoke, Jefferson Davis Parish. Tree ducks arrive in the rice country as the rice is planted in the spring and usually depart following fall harvest. A few winter in the coastal marshes. The nesting period extends from late May well into August. Thirteen and 20 pairs were found nesting in two separate five-square-mile areas. All nests observed were in rice fields. Clutch size in several nests found by John J. Lynch averaged about 13 eggs. A clutch of 23 eggs was probably a dump nest. Several investigators have reported incubation periods varying from 24 to 26 days. Nests were constructed of rice or other plants that occurred in the rice fields; they usually had a canopy and ramp; none was lined with down. Renesting compensated for some first attempt losses. Depredations on rice plantings sometimes occurred in spring in water-planted rice fields. Favorite foods were seeds of grasses and sedges found in rice fields. Flocks totalling 3000 were occasionally seen in the fall on the Lacassine Wildlife Refuge.
4158719|Several things are pointed out that should be considered by anyone interested in problems of "species recognition." These are: 1. The source of selection controlling development of species-specific signals and releasing mechanisms (RM's) may be any of the disadvantageous consequences of mixed pairing (not necessarily hybridization alone). 2. The term "ritualization" should apply equally to the evolution of morphological features and motor patterns which are being selected for toward increasing signal function. 3. It should be remembered that the evolution of RM's proceeds in concert with that of the associated signal characters. 4. Early experience resulting in some form of learning such as "imprinting" may be of considerable consequence in subsequent "species recognition." 5. The reasons why mistakes may be made in "mate choice" should be considered. For example, genetically "normal" animals may respond to suboptimal stimuli because of abnormally lowered thresholds; or genetically "abnormal" animals may respond with unrefined response capabilities. 6. Sympatric, closely related species which are polygamous and which have short term pair bonds are not the only ones upon which strong selective pressures exert their influence toward marked development of signal characters and RM's. Consider closely related, sympatric species with very long pair bonds which are not polygamous such as some of the parrots, etc. 7. Closely related species which are sympatric may not be the only source of selection toward diverse signals and RM's. Any species with somewhat similar signal features and RM's may exert this influence providing that they, of course, are sympatric with the form under investigation. 8. The amount of time taken to form the pair bond as well as its duration is likely to be of importance (Aix, for example). 9. It is useful to try to think of these problems from the "bird's point of view." After all, these problems are functions of the animal's Umwelt--not ours!
4158720|The songs of the Rufous-sided Towhee usually consist of one or more introductory notes and a trill. In 71 tape recordings of towhee songs, from six states (Ohio, Michigan, Maine, West Virginia, North Carolina, and Florida) and containing 694 songs, there were 45 introductory patterns (plus one of no introductory notes) and 53 trill patterns (plus one of no trill). The introductory patterns contained from one to four notes. The trills contained from 2 to 18 phrases, uttered at rates f 5 to 35 phrases per second. The different introductory and trill patterns were combined in 93 different song patterns (Table 7). The recordings were studied by means of a Vibralyzer. The song patterns were classified on the basis of their introductory notes. Twelve introductory patterns and 12 trill patterns, but only 5 song patterns, were found in the songs of different birds. The frequencies in the songs ranged from 1800 to 90000 cycles per second, but in most songs were between 2000 and 6000 cycles per second. There is a great deal of variation in towhee songs, and more variation in the trill than in the introductory notes. It is possible in many cases to recognize individual birds by their song.
4158721|During the summer of 1956, observations of territorial behavior and nesting of the Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus) were obtained at the University of Virginia Biological Station at Mountain Lake, Virginia. The birds nested in the oak forest and the park-like grounds of the Station. Most of the 14 nests were in oaks, either in a crotch or on a branch. The average height was 16 feet. The clutch size was 3.6 based on five nests with eggs and three nests with young when found. About 80 per cent of the eggs produced fledglings. The call notes consist of at least eight types. (1) The male position note (chebec) is given at a rate of about 700 per 15 minutes, from 0430-0530 at the time of laying. It declines during the day and the rest of the breeding cycle. It increases in frequency during laying and after disappearance of the female. (2) The female has a note (whit) that appears to have the same function. (3) The alarm (tweep) is given by both sexes. (4) The flight song at dusk is performed by the male. (5) Greetings are given when members of a pair meet. (6) An aggressive call (weep-weep) is used when fighting with other Least Flycatchers. (7) A special note (churr) is given as the nest is built. (8) The young have a location note. Incubation is performed only by the female, who spends about 80 per cent of her time on the nest. Males and females feed the young about equally frequently. The rate of feeding by both birds increased from about six per hour during the first third of the feeding phase to about 15 per hour during the last third. The territorial behavior resembles that of other members of the genus. The males defend an area but the role of the chebec note is not clear. It is given from prominent places within the territory but it is not used when fighting and, in the two cases available, increased in frequency up to the start of incubation. Defense of territory is associated with an aggressive note.
4158722|During the summers of 1948 and 1949, 25 species of birds, representing 16 families, were known to nest in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona. Observations of 16 of these species are here briefly discussed, including information concerning nest sites, incubation, adult behavior, and breeding periods.
4158737|Interspecific relations of three woodpeckers of approximately equal size were studied in central Texas. The closely related, morphologically similar Red-bellied Woodpecker (Centurus carolinus) and Golden-fronted Wood-pecker (Centurus aurifrons) are sympatric in a narrow zone in the Austin region. Within this overlap zone, differences in habitat occurrence limit contact and competition; but both species occur in the city of Austin, where they hold mutually exclusive territories. Feeding and nesting habits are similar in the two species, as are vocalizations and displays. Reproductive isolating mechanisms, the nature of which are unknown, have evolved, but the species have not made ecologic adjustments which would permit extensive sympatry. The territorial relations of a pair of C. carolinus and a pair of Red-headed Woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) were studied. Their territories overlapped broadly, and interspecific antagonism was not observed. It is suggested that differences in foraging habits and habitat occurrence are important factors permitting extensive sympatry of these species. The reactions of nesting woodpeckers to dummies were tested. Both carolinus and aurifrons attacked dummies of their own or of other species placed in their nest-trees or elsewhere in their territories. The head of a carolinus dummy was as effective in releasing aggressive behavior in carolinus as was the entire dummy. Dummies of carolinus and erythrocephalus placed near the nest-hole of erythrocephalus were attacked with approximately equal vigor.
4158738|Territories of Ovenbirds were studied in four forest types in Algonquin Park, Ontario. Locations where a male was observed were used to estimate its total utilized territory for the breeding season. Birds were observed singing or feeding in all parts of their territories, although some birds did not utilize open areas. Total utilized territories of adjacent males were usually separated by a buffer zone but occasionally overlapped. However, areas used by adjacent males on any one day were always separated. Total utilized territories varied from 0.8 to 4.3 acres, being small in an aspen stand, intermediate in size in conifer--birch and mixed stands, and large in a maple stand. Thus, the size of the territory increased with increasing height and density of forest canopy, and with decreasing vegetation near the ground. Unmated birds had small territories. The vertical extent of each bird's activity was related to the height of the forest canopy where the bird sang, but not in any regular way to the area of its territory. A method was developed to compare the areas utilized by male Ovenbirds on different days during the breeding season. The area utilized was large during the premating and mating periods, smaller during nest-building and egg-laying, and large again during the incubation and nestling periods. Thus, the area utilized by a male Ovenbird is large when he is occupied with territorial defense, song, and feeding the young, and small when he is often with the female and copulation is frequent.
4158739|The male Grasshopper Sparrow possesses three primary forms of vocalizations, the Grasshopper and Sustained Songs and the Trill, and the female Grasshopper Sparrow one, the Trill. The male sings the Grasshopper Song from mid-April to mid-August. The Sustained Song is introduced approximately at the time the females arrive. It is sung with diminished vigor until mid-July and only sporadically from then on until the cessation of song in mid-August. The Trill is given from the period of pair formation to the completion of nesting, as is the Trill of the female. Early in the season song is heard throughout the day. After mating, song is inhibited but does not cease entirely. During the periods of nest-building, incubation and care of the young, song is confined primarily to morning and late evening. Song is inhibited by adverse weather. The Grasshopper Song is the familiar song of the species. It is used primarily to proclaim and defend territory. During the period of territorial establishment the male assumes a crouched, bill-forward position and flutters his wing or wings between songs. This is regarded as a hostile display released by the song of the rival. The Sustained Song in its entirety consists of a "grasshopper" introduction and a sustained series of melodious notes. After the territories are well established, the "grasshopper" introduction is usually dropped. The primary function of the Sustained Song is to attract a mate, but the "grasshopper" introduction is hostile in character. A secondary function of the song is to maintain the pair bond. The Trill serves to maintain the pair bond and to signal the mate and the young of the male's approach to the nest. It apparently is given only by mated males. The Trill of the female advertises the presence of a potential mate in the male's territory and identifies her species and sex. The Trill also serves to maintain the pair bond and to signal the male and the young that she is approaching the nest. The male Grasshopper Sparrow responds to the Grasshopper and Sustained Songs with a Grasshopper Song, to the female's Trill with a Sustained Song or a Trill. There is no response by the male to the Trill of another male. The female responds to the Sustained Song and the Trill of the male with her Trill, but shows no apparent response to the Grasshopper Song.
4158741|The copulation of Bucephala albeola was observed 12 times, of Melanitta deglandi five times, and of M. perspicillata four times. The displays and actions employed are compared with those occurring at copulation in the two goldeneyes (Bucephala spp.). The Wing- and Leg-stretch display of the latter was completely absent from B. albeola and M. deglandi, in which the Water-twitch and the Preen-behind-the-wing predominated. Both these movements occur in association, however, in the normal comfort-preening sequence of ducks, and in similar (? non-homologous) Mock-preening displays in the general courtship displays of members of both the Anatini and Cairinini. In the copulation behavior of goldeneyes they occur only in a momentary form just immediately prior to the exaggerated Steaming display which constitutes the approach to the female at mounting in these species. The post-copulatory Rotations, alone of all the displays, take exactly the same form in all three species of Bucephala. Rotations were not observed in scoters and the only difference between the two scoters in the displays occurring at copulation was in the existence of a Chest-lifting display after coitus in the Surf Scoter. The post-copulatory Steaming of the goldeneyes is replaced in B. albeola by a Plunge movement on some occasions. This may be an exaggerated prelude to the bathing that occurs after coitus. Scoters lack Steaming displays and the White-winged Scoter merely rearranges the wings after dismounting. Ethologists, it is suggested, should pay more attention to the comparative aspects of copulation displays, since they are probably conservative. Taken with other differences in display between B. albeola and the goldeneyes, the possibility exists that B. albeola should not be placed in the same genus as the goldeneyes. The evolution of morphological reinforcement of the sign stimulatory effects of motor patterns of display is discussed in reference to the speculum of ducks in general, and to the colored bills of scoters in particular.
4158760|Instructions and tables are given from which observers without mathematical training can calculate flight directions and approximate densities of migrating birds observed flying across the face of the moon. Estimates are given of the accuracy of the results. The mathematical theory of the calculations is outlined in an Appendix. It is pointed out that the results obtained for the flight density depend critically on the distribution of migrating birds with height, which is not yet known.
4158761|1. Song Sparrow and Tree Sparrow samples taken before and after a night of coastal migration show that pre-flight individuals have significantly higher body weight and fat than post-flight individuals. Weight differences before and after the flight were 1.41 grams in Song Sparrows and 1.15 grams in Tree Sparrows. Fat was one class lower after the flight. 2. Comparison of these samples with monthly or half-monthly means obtained from "mixed" populations suggest that pre-flight individuals show a true migratory preparation which is not reflected in the mean values over longer periods in these two species. 3. Two patterns of weight and fat variation in emberizines are proposed with criteria for each: Type I variation is shown by Tree Sparrows, and Type II variation by Slate-colored Juncos. 4. Determination of sex using the cloacal protuberance is possible at all seasons in Type I variants, but only during the breeding season in Type II variants.
4158762|During the summer of 1958, 16 Purple Martins were used in a series of homing experiments at the University of Michigan Biological Station. The birds were released at distances ranging from 1.75 miles to 234 miles. The rate of return varied greatly. The most rapid return was a nocturnal flight of 234 miles in 8.58 hours. One hundred per cent of the martins returned from the homing flights. This material has been compared with the available homing data pertaining to the Hirundinidae.
4158763|Thirty-five incubator-hatched Common Sheldrake (Tadorna tadorna) ducklings were tested for determination of type and degree of auditory imprinting. Fifteen of them were isolated in a sound-proof room where they heard no extraneous sounds. These showed little tendency to approach repetitive sound-signals. In this respect they were similar to Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa), and Muscovy Ducks (Cairina moschata), and unlike many species of surface-nesting waterfowl. Ten others of the young ducklings were exposed intermittently to recorded sound-signals which produced no change in their response patterns and in this respect sheldrakes were unlike Wood Ducks. Ten others were allowed to follow the experimenter while being exposed to the sound-signals. A highly specific preference for the sound was evident. This behavior was characteristic of several species of surface-nesting waterfowl.
4158764|Evidence is presented to show that the tail, in domestic pigeons, is used both as a mechanism for slowing forward motion (braking) just prior to landing and as part of the surface to support the weight of the bird. Obviously the removal of rectrices, medially or laterally, reduces the supporting area; this would be expected to increase the downward vectors of force at the time of landing. However, the pigeon can compensate in some manner to hold these forces down to the control level. Removal of medial rectrices, because it forms two air-foils, with attendant increases in turbulence, where only one existed before, causes a greater increase in the downward vectors. When the rectrices are removed in sequence from outermost to innermost, removal finally of the coverts causes no great increase; when the removal starts medially, taking off the coverts as a last procedure results in significant increases in downward vectors. In the latter instance the coverts form an important part of the functioning air-foil, replacing in part the absent medial rectrices. The braking functions of the tail were less disturbed by removal of rectrices, probably because it is easier for the bird to compensate by varying its landing speed, its rate of wing-beat, and its angle of inclination at the moment of landing. Progressive removal from lateral to medial results in a pattern of braking forces not different from the patterns of decrease exhibited by control birds over comparable lengths of time. In other words, there is nearly complete compensation by the pigeons. When medial rectrices are taken off first, the bird cannot compensate so completely for the effects of added turbulence and the decreased surface of the resulting double air-foil. In some pigeons little compensation, as indicated by little if any decrease in braking forces during the experiments, occurs. This breakup of the expected pattern of decrease reveals the use of the tail as an air-brake.
4158782|The Least Tern arrives at the Savannah River Entrance, Georgia, in late April, nests and rears young, and leaves in early September. Twenty-five to 30 years ago the species was numerous. Its numbers are now reduced to about 5 to 8 per cent of its former numbers, and recent nestings have not been very successful. The reason may be a reduction of predator-free nesting grounds, but it is not certain. The courtship and nesting habits are discussed briefly.
4158783|1. The early breeding behavior of flickers has been studied in the field and in an aviary where a hand-raised pair mated and laid fertile eggs. 2. Methods of communication include drumming, tapping, dance displays, wing noise, bill-touching and vocalizations. The last method is categorized into high calls, dance calls, intimate notes and alarm call. 3. Field observations: (a) Pair formation appeared to take place in mid-winter without reference to a potential nest hole. (b) A conflict of males at this time was limited to movements of heads and bills, without vocalizations or physical contact. (c) The most intense displays and vocalizations arose when two females competed for a male. One female attacked the male several times. (d) In the course of a search for a nest hole in April, a pair of flickers communicated with each other by dances and we-cup's, then by a long distance communication of drums and high calls, and finally, on rejoining, by a duet of drumming. The female's choice of a nest hole was the one accepted by the pair. (e) Male and female flickers tap in the same manner but not at the same time; the tapping is done in relation to potential nest holes or to ones being excavated. 4. A pair of captive flickers experienced four phases of breeding in which the female evidenced increasing acceptance of the nest box as the male took the lead in arousing her interest. After three failures in which the female's interest collapsed, the box was finally located in a favorable situation and successful mating took place. The interplay of behavior between the two sexes went through the following stages: (a) Breeding behavior was precipitated when a nest box was placed in the aviary on March 9. (b) The male was always the first to enter the box in each location, to tap on the outside by the entrance and, later, on the inside. His mate would carry through the same performances after a delay of some days. (c) The pair danced together, had duets of drumming and occasionally touched bills at this early stage. (d) As the female began to accept the nest she spent more time clinging to the entrance, made intimate notes and sometimes entered the nest box with the male. (e) With this increase of interest by the female, the male began to tap out of sight at the bottom of the nest hole and to remove sawdust. (f) The excavating male might occasionally carry a piece of debris well away from the nest box, then wipe his bill. This behavior followed the pattern of a parent male flying from the nest with a fecal sack. (g) With continued increase of the female's interest, the male sought coition, but she was unresponsive, initially. (h) Once the female had accepted the nest box, she invited coition by crouching low on a limb, many times a day. Full coition would follow if the male was ready. Otherwise he might mount and come off in pseudo-coition. (i) Vocalizations and displays were minimal at this late stage. The female did a good deal of tapping at the bottom of the nest box and she might strike at the male when he came to the entrance. (j) As soon as the female had laid her first egg, she began to rest in the entrance with her breast feathers puffed out, ready to strike at any intruder. (k) The male began spending nights in the nest box after the fifth and last egg was laid. 5. Dances and vocalizations associated with territoriality were demonstrated when a pair of wild flickers displayed against the hand-raised pair, which was kept in an outside cage for three weeks.
4158784|When immature Bobwhites were subjected to interrupted dark-period lighting, testis weights and tubule diameters increased, but no lumina had formed after one week of lighting. Testis sections showed that one cock had free sperm in its testes and vasa deferentia after two weeks, and all cocks examined at three, four, and five weeks had responded similarly. The threshold for free sperm production was between 7 and 14 days as contrasted with the first egg at 61 days by a hen on the same treatment. When lighted Bobwhites have produced fertile eggs in much shorter periods, the experiments were not designed for determination of the time differential in sperm and egg production.
4158787| On two recent Atlantic crossings on passenger liners, 450 individuals of 12 species of birds were observed out of sight of land. Puffinus gravis was the most numerous representative of the shearwaters and Oceanodroma leucorhoa of the petrels. The oceanic range of Puffinus lherminieri extended as far north as 41N. 60W. during August, 1958. In 1957, Puffinus diomedea was observed off the American coast by July 11. In general, my observations confirm those of previous authors. 
4158804|The breeding biology of the Mourning Warbler was studied in Itasca State Park, Minnesota, during the summers of 1956 and 1957. Observations on migrants were made at Urbana, Illinois, during the spring of 1957, and on wintering birds in the Panama Canal Zone during the early part of 1959. In both breeding and winter ranges and in migration the species is a typical inhabitant of forest edge communities. Breeding territories were found in a wide variety of plant communities, where requirements of a partially open canopy and a mixture of herbaceous and shrubby ground cover were satisfied. Aggressive encounters were noted with Yellowthroats and Chestnut-sided Warblers, suggesting interspecific competition. Territories of these two commonly overlapped with those of the Mourning Warbler, however. Vocalizations of the species include a male territorial song, a male flight song, and two call notes in both sexes. Breeding territories are established and are defended by male song and aggressive displays by both sexes. The average size of the territory is 1.9 acres. The territorial song is given most frequently from low underbrush and from definite song perches 20-25 feet high. The rate of song varies from one to eight songs per minute. It is most frequent in the morning. Song declines during the nesting cycle but does not end until sometime after the young have left the nest. After nesting is well underway the size of the area regularly defended by singing is apparently decreased. Singing was not heard in the vicinity of the nest. A temporary territory was apparently established by a male in migration at Urbana, Illinois. Nesting was begun mostly in June at Itasca Park. Nests were hidden in thick vegetation on or a few inches above the ground in a more open part of the territory. Leaves, grasses, weed stems, and fibrous bark were the principal items used in nest construction, with fine plant materials used as a lining. Clutch size averaged 3.7 eggs, ranging from two to five. The eggs are probably laid in the early morning. Nest parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird is not uncommon. Two nests in the present study were lost to predators, probably small mammals. Two types of distraction displays were shown by the adults when the nests were approached, one possibly based on the resemblance of the female leaving the nest to a small mammal scurrying through the leaves, and the second based on the resemblance of the actions of the adults to those of wounded birds. Incubation lasts about 12 days, is carried on entirely by the female, and may begin before the clutch is complete. Attentive and inattentive periods averaged 35.8 minutes and 9.6 minutes, respectively, with overall attentiveness averaging 77.4 per cent. Attentiveness was highest in the early morning and evening. The male feeds the female at and away from the nest during incubation. Once the female was observed to eat the egg shell when the young hatched. The nestling period lasts seven to nine days and the young are fed by both parents. The rate of feeding increases about four times during the period. The rate is lowest in the early morning. Fecal sacs are eaten by the adults at first, but may be carried away later. Brooding by the female is high for the first few days, but decreases rapidly later. The young are unable to fly when they leave the nest, and the family group remains together in the vicinity of the nest for a period of about 2-3 weeks, until the young have achieved independence.
4158816|Thirty-one captive redpolls were studied in the laboratory but only eight of them (four males and four females) were studied intensively. Their agonistic behavior was described and evaluated, and the Head Forward Threat display and its variants were found to be the chief displays indicative of varying readiness to attack. They have the usual passerine fluffed submissive posture and employ a defensive-threat display involving simultaneous submissive patterns and attack patterns. This flock of eight birds quickly developed a linear hierarchy beginning with the most dominant male and running to the least dominant female. This is similar to hierarchies found in captive Red Crossbills and Chaffinches. The least dominant male showed an unusual amount of aggression to females and this was demonstrated to be caused by redirection. Each female eventually, as the birds gradually began to behave sexually, became dominant over a particular male. This reversal of sexual dominance is known for several other species. The least dominant male was never "chosen" by a female, presumably because of his continuing history of redirected aggression. Mild starvation of a few hours increased the number of encounters but did not affect the social hierarchy. It was found that females tolerate each other at smaller distances than males tolerate each other. Heterosexual combinations were intermediate in this regard.
4158818|The bird populations of 24 stands of forest vegetation on the Apostle Islands of Lake Superior were censused by a sample count method. A two-dimensional ordination of the stands was constructed, based on the avifaunal similarities between stands. The ordination represents an environmental complex, within which many bird species are distributed in definite patterns. Certain vegetational characteristics of the stands also show well-developed patterns within the ordination, indicating that they may play an important role in the environmental complex. Aspens, pines, hemlocks, maples, and the relative amount of coniferous understory show excellent patterns. The species of birds observed in the study are discussed in relation to their apparent environmental preferences. Two species found in every stand, the Ovenbird and the Red-eyed Vireo, have broad environmental tolerances. Two others found in at least three fourths of the stands, the Black-throated Green Warbler and the American Redstart, are partial to mature forests, the former especially to birch--hemlock, and the latter to pine as well. In pioneer aspen growth, White-throated Sparrows and Mourning Warblers are most abundant. There are greater similarities between stands on the same island than would be expected from the vegetational variation. The possible influences of island size and of the behavior of birds in relation to island topography are discussed.
4158834| Chicks of the Rockhopper Penguin in the Falkland Islands show true crche behavior by leaving their nests of their own accord after about 12 days of age and huddling in groups. The crches become fewer and larger as the chicks grow older. Crche formation reaches its peak when the chicks are about 17 days of age. As the chicks attain nearly full body size and lose their down, the crches become increasingly less compact until they break up entirely. The chicks are not fed communally, at least through the crche stage; instead, they are fed exclusively by their own parents. The ability of adults and young to recognize each other as individuals seems apparent. A crche satisfies a chick's innate urge for companionship, functions possibly as a means of offsetting loss of body heat, and almost certainly provides protection against the Skua through "safety in numbers." Adult birds which commonly loiter in the vicinity of crches are in some cases parents which have lost their young and in others wandering nonbreeders. Although these adults play no guarding role whatsoever, they may inadvertently serve, by their mere presence, to ward off attacks by Skuas. 
4158836|The territories of four pairs of Song Sparrows nesting along a lake shore in Clearwater County, Minnesota, were measured. The utilized area averaged 0.47 acre. The maximum territory averaged 96 per cent of the utilized area. Checks on original measurements in one case added 0.02 acre to the utilized area, and in two other instances did not change it. Deduction of given percentages of the peripheral locations caused a fairly even decrease in size of two territories, but caused an uneven decrease in the others. The size of lake-shore territories was found to be intermediate between those reported by other workers for Song Sparrows on islands and for those on mainlands.
4158837|Wood Ducks congregated nightly at roosts in late summer and fall. Both morning and evening roosting flights changed gradually, occurring nearer the hours of darkness and over shorter periods of time as the fall season advanced. Major morning roosting flight activity early in the fall occurred during a period of about 45 minutes, usually ending by 15 minutes after sunrise. Early fall evening roosting flight activity occurred primarily during the 50-minute period ending shortly after sunset. Late season (October and November) roosting flight activity took place before sunrise and after sunset.
4158839|Body weights, heart weights, and heart weight/body weight ratios are given for 65 North American crows and ravens. The samples included two species of crows and two subspecies of ravens, the latter being the largest passerine birds. Data were presented for both adults and first-year birds of both sexes when available. The adult Common Ravens from Alaska proved to be the largest birds examined, and had the smallest heart ratios (even among extant data for other corvids), averaging 0.90 for males and 0.95 for a single female. Adult Common Crows from Georgia had average heart ratios of 1.23 for males and 1.24 for females, whereas those from western Washington were 1.12 and 1.07, respectively. Adult Fish Crows tended to have heart ratios somewhat intermediate between those of the Common Ravens and Common Crows (1.15 for a male and 1.11, an average of five females). In these three species males have heart ratios sometimes greater than, sometimes less than, those of females, but these differences do not appear to be significant. Comparisons between heart ratios of adults and those of first-year birds of the same sex showed that adults of these three species have smaller hearts than the first-year birds. The reason for this difference is unknown at present. Whether fat deposits are significant as variables in relative heart size seems to be purely speculative at the present time, but there was no conclusive evidence from these studies that even a moderately fat crow or raven had a significantly different heart ratio from that of a lean individual.
4158859|The Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) lifts its wings in jerky motions termed Wing-flashing. The number of "hitches" in which the wings are spread varies between one and five, and the direction of spread varies from nearly horizontal to nearly vertical. Wing-flashing is not used as a display to other birds. The behavior following 83 Wing-flashes of adults on the ground in 1958 consisted of one of three foraging motions: running, looking down, and striking, except for three observations. Likewise, 1959 data showed 256 of 258 Wing-flashes followed by foraging. All of the nine Wing-flashes given aloft were followed by foraging. Fledged young on the ground followed Wing-flashing by 21 foraging motions and five begging postures; six Wing-flashes were given irrelevantly. Aloft, all of the nine were followed by begging. Previous reports on functions of Wing-flashing differ in conclusions, but upon re-examination all indicate that foraging was probably the principal factor involved; probable causes of other conclusions are discussed. Apparently homologous motions are used in other Mimidae species for foraging, and many unrelated species use various forms of wing motions in foraging. In adults, then, Wing-flashing is used in foraging, possibly to flush insects; but in young birds it is often given irrelevantly, and seems to be motivated by hunger and curiosity.
4158861|Adult pinioned Canada Geese escaped or were released at several National Wildlife Refuges in Minnesota, Nebraska, and the Dakotas, well south of the natural breeding range of this population. Subsequent sightings and recoveries indicate an accurate northward movement of these earth-bound birds during and after the period of normal goose migration. Overland movements up to 24.8 air miles were recorded. The rate of progress was more or less uniform throughout the season, ranging from .31 to .74 miles per day. The cues guiding the birds northward are not known, but some possibilities are discussed.
4158885|The White-crested Coquette is found in clearings on the Pacific slope of southern Costa Rica from about 1,000 to 4,000 feet above sea level. It is not often seen except where a profusion of flowers, such as those of Inga or Stachytarpheta, attracts a number of individuals to a plantation or dooryard. It is almost fearless of man. Males in transitional plumage were seen from late May to October. Males in full nuptial regalia were rarely seen between March and August. A flying male displayed before a perching female by oscillating rapidly sideward through an arc of about one foot, the while keeping his head toward her. At about 2,500 feet above sea level in southern Costa Rica, nesting occurs in the early part of the dry season, from December through February. Three nests were built in guava trees in clearings, from 16 to 21 feet above the ground, and another was in an orchid plant hanging about 60 feet up at the forest's edge. The minute downy cup is well encrusted with grayish lichens on the outer surface. In three instances, the set consisted of two white eggs. At these three nests, the females took attentive sessions which ranged from less than 1 to 78 minutes in length, although those in excess of half an hour were rare. Recesses lasted from less than 1 to 23 minutes. In 12 hours of observation at each nest, these three females incubated with a constancy of 59.4, 70.2, and 42.9 per cent; but the last was apparently losing interest, for a few days later her eggs were abandoned. In the morning, the incubating females brought much new material to their nests. In the first five hours of the morning, one female brought food to her two nestlings 12 times when they were about three days old, 9 times when they were about ten days old, and 12 times when they were about twenty days old. Often she regurgitated to both nestlings twice, alternately, on a single visit. At one nest, the nestling period was 21 or 22 days. No male was at any time seen to take an interest in nests or young.
4158886|The nesting behavior and habitat of Least Bitterns was studied in several glacial lakes and marshes in Iowa. Eighty-nine nests were found, and intensive observations from blinds were made at five nests. Nests were mainly in Typha spp., Scirpus acutus, and Scirpus fluviatilis. Clutch size varied from two to six eggs with the smaller clutches being found early in the season. Copulation occurs on the nest during early incubation and possibly there prior to incubation. Incubation required about 19 days from the laying of the first egg to hatching of the first egg and 16-17 days from the laying of the last egg to the hatching of that egg. The species appears to be double-brooded in Iowa, at least in some years. Nest incubation movements are: bringing material to the nest, pulling in material from above, and bill-jabbing in the nest bottom. During incubation, the bird rolls the eggs with the lower mandible, settles on the eggs by a rocking motion, and remains alert during even long periods of incubation. Comfort movements were shaking, turning, gaping, scratching, preening, drinking, and panting. Both sexes incubate, and nest relief includes a simple display of erecting the crown and body feathers, "rattling" of the bill, and /// occasional crossing of bills or touching of bill to back. The oncoming bird slips under the incubating bird. During nearly 55 hours of observation, the female incubated 59 per cent of the time. Incubating adults fed on passing damselflies and other insects, and occasionally left the nest to take nearby prey. Wrens, blackbirds, hawks, snakes, and turtles are thought to prey on eggs, young, or adult bitterns. During hatching, adults remove the egg shells or eat them. Both sexes feed the young by regurgitation but the male feeds more often than does the female. Innate responses of the young which are considered important to survival are gripping of the feet, holding vegetation with the wings, and balancing with the head. The stimulus for feeding in young probably is a yellow-colored and elongate structure. These releasers were tested briefly experimentally. The releaser for parental feeding behavior is unknown but is probably the sight of raised bill of the juvenile.
4158887|During late summer in the Delaware Valley and Chesapeake Bay region, hundreds of thousands of Red-winged Blackbirds feed in wild rice beds of fresh tidal-river marshes. The period during which wild rice seed is available coincides with the ripening period of a part of the corn crop, and there is evidence to indicate that the availability of the wild rice reduces bird feeding pressure on corn in the area. The importance of wild rice and other marsh plants to the redwing during the period when wild rice seed is available was studied further by field observations and by analysis of stomach contents of 130 birds collected in wild rice beds of the Patuxent River in southern Maryland. Seeds of marsh plants formed the bulk of the food of redwings collected. Dotted smartweed, wild rice, and Walter's millet were the most important food plants. Corn was the fourth most important item. It occurred in 35, approximately one-fourth, of the stomachs.
4158888|This study outlines the weather in March 1959 that was favorable to a strong northward movement of birds observed in Iowa. Meteorological conditions also appeared to effect a reverse migration. The weather associated with the northward movement was that of the western edge of an area of high pressure and the warm sector of a low-pressure system. The reverse migration followed weather associated with the eastern edge of a high-pressure area with a cold front and northerly winds, and occurred just before a severe storm from the southwest entered the area.
4158890|This paper presents an outline of the variation in passerine bird song, based principally on the study of tape recordings by means of a sound spectrograph. Song is the vocalization, usually given only by the male and usually more complex in character than the bird's various call notes, which serves to advertise the male, attract a female, and/or repel other males; most of the discussion in this paper refers to what is usually called the advertising song. Both inheritance and learning play a part in the acquisition of song patterns by the individual. The early season singing of many species, as the birds are perfecting their song patterns, is somewhat primitive; once these patterns are perfected they are largely fixed for the rest of the bird's life. Occasional individuals in some species apparently learn their song from another species. Different species of passerine birds differ in the amount of variation in the songs of a given individual and in the songs of different individuals. Individuals of some species have advertising songs of only one pattern, while those of other species may have two to many patterns; 58 patterns were found in the songs of one Lark Sparrow. In some species the songs of different individuals are of the same pattern, but in most species the songs of different individuals may differ. The variation within a species may vary from only a few patterns to a situation in which different individuals seldom if ever sing songs of the same pattern. Data are presented on the geographic variation in the songs of Bachman's Sparrow, Song Sparrow, and Cardinal (two subspecies in each case). Studies of songs recorded in the eastern United States and Canada indicate that in at least some species the songs of different subspecies may differ; most of the intraspecific variation encountered in the songs from this area might be described as "local dialects," with birds of different areas differing in song patterns, but with few significant geographic trends evident. Most passerine birds exhibit a daily cycle of singing activity, singing most consistently in the early morning, with the song at a minimum early in the afternoon. Some species sing a little differently at daybreak. Song is usually associated with the breeding season, beginning in the spring and ceasing in midsummer; some species stop or reduce their singing during certain parts of the nesting cycle, and some may sing after the postnuptial molt. The same types of song may serve all the functions of song, or different types may serve different functions. Many birds have songs of a different type than the territorial song, that are heard only infrequently ("flight" songs, "twilight" songs, etc.); the /// function of these songs is not clear in every case, but in some cases they play a role in territorial defense or courtship. The females of some species sing occasionally, often in response to the male. The large amount of intraspecific variation in many passerines complicates the problem of the student trying to learn to recognize birds by their songs. Field identification by song is based on the type of song pattern the bird sings, the quality of the song, and a knowledge of what might be expected to be singing at a given time and place. A person with an ear for pattern in bird songs will eventually be able to recognize individuals of many species by their songs; there is evidence that some birds can recognize other individuals by their songs. Because of the role of song in species recognition, variation in song may lead to speciation; evidence is presented of such speciation trends in certain flycatchers.
4158891|Comparisons were made of the food habits of Long-eared Owls and the distribution of small mammals in the habitats surrounding the owls' roost. It was found that the Long-eared Owls fed primarily on the meadow vole, and hunted in an old-field habitat. They apparently did not utilize a near-by marsh, although it contained more voles than the old field. The use of the old field appears to be related to a lesser amount of cover in this habitat than in the marsh. Timbered areas nearer the roost than the old field and having a greater abundance of small mammals were not utilized. The Long-eared Owls, therefore, apparently prefer open, grassy areas to timbered areas.
4158910|This study was made at Lake Alice in Gainesville, Florida, where Anhingas breed in close association with ibises and various herons. The behavioral sequence of pair formation is generalized from observations of breeding birds during the late winter and spring of 1959. Anhinga sexual dimorphism is shown by the fawn head and neck of the female compared with the glossy black coloring of these parts in the male. The male has a mane which is conspicuously erected during sexual displays. The male either takes over an old nest or builds a new "preliminary" nest, on which he stands to wing-wave, ruffle his feathers, and bow. The wing-waving flashes the silvery patches on the wings and probably serves to attract females. Females wander through the area occupied by displaying males and are occasionally pursued by non-territorial males. If the wing-waving attracts a female, the male begins to change his behavior, employing sweeping movements of the head, rapid wing-waving, and pointing with the bill. The female approaches the nest and begins to answer the gestures of the male with similar ones. Copulation occurs soon after the female steps on the nest. After pairing, the male begins to gather sticks with which he and the female complete the nest. The female probably remains on the nest for several days after pairing, perhaps being fed by the male. Incubation is by both sexes, and there seems to be no particular ceremony involved in nest relief. Variability occurs in the defense behavior of territorial males, but reactions seem to be strongest when a female is near. Paired males are very tolerant of wing-waving males, a condition which allows establishment of compact nesting groups. Anhingas seem to be generally tolerant of the presence of the other species of the colony, although occasional aggressive responses were observed. Herons, ibises, and Anhingas all nest close together, but interaction was observed only between the White Ibis and the Anhinga. No observations were made on vocalizations of Anhingas. Soaring behavior was observed, but no relationship to reproductive activity was seen.
4158911|Seven hundred and forty-six woodcocks captured by Japanese mist nets at dusk in fields provided significant data on summer behavior of this species. The alighting areas varied in size and vegetative composition, but all were situated near the center of spring breeding grounds. The sex and age composition of birds captured showed a preponderance of juvenile males and adult females. Reasons for such age and sex discrepancy are discussed. Factors prompting these evening flights are suggested. Evidence points to food as the most important factor. Behavior of these birds has been described. The alighting grounds were dry and the food consisted primarily of fly, beetle, and moth larvae. Returns suggest homing behavior on the part of all age and sex groups. Molting studies of these summer birds provided the technique for aging and sexing wings of fall-shot birds.
4158913|1. Twenty-five nests of the Kirtland's Warbler were examined; 20 were taken apart and the materials identified, weighed, and measured. 2. The prevalence of "pine islands" is apparently necessary for the presence of breeding Kirtland's Warblers. 3. The nest is located on the ground near jack pines. 4. The nest was composed of three layers of noticeably different materials. 5. Twenty-nine species of plants were identified from nest contents. Most of these were fairly common in the pine plains. 6. The materials used in the nests were placed in 11 categories, and each species of plant is discussed as to the amounts and portions used in the nests, position in the nest, and the constancy of the species in the pine plains. 7. The abundance of sedges and grasses may be important in restricting the warblers to particular portions of the jack-pine plains. There was no indication that any one particular plant affected the distribution of the warblers. However, an association of plants, represented by those found within the nests, may have a definite influence upon the selection of nesting habitat by the warblers.
4158914|During the summers of 1949 through 1958, field investigations were carried on to determine the geographical distribution of the Black Swift in Colorado and the ecological factors affecting this distribution. Fifteen thousand miles were traveled by automobile and 120 miles were covered on foot. Twenty-seven active breeding colonies were located at scattered points in 10 counties throughout most of the mountainous portion of Colorado. A nest, egg, and associated female were taken, the first to be recorded for Colorado. Additional sightings of the Black Swift were made during the breeding season in five other counties. Five physical ecological factors were found to be present to a greater or lesser degree in all the colonies: the presence of water, high relief as regards the configuration of the terrain, inaccessibility to terrestrial marauders, darkness, and the lack of flyway obstructions in the vicinity of the nest. It is believed that the Black Swift will nest anywhere that these ecological requirements are met.
4158916| The songs of 63 male Mexican Juncos living together in the same population, in Durango, Mexico, proved to be very variable in many characteristics. The average duration is 1.63  0.29 seconds. The number of syllable types per song pattern usually ranges from two to five. Syllables average 0.137  0.087 second in duration, with the first in the song tending to be longer than those which follow. Some syllables are given singly, others are repeated in trills. The position of the trilled parts of the song, of which there are usually two, sometimes one or three, is very variable. The average number of syllables per song is 10.1  2.9. Most of these occur in the trills which make up the greater proportion of the song, and are the most regular component. The frequency characteristics vary widely. There are no systematic changes in loudness or in tempo through the song, except for a tendency for the first trill in the song to have fewer, longer syllables than those which follow. The individual notes from which the syllables are built up have a wide variety of forms. The species-specific qualities of the songs of this population of Mexican Juncos are less definite and stereotyped than in some other emberizine finches. 
4158934|The courtship and copulatory behavior patterns of the Hooded Merganser are described, and probable homologies are pointed out with other Mergus species and with Bucephala. In some of its courtship displays ("Tail-cocking," female "Bobbing") and precopulatory behavior ("Pouting," "Upward-stretch") the Hooded Merganser exhibits typical Mergus elements, whereas in others ("Water-twitch" linked to Preen-behind-the-wing, postcopulatory Rotations) it clearly shows affinities with Bucephala, and in fact is even more like the goldeneyes in some respects than is the Bufflehead. In still other aspects of display it is intermediate between the typical species of the two genera ("Tacking" toward the female rather than the Bucephala "Steaming," or the approach-retreat behavior typical of Mergus). The Hooded Merganser thus provides an almost perfect connecting link between Bucephala and Mergus, and it is concluded that these two groups are no more than generically distinct.
4158935|Vocalizations, drummings, and displays of Red-bellied Woodpeckers have been studied in relation to their breeding behavior. Observations regarding this behavior may be summarized as follows: (1) The male takes the initiative in location of a nest hole and seeks the approval of his mate in a ceremony of mutual tapping. He spends more time by the nest hole than she does. The members of a pair, however, remain in contact with each other by an exchange of vocalizations within their nesting territory. If a female leaves her nesting territory, her mate may call incessantly until she returns. (2) Red-bellied Woodpeckers are pugnacious birds. Described are various types of conflicts centering on issues such as the possession of a nest hole, or on the rivalry for a mate and territorial boundaries. (3) Acceptance of a nest hole by the female may be delayed until seasonal conditions are favorable. Full acceptance by the female is indicated by the two members of the pair completing the excavation, entering the nest hole together and resting motionless in each other's proximity either within or on the outside of the nest cavity. Copulatory behavior increases in frequency at this time. (4) The phases of copulatory behavior usually consist in the male assuming a crouching pose as the female flies to him and flutters on his back in reverse mounting. The male then mounts her in full copulation, gradually falling to the left. (5) Paired Red-bellied Woodpeckers become quiet at the time of egg-laying and incubation. The newly hatched young are brooded by one parent or the other for much of their first week and, as they grow older, they are fed insects of increasing size. (6) Fecal sacs have not been seen among either wild or captive birds. Parent Red-bellied Woodpeckers apparently keep their nests clean by swallowing the excreta of their young. (7) The reactions of nestlings were studied by means of hand-raised individuals. Their begging and begging cries were stimulated by sudden shading if they were on a lighted area or by jarring if they were in the dark. The range of their vocalizations was considerable. (8) A pair of hand-raised Red-bellied Woodpeckers bred in their first year in an indoor aviary. They reared three young in their first nesting and a second nesting was equally successful to the point of hatching but had to be interrupted due to extraneous circumstances. (9) Copulation, including the preliminary reverse mounting by the female, is described in detail. (10) Juveniles may leave their parents within a few weeks in the event of a second nesting. Otherwise, they may remain with them for several months until family groups break up in September. (11) Three examples of unusual behavior are described. One concerned a male Red-bellied Woodpecker which gave the breeding call of a Red-headed Woodpecker to the exclusion of its own; and another, a lone female which attacked the nest holes of two mated pairs. A third situation concerned the peculiar and persistent reactions of male and female hand-raised Red-bellied Woodpeckers to a Pileated Woodpecker kept in the same aviary.
4158936|A field worker analyzing data on nest success may be dealing with a sample in which comparatively few nests were found before the start of incubation. Also, his sample may include some nests for which the outcome was unknown. If such partially complete records are included (or excluded) from his calculations, there is danger of distorting the conclusions. "Percentage of nests found" is not the same as "percentage of nests started" unless every nest was observed from the very start. One way of dealing with this problem is to reduce the data to units of exposure, which reflects not only the number of nests but also the length of time each was under observation. A convenient measure of exposure is the nest-day (equivalent to one nest for one day). With this approach, all observations covering one or more days each can be incorporated into the sample, even though some of these do not go back to the very beginning and do not carry through to the end. By this method, small fragments of information can be combined into a coherent whole. This may be the only kind of information available for a very long time on many elusive species. After mortality and survival rates are expressed per nest-day, the probability of survival may be calculated for all or any part of the nesting period. If the survival rate per nest-day is S, the probability of survival of a nest for d days is
4158970|Observations on several interspecific foraging flocks encountered during late summer in the highlands of Oaxaca, Mexico, are reported. Information is presented on species comprising the flocks and on flock movements. Some details of habits and calls of species involved are included. Categories of species observed in the flocks are nucleus species, regular attendant species, irregular attendant species, and accidental species. Advantages afforded individuals in foraging flocks are a greater feeding efficiency, protection from predators, and mutual aid in finding food. Flock formation and maintenance are due to the tendency of individuals to associate, i.e., the gregariousness characteristic of the species involved.
4158971| The life history of the Carolina Chickadee was studied from October 1954 to November 1959. During the same period observations were made on Black-capped Chickadees and a population believed to be composed at least partly of hybrid birds. Most of the field work was in Illinois, with that for the presumed hybrid population confined mainly to the contact zone near Vandalia. The three populations were found to be similar or identical in most respects. In winter, chickadees of all three populations tend to occur in flocks, the mean size of which is three to four birds in Illinois. Home range size appears to be related to food supply and is on the order of 35 acres at the latitude of central Illinois. Chickadee flocks tend to occur in temporary feeding parties. In spring and fall these parties may include migrant warblers and vireos; in winter, the most frequent associates of chickadees are Tufted Titmice, Downy Woodpeckers, Golden-crowned Kinglets, and White-breasted Nuthatches. Pair formation apparently begins in the flock and is a gradual process. Members of a nesting pair tend to remain together during the winter and, if both survive, to nest together the following season. Excavation and even nest-building may be begun at several locations before the pair finally concentrates on the site which is actually used. Carolina and Black-capped Chickadees almost invariably excavate their own cavity, with both sexes participating. In the Vandalia population, excavation appeared nearly confined to the female. Nests in Illinois are usually of moss overlain by fine bark strips and lined with fur. Gathering of nesting materials and nest building is almost entirely by the female. Eggs are laid one each day in the morning. A geographical trend in clutch size exists, with Carolina Chickadees tending to have larger clutches at any given latitude than Black-capped Chickadees. Date of laying of first egg also varies geographically, tending to be 3-4 days later for each degree of latitude northward. Incubation is by the female and is begun with laying of the last or next to last egg. The incubation period appears to be about 13 days. Attentiveness is about 75 per cent for the Carolina and Black-capped Chickadees. Attentive periods in Illinois average about 15-20 minutes in length, inattentive periods 5-8. In the two species, the incubating female is fed by the male about two to three times per hour of attentiveness. During inattentive periods the female gives a begging display and is fed repeatedly by the male. Among apparent abnormalities observed in the Vandalia population were a nearly complete lack of on-the-nest feedings of the female by the male, initiation of incubation with the laying of the first or second egg (in one pair), and a low rate of hatching and fledging of young. Hatching of the complete clutch in all three populations requires about 12-24 hours. The percentage of time spent brooding is about the same as that spent incubating for the first three days after hatching; then there is a rapid decline until brooding is completely discontinued about the 11th day. At first, feeding of nestlings is almost entirely by the male, but by the end of nest life, the female has assumed the greater share of this duty. Length of nest life is about 16 days. Development of young Carolina and Black-capped Chickadees studied in the laboratory from the 13th day on seemed essentially identical, as did the behavior of fledglings during the first 10 days after leaving the nest. By about 7 days after leaving the nest, young are able to forage for themselves to some degree, but may remain with the parents for another two weeks before the family group breaks up. The two species have an extensive and similar vocabulary. Small differences exist in the whistled song, the signal song, and to some degree the general call note. Many birds of the Vandalia population gave whistled songs and signal songs far outside the normal range of variation of the two parental species. Miscellaneous activities, such as preening, bathing, and sun-bathing, appear to be similar or identical in the three populations. The pattern of daily activity is similar, with awakening time related fairly closely to sunrise in the female. The male tends to arise earlier and retire later than the female in the breeding season. Within each species, weight varies with latitude, sex, season, and time of day. With other conditions equal, Carolina Chickadees appear to weigh slightly less than do Black-capped Chickadees. 
4159009|Growth and plumage development of pen-reared migratory Japanese Quail are described and compared with Bobwhites reared under the same conditions. In young Coturnix an extra molt and plumage were noted and termed the first post-juvenal molt and the second juvenal plumage, respectively. The molt begins on the ventral, humeral, and femoral tracts at approximately three weeks of age and coincides with the post-juvenal wing molt. The molt is complete with the exception of the primaries, and the birds are in full second juvenal plumage at approximately eight to nine weeks of age. The age at which the next, or second post-juvenal molt, begins apparently is influenced by the date of hatching. Birds hatched late in the season begin to molt at a younger age than do early hatched birds. Early hatched birds required a longer period to complete this molt.
4159010|One hundred thirty specimens of Cuban Bobwhites were examined for molt. First-year birds may be separated on the basis of the outer two pointed juvenal primaries and white-tipped primary coverts retained until the second prebasic molt. The Cuban Bobwhite undergoes two molts a year, a complete prebasic and a partial prealternate. The sequence and timing of these molts is described, and differences between the sequence of molt of various portions of the plumage in first-year and adult birds are pointed out. The prealternate molt in the Cuban population is far more extensive than that described for the Eastern U.S. populations, and it is suggested that this is a southern adaptation shared with some Mexican populations. The breeding season and its relation to the molting cycle is discussed. It is concluded that the two are not directly under the same hormonal control in this species.
4159011| In 1957, resident Gadwalls arrived at Ogden Bay in mid-April. At least 60 per cent of the surviving hens marked in 1956 returned in 1957 and nested in the immediate vicinity of their 1956 nest sites. Egg laying started nearly a month after spring arrival. This delay was believed to be typical for northern Utah and may have resulted from the Gadwall's dependence on dry and dense cover for nesting. Gadwall breeding-pair behavior followed the pattern of home-range occupancy described by Sowls (1955) and Dzubin (1955). Breeding home ranges averaged 67 acres in size. Home ranges were shared by two or more breeding pairs. Territorial behavior was apparently concerned with defense of the mated hen instead of defense of the nesting area and was observed to be ineffective in limiting the number of pairs nesting on the study area. Seventy-nine per cent of all nests studied were situated on elevated sites provided by dike banks and natural levees, and 57 per cent were located in upland vegetation. Nest success for all nests was 45 per cent in 1956-57, compared to 73 per cent in 1947-49. Success of incubated clutches during the study was 52 per cent. Predation was responsible for 80 per cent of all observed, natural nest mortality in 1956-57. Completed clutches for all nests averaged 10.0  1.2 eggs in 1956-57, and completed clutches in initial nesting attempts averaged 11.1  0.9 eggs. Completed clutches in renesting attempts of marked hens averaged 7.8  0.7 eggs, compared to 10.7  0.5 eggs in initial nesting attempts. The success of renests, 53 per cent, was similar to that of first nests, 51 per cent. Unsuccessful hens renested near their original nest sites. Fifty-two per cent of all hens experiencing experimental loss of incubated clutches were known to renest. The ability to renest dropped as the stage of incubation at nest destruction advanced and was lower after the loss of renest clutches than first clutches. Renesting accounted for 25 per cent of Gadwall production during the study, but fell considerably short of compensating for increased nest mortality since 1947-49. On this basis, experimental control of nest predators at Ogden Bay was recommended. 
4159013|Gross weights and weights of organs (brain, pectoral mass, heart, lungs, and liver) were collected from 469 specimens (21 species) of nocturnal migrants killed in September 1958, 1959, and 1960 at a television tower near Champaign, Illinois. Migrants were killed throughout the night in 1958, around 0100 in 1959 (7 hours of flight), and 0500 in 1960 (11 hours of flight). For adult male Swanison's Thrushes (largest samples represented), gross weight loss was estimated at 2.6-4.4 per cent of gross per hour. Observable points of weight loss were fat deposition and pectoral mass (about 30 per cent of gross loss). A possible advantage of night (versus daytime) migration and migration under overcast (versus clear) is the reduction in water loss by migrants. Liver, heart, and lung weights did not appear to change in flight. Gross weight and weights of certain organs appeared to vary with sex and age. Males tended generally to be heavier than females, and immatures heavier than adults. This relationship probably reflected fat condition as immatures were usually fatter than adults. Pectoral muscle weight was higher in adults than in immatures and highest in adult males. Notably poor flyers had relatively small pectoral muscles. Brain weights, surprisingly, were greater in immatures than in adults, and greater in females than in males. Heart and lung weights tended to vary with gross weight. Liver weights were heavier in immatures than in adults, and tended to be heavier in males than in females.
4159041|The terms "sessions" and "recesses" are suggested as the least cumbersome designations of a bird's periods on and off the nest. Methods of computing the percentage of time devoted to incubation are discussed. In those species in which a single parent incubates, most individuals keep the eggs covered from 60 to 80 per cent of their period of diurnal activity; and this may be regarded as average or normal constancy. Constancy above 80 per cent is shown chiefly by birds well nourished on the nest by attendants and by those which enjoy exceptional advantages in finding food during their recesses. Constancy below 60 per cent is shown chiefly by small birds, such as American flycatchers, which subsist largely on small volitant insects. Nidicolous birds which fast on the nest for several days together require correspondingly long periods for foraging and recuperation, so that with them such protracted sitting is feasible only when the sexes alternate on the eggs. But nidifugous birds, which provide for their chicks with less strenuous exertion, so that it is less imperative for them to pass through the period of incubation without loss of vital reserves, may fast throughout this period. Sometimes, however, their attempt to do so causes their exhaustion and consequent abandonment of the eggs. Other factors which influence the constancy or rhythm of sitting are the size of the birds, the number which share incubation at the same nest, the behavior of the male when he does not incubate, the type of the nest (whether open or covered, etc.), the bird's temperament, rainfall, and the temperature of the air. Although there may be a slight or, in some species, a pronounced increase in attentiveness during the first few days after the completion of the set, the stage of incubation has on the whole little influence on constancy of sitting. When their eggs fail to hatch, most birds continue to incubate them at least 50 per cent longer than is normally required to hatch them, and they may continue for twice or even three times the normal period. An outstanding exception is provided by pigeons, some of which fail to incubate even a day beyond the usual time of hatching. In species of birds whose constancy of incubation falls below 60 per cent, the incubation period is sometimes longer than in related species which sit more assiduously. Those exceptional birds which nest amid snow and ice must keep their eggs constantly covered lest they freeze. But in the milder weather when most birds breed, it does not appear that a constancy above the 60-80 per cent range, which might readily be effected if the male shared incubation or fed his mate liberally on the nest, would materially reduce the length of the incubation period, thus diminishing losses to predators by decreasing the time the eggs are available to them. In this respect, as in several others, incubation or non-incubation by the male appears largely indifferent to the welfare of the species, especially in passerine birds.
4159042|The maintenance activities of the American Redstart are described and their ontogeny traced wherever possible. A few observations of a Bay-breasted Warbler are included. The redstart employs three principal foraging patterns: gleaning, hovering, and mid-air catches. This variety of foraging behavior patterns is coincident with a diverse insect diet. The food treatment sequence of the redstart is described. The completeness of the sequence is dependent on the degree of hunger and the size of the insect. It was found using wax moth larvae that the brown spot at the anterior end serves as a releaser for seizure at that point. The three stretching movements of the adult bird are both wings up stretch, both legs stretch, and a wing and leg sideways stretch. In addition, the young bird performs a both wings down stretch which shows a transition in form to the wing and leg sideways stretch which soon replaces it. The stretching sequence follows a pattern which may be species-typical. The ontogeny of such activities as stretching, scratching, and sleeping postures is marked by gradual changes. The young bird performs these in the adult form, before, or shortly after leaving the nest.
4159067| Ruffed Grouse investigations on the Cloquet Forest Research Center, Minnesota, from 1956 through 1961 have permitted observations on the predatory activities of Goshawks on this grouse. Intensive Ruffed Grouse population and banding studies plus continued occupancy of a Goshawk nesting and feeding site have provided the basis for these observations. Goshawk predation was the most important single mortality factor for full-grown Ruffed Grouse in this unhunted population, accounting for 30 per cent of the known losses of banded grouse. These losses were heaviest during the spring period when cover was considered to be lowest in quality and quantity. Male grouse, and more specifically males active in drumming activity centers, made up the largest segment of these losses. Thirty-two of 37 grouse kills of known origin were made within 1 miles of the Goshawk feeding site. Twenty-six of these kills were within a one-mile radius. Nine banded males brought in from their drumming activity centers were probably killed at a mean distance of about 5,460 feet from the Goshawk nest site. Thus the Goshawk predatory efforts were extended to an area of about 5 square miles. The data obtained suggested the presence of a "circle of suppression" with a -mile radius from the Goshawk nest and feeding area. Evidence is presented substantiating the existence of this area. The presence of this area is believed to be due in part to the increased coverage given it by the foraging Goshawks and to the quality of grouse habitat in the "circle." 
4159068|This report describes some elements of the reproductive, aggressive, and group behavior of the Purple Martin in spring and summer in Kansas and Illinois. Purple Martins arrive on breeding grounds some two months before they lay eggs. Such timing is unusual for a swallow and is a result of early arrival, for their breeding schedules seem to be wholly in line with schedules characteristic of other swallows in temperate North America. Early arrival is advantageous in securing a nesting cavity. Formation of the pair-bond is accomplished without ritualization of behavioral elements. Pair-formation is a function of interaction between a male, a female, and a colony-site. Females exert ultimate control over pair-formation because they choose a nest-box-male combination, and not one of these alone. Nest-building is sporadically engaged in for about a month prior to egg-laying. The green leaves brought to nests by both sexes may serve as a source of fumigant acting against ectoparasites developing in the detritus of the nest. Aggression is effected by few and simple postural and auditory mechanisms. Horizontal Threat, Gaping, Bill-snapping, Claiming--Reclaiming, and several vocalizations are described. The Stooped--Submissive posture is a notable sign of defeat in a male martin. Purple Martins operate at all times of the year in groups. Activities significant in formation of colonies include general investigatory behavior and Claiming--Reclaiming. Formation of preening groups seems to be facilitated by a white signal-mark on the backs of the birds. An obligatory (and probably nonsocial) sunning posture is described. Social facilitation of reproductive activities seems not to be significant for Purple Martins. It is fairly clear that timing of the reproductive effort is partly dependent on ages of the birds, and any tendency toward colonial synchrony and increase in reproductive success is a result of birds of like ages being together.
4159070| In a field study in the Sierra de las Minas, the major mountain mass in eastern Guatemala, 123 resident and 37 migratory species were listed. Five collecting stations were utilized, but most of the time was spent on the south slope of the mountains above the lowland town of Usumatln. Elevation ranged from 3,000 to 9,400 feet. There is no clear-cut Subtropical Zone on the Sierra de las Minas. Subtropical and Temperate species occupy the same areas in the middle and upper parts of the range. An annotated list of species is given. 
4159098|On 1 September 1959, a captive adult female Bobolink escaped from captivity at Berkeley, California. This bird had been taken from its breeding locality in North Dakota on 9 August 1959 and shipped to Berkeley where it was held on a light-dark schedule coinciding with the natural photoperiod for its home locality in North Dakota. On the three nights prior to escape this bird was held in an experimental cage automatically registering the directional component of migratory activity at night. On the first of these nights the preferred direction almost coincided with the home direction while on the third the direction was parallel to the natural route of migration of the population from which this bird was derived. The direction on the second night was intermediate. On the first day of June of the following year this same bird was recaptured at the location where it was originally trapped in Kenmare, North Dakota. Since the experimental site in California is not on a migratory pathway of Bobolinks, some navigation capacity permitting the eventual return seems to be implied. The orientation mechanism and the possible travels of this bird prior to recapture are discussed.
4159100|The Northern Shrike has white wing patches which are similar to the wing patches used by the Mockingbird for wing-flashing. Field observations on 19 pairs of shrikes nesting in Northern Alaska and on individuals wintering in central New York, and close studies of captive and of free-flying, trained shrikes, revealed that shrikes also use special quivering, fluttering, and "flashing" movements of their wings during hunting forays and in hostile encounters with other species. Shrikes use special wing movements in many different behavioral contexts: flight-intention, food-begging, courtship display, hunting, interspecific hostility, and in stretching. Like many passerines, shrikes indicate their intention to fly by tail-flipping (down-up type) and by wing-flicking. Typically the wing-flicks are initiated from a normally folded position of the wings, and the movement is most conspicuous at the bend of the wings. Observations of specific instances in which shrikes have shown flight-intention indicate that tail-flipping without wing movements is the lowest intensity of expression of this tendency and that as the tendency to fly increases the wing-flicking becomes more prominent and exaggerated. The quivering and fluttering of the wings used by male and by female shrikes in the breeding season are concerned mainly with some expression of their tendency to engage in courtship-feeding. Again, specific observations reveal "degrees of expression" of this tendency. Slight quivering movements are the lowest expression; conspicuous fluttering of the partly extended wings accompanied by persistent food-begging whines, in the case of the female, is the strongest expression. When the wings are fluttered in food-begging, the white patches describe conspicuous flashing arcs. Close observations of tame shrikes trained to hunt out-of-doors show that they often engage in special wing movements when their quarry escapes into dense brush or among the branches of a tree. The same kinds of wing movements are also used when shrikes mob potential predators or other large species of animals. Three degrees of these wing movements can be distinguished: low intensity quivering, medium intensity fluttering, and high intensity "flashing." The first two are indistinguishable from movements also used in food-begging by young or in courtship-feeding by adults. In the most extreme expression of this behavior, the wings are drooped so that the tips of the primaries are well below the axis of the body; then the wings are partially extended and swept forward, a motion which produces a maximum extension of the hands and a conspicuous exposure of the white areas on the primaries. At the same time, the tail is spread widely. Then the wings are snapped back to a drooped, half-extended position, and the tail is closed. A complete cycle of these movements produces a "flash" of the white wing patches and of the outer white areas of the tail. Although one can conclude that these special wing movements of shrikes are definitely associated with hunting and with hostile reactions toward other species, the biological significance of this kind of behavior can be interpreted in various ways. The specific situations in which movements occur during hunting strongly suggest that the wing and tail movements produce a startling effect that sometimes causes the prey to move from a safe position. Intimidation and distraction seem to be the functions of these wing movements when they are directed against a potential enemy. These wing movements of the Northern Shrike are not very similar in pattern to wing-flashing of the Mockingbird. Thus, while the movements of the two birds seem to be clearly analogous and convergent in function, they are not homologous on the basis of a strictly morphological criterion of homology. Wing-flashing of the Mockingbird may be a transformation or ritualization of the wing-flicking of flight-intention, whereas the wing movements of the Northern Shrike appear to be less transformed and show a very clear similarity, in the lower intensity expressions, to the quivering and fluttering movements of food-begging.
4159102|Nesting of the Black Swift in northwestern Montana was established with the finding of a colony in the Mission Valley of the Mission Range, where five active nests at a waterfall were studied. The presence of adults elsewhere in the Mission Range and in the Glacier Range strongly suggests that other colonies remain to be discovered. The nestings studied in Montana were started earlier than those reported in Colorado, contrary to expectations based on Hopkins' Bioclimatic Law. The downy covering developed early in the nestling period may represent a secondary adaptation to the semiexposed nesting niche. Nestings in Montana differed from those in Colorado in their greater exposure to sunshine and lower elevation. Nesting failures appear to be common in the Black Swift.
4159111|Downy ducklings, whether hatched in an incubator or in the field, readily eat invertebrate animals, and there is evidence that different species of ducklings tend to specialize on different kinds of invertebrates, despite considerable overlap in diet. These diet differences are related to differences in feeding behavior and in bill structure. Duckweed and bladderwort contained the greatest number of invertebrate food organisms. The distribution of broods of ducklings is roughly correlated with the abundance of the invertebrates that apparently comprise the main food of many species of ducklings in their first week after hatching.
4159112|The foliage preferences of Chipping Sparrows were measured under conditions that sought to minimize the effects of other variables such as perching opportunities, food, and light intensity. Wild-trapped adults indicated a preference for pine over oak leaves, as did the two- to four-month-old Kaspar Hauser birds that were reared without sight of any foliage. Isolates that were reared in the presence of oak foliage showed a decreased preference for pine. Studies of the stability of this shifted preference are in progress.
4159113|V. B. Dubinin collected nine birds of three species which he had watched anting. All were infested with feather mites. Of the 732 mites on the four anting Steppe Pipits, 90 were dead and 163 others died within 12 hours; of the 758 taken from four non-anting pipits only five died within the same period. These experiments apparently provide the first autopsies performed on anting birds, as well as the first evidence that anting sometimes destroys feather mites. They also give what appears to be the first record of anting in the Hoopoe and in the Coraciiformes. Translations of the two sections on anting, of those on "Food of feather mites" and "Methods of collecting, counting and examination for feather mites," and of the three-page table of contents of Dubinin's 1951 volume have been donated to the Van Tyne Memorial Library at The University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
4159114| Observations on the breeding of Turdus albicollis, T. fumigatus, and T. nudigenis were made in Trinidad over a period of 4 years. T. albicollis breeds only in forests, T. nudigenis in semi-open country, and T. fumigatus overlaps them both, breeding both in forests and well-timbered plantations and gardens. The two forest thrushes have very long breeding seasons lasting for nearly nine months, in contrast to T. nudigenis, which breeds at the beginning of the wet season, from late April to August. It is suggested that this difference is ultimately due to the more severe effect of the dry season outside the forest. The two forest thrushes breed right through the dry season, but breeding is inhibited if the drought is very severe at the end of the dry season. T. fumigatus and probably also T. albicollis make three or four nesting attempts in the course of the breeding season; T. nudigenis not usually more than two. Clutch size is highest in T. nudigenis (mean 2.96), lowest in T. albicollis (mean 2.08), and intermediate in T. fumigatus (mean 2.80). There was some evidence of a slight seasonal decline in clutch size in T. nudigenis, but no evidence of any seasonal variation in the two species with long breeding seasons. Incubation periods of T. fumigatus ranged from 12 to 13 days, with two long periods of 14 and 17 days which were probably due to inefficient attentive behavior by the female. Fledging periods were 13-15 days. Two incubation periods of T. albicollis were both 12 days. Nesting success (percentage of nests started which resulted in fledged young) was 33 per cent in T. fumigatus, 20 per cent in T. albicollis, and 33 per cent in T. nudigenis. In T. fumigatus, nests in forests were less successful than those in other habitats. It is shown that in spite of its short breeding season the reproductive rate of T. nudigenis is probably higher than that of T. albicollis and not much less than that of T. fumigatus. Data are presented on the season of molt in the three species. In T. fumigatus the duration of molt in the individual was found to be about 90 days. On the basis of these data, a comparison is made between the breeding of Trinidad and north-temperate thrushes. 
4159115|A study of eagle populations was conducted during the winter of 1961-1962, in north-western Illinois. The eagles concentrated near four areas of open water along the Mississippi River and its backwaters. These areas remained open throughout the winter and an abundance of food was present. The primary food was live Gizzard Shad. Four methods were used by eagles to capture fish. Frozen fish, deer, and ducks were also consumed by the eagles. Eagles were censused during 41 of 53 days. The largest number recorded on a single day was 262. The population varied considerably, but the peak was reached by 12 January and was maintained until 23 February. All of the eagles had departed by 1 April. Roosts were located, but only a few birds were there; the same area was not used by the eagles throughout the winter. The number of immatures sighted on any one day was 15. The overall proportion of immatures to adults was 1:17. More immatures, in proportion to adults, were observed farther south in the state. Several eagles with similar plumage variations were recorded; hence, such birds cannot be positively identified by observers. A variety of techniques was used in attempts to capture eagles. Three adults were trapped and color-marked. Two of these were caught in platform snares. Two validated reports of color-marked live eagles were received. One report was from South Dakota.
4159116|The migration-weather relationship is complex. Among the factors contributing to this complexity may be differences in environmental situation, physiology, and specific behavior of the many species of migrants under investigation. Radar and lunar data yield nocturnal temporal patterns which correspond closely with one another and with some observations of the activity of captive migrants but contradict the pattern obtained by aural methods. Potential flight range of migrants apparently exceeds actual flight time. Additional physiological data are needed to resolve these differences. Our radar data indicate that mass departures of nocturnal migrants, particularly long-distance migrants in early and mid-fall, are "released" in the Champaign area by a change in wind direction from south to north. Such wind shifts almost always accompany cold fronts, but the migrants may react to the wind shift whether or not a cold front is involved. How rapidly migrants respond to the wind shift is indicated. A following wind would seem to be especially important to these long-distance passerine migrants. Recognition and response to such a wind condition would appear to have real survival value both from the standpoint of energy conservation in the migrant and the reduction of total migration time. On the other hand, it is difficult to see survival value in a response to the subtle temperature changes which accompany cold fronts in mid-fall. Regardless of which factor triggers a mass departure, it is apparent that cloud cover can modify the response by deterring at least some of the migrants. Thus, while the heaviest concentration of migrants typically passes Champaign on the first night of a mass flight, overcast can postpone the heavy flight one or more nights.
4159117|Many species of wildlife make use of ponds and pits. Ducks in particular utilize them during the migration period, and to some extent for courting, breeding, and brood rearing. Apparently good grass shore-line vegetation has the most influence on degree of utilization of ponds and pits by ducks. Stable water levels and age of the area appear to be important secondary influences. Ducks use ponds more frequently than pits, apparently due to the larger size and the irregular and shallow shore lines of the ponds. Trials indicate that waterfowl utilization of pits may be substantially improved by installing loafing sites.
4159148|Data were gathered on the hatching and fledging success of 879 cowbird eggs from 580 nests of 36 host species. Fledging success was distinctly better than hatching success, reflecting the special perils faced by the cowbird eggs, and over-all reproductive success was 25 per cent (218 fledglings from 879 eggs). The fledging rate for eggs laid in the nests of heavily parasitized species was 25 per cent; for those laid in the nests of lightly parasitized nests it was 16 per cent. The difference appears to be due to varying degrees of egg acceptance. It is hypothesized that there are approximately six young produced per adult female cowbird per season.
4159149|The breeding season of the cowbird extends from late April to late July. Within this period maximum reproductive activity of female cowbirds is maintained over approximately an eight-week period in May and June. Parasitism on the Cardinal is discussed relative to changes in the laying activity of the cowbird.
4159150|From 15 June to 6 August 1960, and from 8 June to 4 August 1961, Brown-headed Cowbird parasitism in the breeding bird population about the University of Oklahoma Biological Station, Marshall County, Oklahoma, was studied with respect to incidence, success of cowbirds and hosts, and the laying period of the cowbird. Parasitism was noted at 31 of 84 nests (including 33 Red-winged Blackbird nests which were not parasitized). Six of these 31 nests contained two cowbird eggs: in each of the remaining 25 a single cowbird egg was laid. Nests of the Bell's Vireo, Dickcissel, Cardinal, Lark Sparrow, Orchard Oriole, Blue Grosbeak, Painted Bunting, and Field Sparrow were parasitized. Parasitized nests of these species were usually in somewhat exposed situations on the edges of bottomland thickets, bordering open mixed grasslands. Nests found in more open areas without edge growth were generally not parasitized. Parasitized nests did not differ appreciably from nonparasitized nests with respect to height from ground or substrate. Seven of the 31 parasitized nests (22.6%) and six of the 20 nonparasitized nests of the same species (30.0%) were successful. Thirty-seven cowbird eggs and 73 host eggs laid in parasitized nests produced nine (24.3%) and 14 (19.2%) young, respectively. Twenty-five young (36.2%) fledged from 69 eggs laid in nonparasitized nests of the same species. The laying dates of 28 cowbird eggs and 97 host eggs were determined. The distribution of these dates indicates that two peaks existed in egg production in the cowbird, one in mid-June, the other in early July, while host egg production gradually decreased from early June on. The pattern of cowbird egg production was thus independent of host availability. Cowbird egg-laying declined after mid-July, the last egg being laid on 29 or 30 July. Cowbird-host laying periods were generally coincident, but one cowbird egg was apparently laid in a partially destroyed nest, and another was laid in a nest containing a well-developed cowbird chick.
4159156| Throughout most of North America east of about 104 there are two forms of the Screech Owl: one with the plumage mainly bright rufous and the other with the plumage mainly gray. Birds of intermediate coloration also exist, but in most areas they are rare. The relative frequency of rufous birds varies geographically in the form of a cline from north to south; about a quarter or less of the northern population is rufous, while in the South (the Gulf coast and Florida excepted) up to three-quarters of the population may be rufous. Screech Owls intermediate in coloration between gray and rufous comprise not more than 10 per cent of the population, except in Florida and the adjacent Gulf coast where they comprise up to 40 per cent. In Florida, Screech Owls are more variable in color and the population lacks the bimodality of other populations in eastern North America. This is probably the result of relaxed selection pressure. The geography of polymorphism in the Screech Owl appears to be an unusual pattern of variation within an animal species. 
4159157|It is known that feathers during their growing period will lay down records of certain fluctuations in the hormonal milieu, normal or experimentally caused. This information was used to compare progesterone and thyroxine dosages adequate for induced wing molt in White Plymouth Rock capons with reference to the respective effects in regenerating saddle hackles. Thyroxine caused the well-known structural differentiation in lacy areas; this response was absent with progesterone. The findings support the view that progesterone molt in the fowl is not through an activation of the bird's own thyroid. Since thyroxine induces the specific feather response with doses far smaller than found essential to experimental molt, lack of its development during the normal molt tends to discount thyroidal surges at this period. Conversely, the female feathering laid down during molt of the hen is evidence of continued ovarian activity during that time. These considerations, together with the number of manipulations experimentally effective in molt, seem to speak against any one environmental mechanism as causal in all cases. Instead, gradual and spontaneous activations within the papilla, associated with increasing sensitivities, are suggested as the primary seat, the periodicities being adaptive and variable.
4159177|Red-bellied Woodpeckers are skillful in lodging and removing bits of food from storage places 2 to 3 inches deep within natural crevices by use of their long tongues. The depth of this storage appears to give protection against jays, titmice, and other competitors. Storing is done particularly in the fall. Red-bellied Woodpeckers occupy individual areas three to four acres in extent at this season and are unlike the related Red-headed Woodpecker in being unaggressive in relation to stored food. Field observations were aided by observations on hand-raised individuals maintained in an aviary. Extraction of insect larvae from rotten logs, storage of miscellaneous objects, and other activities in which the tongue was used are described.
4159178|A red pine plantation in northern Michigan was surveyed for birds' nests. This 11-year-old plantation yielded 100 nests of 11 species; Chipping Sparrows and Cedar Waxwings were the most abundant. These birds preferred parts of the tract where the trees were about 3 meters high and relatively open. Nine other species were noted feeding in the plantation. The only known predator was a red squirrel, which probably destroyed some eggs. It is concluded that a red pine plantation provides a very suitable habitat for birds.
4159179|The Black Vulture is generally stated to be a resident species; published information seems lacking as to any group migration. Observations made in Panama during November 1962 of groups of Black Vultures moving eastward (apparently in the direction of South America), often accompanied by migratory Buteo hawks, suggest that this species may be partially migratory. The possibility is advanced that younger birds may be migratory, while breeding individuals may be essentially sedentary.
4159180|During fall migration along the New Jersey coast, L. g. griseus outnumber L. g. hendersoni by 8 or 10 to 1. L. scolopaceus occurs annually in small numbers after the middle of August. Most breeding--plumaged adults of these forms may be identified in the field by morphological characters. Furthermore, difference in call note is a valid method of separating L. scolopaceus from L. griseus, subspecies. In L. g. griseus, and undoubtedly in L. g. hendersoni, there are three main peaks in migration; the first, in early July, consists of postbreeding females; the second, in late July or early August, consists mainly of adult males; the third, extending from mid-August to early September, is composed of birds of the year. L. g. griseus apparently reaches the mid-Atlantic coast after a nonstop flight from the breeding grounds; the same is probably true of L. g. hendersoni. The demonstration of differential migration of sexes allows us to postulate several aspects of the still-unstudied breeding biology of L. g. griseus. It appears that females play only a minor role in incubation and probably do not participate in caring for the chicks. Thus, males must assume the bulk of the nesting duties, remaining on the breeding grounds until the young are able to fend for themselves.
4159181|Chestnut-winged Chachalacas live, in straggling flocks of about six to 12 birds, in the dense second-growth of the humid tropics. They prefer vegetation in which scattered tall trees stand above impenetrable, vine-entangled lower growth. They walk with ease along slender boughs. They fly downward with long glides but they generally ascend by short flights from branch to branch. Chachalacas forage chiefly above the ground and subsist principally on green leaves, especially those of certain shrubs of the composite family, and a variety of berries and larger fruits. In the dry season, they descend in the morning and evening to drink at the nearest river. These chachalacas utter a variety of notes that are difficult to paraphrase. They lack a strong, distinctive utterance and a communal vocal performance similar to that of Ortalis vetula. In southern Costa Rica, nests were found from February to May, but the breeding season is evidently longer than this. Nests are situated in vine-draped bushes and small trees or in the midst of a tangle of creepers, at heights ranging (in five cases) from 38 inches to 8 feet. The broad, shallow saucers, from 9 to 12 inches in diameter, are substantially made of a variety of coarse materials, including sticks, pieces of vine, grass, and leaves. The nest often includes green vegetation which stains the eggs. The set consists of three or, less often, two eggs. The dull white shell is often deeply pitted and sometimes it bears embossed flecks of pure white. Even in the same set, the eggs vary greatly in these features, but all are rougher than most birds' eggs. Incubation is performed by a single parent, evidently the female, who takes two recesses each day, one in the early morning and the other in the late afternoon. Three absences ranged from 62 to 77 minutes in length. The incubation period is 22 or more days. A few hours after they hatch, the downy young can perch, at least briefly. A parent with newly hatched chicks filled her throat with berries and, after mashing one in her bill, presented it to them between the tips of her mandibles. Soon after the chicks were dry, the parent led them away over the ground. The manner of their descent escaped me; they were not carried down in the adult's bill. Only one parent was seen to take an interest in the nest. The parent with chicks rejoins her flock, and at first she may lead her brood over the ground while her companions move through the trees and shrubs above her. Long before they are full-grown, the young also travel through the trees and bushes. They receive at least some of their food from the parent's bill until they are about half-grown.
4159182|The Tenasserim Mountain range forms an effective barrier against dry season rains from the west in west-central Thailand. However, sufficient precipitation spills over the crest of the range to maintain a kind of summit rain forest and to produce a constant supply of fresh water in small rivers on the eastern slopes. A bamboo forest (possibly subclimax because of fire), which is dense in some places but open in others, covers the hills between the rivers. In this cover where water is available and dead grasses of the dry season supply a seed crop (mountain rice), the jungle fowl breeding population appears to be at a maximum density. It may be significant that up to the present there have been no roads for American jeeps to bring in hunters with modern firearms. The birds move into the high rain forest during the nonbreeding rainy season. Master cocks with two to five hens hold definite breeding localities (territories) which may be easily located by the predawn crowing. Extra cocks, with no hens, move silently about the periphery of harems. Solitary hens and small groups of immature cocks (yearlings) were found in the dry flat country several miles from the best breeding habitat, where no water appeared to be available. Hunting by native tribesmen was more intense in pursuit of crowing males. No evidence was found of intermixing between the domestic chickens in villages and the wild jungle fowl. In one village a bird was seen which appeared to have been hatched from an egg of a wild bird.
4159210|A study of maintenance behavior of the American Goldfinch was conducted from March 1961 through July 1962. Observations and analyses of postures and movements of caged birds were supplemented by field work during the summer months. A description of basic feather postures is followed by a discussion of various types of locomotion. These include hopping, sidling, turning, hanging, takeoff, flight, and alighting. Movements occurring in each of these categories are described in detail. Types of food and feeding behavior are described. The manipulation of food particles with the bill and feet is especially evident in this species. Social facilitation, as manifested during feeding, is discussed. Drinking involves movements similar to those occurring during feeding. A description of postures and movements involved in preening is given. Preening for a six-month period is analyzed according to sequences and frequency of preening major areas. Head and wings received most attention with feet, legs, and rectrices being preened infrequently. Movements appear to be random, but there is a tendency to continue preening in the same area in which it is begun. Bathing, defecation, and sleeping are also described and discussed.
4159212|Certain display postures of the Ring-necked Duck are described and contrasted with the previous known literature. A type of lateral display related to the typical threat display, with an added component from the Neck-stretching display, is described, apparently for the first time.
4159213|Yellow-headed Blackbirds were studied in May and June (1957, 1958) at the height of the breeding season on small marshes near Regina, Saskatchewan. Emphasis was placed on agonistic, courtship, and mating displays, and related behavior. Motion and still pictures were taken in conjunction with dummy birds used to elicit a variety of displays, though in nearly all cases these observations were supported by records of behavior in normal circumstances. Agonistic displays of several types were recorded. Song-spread--the typical combination of plumage display and song--was given by both sexes, being directed mainly to members of the same sex. Flight Bill-tilting replaced typical icterine Bill-tilting as a common threat display given especially by males in territorial disputes. It was also found to occur commonly in the Brown-headed Cowbird, evidently occurs in the Eastern Meadowlark, but is rare in the Red-winged Blackbird. Nodding, a sudden lowering of the head with bill downward, was a male display commonly seen during aggressive encounters. It appeared to be related to submissive or appeasement display of the nape as seen in other birds. Crouch-bristling describes an aggressive "head-forward" type of display seen in both sexes; displays given by males in courtship situations appeared identical. This display is apparently similar to a courtship display of the male Redwing. Tail-lifting appeared primarily as an appeasement display of the male in agonistic and conflict situations; it showed some resemblance to female soliciting behavior. Similar display was given by females to females, and on some occasions to males. Courtship behavior consisted mainly of a sequence of behavior, or aspects of this, called Symbolic-nesting in which the male displayed his wings, flew away from the mate or a new female in slow, awkward flight, suddenly dropped down into the nesting substrate, and then crawled along, still with elevated wings, and then went through motions suggestive of nest building. The female tended to follow the male closely. This was similar to that which has been reported for the Redwing; portions of the sequence have been reported for a number of other icterids and it is suggested that this is a basic pattern in this family. Sexual chasing occurred during the courtship period and was also similar to that which has been reported for the Redwing. Mating behavior of the female appeared much like that described for the Redwing. Male response consisted of a posture similar to aggressive Crouch-bristling. Copulation ordinarily included several rapidly successive mountings. The peculiar Hopping behavior, etc., has been found in a number of icterids, especially Molothrus, Tangavius, and Scaphidura, though not in the Red-winged Blackbird. This suggests that the Yellowhead is possibly more closely related to the cowbrids than to the Redwing, or, at least, that this behavior is primitive.
4159214|Mockingbirds displayed to four mammalian species when the latter were near the nest: dog, cat, human, and squirrel. The Mockingbird faces the potential predator, cocks its tail vertically, utters a loud, sharp klok while suddenly fanning the tail, and usually concludes with a rasping vocalization. Sometimes the displaying bird also snaps its bill and gapes at the intruder, and occasionally it flicks its wings slightly. Recently fledged young birds also displayed in this manner, but did not direct the response toward the predator. Calling and posturing of the adults present, rather than presence or movement of the predator, appear to elicit the response of the young birds. The relation of this Tail-up display to the Wing-waving display given to avian and reptilian predators is discussed.
4159215|Onset of egg laying in the House Wren is regulated to the general time of year by the development of the gonads under the stimulus of changing photoperiods, to the time of month by their return to the breeding grounds from spring migration, and to the precise day by temperature. Low temperatures, particularly during May when the development of the gonads puts the birds in breeding condition, may limit the breeding range northward and high temperatures may limit the breeding range southward. Limitation of the breeding range appears thus to be determined by the lack of synchronization between the occurrence of favorable temperatures and photoperiods--northward because the onset of favorable temperatures is too slow, southward because it is too fast.
4159216|Mean fat levels of six species of tropical-wintering thrushes, warblers, and vireos killed in the fall migration at a Florida Gulf coast television tower were significantly greater than in the same species killed at a central Michigan tower; levels in species believed to be habitual trans-Gulf migrants were more than twice as great in Florida. In constrast, fat levels in White-throated Sparrows, a species wintering in the Gulf states, were significantly greater in Michigan in the fall. In spring, fat levels of four species breeding in Michigan were low to moderate and not significantly different at the two tower locations. The results provide indirect evidence for the hypothesis that long-range northern migrants begin southward migration with low to moderate fat reserves and with consequent short flights, then increase their reserves with each stop until the maximum level is reached at or near points, as on or near the Gulf Coast, where long nonstop flights are undertaken.
4159217|Five hundred sixty-three individuals of 77 species were taken near Cape Thompson, Alaska, in the summers of 1960 and 1961. For each of these birds, total body weight, heart weight, and the heart weight: body weight ratio are presented. By comparing these data with those compiled by Hartman for tropical and subtropical birds, it is concluded that arctic species tend to have larger hearts. No significant intraspecific sex or age differences were detected. Heart size is related to body activities: species which spend much time foraging on the ground (regarded as "poor fliers"), those which generally dive for food in water, and soaring birds have smaller hearts than their counterparts which are more active fliers. The sympatric Willow and Rock Ptarmigan have significantly different heart ratios, but, contrary to earlier beliefs, this difference is attributed to body size rather than altitude. Body lipids of four breeding species (Calcarius, Acanthis, Pluvialis, and Ereunetes) amounted to < 10 per cent of the total weight; in another species (Sterna), this value was about 11 per cent. In at least these species, it is believed that the heart ratio is not significantly affected by lipid deposits.
4159244|The irruption of the Clark's Nutcracker in California in the fall and winter of 1961 is discussed. The irruption coincided with low cone crops in the montane regions of California. An irruption of the species in Arizona also coincided with low cone crops in that state. It appears as if cone crops may vary synchronously over much of the range of the nutcracker. It is concluded that food is the proximate factor underlying irruptions of the Clark's Nutcracker and that these irruptions are not invasion migrations triggered by the same proximate factors which trigger ordinary migrations.
4159245|This paper presents a great deal of original information on a species that has received but little study and endeavors to correct certain errors in the literature. A critical reading of Audubon's "Biographies" will reveal numerous errors, particularly in the first volume, and it is evident that some of his stories were based on mere hearsay. It must be realized that present-day ornithological ethics had not evolved by 1831, and that "tall tales" from America were expected, if not demanded. I have searched through the literature quite fully and cannot find any contributor who has stated that he himself has witnessed the procedure described in Audubon's book. Herrick (1917) has not seen fit to discuss the story. Baird, Brewer, and Ridgway, in their History of North American Birds, reproduce the Audubon story and cast no doubt on its validity. A surprising number of later authors have printed the account in their works, some crediting it to Audubon and, regretably, more have not. I think that quite enough testimony has been presented in the foregoing statements by competent ornithologists to refute the story and that future authors should avoid its repetition.
4159246|Burrowing Owls (Speotyto cunicularia) and Barn Owls (Tyto alba) nested in captivity at the University of California, Los Angeles. The fertility of the Burrowing Owl eggs was uncertain; although incubated, they were all eventually eaten by the adults. The Barn Owl eggs were fertile and one young bird was successfully raised. Only the females developed an incubation patch, and its temperature was 39.8 C (Speotyto) and 39.3 C (Tyto). Continuous recordings of temperatures inside incubated eggs gave figures of 35.5 C (Speotyto) and 34.0 to 34.3 C (Tyto). Nestling Barn Owls are ptilopaedic but develop capacity for body temperature regulation very gradually; this is consistent with Nice's (1962) designation of newly hatched owls as semialtricial.
4159247|Incubation data on female Scarlet Tanagers, gathered in southern Michigan in 1947, 1948, and 1949 were reworked according to the formula presented by Skutch to determine Constancy of Incubation, giving an average constancy of 77% which lies within the range of Skutch's constancies. It is suggested that additional data be gathered for individual females wherever possible including day of incubation, time of day, and temperature and that these be analyzed in relation to the species constancies. Various factors influencing the female Scarlet Tanager's constancy on the nest were discussed. Among those influencing constancy were: male feeding female on nest; male feeding female soon after she left the nest; temperature; time of day; sunlight; rain; and day of incubation. The interplay of all these factors influenced the individual female incubation patterns.
4159248|Among the extensive vertebrate and invertebrate fossils recovered from the Rexroad local fauna of the Upper Pliocene of Meade County, Kansas are remains of the Recent species of ibis Mesembrinibis cayennensis and Phimosus infuscatus. The extinct species Plegadis gracilis and an ibis of the genus Eudocimus were also identified from this fauna. Ecological information derived from these ibises and previous work indicate that this area probably had a warm, moist, frost-free, tropical climate as is found today in parts of northern South America where ibises of these genera are sympatric.
4159250|Observations of a Purple Martin (Progne subis) nest in a gourd located on the mast of a research vessel at Sapelo Island, Georgia, were made during June and July 1961. Three young were successfully raised to the fledgling stage by the adult martins even though interruptions of one to nine hours duration in incubation and feeding occurred several days each week by absence of the vessel from its dock. The loss of feeding time amounted to 20% of the total photoperiod available during the nestling stage. It is hypothesized that nestling martins are able to store food reserves during periods of adequate feeding which enable them to survive prolonged periods of no feedings. The average clutch size and brood size of martins on Sapelo Island do not appear to correspond with the largest number of young which the parents can nourish.
4159251|This paper summarizes information from various sources on the Carolina Parakeet in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Colorado. Although the species may have persisted in Texas until the 1890's, there are few satisfactory records for the state. The four specimens extant are either mislabeled or without precise date or locality. Parakeets were present in Oklahoma, with records of some sort assignable to eight months of the year. There are no definite breeding records but specimens are known from southwestern, southern, and eastern Oklahoma, the last being taken in 1882. The last sight record was 1886. Kansas records for the parakeet span most of the months from late February through October, with one breeding report and an abundance of sight records for the eastern half of the state. The only specimens extant are those taken along the Missouri River by Audubon in 1843. Records become scarce after the 1850's although a parakeet was killed, but not preserved, in 1904. No specimens substantiate the presence of the parakeet in Colorado. The only possibly valid sight records of the bird in that state are those of Berthoud, who claimed to have seen the parakeet in central Colorado in the Platte watershed as late as 1877.
4159273|1. Twice-monthly aerial surveys have been conducted over 50 square miles of the southern Gulf Islands, British Columbia, between 26 September 1962 and 18 April 1963. 2. The first birds arrived on the study area about the third week of October. 3. The adults that arrived between October and the end of December are thought to represent those adults which breed within the area. Few immatures were present during this period. 4. During the first 2 weeks of January the eagle population nearly tripled--this new group being composed equally of adults and immatures. 5. The adult population declined after the middle of January. The immature population increased until the middle of February, after which it declined. 6. Factors affecting the accuracy of the aerial censusing techniques are discussed. 7. Nine additional hours of surveys over an extended area (500 sq mi) yielded a density of one bird per 3.37 square miles. The actual wintering density during peak population in February, is probably just under one bird per square mile over the entire Gulf Island area. The small study area yielded a density of one bird per 0.81 square mile for the peak population on 12 February. 8. Eagles are generally perched within 50 yards of the sea, and their distribution along the coast is quite regular. Clumping was associated regularly with congregations of eagles around sheep carcasses. 9. Dead sheep constitute a major food item for the wintering eagles on several of the Gulf and San Juan Islands. Throughout most of the Gulf Islands, however, fish appear to be the major food item. Few birds are captured.
4159274|Between 29 September 1962 and 9 April 1963, I continued my study of the winter eagle populations in northeastern Illinois. In addition to methods used previously, I introduced radiotelemetry techniques to the eagle research. Immatures arrived in the area before adults and remained more abundant until mid-December. The adult population increased to 225 by early February. No eagles were present after 6 April. Gizzard Shad continued to supply the main portion of the eagles' diet. The eagle population fluctuated according to the abundance of shad, with ice conditions, and with the advent of the breeding season. Sometimes eagles fed on fish discarded by commercial fishermen, on dead waterfowl, possibly on dead livestock, and on one occasion attempted to capture a live duck. Eagles roosted singly or in small groups usually some distance from their feeding sites. Nine eagles were captured in platform snares and a cannon net. Weights and measurements were taken. Adult eagles were color-marked with dyes but plastic back-tags were used on immatures. In addition, six birds were equipped with minature radio transmitters. The transmitter weighed about 80 grams, had a life of about 3 months, and enabled the investigator to follow the bird with radio-tracking equipment. Besides knowing the animal's location I could determine when it was soaring, flapping its wings, or preening. One eagle was tracked periodically for about 5 weeks. Occasionally a bird was tracked from the time it left the roost in the morning until it returned at night. One bird was tracked continuously for a distance of about 38 miles. During about 5 weeks 118 locations were received by radio-tracking four birds in contrast to eight reports for 12 color-marked birds in 2 years. Considerable variation was noted in immature plumages. On the basis of my observations and the examination of specimens at The University of Michigan Museum of Zoology I grouped the plumage patterns into six age-groups.
4159275|A study of the summer bird populations of the Toxaway River Gorge was conducted in 1961. Altitudes in this deep gorge draining a portion of the Blue Ridge Plateau range from 3,000 feet down to 1,100 feet. The climate is warm and wet. The luxuriant vegetation represents a transition from upper Piedmont affinities to the mixed mesophytic and oak forests of the southern Appalachians. Timed transects were chosen as the method of censusing the bird population, due to the rough terrain and dense vegetation throughout most of the gorge. This resulted in relative values as the measure of population abundance. Sixty-four species were recorded in the five major habitat types studied. The Pine Flats of the mouth of the gorge had the largest number of species with 45, the Mixed Mesophytic Slopes and Coves had 34 species, the Oak Forests 33 species, the Pine Flats of the gorge proper 30 species, and the Pine Ridges 25 species. Eight species had no direct habitat associations. Most species occurred in several types. However, 11 were recorded in all five types, while 12 were limited to a single type. The general affinities of the birds of the gorge were with the upper Piedmont, with some montane species present as nesters and a few others recorded as late summer wanderers. The general abundance levels were considered to be relatively high, both in species and individuals, as determined from the present investigation and in limited comparison with published studies in the Piedmont and mountains. The Swainson's Warbler was discovered to be a common summer resident of the Toxaway Gorge. This was the first positive record of this species nesting in western North Carolina. This warbler showed a preference for the dense thickets along the narrow river bottom Pine Flats, but it was recorded also in the Mixed Mesophytic Slopes and Cove Forests and the Oak Forests.
4159277|During the fall of 1952 through 1956 individuals of several species of migrating shorebirds were observed to occupy overnight mud flat roosts during stopover in the study area. The timing of evening flight to the roost seemed to be influenced by light intensity. The timing of the flight might be modified by behavior preceding migration. Deviations from the expected in the roosting flight may provide the observer with information about premigratory disposition of the flocks and alert him to a period for critical measurements.
4159278|Recognition of the diversity of systems of territoriality among species has clearly indicated that an understanding of the evolution of territoriality requires a theory which accounts for the diversity according to more general ecological principles than those which have been proposed in the past. A general theory of territoriality is proposed which depends upon the influence of two primary variables, competition and economic defendability, and on the adaptive value of aggressiveness under various conditions of these variables. Examples of application of the theory in different types of social systems (colonies, leks, and large territories) are given. It is suggested that in species with large territories used for both feeding and nesting, territoriality might, under certain conditions, be maintained or selected for in a population merely through the exclusion of less aggressive individuals from the opportunity to breed in a suitable habitat. Such exclusion would, however, be limited by counter-selection pressures when aggressiveness became too detrimental to reproduction.
4159300|The published evidence on the migration of the Sharp-shinned Hawk along the coast of the northeastern United States is reviewed and is shown not to support the hypothesis that the hawks (1) normally migrate inland, (2) are drifted to the coast by the wind, and (3) continue along the coast. An alternative hypothesis, which is supported by the evidence, is presented: the hawks normally migrate on a broad front in a generally southwestward direction over the northeastern United States at an altitude that makes observation difficult, and the observed "concentrations" or "flights" are manifestations of the diversionline phenomenon.
4159302|A concentration of approximately 1,000 swans gathered on a vernal pool in east-central Wisconsin in early April 1962. Two observers obtained very close agreement with independent counts of the size of flocks and subflock groups departing and returning to the concentration area. Pairs were by far the most frequently encountered size group. The next most frequent groups were threes, fours, and fives, respectively.
4159326|A northward expansion of the breeding range of the American Oystercatcher began from Virginia in about the late 1930's and reached New York two decades later. The species has now nested in three distinct areas of Long Island. These breeding areas which differ from each other and from breeding areas in the species' southern range and the nesting occurrences are described. The ecological suitability of the Middle Atlantic coastline for this species is discussed and reproductive success is reported.
4159327|Larus furcatus is the only nocturnal gull. Nesting adults fly to sea at night, only returning to feed young or guard and incubate at the nest. They display mostly at dawn and dusk. Possible adaptations to nocturnal existence include: white plumage prominent in displays, including a white "releaser" on the bill for the chick's pecking; large eyes with a tapetum-like coating and reduced pecten; the primary diet of squid (which surface only at night); and, possibly, the unique clicking calls. Nocturnal habits may have evolved to allow adults to stand guard at the nest during the day when the diurnal Frigate Birds (Fregata) patrol the colonies.
4159328|Four Crowned Cranes (Balearica) have been described from Africa. They have a bill shorter than the head; nostril oval; a tuft of straw-like feathers on the nape, and no tracheal convolutions in the sternum. Some authors have separated Balearica into two species and each species into one additional subspecies. B. pavonina pavonina is found in West Africa; B. p. ceciliae in Sudan, northern Uganda, and southwestern Ethiopia. These cranes are smaller and darker than the others and have the bare cheek patch mostly red (at the bottom) with a smaller upper portion white. Pavonina has about one-half white, ceciliae about one-third. The West African crane has a horn-colored bill tip, the Sudan crane a black bill (this is not always the case). B. pavonina has a very small red wattle. B. regulorum regulorum is found in southern Africa, from the Cunene River, Congo, and Tanganyika south to Ngamiland and Cape Province. B. r. gibbericeps is found in East Africa from eastern Congo, through Uganda to Kenya and Tanganyika. Balearica regulorum is a larger crane with a large red wattle and a cheek patch white with a small upper portion red. They are lighter gray in color. Typical regulorum has a rounded cheek patch while gibbericeps has a slight protrusion of the cheek patch into the black velvety feathers of the top of the head. Crowned Cranes roost at night either in shallow water of a pool or marsh or in adjacent trees. Nonbreeding Crowned Cranes most often roost in trees, breeding birds in shallow water very near to nest sites (except the setting bird). In Sudan, when the young birds are grown, family groups join into large flocks, separating again into pairs when the breeding season approaches. The breeding season is most often during the rainy season. The northern three forms nest from June to August usually, the South African bird from November to late February. Crowned Cranes have a dance similar to that of other cranes, but they begin it differently, by bobbing the head up and down about eight to ten times before they begin bowing or dancing. They use this at times as a distraction display. In one aggressive display both birds of a pair walk side by side with outspread wings, advancing toward the enemy with their heads in a threatening position. Nests of the South African Crowned Crane are large piles of dead sedges, grasses, and reeds, piled into a rather neat nest with a well-cupped center for the eggs. Six nests averaged 70.2 by 77.6 cm across and 12.2 cm above surrounding water which was 12.1 (8-18) cm deep. Eggs are pale blue when laid, unspotted and ovate to pointed ovate in shape. They become dirty white, with streaks of brownish and greenish. Five Sudan eggs averaged 74.3 by 54.46 mm in measurements. From East Africa eggs have been described as measuring 79.6-88 by 56-60 mm. Typical regulorum eggs from South Africa and the Rhodesias averaged (39) 86.19 by 56.78 mm. Thirteen South African eggs averaged in weight 149.66 g, varying between 126.1 (at hatching) and 182.0 (when fresh). Incubation required between 29 and 31 days and both parents incubate. During three of four nights observed, the female incubated (the male is a larger bird) while during two complete days' observations, they changed places seven and six times, respectively. The male incubated for three periods each day, averaging for the six periods 125.6 (56-203) minutes; the female for three periods 1 day, two on another, for an average of 107.8 (14-182) minutes. The male incubated for 50.6 per cent of the daytime and the female 39.8 per cent. The eggs in the same nest hatch during a 24-hour period, and the young, in a few hours, become strong enough to leave the nest. However, they return to the nest site for at least 2 weeks to spend the night on the nest. They feed in the marsh near the nest during this period. The newly hatched young is covered with buffy down with a darker middorsal vertical stripe. This has two dark horizontal extensions, one over the shoulders onto the wings, the other posteriorly to the mid-back region extending onto the flanks. The face is covered with shorter pale ivory down. The legs are flesh color with the soles of the feet pale yellow. The bill is slaty gray with the base of the lower mandible horn color. The egg tooth is pale ivory. The eye is brown. The call of Balearica pavonina is goose-like, Ka-wonk, Ka-wonk, Ka-wonk, Ka-wonk, while those of East and South Africa are much more mournful, Ya-oou-goo-lung. Sometimes these cranes also give a single Oouuw or a similar double-syllabled one. When calling the young to them the adults give a typical crane Purrr call to which the young respond immediately. The young give a shrill peeping.
4159342|The Anna's Hummingbird performs an aerial power dive display. The power dive passes over the display object and a sharp sound is made with the tail feathers. The bird then lofts high into the air to make repeated dives. The azimuthal component of this dive is always oriented into the sun when the sky is clear. This orientation enhances the display value of the iridescent plumage of the male with respect to the stimulus object. Under overcast conditions the orientation of dives is no longer sun oriented. A single observation suggests that when bright shadows are lacking but the location of the sun is clear, orientation fails. This suggests the possibility that the orientation of the dive is based upon shadows. A sun-oriented display is most likely to evolve in species which have iridescent plumage and breed at high latitudes or in the winter months. The Anna's Hummingbird meets all of these criteria and is, as far as is known, the only species of hummingbird which orients its display with respect to the sun.
4159343|Comparisons of autumnal shorebird migration with weather showed that in the first half of migration movements out of the study area were correlated only with wind shifts toward north and cold front passage, correlation with wind being higher. During the last half of migration, however, there was significant correlation with wind, cold fronts, falling daily minimum temperature, and precipitation, the influence of the last two factors increasing considerably. Precipitation was considered to have only an indirect effect by reducing feeding area and food availability. It was concluded that a clockwise wind shift toward north was the primary stimulus to autumnal migratory movement of shorebirds in this area, the other weather factors being of indirect or secondary importance, and having a masking effect on this relation.
4159344|The greater weight of males is significantly different from that of the females due to the higher levels of protein and water. Amounts of lipids and the carbohydrate-ash remainder show no sex differences. A spring migratory weight peak could not be illustrated in wild birds; and although the fat content of migratory birds in early April was high, it was much lower than the quantity extracted from obese premigratory captives. Early morning capture and the later occurrence of maximum fat deposition are suggested as factors responsible for these lower lipid levels. Dehydration by a night of migration is apparent in the free water content of migrants. Winter lipid levels in wild birds were reduced by the prenuptial molt. Amounts of lipids in both sexes on the breeding grounds were constant and, being already minimal, were not affected by the postnuptial molt. Significantly higher amounts of proteins were found in males during the breeding season. There is a significant difference in the amount of lipids between each of the four visible fat classes that were used in this study. Birds dying under cold stress had negligible lipids, while carcasses of heat-stressed birds were high in lipids, but low in water. Under both extremes of thermal stress, the weights of protein and water were less than that of wild birds at the same season. Estimates of the amounts of carbohydrates revealed similar levels in heat-stressed birds and wild birds, high levels in birds dying under cold stress, and very low amounts in birds at the peak of vernal fat deposition.
4159346|Ten species of bird fleas are known from eastern North America. Each species is discussed, and information is given on the techniques for collecting bird fleas and on facilities for identification of these collections.
4159365|The displays of the American Green-winged Teal are briefly described. Most of the displays are performed during social courtship but a few occur when the members of a recently formed pair are alone. Most male displays are given with the body broadside to the female, but one involves facing toward her, another entails facing away. Two displays are associated with the hostility between males. Displays recorded for the European race occur also in the American race and no differences in behavior of the two forms have been detected.
4159366|The data and arguments supporting the trans-Atlantic flight of the Blackpoll Warbler are reviewed, and new evidence on Blackpoll Warbler migration from coastal banding stations is presented. The data, some of which were supposed to support the overwater flight, better support the hypotheses (1) that Blackpoll Warblers in the northeastern United States fly southwestward to the southeastern United States, before turning southeastward toward the winter range in South America and (2) that some Blackpoll Warblers reach Bermuda as a result of being drifted by offshore winds. The supporting evidence is (1) the association of occurrences of Blackpoll Warblers at Bermuda with westerly winds, (2) the low average weight of all mainland samples of Blackpoll Warblers, (3) the average weight of Blackpoll Warblers at Bermuda, which is higher than those from mainland populations, (4) the similarity in migratory behavior of Blackpoll Warblers and other species of passerines in coastal areas, and (5) the similarity in the relative abundance of warbler species in coastal populations and at Bermuda. That the radar data on southward movements of small passerines are of Blackpoll Warblers departing on a trans-Atlantic flight is doubtful, because the radar data do not correlate well with the migration of the Blackpoll Warbler.
4159367|Observations on elms dying of the Dutch elm disease in central New Hampshire indicated that Hairy Woodpeckers were the only ones to avail themselves of the new food supply represented by the bark beetles, in any sustained fashion. The elms attracted females almost exclusively. In seeking an explanation for this phenomenon a year around study was made of both sexes, with attention to the types of trees on which they fed and their manner of doing so. It then became apparent that females of D. villosus differ from males in much of their feeding behavior and are especially adapted to feeding on bark beetles. The elm disease gave expression to a potential which would have been less striking under usual circumstances.
4159368|An investigation on the elevations of birds' nests was conducted during the breeding season of 1963 in northern Louisiana, primarily on the campus and farm of the Louisiana Polytechnic Institute, Ruston. A total of 522 nests representing twenty-eight species of birds was found. The 522 nests ranged from 0 to 50 feet above the ground, with more than three-fourths of the 522 nests ranging from the 0 to 12.5 foot level. More than one-half of the 522 nests were below 7.5 feet from the ground. The mean height for the 522 nests was 9.1 feet from the ground.
4159369|The ecology and some of the ethological traits of the breeding Eastern Willets in the vicinity of Savannah, Georgia, has been under observation for some years, and are recorded in some detail. Minor mention is made of the occurrence of the nonbreeding Western Willets in the same locality.
4159371|From 1961-63, 84 wintering and premigratory Myrtle Warblers were taken from localities in the Coastal Plain and Piedmont Plateau of North Carolina. In addition, 81 birds were obtained from northern Florida (1960-61). These birds were weighed, measured, and sexed; ages were determined where possible; stomach contents were removed; and the birds were checked for molt. After dehydration, the lipids were extracted from each bird. The lipids of three selected specimens were assayed for the amounts of glycerides, sterols, and phospholipids present. Subspecific identifications of the Myrtle Warblers used in this study were not attempted, and some of the difficulties involved in trying to separate D. c. coronata from D. c. hooveri are discussed. Plant and animal matter in the stomachs were identified. Premigratory birds from both the Coastal Plain and the Piedmont Plateau changed their diets from chiefly plant material in winter to 100 per cent animal matter in spring. Lipid deposition is not necessarily correlated with the change to an insectivorous diet, but probably to altered intermediary metabolism of the birds prior to or during migration. Support for this statement comes from the fact that the midwinter lipid peak occurs when the diet is largely herbivorous. The sharp increases in lipid level, whether midwinter or migratory, appear to be due to increases in the amounts of glycerides present. Data on lipid levels were correlated with the relative abundance of the species in the Coastal Plain and Piedmont Plateau at different periods during the spring to explain the migratory movements of various segments of the species population. Myrtle Warblers evidently begin migrating from both localities in April with a low lipid level, these early migrants moving only a few miles a day at first. By late April, the birds had disappeared from the Coastal Plain of North Carolina. The same could be true of the Piedmont also, except that east of the Appalachians the Piedmont appears to be the main avenue of spring migration for this species and birds moving north from the Piedmont are replaced by those from farther south. The birds passing through the Piedmont later in the spring are probably migrating at a faster rate, and the longer flights can be correlated with increasing lipid levels during May. By the middle of May, Myrtle Warblers are noticeably more obese, some individuals having as much as 20 per cent of the body weight in lipid. The prenuptial molt was almost completed by the time the birds migrated from Piedmont North Carolina. After 1 May all males taken while moving northward through this area had somewhat enlarged testes.
4159391|This report concerns the roosting behavior of the Red-winged blackbird and associated species; and is based on observations made over a 14-year period mainly in the Southern United States. The greatest concentrations of Red-winged Blackbirds in the southern states occur in the Coastal Plain Province in or near major grain growing regions. Roosts are formed during every month of the year. The largest roosts are usually found in winter; the smallest during the breeding season. Composition of roosts may vary from place to place and from season to season. The general locality in which roosts are found is probably influenced by food supply. The precise location is determined by the character of the habitat. Wetland situations are preferred by Red-winged Blackbirds. Most of the roosts in the Coastal Plain Province are located in marshes and swamps. Rice fields are important in the southern rice-producing area. Coniferous stands and bamboo are frequently used in the Piedmont Province. Blackbirds move out of roosts each morning at about dawn or shortly after, and return in the evening usually before sunset. Some birds may travel 35 miles or more from the starting point in the course of a day's feeding activity. On cloudy days blackbirds move into the roost earlier than on sunny days. At a Maryland roost subadult male Red-winged Blackbirds were the first to arrive at the roost. Females and then juveniles followed. Adult males were sporadic in their time of arrival. Stratification in a roost flight was observed where birds were flying downstream to a river marsh roost. Bobolinks flew at the greatest elevations; next in order of height were Starlings, Common Grackles, Brown-headed Cowbirds, and Red-winged Blackbirds. The exodus of a large roosting population is usually of shorter duration that the movement into the roost. In virtually all roosts some segments of the population are segregated. Stratification by species and by sexes of some species has been noted in roosts. Blackbirds may roost on partly submerged vegetation in a marsh, on the ground in grassy fields, in branches of trees, or in various other sites. In deciduous thickets with high bird densities they may roost at elevations of 1 foot to 30 feet or more. In one Arkansas roost Red-winged Blackbirds were roosting along branches at an average of about three birds per foot.
4159392|Red-footed Boobies rely heavily on wind to take wing, although they can do so without it, even from the ground. In flight they flap and glide alternately and usually fly alone or in small groups with little or no organization. They are capable of gliding long distances just above the wave crests even on relatively calm days. In flight to and from the feeding grounds the birds left the island early in the morning and returned late in the evening. The mean size of flight units decreased steadily in the morning and increased steadily in the evening, irrespective of the period of greatest flight density. A significant correlation between aggregate size and increasing darkness suggests the possibility that groups navigate with greater accuracy in the dark than individual birds, making it advantageous to form larger groups in the dark. Boobies under attack from frigatebirds attempted to outmaneuver the larger birds, but were not always successful. In the 86 such attacks noted, only female frigatebirds were involved, although males were seen attacking boobies for nest materials. The significance of this division of labor is unknown, nor is it known if the same situation prevails outside the breeding season. The boobies devoted much time to soaring when there was no clear advantage to be gained. It is postulated that this activity serves as practice to maintain the precision of flight control necessary for capturing flying fish in flight and for gliding over the crests of waves with a minimum of flapping.
4159393|Published inland records of the Ancient Murrelet in North America are reviewed and their relation to weather conditions discussed. Most of the records are directly or indirectly associated with weather disturbances over the Pacific coast. About two-thirds of the records are dated November or late October, presumably months of great migratory activity. Although positive evidence is scanty, a southeasterly drift rather than a direct west-to-east movement is indicated for both western and eastern records and the birds are apparently able to survive for considerable periods on freshwaters.
4159394|Nesting behavior of the Pine Siskin, and development of the young in four nests was studied at Lincoln, Nebraska during the spring of 1961. Nests, consisting of three layers of readily available material (grass, rootlets, and hair), were constructed in small shrubs in close proximity to buildings. The normal clutch size appeared to be three or four eggs. Incubation did not appear to begin with the laying of the first egg as all eggs in the nest hatched within a maximum of 36 hours. Incubation and brooding was apparently carried on entirely by the female. During incubation and the first part of the nestling stage the male fed the female on the nest and the female than fed the developing young. Feeding was by regurgitation. Nest sanitation continued for 5 or 6 days. Throughout the incubation and nestling stages the female siskin demonstrated a strong instinct to protect the eggs and young. Weight of the young at hatching was 1.1 grams and development to fledging was complete in 13 days. Nest leaving was probably earlier than normal due to repeated disturbance and observation. One nest studied was parasitized by the cowbird and the young cowbirds were cared for by the adult siskins for about 6 days at which time they were apparently deserted.
4159395|Reproduction in the Dickcissel in moist, disturbed prairie in northeastern Kansas was investigated, and information supplementary to the extensive studies of Gross (1921) is presented. Territories are defended by males and are effectively spaced through suitable habitat. Copulatory behavior is described. One male seemingly mated with two females, whereas a neighboring male remained unmated. Territories changed in area, and in two instances after a clutch was destroyed its territory, vacated by the parents, was partially incorporated into that of another male. The position of the nest in vegetation in northeastern Kansas is described. Elm saplings along grassy roadsides are frequently nest sites of Dickcissels. The mean size of 18 clutches in northeastern Kansas is 4.05, and the number of eggs varies from three to five. Sterile eggs are common in Dickcissels, and 26 per cent of the eggs observed were sterile in northeastern Kansas. The incubation period, determined in Illinois, is 11 days. The female ordinarily begins incubation on the penultimate day of laying, but one example is given of a Kansan female beginning incubation on the last day of laying. The eyes of nestlings open about 4 days before the nest is abandoned. Young leave the nest in 8-10 days, each weighing at that time approximately 14-18 grams. Of nine clutches and broods, four were robbed by predators in northeastern Kansas. Nestlings open their mouths for food shortly after hatching; they seemingly remain silent in the nest until a day or two before leaving it.
4159396|A study of the nesting success of Common Egrets, Snowy Egrets, Louisiana Herons, Black-crowned Night Herons, and White Ibis was made on a marshy pond on Sapelo Island, Georgia. The nests were visited once a week, and eggs and young counted and weighed. Losses were mainly in the egg stage in the Common Egret and ibis and in the nestling stage in the Snowy Egret and Louisiana Heron. Losses of the night heron were small in both stages. Losses from starvation were more common in four-egg than three-egg clutches. A calculation of energy requirements indicates that although food is limited, as witnessed by starvation of nestlings, the birds use only a portion of the marsh production of suitable prey.
4159397|The ontogeny of wing-flashing in 38 hand-raised young Mockingbirds was observed. All components of the wing-flash were investigated. Wing-flashing developed in both sexes in 9 to 13 days with the average on day 10 or 11. It also occurred in one bird visually isolated from all other birds. In addition the study revealed that the ontogenetical progression of behavior was not dependent upon the stimulus of being in the nest. Although the captive nestlings were out of the nest earlier than normal, they did not attain their fledgling behavior until the usual chronological age. The form of wing-flashing varies to a great degree, and a whole gradation of responses was noticed, from an intense, fully extended wing motion without hitches to a slow, partial extension similar to wing-flicking. Wing-flashing first occurs at its highest intensity without previous practice or imitative learning. However, a begging-balancing motion is believed to be the precursor of wing-flashing due to many similarities between the two movements. Wing-flashing was associated with an "uneasy situation" in birds up to 10 months old. This situation in which the birds are "wary" but not completely frightened is caused by: a) strange objects; b) unexpected movements, noises, or other stimuli; c) in semi-tame birds, coming too close to man and in young birds, being handled by man. Thus wing-flashing is related to food only as it pertains to such a situation involving large, live, moving insects. The amount of wing-flashing was also influenced by age, individualities of the birds, and tameness.
4159398| The oxygen consumption of the Red-winged Blackbird was determined for roosting, resting, and active birds. The mean metabolic rate for a roosting Red-winged Blackbird was 2.90  0.896 cc
4159417|In spring and early summer, 1964, I visited 47 of 52 known nest-sites of Peregrine Falcons in the region from Colorado to central Alberta, mostly east of the Continental Divide. Of the 47, only 13 were occupied by pairs of Peregrines, including 6 in Colorado, 1 in Wyoming, and 6 in Alberta. I saw an unmated bird in Colorado and in Montana and two in Alberta. I did not visit three other recently used sites in Montana. Of the 8 unoccupied sites in Colorado, 5 were used as late as 1960, and in Alberta, 6 of 11 unoccupied sites were used as late as 1959. Five young are known to have fledged from the Colorado sites, and I saw 14 young in the six occupied Alberta sites. From 10 to 17 October 1964 I counted, marked, and banded Peregrines on the Texas Gulf coast. In this period I drove 1,052 miles and saw 52 Peregrines, or about one per 20 miles. Five immature females were resighted up to 6 days after release, showing that some Peregrines do not move quickly from the area. One went about 80 miles northward from the banding point. Since eight resightings were made, only 44 individuals were seen, and these included 20 immature females, 16 adult females, 6 females of undetermined age, and 2 immature males. It appeared that Peregrines moved to the sea-shore in the night because few were seen just before sunset and many were seen at dawn. Banding records indicate many Peregrines, presumed to be "arctic" birds, migrate to Central and South America to winter. Migrants reach the northern border of the United States in the first week of September and dwindle to only a few by the last week in October. Peregrines winter rarely in the United States, except in coastal areas. They are especially conspicuous on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, and most must be "arctic" birds since the eastern resident population has virtually disappeared. The reason for the reduction of nesting Peregrines in the Rocky Mountain region are largely unknown, but I think that direct human interference is a major deterrent.
4159419| The Galpagos Swallow-tailed Gull (Larus (Creagrus) furcatus) nests on shallow to steep cliffs. In some respects (i.e., reduced nesting space, danger of falling over cliff) its environmental conditions resemble those of the cliff-nesting Kittiwake (L. (Rissa) tridactylus). Unlike tridactylus, furcatus has abundant nesting materials available, as do ground-nesting gulls such as L. argentatus and atricilla. In some aspects of its ecology (availability of nest sites, amount of nest predation) furcatus is intermediate between the tridactylus and ground-nesting gulls. Many behavioral and morphological characteristics of furcatus were noted in field study and experiments. Thirty of these are unambiguous enough for comparison with the other species. Of those characters presumably adaptive to the environmental conditions shared with ground-nesting gulls, all five resembled the characters of the ground-nesting species. Of seven characters presumably related to the "intermediate" ecological conditions, five resembled characters of ground-nesters and two were intermediate. Finally, of 17 characters presumably adaptive to conditions shared with the Kittiwake, 11 resembled those of the Kittiwake, one was intermediate, and 6 resembled those of ground-nesting species. Thus, Cullen's (1957) hypothesis that the Kittiwake's unusual characters are adaptive to special ecological conditions accompanying cliff-nesting is, in general, confirmed. 
4159420|The agonistic displays of the three species are described and related to differences in motivation which probably evolved through different selective pressures resulting from different historical population densities. The motivation, function, and evolution of song in this group are discussed. The species share similar song types, call notes, courtship, and agonistic displays. It is concluded that Setophaga ruticilla and Dendroica should be placed in the same genus.
4159422|Three pairs and several unmated male Tufted Titmice were marked and studied during a period from before nest building until after incubation had begun. The most commonly heard calls are in the frequency range of 2.0 to 2.7 kc and are associated with most behavioral situations. Calls with frequencies up to 9.5 kc were usually associated with aggressive behavior. During the study, females did not give low frequency calls under normal circumstances. During nesting and incubation, the paired birds spent most of their time feeding close to or upon the ground and not high in the trees as was the case before this period. The amount of courtship feeding also increased during the nesting period and appeared to be ritualistic at times. The behavior of the female during courtship feeding may stimulate the male to mount her. The territories appeared to be stratified with the home range below and extending beyond the territory and under the neighbor's territory. During the study period the main communication between males during defense of the territory changed from vocal inter-changes to physical contact.
4159423| The metabolic rates for roosting and active Starlings were determined at an ambient temperature of 24-30 C, and the metabolic rates of birds roosting singly, in pairs, and in groups of four were determined at 2-4 C. The metabolic rate of a bird roosting at 24-30 C was 2.86  0.156 cc
4159445|Recent records for 48 species in Trinidad and Tobago are presented, including 17 species not previously recorded in Trinidad, three new for Tobago, and six new breeding records for Trinidad.
4159446|An island nesting Gadwall population was studied during 1956 and 1957 at the Lower Souris National Wildlife Refuge in North Dakota. This 7-acre natural island supported extremely high nest densities in both 1956 (78 nests) and 1957 (121 nests). Vegetation supporting the highest density of nests (80 per cent of all nests) was nettle (Urtica procera) and Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense). The island was separated from the nearest mainland by 2,000 feet of open water. In late May, pairs began moving to the nesting island and at this time much intolerance began among the pairs. The first pairs to arrive were able to maintain home ranges on the island and its shorelines. As the number of pairs increased to approximately 100, island home ranges appeared to break down and most of the pairs had at least part of their daily range up to 3 miles from the island. The intolerance between pairs seemed to have both sexual and topographic significance. Although there was much aggression between pairs, this did not prevent normal and highly successful completion of their individual reproductive cycles. Nesting success for the 70 nests studied in 1956 was 85.7 per cent and for the 109 nests studied in 1957, 92.7 per cent, possibly the highest success ever recorded. Causes of nest failure follow for 1956 and 1957, respectively: predation--10 per cent and 2.5 per cent; desertion--4.3 per cent and 2.5 per cent; and other causes--none and 2.3 per cent. The average clutch size of incubated clutches was 9.5 in 1956 and 9.7 in 1957. The nesting period was relatively short, spanning 7 to 9 weeks from first laying to last hatching. The peak hatch occurred during 8-14 July and renesting was not significant. By contrast, the mainland nesting period for Gadwalls spanned more than 9 weeks in both years. After hatching of nests, females led their broods to other portions of the marsh for rearing. In the 3 years following completion of this study, an interaction of low water levels and mammalian predation prevented the formation of high nesting densities on this island.
4159447|The numbers and percentages of species killed on the same night of migration (9-10 September 1962) at Eau Claire, Wisconsin in a deciduous woodland area, and 190 miles to the northwest at Westport, Minnesota at the edge of the prairie, are compared. The species composition of the Eau Claire kill is typical for that area and similar to many other reported kills east of the Mississippi River. The Westport, Minnesota sample is a very unusual one as compared to other samples as the Yellow Warbler, Sora, Mourning Warbler, and Baltimore Oriole were killed in unusually high numbers. Just as obvious at this prairie-edge tower was the lack of woodland warblers so common to nearly all other reported TV tower mortalities.
4159448| Traill's Flycatchers of the fitz-bew song type arrived at Battle Creek in Southern Michigan on dates averaging 17 May (10-27) during a 35-year period and departed on 15 August (2 August-13 September). The average size of 27 territories was 2.06 (1.3-2.9) acres (83.8 ares). Habitats in southern Michigan are chiefly in dry shrubby marshes or along lake borders. On the Baker Sanctuary, Convis Township, Calhoun County, 48.5 per cent of nests were found in Cornus amomum bushes, and 14.3 per cent in Crataegus. At Ackley Lake, in the same township, 35.7 per cent of the nests were in Salix, 21.4 per cent in Cornus amomum, and 14.2 per cent each in Rosa carolina and Spiraea tomentosa. The average height of 93 nests was 133.2 cm. Eggs are laid during the early morning, as a rule; often the last egg is laid just prior to noon. The average egg set was 3.68 and the average measurements, 17.70  13.29 mm. The average egg weight was 1.67 grams. Incubation required between 13 and 15 days, averaging 14. Of 92 nests observed, eggs hatched in 64 and young left 60 (65.2 per cent). In these 92 nests, 302 eggs were laid, of which 223 hatched; 198 young fledged (65.6 per cent). Thirteen young left nests at 13.8 (12-16) days of age. They remained on their parent's territories until about a month old. Cowbird parasitism was found in five of 94 nests. Two cowbird young were fledged, at the expense of seven Traill's Flycatcher eggs. The laying of a cowbird egg in a nest causes the nest to fail in over 80 per cent of cases. Of 22 banded males, nine returned the next year, five the third, three the fourth, and one the fifth. Of 31 banded females, seven returned the next year and only one the next 4 years. Through 1964 two banded nestlings out of 147 returned to nest within 1,600 feet and 5,230 feet of where they were born. Both male and female return to their past year's territory if possible. One pair was paired for 4 of 5 years. From records of 23 banded females, the first egg was laid 17 (6-28) June, and nests were terminated 19 July (9 July-10 August). Only two of these females attempted second nests. The average number of eggs laid by the 23 females during the summer was four. Adult weights and measurements are given. 
4159449|A Curve-billed Thrasher and a Cactus Wren were taken from their nests at 9 and 12 days, respectively, and raised in an artificial environment. They retained behavioral features obviously adapted to the nest types of their own species. Most of the behavioral features of the nestlings underwent one or more changes which were tentatively related to (1) changes in environment associated with fledging, or (2) to a possible shift from increasing to decreasing energy requirements of the nestlings. It was proposed that while energy requirements for growth are increasing (the competitive phase), little energy is allocated towards elaborate behavior. The beginning of the non-competitive phase, when the requirements of growth are decreasing, allows the nestling to divert energy resources towards the development of adult behavior.
4159450|Seven species of altricial birds were studied with regard to development of coordination in grasping and balancing. There was little variation in incubation time among these species. There was considerable variation in egg weights among species. Most nestlings could grasp a perching stick for at least five seconds by the seventh day after hatching. Most nestlings could balance upright well by the 10th day. Catbirds appeared slowest in development of this character among species studied. Vision and equilibrium changes, development of peripheral sensory elements, muscular strength, and alar plumage may effect the development of grasping and balancing. Greater nest attentiveness and/or higher brooding temperature may speed the development of the embryos of species laying the larger eggs, but incubating for nearly the same time interval as species laying smaller eggs. This may account for small differences noted in the day after hatching when grasping and balancing is well developed in nestlings of these different species.
4159451|A manner of fledgling-feeding by two species of woodpeckers, not previously described, and which is contrary to those considered typical for the species was observed for Downy Woodpeckers and Yellow-shafted Flickers. In 1964 (20 May through 9 June) a pair of Downy Woodpeckers fed three large fledglings by allowing them to peck food from the adult bill. In 1965 two pairs of Downy Woodpeckers fed their fledglings in the same manner. In 1941 a large fledgling Yellow-shafted Flicker took food from the mouth of the mother. Details of feeding are given and published data on feeding of young by a number of observers for a number of woodpecker species is reviewed.
4159452|The maintenance activities of the Rose-breasted Grosbeak were studied in the wild and in captivity. This species forages mostly in the forest canopy, but also in shrubs and occasionally on the ground. Insects are gleaned from the foliage or, less commonly, caught in the air. Seeds, buds, fleshy fruits, and young leaves comprise the bulk of the vegetable matter eaten. Locomotion during feeding is by hopping, sidling, and flight. Seizing vegetable matter in flight is an adaptation for feeding at the ends of branches. Insects are caught in flight, but regular perches are not used for this purpose. Insects are crushed in the bill but not struck against a perch before eating. Food is not held with the foot. The bill is cleaned by wiping on the perch, licking with the tongue, shaking the head, scratching, or rubbing against the perch. The foot is not raised from the perch for cleaning. Downward stretching of both wings in the young persists as an occasional activity in the adult. Leg-stretching develops from a lateral movement of the leg in the young. Leg-stretching without wing-stretching is common. In young a single wing stretch may accompany stretching both legs. Bathing does not begin with pecks into the water. Alternate wing movements do not occur in bathing. The head is not rubbed on the shoulders after oiling. Sidewise switching during hopping describes a 90- to 120-degree arc. Tail-flicking during locomotion is inconspicuous, and is Up-Down or Down-Up with small lateral movements. Head-rubbing is not restricted to the Emberizinae among the fringillids, but occurs in at least this one richmondenine finch.
4159453|Duluth, Minnesota, can lay claim to one of the great hawk flyways of the world. The consistency of the flyway through the fall migration is quite remarkable when one considers that it does not appear to have the natural features apparent in some of the other Great Lakes areas. Therefore, it is paramount to search for more than one factor operating toward making it a major migration focal point. The factors that we believe are important are: a modified funnel formed by the lake and a range of hills, with Duluth at the funnel tip; a forest triangle that would direct both western and eastern breeding birds toward Duluth; a natural tendency of the hawks to move toward the southwest; free-moving thermals that could pile up against the lake on winds with a westerly component; and the possible effect of Lake Superior as a guideline. We assume because of these factors, that our supply comes from the east through a possible island hopping, the west from natural tendencies to stay with the forested areas and the movements of thermals on a westerly wind, and from the north by virtue of the natural funnel previously mentioned.
4159454|Although much is known about the fall migration of hawks from studies made at Hawk Mountain, Cedar Grove, and at other locations near the Great Lakes and along the Atlantic Coast, relatively little study has been done on spring hawk migration. The location of a major spring hawk flyway along the southern shore of Lake Ontario presented an excellent opportunity for study. A promontory on the southeast shore of the lake, known locally as Derby Hill, was selected as a study area, and observations of hawk movements were made during the spring migration periods in 1963 and 1964. Particular attention was focused on the different species of hawks migrating at different times and on the effects of weather conditions upon the movement of the hawks. It was found that in general each species of hawk tends to migrate within a definite part of the migration season, although occasional individuals may migrate early or late. Some species, such as the Goshawk, Red-shouldered Hawk, Red-tailed Hawk, Rough-legged Hawk, American Kestrel, and Harrier are most common late in March or during the first week of April. Other species, such as the Broad-winged Hawk, Sharp-shinned Hawk, Turkey Vulture, and Osprey are most common during the last week of April or during the first week of May. The Red-tailed Hawk, Harrier, and Cooper's Hawk tend to have migration periods which extend over most of the spring migration season. Large spring movements of hawks are associated with southerly winds, rising temperatures, falling barometric pressure, and the approach of a low-pressure area and cold front. Because of the tendency for these weather factors to occur together, it has not been possible to isolate any one as being of primary importance in stimulating spring hawk movements. It appears doubtful, however, that temperature or actual change in atmospheric pressure directly stimulates spring movements. More likely, the factors which are of major importance are the southerly winds and rising currents of air which occur in front (east) of an approaching low-pressure area. It would be advantageous for hawks to fly on southerly winds when rising currents of air are also occurring. Such "tail winds" and rising air currents enable hawks to migrate farther for a given expenditure of metabolic energy. The only hawk which frequently does not show a good association with an approaching low-pressure area is the Broad-winged Hawk. The tendency for hawks to migrate within certain hours of the day is probably related to daily variations in local weather factors and to the methods of flight which the hawks employ, although the feeding and hunting habits of these birds may also be of some importance. Those species which depend largely on soaring fly when updraft formation is greatest. Such updrafts probably result from the general tendency of air to rise in a low-pressure area, from thermal activity, and from the tendency of warm southerly winds to be forced up by the cool air mass over the lake. Species which employ soaring flight less frequently often begin migrating earlier in the day and continue later than those species that depend on the thermals to a greater degree. Migrating hawks also exhibit other responses to local weather conditions. They tend to remain close to the lake when winds are southerly and to move inland for various distances when winds are from other directions. Hawks generally fly higher and move forward more rapidly when winds are from a westerly direction. It has also been noted that hawks usually cease migration in rain or snow.
4159456|The existence energy requirement of the Red-winged Blackbird was determined under different environmental conditions. The birds were fed two foods: high protein poultry laying pellets and cracked corn. The mean existence energy requirement of birds under an increasing photoperiod at an environmental temperature between 21 and 25 C was 24.9 kcal/bird-day. The existence energy requirements increased from 25.8 kcal/bird-day at 21 C and 15 hours of light to 45.5 kcal/bird-day at 11 C and 9 hours of light. The existence energy requirements of birds held at a 10-hour photoperiod for 16 weeks also increased as the temperature decreased. There was no difference in the total metabolizable nutrients and metabolizable dry matter available to the birds under the different environmental conditions. The effect of environmental temperature and photoperiod on the existence energy requirements in regard to the survival of the species and migration is discussed. The environmental temperature probably has a greater influence on the existence energy requirements of birds than has photoperiod.
4159474| The Squirrel Cuckoo is found from the lowlands up to 7,000 or 8,000 feet but is more abundant at lower altitudes. Avoiding the interior of the forest, it inhabits open and cultivated country with scattered trees in both wet and semiarid regions. It lives in pairs throughout the year. Its diet consists of adult and larval insects, including caterpillars covered with stinging hairs. Its varied calls are described. Males feed their mates, and both retain their hold on the article of food during coition. Nests are placed in trees or in low tangled growth. While building, one partner (probably the male) brings material to the other, who stays on the nest and arranges it. One pair tried for over a week to build in an inadequate site from which all their material fell to the ground. They worked most actively after the middle of the morning. The completed nest consists of a loose foundation of coarse sticks supporting a thick mass of leaves, some of which are green when brought. In southern Costa Rica, the breeding season extends from January to October and appears to be at its height from April to June. The white, chalky eggs, usually two in a set, are soon stained with brown by contact with the leaves on which they rest. Both parents incubate. After the routine of incubation was well established, one pair kept their eggs constantly covered, changing places only twice a day. One partner sat through the middle of the day, for seven or eight hours continuously, and the other all the rest of each 24-hour period. The nestlings hatch with hair-like down feathers. At all stages they are fed infrequently--only four or five times in a morning for a single feathered nestling--but from the first the meals are substantial. Each meal consists of a single larval or winged insect, which is usually quite massive, and badly mangled when brought to the nest. Nestlings receive caterpillars with stinging spines. The parents carry droppings from the nest, which nevertheless becomes somewhat soiled. Even after they are well feathered, nestlings are brooded through the night, in the early morning and late afternoon, and when rain falls. Their separation from the nest is a gradual process, and they spend several days hopping through, and resting in, the surrounding branches. The Lesser Ground-Cuckoo, confined to the Arid Tropical Zone of Mxico and Central America, walks over the ground in search of food. Its calls include full, mellow whistles and trilled whistles. In mid-July, in the Motagua Valley of Guatemala, a nest was found on the ground, beneath a bush. The open bowl of petioles and sticks, lines with fine herbaceous materials, held two white eggs with a chalky surface. Both parents incubated, sitting for 2 to 3 hours continuously. After permitting a very close approach by a man, they gave a variety of distraction displays, although not the "broken-wing" ruse. An isolated colony of three Smooth-billed Anis on Barro Colorado Island, Panam Canal Zone, was kept under observation for nearly four months. The group consisted of a male and two females, identified by marking them with paint and watching them lay. The two females laid in the same nest, depositing their eggs around midday. Each female laid four to seven eggs in a set. The male regularly incubated by night, and by day all three parents (but chiefly the females) took turns on the eggs, sitting from 1 to 127 minutes at a stretch. There were short intervals of neglect, but the eggs were kept covered for 90.5 per cent of the period when the three were taking turns on the nest. While incubation was in progress, fresh green leaves were brought to the nest. Hatched without a trace of down, the nestlings developed rapidly, and if disturbed crawled from the nest when only five or six days old. The male brooded by night and protested more vehemently than the females when the nest was visited. During four months, this group of anis built at least six nests, and the two females laid at least 34 eggs, without rearing a single fledgling. The despoiler of their nests was not discovered. The interval between the disappearance of the eggs from one nest and the first laying in the following nest was in several cases only three to five days, and once apparently even less. The Smooth-billed Ani was first recorded in Costa Rica, near the Panamanian border, in 1931. By 1940 it had reached the upper Trraba Valley, where the Groove-billed Ani was already resident in small numbers. Since that date, the Smooth-bill has become much more numerous than the Groove-bill in this region. 
4159475|A study of shorebird migration was conducted at Norman, Oklahoma, from 1 March 1961 to 15 November 1963. A total of 30 species was observed including 27 during the northward and 24 in southward migration. Baird's Sandpiper was by far the most abundant species during the northward migration; Least Sandpiper was the most abundant during the southbound season. White-rumped Sandpipers were common in spring but unrecorded after 21 June. Likewise, all six Sanderling records were in the spring. Species that were definitely more common in spring than in fall included the Golden Plover, Spotted Sandpiper, Greater Yellowlegs, Pectoral Sandpiper, Baird's Sandpiper, Buff-breasted Sandpiper, and Wilson's Phalarope. The Western Sandpiper was numerous during the southward migration but only five individuals were recorded during spring. The Dunlin was seen only four times, all in fall. The following species were also much more common in fall than in spring: Upland Plover, Solitary Sandpiper, Least Sandpiper, Long-billed Dowitcher, and Stilt Sandpiper. Only the Solitary and Western sandpipers, however, showed an increase in numbers greater than that explainable by the summer's reproduction.
4159476|The feeding behavior of the Glaucous-winged Gull was studied on Olsen Creek, a salmon stream flowing into Prince William Sound, Alaska. It was found that feeding took place in two distinct situations: (1) on the banks of the stream on salmon carcasses pulled up by gulls or bears and (2) in the stream itself, on salmon eggs drifting with the current. The behavior patterns centering around the defense of salmon carcasses appeared to be very similar to the territorial displays of the breeding season with these exceptions: actual territories did not exist, the carcasses were defended only by hungry birds, and the attacking gull won more often than the defender in disputes over a carcass. Upright Displays, Oblique-cum-Long-Call Displays, and Mew Call Displays were all observed frequently during carcass defense. The effectiveness of such behavior, however, tended to break down in the presence of bears feeding on freshly caught salmon, particularly when the salmon were females. The gulls also seemed to exhibit preference for female over male carcasses of spawned out salmon. Birds in immature plumage usually could not defend a salmon carcass against adult gulls, although first-year juveniles had a certain immunity to attack by their unresponsiveness to adult threat displays. Apparently, even adults cannot defend themselves against other adult gulls while diving for drift eggs in the stream. At the approach of a low-flying attacker, the swimming gull must either fly up or be bowled over. If drift egg feeding occurs in a riffle, however, the riffle can be defended like a salmon carcass. Paddling, probably to stir up salmon eggs caught in the surface gravel, also occurred in the riffles.
4159477|The frequent assumption that the size of a bird's food is correlated with the size and shape of its bill is supported by experiments on food choice and feeding time. In the first experiment White-throated Sparrows (large-billed species) and Slate-colored Juncos (small-billed species) were fed different sizes of the same food in a choice situation; in the second experiment the time taken to extract the kernel of each of the seed size types was measured for White-throated Sparrows. Two aspects of the feeding are shown: (1) that the relative choice of different sizes of the same seed is different for the two bird species of different bill size, in a way predictable by the bill size; and (2) that choice of seed types by one of these species is generally correlated with the bird's speed in opening these types.
4159478| Mockingbirds (Nesomimus macdonaldi) on part of Hood Island in the Galpagos were found in December 1962 to occupy collective territories within which they fed and roosted, which they defended against neighboring bands with a characteristic "Dance" similar to that of Mimus polyglottos. Within the band of four to ten birds there is an approximately linear hierarchy and up to three individuals were heard to sing. Elsewhere on the island, amongst seabird colonies where there were no nesting sites, the band structure was apparently absent and it is suggested that these may be nonbreeding birds. Behavior of mockingbirds on other islands was not markedly different. Some observations are presented of other behavior patterns including responses to potential predators, and recognition of individual mockingbirds. 
4159479|Wild and caged Starlings were studied to describe the behavior patterns of agonistic significance. Wild birds were watched in all seasons, while study of the caged birds was confined mainly to birds in nonbreeding condition. Twelve displays were recognized as having aggressive implications. Only superficial consideration was paid to the vocal aspects of behavior, but some calls seem to be aggressive in motivation and may constitute in themselves agonistic displays. Two displays were seen exclusively in wild birds; there were no displays different in quality seen in the caged birds. Study of the dominance hierarchy in the caged birds showed that it was of the peck-dominance type, in which no bird is immune to attack from subordinates. The hierarchy shifted unexplainably, but became more rigid with time.
4159500|Observations on Hairy Woodpeckers indicate that the breeding season begins in January when the male starts coming to the female's territory, in which nesting eventually takes place after nearly 3 months of preliminary courtship. Courtship activities vary in extent and pattern from pair to pair. The basic forms are precopulatory behavior, intimate notes, display flights, duets of drumming, and tapping before symbolic or potential nest sites, in all of which the female often takes the lead. As nest holes near completion in late April, males take the lead in copulatory behavior, often drumming to attract their mates. Two pairs of Hairy Woodpeckers which nested in adjacent territories in 1964 and 1965 are described in detail to bring out differences in behavior which may occur among individuals. A final discussion centers on the comparative behavior of woodpeckers.
4159501| Two wren species of the genus Thryothorus occur sympatrically over a large part of western Mexico, and were studied in this zone of sympatry. They differ in several plumage characteristics but in most dimensions they are similar, particularly in bill length, and they are strikingly similar in their songs. Reproductively, they appear to be isolated from each other. Territories are defended against individuals of the same and the other species. It is suggested that similarity of song aids this behavior, which is of mutual benefit to the species in view of their extremely similar ecology, viz., they occupy the same habitats, forage in a similar way, feed on similar foods, build similar nests, and breed at the same time of the year. Some territories are interchanged between the species from one year to the next. The two species did not occur in equal numbers in either of two study areas, T. felix being about twice as abundant as T. sinaloa in one and about half as abundant as it in the other. On the Tres Maras Islands only T. felix occurs. Here it resembles more closely T. sinaloa than does its mainland relative, it does not have the "territorial" song of the mainland form, and it has a bill 13 per cent longer than the mainland form. These data indicate that the presence or absence of a congener has had an influence upon the evolution of the reproductive and ecological characteristics of T. felix. 
4159503|Thirty-six upland breeding Red-winged Blackbird nests were discovered in Toledo, Ohio, 19 of which were in old weed-fields, 10 along ditch banks, and seven in second-growth vegetation. The primary nest substrate consisted of 10 different kinds of vegetation. Often there was a second or third species of plant assisting as nest supports. A great deal of variation was found in the nest dimensions and in the height of the nest from the ground. Most nestlings were able to grasp by the eighth or ninth day. More than half of them could balance on the day that they could first grasp. When a hood was placed over the head of nestlings when first able to balance, they had difficulty in balancing but most of them could still balance. Ability of nestlings to grasp and balance may have a direct influence on age-specific mortality.
4159504|A study of published records and personal fieldwork indicate that the breeding range of the Scissor-tailed Flycatcher is expanding, particularly toward the northeast. Although some of the past records are vague and inaccurate, this expansion is not altogether a recent phenomenon. The detailed records for the spread of this species into Missouri since 1955 are given together with a compilation of known breeding data. The species is now known to breed in 10 western counties of the state. Records for recent expansion into other states on the periphery of the range are summarized.
4159505|Roosting flights of Wood Ducks were described as functions of time for convenience. However, they were responses to endogenous stimuli, and they occurred within limits of illumination which changed in a predictable manner as the season advanced.
4159506|Fourteen records of renesting for backtagged pheasants were obtained in 1959-64 on a study area in east central Wisconsin. These and other nesting data suggest that all unsuccessful hens renested at least once, and that a sizeable fraction must have renested more than once. Adult hens appeared to be more persistent renesters than juvenile hens. Renesting hens remained in the vicinity of their original nest sites. Initial nesting attempts were situated principally in permanent cover types, whereas renesting occurred mainly in hayfields.
4159530| Egg production by nine yearling pheasants, maintained in captivity in 1964, averaged 70.6 eggs for the laying season, with extremes of 19 and 107; the laying season averaged 90.4 days in length, with extremes of 44 and 135. Rate of laying averaged 1.28 days per egg per hen. The number of eggs laid by a hen on consecutive days (sequence) averaged 4.4. The lapse between successive sequences averaged 1.3 days; single-day lapses comprised 81 per cent of all lapses. Shell color, a variable characteristic of eggs laid by and among individual hens, was confined predominantly to the orange to yellow color group. At least the first and last three eggs laid by yearling hens exhibited a "lighter" shell color than did the interim eggs. The mean weight of eggs laid by yearling hens was 27.3 g, with average dimensions of 34.0  43.4 mm. Although the variability among weights and dimensions of eggs laid by individual hens was not great, significant variability in size did occur among eggs laid by different hens. Generally, the first ten eggs laid by yearlings were significantly smaller than subsequent eggs. The variability in weight, width, length, and shell color of eggs laid by yearling pheasants was great enough to render these criteria insufficient for reliably segregating eggs laid by different hens in single nests in the wild. The seasonal pattern of variations in shell color and size of eggs laid by yearling pheasants suggested that the level (or balance) of pituitary gonadotrophins and the function of the oviducts are submaximal at the time of first ovulation and that they become maximal only after the hens have experienced several ovulations. 
4159531|This paper presents an analysis of correlations between the volume of bird migration into southern Ontario during the late spring in 1961, 1962, and 1963 and various weather parameters. Following winds and high temperature are correlated with major waves of migrants, but changes in temperature by themselves do not appear to be able to cause immediate changes in the volume of migration. The data suggest that mass migration takes place only when the temperature is above a limiting value but that above that value, wind direction exerts the major influence on the volume of migration. Very little migration occurs without warm following winds. Since warm following winds are caused by high pressure areas to the east and/or lows to the west, these pressure situations are positively correlated with major waves. They themselves have a negligible influence on migration. There is a negative correlation between rain and major waves, but it is not as highly significant as might be expected. Fronts, warm sectors and changes in humidity showed significant correlations with the volume of bird movement. These factors do not themselves influence migration significantly, but they are associated with other factors (wind direction, temperature, rain) which do. Wind speeds, the amount of cloud present and the relative humidity showed no consistent or significant correlations with the volume of bird migration.
4159532|The autumnal arrival weights in Panama and vernal fattening in British Honduras were studied for several species of trans-Gulf migrants. Birds arriving in Panama were extremely thin and many were below the estimated fat-free weights for the species. Fat indices on some specimens which were extracted, were below any which have been reported previously in the literature. Evidence is presented that fat-free weight may have been used as an energy source in some postmigrants. The premigratory buildup of fat reserves in Catbirds, Orchard Orioles, Indigo Buntings, and Yellowthroats in British Honduras indicated that some individuals of these species attained trans-Gulf flight capabilities at different dates while the fattening of sexes differed by date in the Orchard Oriole. The possibility that Stann Creek Valley may be a final stop in Central America for some species during spring is discussed. Data on weight changes in recaptured birds indicated that weight losses between capture dates may have been caused by handling of the birds.
4159533|Coturnix quail has been found to lay its eggs in low light intensities when a range of intensities is available. The intensities at which laying took place were found to be independent of light color, although other responses were modified in monochromatic lights. The experimental setup used allowed for both development of the reproductive systems of males and females and the finalization of this maturation, namely, the laying of fertile eggs. The response to the influences of light intensity is apparently evolutionarily significant, in that several advantages are therewith conferred upon the species. Results employing heat filters to eliminate temperature differences over the cage length indicate that temperature gradients play essentially no role in these results.
4159534|From 1962 to 1965 the songs and accompanying behavior of Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) were studied in Maine and Massachusetts. Breeding Yellow Warblers frequent low alders and willows, where they often are the only nesting species of Dendroica. In more mature growth this species is largely replaced by the Chestnut-sided Warbler (D. pensylvanica). Yellow Warblers possess both Accented and Unaccented Ending Songs. Accented Ending Songs were almost always given in the presence of female Yellow Warblers or male Chestnut-sided Warblers. Unaccented Ending Songs were given in the presence of other male Yellow Warblers. As the season progressed these songs became associated with certain parts of a territory, even in absence of an obvious stimulus. Intermediate Songs were sometimes sung when birds changed song patterns and appeared intermediate in motivation to the two major patterns. Silence or Muted Songs often occurred when two male Yellow Warblers were in close contact, and also when in close contact with female Yellow Warblers or male Chestnut-sided Warblers. A very low incidence of Accented Ending Songs occurred in one study area where territories were small and competition intense, but these birds obtained mates. Unaccented Ending Songs are probably sung when a strong attack tendency or a conflict of attack and escape tendencies exist. Accented Ending Songs probably occur when these tendencies are not strongly activated. The existence of two different songs probably serves effectively in species recognition where closely related sympatric species are present. Tropical populations of Yellow Warblers studied sang only Unaccented Ending Songs and were the only warblers in the habitat.
4159557|The North American flicker, Colaptes auratus, is represented in Central America by a population exhibiting distinctive morphological features. Variation within the Central American population, occupying the highlands of Chiapas, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, and northern Nicaragua, is mainly clinal. Clines for the various characters appear to be concordant, from northwest to southeast; however, the number of specimens available was inadequate to show variation, or lack of it within major areas with diverse topography, such as Honduras. The northwestern birds (Chiapas) tend to be larger, darker, and less barred below than those from the southeastern populations. The clinal nature of the variation, overlap among individuals of the extreme populations, and intrasample variation do not permit recognition of a second subspecies in the mexicanoides group of flickers. The race pinicolus Dickey and van Rossem is held invalid, for the El Salvador population is intermediate between those of Chiapas and Nicaragua. Characteristics of the mexicanoides subspecies groups of Colaptes auratus are presented. This group shows similarities with each of these subspecies groups: chrysocaulosus, cafer, and chrysoides. It differs in a number of important ways from the cafer group, and merits equal status with the four other subspecies groups (auratus, cafer, chrysocaulosus, and chrysoides) of C. auratus.
4159558|The Holarctic buntings of the subfamily Emberizinae can be divided into two groups by the presence or absence of a behavioural character, the use of the double-scratch in feeding. The double-scratch is a rapid backward kick of both feet by which the superficial layer of the substrate is scraped back. It may be repeated in one place until a hollow is made. Within this group this scratching movement is confined to New World sparrows, juncos, and towhees, being known for nine genera and suspected for another seven. These species also show certain common characters of morphology and behaviour as do those of the other groups subsequently mentioned. There are two main groups within the remaining species. The terrestrial Longspurs, with a Holarctic distribution, have a walking locomotion and lack the double-scratch. The Snow Bunting may be related to these, and the Lark Bunting shows similar characters. The other main group is that of the Eurasian Old World buntings, and the monotypic Crested Bunting. These birds usually hop but may walk, and do not use the double-scratch in feeding although occupying similar niches to the New World sparrows. The Old World species are usually regarded as derivatives of New World stock. It is suggested that the double-scratch is associated with hopping locomotion and may be lost by birds that walk; and that the Old World buntings have evolved via a terrestrial walking form similar to the longspurs, and in the process have lost, and failed to re-evolve, the double-scratch mode of feeding.
4159559|A radio-telemetric system was used to obtain data on sexual relationships in the Ruffed Grouse. The hen was attracted to the site of the cock's drumming performance but no more than a transitory pair-bond developed. A promiscuous mating habit was indicated. The movements of hens suggested varying levels of response to the stimuli of mating, and responses were precisely fixed among hens and in time. Such an inflexible pattern of mating has adaptive significance for Ruffed Grouse which winter in the rigorous climate of northern Minnesota.
4159561|The foods of the Black-bellied Tree Duck in South Texas were, by volume, 92 per cent plant materials. Of these, sorghum and Bermudagrass predominated in both volume and percentage frequency. Other food plants included smartweeds, millets, water stargrass, and a single incidence of corn. Plant foods consisted only of seeds and did not include vegetative structures. Animal foods (8 per cent by volume) consisted of insects and mollusks. Each of these occurred about as often as the major plant foods. The snail, Physa anatina, seemed singularly important. Tree duck food habits change with the advance of the growing season. There is an initial period of "artificial" feeding on stockyard grains after the spring migration. This changes to Bermudagrass in May, then to sorghum in mid-summer. Daily stubble flights to sorghum fields continue into fall but the late summer diet is supplemented by water stargrass. Grit from tree duck stomachs averaged 1.4 grams per bird and showed considerable size variation.
4159562|This paper attempts to: (1) define the concepts of wind drift and leading lines, (2) present the characteristics of each of these phenomena, (3) elucidate the various factors influencing wind drift and leading line behavior, and (4) document the above with a brief review of the literature of migration. In addition, the hypothesis of Murray (1964) is critically evaluated as an alternative to wind drift theory and rejected as being inconsistent with available information.
4159563|Songs and accompanying behavior of Black-throated Green and Blackburnian warblers were studied in Maine from 1962 to 1965. Work was concentrated in a climax spruce forest containing two additional species of Dendroica, Magnolia and Myrtle warblers. Blackburnian Warblers foraged higher than did other species, with Black-throated Green Warblers directly below them. Both possess Type A and Type B Songs, usually singing Type A Songs in the presence of other singing warblers of either their own or other species. These vocalizations appeared to be the territorial songs and were usually delivered from exposed perches while nearly stationary. Metallic Double Chips often accompanied Type A Song. Type B Songs were typically foraging songs and were also given in the presence of females. They were also given as apparent advertising songs early in the season from exposed positions. Type A Songs were apparently sung when a high attack tendency or a conflict of attack and escape tendencies existed; Type B Songs occurred when these tendencies were less strongly activated, and when sexual tendencies were high. The slight difference in context accompanying certain responses in the two species may be partly attributable to their differences in foraging height. Black-throated Green Warblers were more abundant than Blackburnian Warblers in the study area, and a greater portion of their hostile activities were intraspecific. Both species probably were the other's most important competitor.
4159564|The Golden-fronted Woodpecker has usually been blamed for utility pole and fence post damage in south Texas. It is now suggested that the Golden-fronted rarely initiates attack--its role is one of appropriating and enlarging holes already made by the smaller Ladder-backed Woodpecker. Although a wide variety of man-made structures come under attack, the heaviest damage by far is to creosoted pine. In an experiment with pine fence posts, it was found after two months that creosote treated posts sustained five times as much damage as non-creosoted ones. The role, if any, played by creosote or other wood preservatives in possibly making wood more susceptible to attack is unclear. Lack of suitable trees for roosting and nesting sites appears to be a highly important factor in making utility poles and fence posts more subject to attack. Heaviest attack is found on lines running through chaparral dominated by mesquite. Attack is also influenced by resonancy factors. Poles and posts exhibiting metallic resonancy or internal hollowness are selected over ones without such features.
4159565|A study of behavior patterns in the American Goldfinch was conducted from March, 1961, through July, 1962. Observations of both caged and wild birds were integrated, and agonistic and related social behavior were discussed. An analysis of displays observed during agonistic encounters indicate that Head-up, Carpals-raised, Head-forward, supplanting, and vertical flights are associated with aggressive drives. Fluffed and crouched postures, turning the head away, or leaning away show avoidance. Displacement activities include beak-wiping, head-scratching, and "displacement breast preening." Encounters between caged birds were analyzed according to their implications with regard to aggressiveness and social hierarchy. Agonistic encounters were observed more frequently under crowded conditions and during the early portion of the breeding season than when adequate space was provided or during winter months. Males were generally more aggressive than females during the winter, with an apparent reversal at the onset of the breeding season. The social hierarchy consists of a highly unstable peck-dominance, showing many reversals and triangular relationships, but with a tendency toward male dominance in winter months, female dominance during the summer. Both sexes exhibit territoriality to a limited extent, at least at the beginning of nesting. An area of about 10 meters in diameter around the nest site is defended against other members of the species by chasing and fighting by the male, with display flights accounting for defense of an area about 30 meters in diameter surrounding the nest. The birds were found to range considerable distances from the nesting territories to forage. The female appears to be more often involved in conflicts with other species, apparently due to her increased aggressiveness during nesting combined with her isolation from other goldfinches. The author's findings are compared with other recent studies of the behavior of fringillids.
4159586|Between January 1959 and June 1963 feeding flocks (bird waves) of mixed species of insectivores were under observation in Central West Malaya, 8 in a secondary forest at 150 feet altitude, 74 in lowland forest at 1,000 feet, and 80 in sub-montane forest at 2,000 feet. One hundred nine species were in association in these flocks, of which 20 were the most often encountered as nuclear or regularly attendant species. Five species of aegithinids, Aegithina viridissima, Chloropsis cochinchinensis, C. sonnerati, C. cyanopogon, Irena puella, and two campephagids Pericrocotus igneus and P. flammeus dominated the flocks. The timaliid Alcippe poiocephalus and sylviid Gerygone fusca were important wave "organizers" having conspicuous flock calls. The segments of waves recorded usually included about 10 species and 35 individuals, but much greater numbers were encountered. The average number of individuals per species varied with the species and season. Greatest number of waves, species and individuals were encountered between November and March. Waves flowed through the forest in definite patterns and had length, depth, and width. The species in the flocks tended to remain at certain levels within the canopy and position within the wave.
4159587|Remains of seven species of birds found in archaeological sites in Iowa, Illinois, West Virginia, and Georgia which are now either extinct, rare, or extirpated in these states are discussed. Supplements to the known range of these species and their use by the Indian are presented; two bones of the Fish Crow from Indian sites in southwestern Illinois constitute the first record of this bird for that state.
4159588| The Sierra de Tuxtla is a small, comparatively low mountain range in southern Veracruz whose rich avifauna heretofore has been investigated only in restricted areas. This paper deals with the status of nontransient birds in the entire range, covering about 4,200 square km, and lists 251 species known to have been recorded, including 55 not previously reported. The Sierra's topography of volcanic cones, ridges, gorges, and valleys provides a varied physical base to interact with climatic elements, chief of which are trade and continental winds and northers. An important aspect of the climate is the orographic rainfall resulting from the barrier formed by the four major volcanoes and subsidiary peaks. Precipitation ranges from about 1,700 to over 4,000 mm annually, being greatest on the Gulf slopes. Although temperatures occasionally reach the freezing point at high elevations, the climate is moderated by warm Gulf water, frequent clouds on the mountains, and extensive forests. A diverse plant cover exists owing partly to vegetation destruction and modification by man over more than half the range. Fertile volcanic soils contribute toward a more homogeneous vegetation typified by rain forest; this comprises one of the two most extensive habitats and supports much of the avifauna. Also supporting important numbers of species are large nonforested sections and water bodies, chiefly Lake Catemaco and Baha Sontecomapan. The Sierra lies entirely in the Tropical Life Zone with Humid Upper Tropical and Arid divisions present, the former restricted to higher parts of the mountains and the latter to inland slopes. Boundaries of these zones are ill-defined with respect to avifaunal distribution. Faunal mixing probably occurred in the Sierra during its history so that avian forms of both northern and southern affinities were represented. Since its climate was probably never cooler than warm temperate, even during the Pleistocene, it is unlikely that bird life in the range was ever completely displaced. Shifting of tropical and northern vegetation elements caused by climatic changes also affected the avifauna. This is now composed of a large number of species in Widely Distributed and Pantropical elements of unknown or uncertain origin, but apart from this, species of probable southern origin predominate in comparison to those with northern affinities. The Tyrannidae, with 26 members, and six other families with 13 or 14 members each, comprise almost half of the avifauna. Six major avian habitats are outlined. Lists are given of the species primarily associated with each including estimates of their relative observable abundance and aproximate elevation ranges. Continuing deforestation is resulting in areal expansion and increase in total numbers of nonforest species at the expense of forest birds. The distribution and nature of plant formations largely governs altitudinal ranges of many species, and the majority normally occur below 1,000 m. Among factors influencing abundance and distribution of birds are human alterations of plant cover and flowering and fruiting of plants. The long breeding season, though having a peak period of activity, is expectedly less well defined and more prolonged than those in more northern latitudes. Differentiation of the few endemic bird species was assured in the Sierra by physical and ecological isolation. Their survival despite volcanic action was possibly aided by dispersal in both massifs and probably permitted by the restricted nature of volcanic disturbances. 
4159589|First-year male American Redstarts are relatively uncommon as compared to older males as breeders in deciduous forests in the eastern and central United States. However in Maine they occur more frequently than older males in sub-optimal habitats. In New York first-year males arrive later than older males, are less aggressive and consequently at a disadvantage in competing with older males for territories in optimal habitats. They are also less successful in obtaining mates, at least partly due to their later arrival. A system is proposed to explain the interrelated effects of a female-like plumage, late arrival, lowered aggression, and use of sub-optimal habitats. It is suggested that delayed maturation, probably involving a lowered androgen level, evolved as a result of intense intraspecific competition in this species, and that selection acts against first-year males breeding in optimal habitats. Other passerines in which first-year males differ in plumage from older males also have high population densities and were probably subjected to similar selective pressures.
4159590|Winter flocks of Black-capped and Chestnut-backed chickadees were studied in an attempt to find factors producing ecological isolation between the two species. Two major differences were observed between these chickadees. Although the study area woods were approximately 50 per cent deciduous and 50 per cent coniferous, 76 per cent of the feeding records of Black-capped Chickadees were in deciduous trees, while 83 per cent of the Chestnut-backed Chickadee records were in coniferous trees. Secondly, the peak of records of Black-capped Chickadees was between 0 and 5 feet above the ground; that of Chestnut-backed Chickadees was between 45 and 50 feet above the ground. Black-capped Chickadees were recorded foraging on thick branches and main trunks slightly more often than were Chestnut-backed Chickadees. Black-capped Chickadees were also recorded feeding on the ground in 2.5 per cent of the records; there were no records of Chestnut-backed Chickadees feeding on the ground. Being in mixed flocks had no significant effect on either species, for any measured variable. No interspecific aggression was observed. It is suggested that the differences between the two species' choice of kind and height of feeding site are major factors in maintaining ecological isolation between these species in areas of sympatry.
4159591|An account is given of the breeding biology of the Horned Lark in alpine meadows at an altitude of 3,200 m on the Beartooth Plateau, Park County, Wyoming. Of a total of 15 nests, 9 were located in a dry habitat, 5 in a moist habitat and one in an intermediate type. Lark territories were large and in 1964 each occupied about 1.5 hectares. All nests faced between NNW and E, away from the predominant S and SW winds. Each nest had some protective feature in the form of a rock or vegetation on the windward side. The average clutch size was 3.1. The incubation period was about 11 days in two nests. Only the female incubates and there is only one clutch per season. The average nestling period was 10.2 days. Young develop rapidly and gain on the average 1.9 g per day. Young leave the nest when they weigh about 20 g. The eyes open on the average when the young are 3.6 days old and the primaries and secondaries break their sheaths when the young are 6 days old. Nestling mortality in 1963 was believed due to the deer mouse, while in 1964, nestlings were lost due to predation by blow-fly larvae. Young leave the nest before they are able to fly and they become independent of the adults by the middle of August at which time flocks begin to form.
4159592|An isolated outbreak of duck sickness was studied in the Delta Marsh, Manitoba. Evidence suggests that the bacterium Clostridium botulinum (Type C) was responsible for the deaths of 885 birds found at 22 Bay. The deaths were closely associated with fluctuating water levels. The ducks found most numerous in the kill were the Pintail, Blue-winged Teal, Mallard. Among the ducks represented, a large proportion (76:24) were drakes; however, for juvenile birds, a nearly perfect 50: 50 ratio existed. Other species, including shorebirds, gulls, terns, herons, grebes, Coots, and Marsh Hawks were found sick.
4159593|Migration in the Little Blue Heron is composed of a dispersal from the nesting colony area, a southward autumnal movement, and a return northward to breeding colony areas in the spring. Data from banded nestlings show that they dispersed in all directions from the breeding areas and apparently tended to follow major waterways, traveling as far as 600 miles but usually less than 100 miles. The southward migration of young and adults followed two major pathways. Those from the Mississippi River area and most of its drainage, migrated westward and south along the Gulf of Mexico to Mexico, Central and South America. Those from Central Alabama and to the east, migrated to the east and south through Florida and to the island chains, Trinidad and South America. A few went to Cuba. It was suggested that herons from the area between Central Alabama and the Mississippi River probably migrated either way, probably depending upon the direction of their dispersal prior to the southward migration. A migration between Cuba and Yucatan is a suggested solution to the appearance of a few aberrant individuals whose bands were recovered from wintering areas opposite to the expected distribution. The northward or spring migration is incompletely known. Data indicated a tendency to return to the general region of birth of the nestling. The return of one color-banded nestling to the site of its birth to breed provided concrete evidence that Little Blue Herons breed in their first year, that they start to acquire their mottled plumage at that age, and that they will breed in white or mottled plumage.
4159615|Field studies of the nesting birds of the McCurtain Game Preserve, McCurtain County, Oklahoma, were conducted during the summers of 1961 and 1962 in the months of June, July, and early August. Intensive studies were made in three areas representative of the major habitats of the Preserve. Data derived from these study areas were augmented by less intensive surveys within each of the habitats at various locations over the Preserve. The river bottom community supported the highest population of nesting birds (248 pairs per 100 acres) and the greatest number of species (36, plus six others possible). Eleven species utilized the river bottom habitat exclusively for nesting activities. The stream bottom community supported 136 pairs per 100 acres with 27 species (plus six others possible). The upland community supported 128 pairs per 100 acres with 35 species (plus two others possible). The total projected breeding bird population for the 13,300 acre virgin woodlands of the Preserve was 17,255 pairs composed of 56 species. Two of these species, the Red-cockaded Woodpecker and the Brown-headed Nuthatch are limited to the mature virgin pine areas of the Preserve in Oklahoma. The activities of swine suppress the population of ground nesting birds in the Preserve. The unique attributes of the virgin hardwood forest of the river bottom will be destroyed by waters of the Broken Bow Reservior now under construction. Steps should be taken to assure adequate protection for the remaining virgin woodland areas of the Preserve.
4159616|1. The distribution of birdlife along a 20-30 mile section of the Rio Callaria (Department of Loreto, Peru) has been tabulated with reference to three conspicuously distinct ecological zones, through which one passes in succession when travelling upstream from the mouth. They are characterized by differences in the width and rate of flow of the stream and by the principal features of the vegetation on the banks. The ecological character of the zones has been analyzed by considering the proportions of the fauna of each which occurred in only that zone and in the two other zones. The degree of faunal distinctness and the pattern of faunal overlap with other zones was different for each zone. As expected, greater species diversity was found in the zones of greater vegetational complexity. 2. Two fruiting trees which were being used for feeding by representatives of nine and ten bird families, respectively, have been described. The significance of the high diversity of bird species using these feeding trees has been discussed. Accompanying behavioral observations have been considered in relation to the problem of interspecific competition. Assemblages of birds using such feeding trees have been operationally distinguished, on the basis of three behavioral criteria, from the itinerant feeding flocks, so prevalent in neotropical forests, that recently have received much attention from other authors.
4159617|During the 1965 breeding season the reproductive success of Red-winged Blackbirds was studied on eight ponds and two small lakes located in two north-central Oklahoma counties. A few males were already on territory when observations were initiated on 8 April. Density of males on the study areas generally varied inversely with the size of the cattail nesting cover. Four females were known to be paired by 17 April. The nesting peak occurred during the third week of May. Cattails furnished sites for over 90 per cent of the nests. Generally, redwings built a new nest when they attempted to renest. However, on five occasions, a nest was used for two nesting attempts. This occurred early in the nesting season and only once on any pond. Eight hundred and twenty-one eggs were laid in 243 active nests for an average clutch size of 3.4. Hatching success was 38.9 and young were fledged from 24 per cent of the eggs. Sixty-five nests fledged one or more young, giving a nesting success of 26.7 per cent. Egg or young removal and nests tipping over were the major reasons for nest failure. Egg loss exceeded mortality of the young. The high nest densities in a limited area would make it possible for a single factor to destroy a large number of nests. Nesting success was higher for nests initiated prior to 1 June. Average clutch size was greater in early nests. Nests in old cattails were more successful. Over 50 per cent of the nests were constructed less than two feet above the ground or water. Nesting success was higher for nests in lower situations and decreased as nest height increased. Approximately two-thirds of the nests were constructed above ground or above water that was less than 10 inches deep. Nesting success was greater as the depth of the water below the nest increased.
4159618|The foliage preferences of hand-reared tropical birds are relatively broad. Exposure to a particular type of foliage narrows these preferences. Previous experiments (Klopfer, 1965) had shown that certain temperate zone birds had narrower preferences whether wild-trapped or hand-reared. The motor patterns of tropical species were shown capable of considerable modification.
4159619|Three sexual displays previously unreported for the Golden-winged Warbler are described: Gliding, Courtship Feeding, and a Courtship display. The behavior of the male during the Courtship display was similar to that of other parulids, involving such display components as plumage fluffing, crown raising, wing movements, etc.
4159620|The general feeding habits of 20 species of shorebirds at a small pond near Champaign, Illinois, were observed and stomach analyses of nine of these species were made during the autumn migrations of 1960 and 1961. The numbers and kinds of available food organisms at the pond were established by quantitative sampling of benthic invertebrates and estimation of relative numbers of free-swimming and shoreline organisms. Although most species did not show dietary specificity, consuming a rather wide array of organisms, all showed dietary selectivity, in that one or a few of the food items were sought out over the others and out of proportion to their abundance. Competition was probably reduced by this selectivity, and where two species shared high preference for the same item, competition was alleviated by the fact that they usually fed at different sites. Aggressive behavior was observed intraspecifically with the Pectoral Sandpiper, and at the peak of migration, interspecifically between these and Lesser Yellowlegs. They may have been actively competing for a preferred food item common to both. The Common Snipe, Pectoral Sandpiper, and Semipalmated Sandpiper appeared to consume considerable amounts of plant material intentionally. The other species probably took it incidentally with animal food. The size or leg-length of the bird partially determined its diet. Small species were apparently unable to forage in deeper water or ingest large organisms. The 20 species were placed into three groups on the basis of their food, general size, main feeding sites, and tendency to feed together. These groups, when feeding, were distinguishable in the field because of their evident zonation.
4159622|Field experiments on seed-size choice revealed that Tufted Titmice preferred larger sunflower seeds and Carolina Chickadees preferred smaller sunflower seeds as predicted from their difference in bill size. However, the chickadees showed a marked shift toward large seeds when the temperature was 32 F or below. Two mechanisms seemed to operate in this species: 1) a natural preference for small seeds, and 2) the modification of this preference toward one of increased efficiency under cold stress.
4159624|Data on surgically "devocalized" and sham-operated controls indicates that the gonadal activity of male Budgerigars may be stimulated as a result of their performance of vocal display(s) rather than as a result of hearing such behavior by others. This may be the first demonstration of the self-stimulation of an individual's endocrine activity by his performance of a species-typical behavior which involves gonadotrophins and non-parental behavior. Since vocalizations are ethologically regarded as displays, the current thinking about the functions of displays may need expansion.
4159625|Several new ideas were incorporated in the design of an experimental cage for passeriform birds. Detailed construction plans are included and some of the design features are discussed. Suggestions for routine application procedures of the cage are offered including the use of aluminum foil as a disposable medium to aid in quantitative excrement collection and handling.
4159653|Bird populations were studied on two bog areas in southwestern Michigan. One, a sphagnum--leatherleaf--tamarack bog, had an average of about 16 breeding species per year and an average density of about 170 males per 100 acres. Song Sparrow was by far the most abundant species; Yellowthroat, Rufous-sided Towhee, and Field Sparrow were also numerically important. All but the last showed higher densities in thicket compared with open parts of the bog. Most of the birds were forest-edge species of wide geographical range. Populations were sparse outside the breeding season, probably because of a poor food supply. The second area, a yellow birch--red maple--white pine bog forest, had about 20 breeding species a year. Density was about 270 males per 100 acres. Black-capped Chickadee, Ovenbird, Wood Pewee, Blue Jay, Cardinal, Scarlet Tanager, and four other species had densities greater than 10 per 100 acres. Between 1965 and 1966, the number of Ovenbirds greatly increased and Song Sparrows greatly declined. Two ways of viewing bog bird communities are set forth. The first, classificatory or organismic, recognizes four main ecological groups of birds occurring in bogs (marsh, thicket or forest edge, spruce--fir forest, and deciduous forest), while acknowledging that any given stand may contain elements of more than one group. The second, individualistic, view emphasizes the tendency for each species to be distributed accordingly as it encounters suitable habitat within its range of geographic occurrence. The second view is essentially correct for the instantaneous description of a stand, but it seems not to give sufficient weight to historical and evolutionary factors. The concept of bogs as boreal islands is valid for a certain range of latitudes. North of this, bogs are not much more boreal than surrounding vegetation and southward the number of boreal species rapidly diminishes until in southwestern Michigan there is practically no boreal character to the bird population.
4159654|Daily counts of Sharp-shinned Hawks were conducted on 915 days in the autumns of 1952 through 1964. A total of 17,628 Sharp-shinned Hawks was observed and 2,052 were trapped, banded and released. There are two peaks in the autumnal migration, one in mid-September, composed mostly of immature birds, and one in mid-October, composed largely of adults. Ninety-three per cent of the Sharp-shinned Hawks were observed on days with westerly winds, 72 per cent were recorded within two days of the passage of a cold front, 69 per cent were seen on days when the area temperature had dropped during the previous 24 hours, and 84 per cent were observed on days when the sun was shining for at least one-half of the time between sunrise and sunset. On the basis of these data we suggest that hawks fly when conditions are conducive for the formation of updrafts and that wind drift concentrates migrants along the leading line formed by the western shore of Lake Michigan. The flight behavior of hawks and the structure of updrafts is discussed in some detail. An analysis of two extraordinary migration flights suggests that weather conditions hundreds of miles to the north may affect the numbers of birds seen at Cedar Grove. The recoveries of banded birds, and observations of hawks at other points in the Upper Great Lakes region suggests that most of the hawks seen at Cedar Grove enter the area at the eastern and western ends of Lake Superior. The distribution of fall and winter recoveries suggest that the birds head approximately southward, are drifted eastward in the north and central portions of the eastern United States, and are drifted westward in the states bordering the Gulf of Mexico.
4159655|It is suggested that adult Common Loons, and probably adults of the two other large species of Gavia, cannot have a gradual wing molt for structural reasons, and cannot have a simultaneous wing molt while on the breeding lakes for behavioral and climatological reasons combined. The only remaining possibility is a simultaneous molt of the remiges following fall migration. Additional selective factors have caused further delay until finally the gaining of new flight feathers immediately precedes spring migration.
4159656|1. During the summer and fall of 1965 the roosting behavior of Herring Gulls in central Maine was studied with a view of attempting to correlate this behavior with environmental factors. 2. The summer roost was on rocks in the swift flowing Penobscot River within the town limits of Orono. The fall roost was five miles distant on Pushaw Lake. 3. During the summer the Penobscot River roost was used by up to 400 gulls but by 25 September no birds roosted there. Beginning in September the roost at Pushaw Lake was used and by the middle of November as many as 4,000 gulls were using this roost. When the ice formed on the lake no gulls spent the night there. These changes in the location of the roost are explained in relation to the numbers of gulls in the area and the human activity on the lake. 4. A significant difference exists between the time of roosting during the summer and fall. During the summer the gulls roost earlier relative to time of sunset than during the fall. These differences are probably caused by changes in the physiological needs of the gulls and by the changes in day length. 5. During the fall the majority of the gulls arrive when the light intensities are under 300 foot candles; a peak movement is reached between 115 and ten foot candles. 6. During the summer the rate of arrival does not vary between clear and cloudy days, but during the fall significantly more birds arrive at the roost earlier on cloudy than on clear days. 7. Wind velocity and direction, and temperature do not have a direct effect on roosting time, but may have an indirect effect. 8. Social interaction and disturbances at the feeding and loafing areas of the gulls may hasten roosting flights.
4159657|A total of 1,605 nest record cards from New York and Massachusetts and the Maritime Provinces of Canada were examined for variations in the breeding season and clutch-size of the Robin. In all areas but Massachusetts, clutch-size is higher in May than in April or June, suggesting a peak during that month. Clutch-size is significantly lower in the Maritimes than in New York--Massachusetts and declines steadily from New Brunswick to Nova Scotia to Prince Edward Island. The breeding season is approximately two weeks earlier in New York--Massachusetts than in the Maritime Provinces.
4159658|Twenty-seven Bald Eagles captured in southeastern Alaska were used in feeding tests to determine the effects of DDT in the diet. Trapping and housing of eagles are discussed. Various aspects of eagle behavior and handling techniques are also presented. Recommendations are made for preventing injuries and increasing the comfort of captive birds. The 1962 test birds consumed an average of 274 grams per bird day with a range of 109 to 401 grams per day between birds. Average food intake was 254 grams per bird day for the 1963 test birds with a range of 194 to 324 grams per day between birds. Weight losses varied from 23 to 49 per cent of normal body weight for the 7 birds which died in the 1962 tests. Tremors and death occurred first for birds on the highest dosage and progressively later for birds on the lower dosages.
4159683|Studies of the singing behavior of the Swainson's Warbler were conducted mainly near Macon, Bibb County, Georgia, and in the Dismal Swamp, Nansemond County, Virginia, during the springs of 1965 and 1966. Singing behavior on the ground and in trees is discussed. Swainson's Warblers sing vigorously from the time they arrive on the breeding ground until the latter part of June, when the singing of most birds becomes more sporadic. At Macon, Georgia, in mid-April, morning song of one bird began about 20 minutes before sunrise; and evening song of the same bird ceased about 15 minutes after sunset. Songs were delivered at the rate of about 8-9 per minute for the first few minutes of morning song, decreasing to 5-6 per minute for most of the morning. Songs are given in courses or series. The rate of singing is usually faster at the beginning of a course. The number of songs sung by a territorial male in 1 day in the Dismal Swamp, Virginia, 2 June, was 1168. It produced 280 songs the first hour, and sang at a fairly constant rate from 5:00 to 8:00 AM, 192, 194, 198 songs per hour.
4159684|A high density of ducks was observed nesting among California and Ring-billed gulls at Miquelon Lake, Alberta. The most numerous ducks, the Lesser Scaup and Gadwall, had a hatching success of 90 percent and 89.5 percent, respectively, but the fledging success of both species was nil due to gull predation. Evidence was gained that Pintail and Lesser Scaup strongly associated with Common Terns. Due to the high density of nesting ducks, egg parasitism occurred frequently.
4159685|Brown-headed Cowbird parasitism observations were made at Otter Lake, Pontiac, Michigan while working on a colony of 50 pairs of Yellow Warblers on a 55-acre area. It is believed on the basis of the appearance and size of eggs plus dates of laying and female censuses that in 1950 five females deposited the 56 parasite eggs found on the area. The laying cycle varied from year to year with host cycles. Probable single female cycles of 18, 19, and 25 eggs in four or five, six, and seven clutches, covering 40, 41, and 70 days, respectively, are suggested from the Otter Lake E and D types and Walkinshaw's data. Single year egg laying seasons of 75, 92, and 94 days have been reported in the literature for the species. Possible non-laying intervals between clutches of only two or three days are reported. The number of eggs laid on and off the area was undoubtedly greater than observed. If our inferences are correct, some cowbird females appear to specialize on certain hosts. Others do not. We believe one female laid 18 eggs all in Yellow Warbler nests in a 35-acre area. Statistical analysis on the 18 egg lengths supports this conclusion. The 19 eggs of another presumed single female, by contrast, were found in the nests of three hosts. From 12 to 40 acres may be covered by a single female with about 25 acres being a likely mean. A great amount of overlapping of ranges occurred. The number of hosts available per female is important in determining the density of parasites.
4159708| Observations on the summer biology of Smith's Longspur (Calcarius pictus), a subarctic species that nests along the treeline from Ontario to Alaska, were made at Churchill, Manitoba, in the summers of 1964, 1965, 1966, and 1967. Males arrive at Churchill in small flocks in late May or early June, the females a few days later. Several days after arriving flocks break up and males begin to claim territories. There is evidence that some birds re-use territories in subsequent years. Territoriality is not strongly developed in this species, and males make little attempt to defend their activity space, song perches, mate, or nest site. By a week after pair formation, which takes place on the territory and without any conspicuous displays, territorial behavior virtually disappears. Nests are built entirely by the female, usually in small depressions atop relatively flat, dry hummocks; they are lined with few feathers. Eggs are laid daily, the mean is four. Only females incubate. Incubation periods of 11 to at least 13 days 20 hours have been recorded. For about two days after hatching, chicks are fed mainly by the female; by D-2 or D-3 the male's role equals that of the female. Detailed notes on the growth and development of the nestlings are included. The chicks become homeothermal by D-7, when they begin to leave the nest; they are able to fly short distances by D-13. After leaving the nest, chicks are fed mainly by only one of the parents, which hastens the disruption of the family. When the chicks are about three weeks old, the parents desert them and form small flocks. Smith's Longspurs leave the Churchill area by early September. Hatching success was consistently high during this study, and only 7 of 114 eggs failed to hatch. Fledging success was 50 per cent in 1966, but less than 5 per cent in 1965. In 1965 most nestlings died of exposure during a severe storm. Adverse weather was the most important factor limiting productivity in the period of this study. The timing and extent of the postbreeding and prebreeding molts are described. The postbreeding molt begins in early July and may not be completed before the birds migrate. Males start molting a few days earlier than females. Stomach contents of 70 birds, including 29 nestlings, were examined. In early June the adults feed mainly on seeds, but from mid-June through July animal matter, mainly terrestrial insects and larval stages of flying insects, composed the bulk of the diet. Seasonal weight changes in males are correlated with changes in activity. The relationships of Smith's Longspur are not yet clear. It would appear that interrelationships in Calcarius may not be resolvable without also considering the relationship between Calcarius and Emberiza. 
4159709|One male Blue-winged Warbler and one male "Brewster's" Warbler were observed for 25 hours during a series of prolonged agonistic encounters. Aerial and non-aerial displays and vocalizations are described and illustrated. Morphologically, the Blue-wing and the "Brewster's" seemed "pure." The "Brewster's" sang a typical chrysoptera song. Two song types of the Blue-wing were more like chrysoptera than pinus. At the end of the observation period the "Brewster's" was confined to a very small part of its initially large territory, due, we believe, to the persistent aggressive behavior of the Blue-wing.
4159710|Interactions between the sexes from pair formation through copulation are discussed. Courtship displays are similar in the two species. Courtship is rapid, the time from pair formation to copulation being only a day in some cases. Male aggressive displays seem to stimulate female Soliciting. Two pairs consisting of Brewster's hybrid males and female Blue-wings differed from conspecific pairings in the lower level of aggression each sex showed toward the other. It is suggested that courtship of pairs involving a hybrid is less successful than conspecific pairings. Although no interspecific pairings occurred in the study area, there were several unsuccessful attempts at interspecific pairing and weak sexual responses were directed at a non-conspecific in some cases. Isolating mechanisms are apparently operating both in pair formation and in later stages of courtship. Hybridization, on the other hand, is probably facilitated by the similarity of courtship displays in the two species, their simplicity, and the rapidity of courtship. Courtship of these two Vermivora species is compared with other warblers and selective pressures affecting courtship are discussed.
4159711|A comparison of probable presettlement and present distributions of Sharp-tailed Grouse and Greater Prairie Chickens suggests that their original, probably narrow, zone of sympatric distribution has greatly enlarged as a direct result of land-use changes associated with agriculture. Ecological differences exist in areas of current sympatry that reduce actual interspecific contact, but hybrids have been reported from every state and province where sympatry has occurred. In Nebraska the current minimum rate of hybridization is estimated at between 0.3 and 1.2 per cent of the combined grouse population. A considerable number of display grounds used by both species in the state, and the incidence of such mixed display grounds is directly related to the relative frequency of the rarer species in local areas. The highest known incidence (17 per cent) of mixed grounds in Nebraska occurs where the rarer species comprises almost a third of the total population; this situation compares closely with estimates based on data from Wisconsin. Although a strong tendency exists for males of both species to form single-species rather than mixed aggregations, Sharp-tailed Grouse have been observed to be the intruder species on Prairie Chicken grounds significantly more frequently than the reverse situation. Records of 72 mixed grounds in Nebraska and South Dakota indicate they were of about the same average size as single-species grounds (9.8 vs. 9.1 males), and an average of only 2.0 males of the rarer species were present.
4159712|Observations on the habitat ecology, nesting behavior, distribution, and weights of some Argentine anatids are presented. Data were gathered during August 1964 to July 1965 with observations from eastern and southern Buenos Aires Province, the Chaco zone of northern Argentina, the highland puna zone of northwestern Argentina, and the Andean Lakes region of northern Patagonia. Compared to northern ducks, observations of southern forms indicate a lower degree of sexual dimorphism (especially in the genus Anas), a tendency toward permanent pairing (resulting in males accompanying broods), an extended period of courtship--possibly of lower intensity than in northern forms, reduced migration, and the absence of the "eclipse" plumage in males. Notes on plumages of five ducks are outlined to show variations in sexual dimorphism and molt patterns. Observations on several species suggest that the absence of sexual dimorphism is related to long pair bonds, while that of permanent dimorphism in South American anatids may be tied to temporary pair bonds. Loss of the eclipse plumage in Neotropical birds possibly is due to the irregularity of breeding seasons. Birds constantly in the breeding plumage have a definite advantage in being ready to pair whenever environmental conditions permit.
4159713|1. On four occasions, actual fights between Clapper Rails (Rallus longirostris) and Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) on the nesting grounds were observed in detail. 2. Twice, rails were observed preying on gull eggs, and once a single gull and later a group of gulls were seen preying on rail chicks at the nest. 3. One nest of unknown origin contained both rail and gull eggs; another contained rail eggs and chicks plus gull eggs. A typical rail nest was discovered with gull eggs, but no rail eggs or chicks. 4. These results, coupled with observations of gull-gull interactions, make it seem likely that interspecific aggression between gulls and rails has no simple, unitary explanation. The interactions contain elements of mutual predation, the nest-site competition, food competition and redirected aggression, thus demonstrating how complex may be the interactions between two species sharing the same habitat.
4159714|A local population of Brown-headed Nuthatches (Sitta pusilla) was discovered, whose individuals sometimes used flaky bark scales of longleaf pines (Pinus australis) for tools to pry other bits of bark off trunks and large limbs of those trees. This behavior may be of particular aid to them in foraging when the seed crop fails. Tool use in this species closely resembles the process of cracking seeds in the heavily ridged bark.
4159739|Inverse linear as well as curvilinear correlations of metabolized energy (kcal/bird-day) with temperature were demonstrated under both constant and fluctuating temperatures between -30 and +38 C for Acanthis hornemanni exilipes (Hoary Redpoll) and A. flammea flammea (Common Redpoll) at winter and summer photoperiods. Digestive efficiency generally decreased initially with a drop in temperature but increased after a long duration at low temperature, especially at extreme low temperatures, and particularly with hornemanni. The lower and upper limits of temperature tolerance determined for birds held at constant temperatures were respectively: hornemanni, -34 to +38 C or higher; flammea, -27 to +38 C. Both upper and lower limits were lower than for any other passerine species similarly studied. These limits were established using feed with a caloric content of 4.4 kcal/g. By substituting the higher caloric value of birch seeds (the major natural food) these estimated lower limits drop to -57 C for hornemanni and -51 C for flammea. The lower limits for birds held under fluctuating temperatures and photoperiods, simulating actual periods of winter weather occurring at Fairbanks, Alaska, were probably closer to those for wild birds. These limits were for hornemanni, -44 C, and for flammea, -34 C. Again substituting the caloric value of birch seeds the respective values are -67 and -54 C. The most important adaptations of the redpolls to the arctic winter, in comparison to non-arctic passerines, are: 1. Relatively higher rate and quantity of gross energy intake at low temperatures, owing in part to the possession of a croplike esophageal diverticulum which is filled with "extra" food just prior to the onset of darkness. 2. Selection of high-calorie foods (primarily birch seeds) over foods containing fewer calories per unit weight. 3. The ability to increase digestive efficiency at extreme low temperatures. 4. Plumage with probable greater insulative value. 5. The ability to continue activities at very low light intensities. Hornemanni is better adapted than flammea by being slightly more extreme in each of these adaptations (excepting diet selection) and, in addition, this species may not decrease its food intake during the autumn molting period to the degree that flammea does, thereby maintaining fat reserves for use during early, sudden cold periods in its more northern environment.
4159740|After further preparation and study, the early Eocene fossil Palaeophasianus meleagroides Shufeldt is found not to be a member of the Cracidae but is instead representative of the Aramidae.
4159741|Observations on Hairy Woodpeckers indicate that males forage away from nests, making fewer feeding visits but with larger prey, whereas females forage within earshot of their young, making frequent visits as well as maintaining general surveillance. Variations in local ecological conditions may upset patterns of nesting behavior. Among varying factors observed were the suitability of the nest tree in terms of security from predation, the closeness of foraging areas, and the presence or absence of such nest-hole competitors as flying squirrels or Starlings. Hairy Woodpeckers are able to adapt to a wide range of conditions. Sexual differences in feeding and agonistic behavior as well as the closeness of pair bonds may account, in part, for this adaptibility.
4159743|The behavior of Rhea americana was studied at the Detroit Zoological Park. The usual form of locomotion is walking, with running generally restricted to social activities. The common sleeping posture is with the neck in an S-shaped loop, with the bill resting on the throat. The rhea is largely herbivorous, but occasionally captures small birds or other animals. It may sip water in the manner common to most birds, but usually pecks at it. Prolonged drinking inhibits feeding for a few minutes. The frequency with which various body areas are preened is similar to that in a passerine, Spinus tristis. Dust-bathing frequently precedes a period of sleep and may be used as a displacement activity.
4159744|During the breeding season of 1966, as an adjunct to a taxonomic study of Red-winged Blackbirds in Florida, 177 Redwing nests were found. The general habitat types were noted, and the plant species harboring nests were listed. Redwing nests were found in 30 genera of plants. Buttonbush was the primary choice; it was used to support 50 of the 177 nests. Silverling and willow were the next most often used plants. Nests also were found in other shrubs and trees, in assorted herbs and grasses, and in fields of sweet corn and sugarcane. The great degree of nesting adaptability of the Red-winged Blackbird is attested by the diversity of nesting site selections in several habitats.
4159766|Tringa ochropus and T. solitaria occupy similar ecological niches in the boreal forests of the Palearctic and Nearctic respectively. In both forms, the calls of chicks are highpitched--about 6 to 7.5 kc in ochropus and 4.5 to 6 kc in solitaria. Chick content calls of both species are clear, high-pitched monotones. Distress calls are spread over a considerable frequency range and are shorter than content calls. A number of other calls were recorded in solitaria; and it is thought that they may represent intermediate motivational situations. Whereas the juvenile calls of ochropus are substantially higher than those of solitaria, the reverse is uniformly true for all adult vocalizations. All adult vocalizations are given by both sexes. Adults of both species utter a number of short duration, frequently repeated calls here named "contact," "alarm-attack" and "epigamic" chatter. These calls are all well adapted for locatability. In ochropus, all three possess a considerable noise element but most energy is centered about 3.2 kc. Noise is absent in solitaria contact calls but present in "alarm-attack" and "epigamic" chatter. These calls center about 4.8 kc. Both species possess "alarm-flee" calls which are usually given by flying birds, especially when taking off. These calls ascend rapidly--from 3.1 to 4.4 kc in ochropus and 4.3 to 5.1 kc in solitaria. They possess noise elements similar to those of "alarm-attack" calls; and intermediates occur in intermediate motivational situations. Long whistles are vocalizations present only during the breeding season in both species--at about 3.2 kc in ochropus and 4.8 kc in solitaria. The species-specific information which they are well adapted to convey is apparently enhanced by the location cues of chatter which accompanies them. This combination of long whistles and chatter occurs during pair formation, copulation, and other situations about the nest. Both species have songs composed of one or both of two basic structural units--"Type I" and "Type II." "Type I" units are less specialized. In both species they show close relationships to "epigamic" chatter. The more specialized units, "Type II," arose by addition and shift of energy in solitaria and by fragmentation in ochropus. The songs of ochropus are composed of 1 to 19 units each of which is about 0.6 seconds long, is separated from preceding and following units by about 0.1 seconds, and is located from about 1.8 to 4.6 kc. Three to 12 units compose the songs of solitaria, the units being about 0.2 seconds long; each separated from preceding and following units by about 0.15 seconds. They are located from about 2.5 to 6 kc. In both species "Type II" units are of shorter duration and higher frequency than "Type I." The structures of "Type II" units are better adapted for location over long distances while retaining clear tonal components for the conveyance of species specific information. The fact that ochropus songs are louder, longer, lower, and more frequently repeated than those of solitaria, may be related to the much greater territory size of ochropus. Selection may therefore have favored vocal characteristics capable of being transmitted and received over great distances. The songs of ochropus are similar to the "accented" and "unaccented" songs of some warblers in that "Type II" songs are restricted to pair formation and territorial advertisement and "Type I" songs occur at other times. In addition, "Type I" songs are the ones showing relationships to solitaria. The songs of solitaria do not fit an "accented-unaccented" pattern. Songs of solitaria are "discontinuous" and "nonversatile." Those of ochropus are "highly continuous" and "nonversatile"--a situation apparently rare or nonexistent in passerines. As many as 67 units/minute with 29.2 seconds of actual sound energy production have been recorded. Adults of solitaria did not respond to playbacks of ochropus songs while ochropus responded to playbacks of conspecific songs by approaching, singing, and often performing aerial displays. Chicks of ochropus responded to "alarm-flee" calls by scattering to corners of a box and crouching; to "contact" calls by moving toward the sound source.
4159767|Sandhill Cranes were observed eating eggs and hatching young of Blue Geese. They also hunted young ptarmigan with skill and success. One crane stomach was found to contain a collared lemming. The two young of a brood were apparently cared for separately, one by each adult, although the adults maintained contact and both defended any threatened young.
4159768|Body weight less crop weight of adult Willow Ptarmigan from western, northern, and central Alaska are higher in fall and in spring than in winter in periods corresponding to migration of these birds. Summer weights are much lower than winter weights. The decline in weight corresponded to the time of courtship and territory defense in males, and to post-egg-laying incubation and parental care in females. During egg formation and laying, weights of juvenile females and presumably adults, were higher than at any time of year. Juvenile ptarmigan reach a maximum juvenile weight in their first fall and then gradually decline in weight throughout their first winter and spring. Juveniles can no longer be distinguished from adults by known morphology after their second fall and their weights are then included in the adult weights and at that time show a marked increase over summer. Water index of Willow Ptarmigan carcasses (whole bird less digestive tract, feathers, feet, and wings from the wrist distally) varied from September through May being significantly higher in September, January, and April-May than in those months preceding. Lipid index (ether extractable lipids) of Willow Ptarmigan carcasses varied with the change in body weight being high in fall and spring and lower in winter. However there was a significant increase in January not related to body weight. Although no data are available for summer birds, it is assumed that fat decreases with body weight. There is a direct correlation of diet fatty acids with those deposited in the bird either as total lipids or as interclavicular depot lipids. The predominant acids are 16- and 18-carbon chains with the most abundant being linoleic acid
4159769|Territorial relationships of Blue-winged Warblers, Golden-winged Warblers, and their hybrids were studied. Behavior involved in territorial defense is described. Males with similar plumages and songs maintain non-overlapping territories while those with dissimilar plumages and dissimilar songs have overlapping territories. Males with dissimilar plumages but similar songs have overlapping territories while those with similar plumages but dissimilar songs maintain non-overlapping territories. It was concluded that plumage is more important than song in species recognition by males as measured by territorial behavior. Face pattern seemed the most important feature in species recognition. Overlapping interspecific territories probably increase the chances of mixed matings.
4159770|Indices of diversity indicate that Bermuda Catbirds and Cardinals may be slightly less stereotyped in their feeding activities than North Carolina birds of the same species. Bermuda Catbirds were also slightly less stereotyped in their artificial foliage preferences. Some support is presented for the hypothesis that Bermuda birds, living under reduced interspecies competition, may occupy larger niches with an associated reduction in behavioral stereotypy.
4159771|The nesting failures of the heron colony reported here, resulted from a number of interacting and contributing factors. The very low nesting success of Little Blue Herons (14.5 per cent) appears to have been the result of a high predation pressure from gray rat snakes, Barred Owls, and Fish Crows. The interspecific pressure of a large number of roosting and nesting Cattle Egrets in mid-July caused a number of Little Blue Herons to desert, contributing further to the low degree of nesting success. The White Ibises apparently did not nest because of the extensive drought in late April, May, and early June, that then continued in mid-July. The Cattle Egrets were completely unsuccessful in their two nesting attempts because the long early drought and the late drought reduced the amount of food available. The apparently heavy predation pressure, especially from Fish Crows, and the lack of breeding behavior facilitation, caused by too few other nesting wading birds present in the colony area, resulted in many desertions and completed the factors resulting in complete failure.
4159772| A field study of Black-crowned Night Heron maintenance behavior was conducted on the Bass Islands of Lake Erie, Ohio, in the summer of 1963. Descriptions of the behavior patterns associated with locomotion and body maintenance are given. The breast receives the most preening and the head the least. There is no set preening sequence, and the preening methods used showed little individual variation. Scratching was observed to be by the direct method and was for the most part an isolated action. Stretching and shaking are employed at infrequent intervals and shaking is used to place the feathers in order. Sleeping and resting were carried out during the daylight hours. Sunning, which is common to other herons, was not observed, but the herons did sleep in the direct sunlight. Throat pulsation, a rapid in and out motion of the gular region, was also noted during periods of higher temperatures. Bill-wiping and care of the feet are an uncommon activity of the night heron. Defecation may occur either in flight or while perched but occurs more commonly just before flight. When feeding, the immature heron's bill grabs the adult's bill at approximately a 65 angle and the food is transferred as the immature heron's bill withdraws from the adult's. There was no evidence of the adult placing its bill into the immature heron's mouth. 
4159773|Diurnal raptors were recorded from 1957 through 1959 while traveling by automobile in the panhandle of Nebraska. A total of 2,564 raptors of 17 species were observed while traveling 53,347 miles. The number of raptors per 100 miles was 3.5 in 1957, 5.1 in 1958, 5.9 in 1959 and averaged 4.8 for the three years. Annual patterns of raptor abundance were, with but few deviations, similar among years. But the magnitude of abundance for certain months varied among years. April and September were months of major migrations. Major winter raptors were the Rough-legged Hawk, Marsh Hawk, and Golden Eagle. Abundant species in summer included the Sparrow Hawk, Marsh Hawk, and Swainson's Hawk. In spring and fall the raptor population was dominated by the Sparrow Hawk, Marsh Hawk, and Rough-legged Hawk.
4159801|Rufous-fronted Thornbirds forage, in pairs or family groups of three to six or eight, through thickets and weedy fields, gathering from the ground most of the insects and other small invertebrates on which they subsist. They disappear beneath the ground litter, and ascend into bushes and vine-tangles to investigate accumulations of dead leaves. Their vocalizations consist of singing or calling, twittering, and chipping. The loud, ringing song is often delivered as a duet by a mated pair. The birds twitter when close together, chiefly inside the nest. According to its intensity, chipping expresses mild anxiety or acute alarm. The territoriality of thornbirds is manifested by boundary disputes that consist chiefly of singing and chasing, and by their often ineffectual efforts to keep intruding thornbirds out of the nest, which at all seasons is used as a dormitory. The bulky nests of interlaced sticks are built on exposed branches of more or less isolated trees, at heights ranging from about seven to 75 feet. The slender leafy bough chosen for the nest's attachment may be horizontal or even ascending, but more often it droops. Frequently it sinks beneath the structure's growing weight until it hangs vertically. The nest is built by both members of a pair, sometimes assisted by one or two other thornbirds, evidently their grown offspring of the preceding nesting season. Sticks, up to 21 inches long, are gathered from the ground, attempts to break them from trees being mostly futile. Dropped sticks are often retrieved. The builders try, rather ineffectually, to tear away leaves that interfere with their work. The nest's lining, consisting of almost anything soft or flexible--feathers, snakeskin, vegetable fibers, paper, cellophane, tinfoil, etc.--is added as found, from an early stage in construction to the incubation period, and even later. The first stage in building usually results in a nest with two enclosed chambers, one above the other. Later, more chambers are added, always at the top, until the nest may contain eight or nine, and become seven feet high. The compartments do not intercommunicate, but each has it own opening to the outside. The multichambered nest is not an avian apartment house; none of the more than 20 that were investigated was occupied by more than one breeding pair, sometimes with full-grown, nonbreeding offspring. The additional chambers provide lodging for the non-breeding birds while the parents attend eggs or nestlings. Although the complexity of the nest evidently makes it more difficult for predators to locate the eggs or young, many nests are pillaged. The construction of these incongruously large nests evidently represents an exaggeration of the propensity, widespread in the Furnariidae, to build superfluously, as a pastime or outlet for excess energy. Twenty-two nests were investigated before any young were fledged. In each of three, six grown birds slept; there were two nests with four or five occupants; three nests had three occupants; and 14 were occupied by single pairs. These family groups remained fairly constant from March through May; but in June and July, while breeding was in progress, many nonbreeding birds left the established nests. Thornbirds who have lost their nests may forcibly intrude into neighbors' nests, in the late twilight many minutes after the resident family has retired. Even after months, the intruders may not become integrated with the family. As is typical of ground-foragers, the majority of the thornbirds did not begin to breed until the long, severe dry season ended in mid-May. Only a few pairs established on low, moist ground started earlier. The three pure white eggs were laid in the lowest, oldest chamber, except in a nest whose lower portions had been invaded by Piratic Flycatchers. Both parents passed the night with the eggs. When nonbreeding birds were present, they might sleep in the brood chamber--sometimes despite parental opposition--or in an upper chamber. By day, the parents alternated on the eggs, the two taking nearly equal shares in incubation and attending the eggs for from 89 to 97 per cent of the daytime. Continuous sessions of incubation were rarely as long as an hour and averaged, for different birds, from 16 to 29 minutes. During the incubation period, the parents devoted considerable time to tucking in loose sticks and keeping their nest in order. They brought much additional lining, some of which was deposited in the brood chamber and some in an unoccupied upper chamber. In one instance, the incubation period was 16 or 17 days. The nestlings, hatched with sparse down, are fairly well feathered at 12 days but remain in the nest until 21 or 22 days old. Both parents bring them small larval, pupal, and mature insects, rarely a spider, always carrying a single item in the end of the bill. Three nestlings about 12 days old were fed 255 times in a day of nearly 13 hours. Brooding continued, in diminishing amounts, until they were 17 days old. From the first, fledglings fly strongly and may cover 100 feet on their first attempt. In the evening, they are led back to sleep in the nest with their parents and sometimes also older siblings. They were not fed in the nest after their first flight. A pair whose young left the nest on 5 June were incubating a second brood by 12 July. They now tried hard to exclude their grown offspring from the nest at nightfall, but the latter persisted in entering.
4159802|In 1963-64, most Gadwalls initiated nests during the last week of May. Nest-sites were usually in dense cover, on dry ground, and near water. First clutches in the wild averaged 10.57 eggs as compared to 8.67 for initial clutches in captivity and 8.25 for renest clutches in the wild. Incubation periods averaged 24.0 days in the hatchery and 25.75 days out-of-doors. In the wild, 46 per cent of 30 nests were successful, 37 per cent were depredated, and 17 per cent were deserted. In captivity, pair bonds were severed at various stages of the breeding cycle but nearly all were broken between 12 and 22 June. In the wild, drakes were with their mates in early June but by the end of the month no pairs were intact. Nonbreeding drakes that were never active in courtship molted before breeding drakes did, whereas males which did not breed but which attempted to court, molted after breeding drakes. By mid-summer some birds became flightless due to badly worn remiges. Disturbance coupled with lack of cover inhibited wing-molt in captives. Once wild adults regained flight in late summer they were wary and formed large flocks which were soon to depart. About six days were required for ova to develop from the 6 mm stage to ovulation. Testes of mated drakes were larger than those of unmated drakes that were chasing hens. Testes regressed rapidly once drakes deserted their hens. Males were heaviest just before dropping their remiges but lost about 100 grams during the flightless period. Females were heaviest during laying, lost weight during the incubation period, and gained weight while rearing broods.
4159803|1. The os prominens is a large, hook-shaped sesamoid bone in the tendon of the M. tensor patagii longus of strigid owls; it is absent in Tyto. A low rectangular os prominens is present in many hawks. The relationships of tendons and ligaments to the os prominens differ in owls and hawks. The functional and adaptive significances of the os prominens could only be suggested. 2. The osseous arch of the radius is a bony arch on the shaft of the radius; it is found in all owls. The M. pronator profundus and the M. extensor indicus attach to the osseous arch. Several nerves and blood vessels run into the cavity beneath the arch, and a whitish tissue (nervous?) fills the cavity beneath the arch. 3. The os prominens in hawks and owls is homologous only as a sesamoid in the tendon of the M. tensor patagii longus. The detailed configuration of this enlarged heterotopic bone in hawks and owls is not homologous and hence does not imply affinity. The presence of the osseous arch and arrangement of the tendons of the M. tensor patagii longus support placing Tyto in the same order as other owls. These features do not support relationship between Tyto and any hawk.
4159804|Blue-winged Warbler males in a population in Maryland, which probably had some introgression of Golden-wing genes, responded weakly but significantly to playback of Golden-wing primary song in a single stimulus test. Golden-winged Warblers, on the other hand, in a population in West Virginia which had probably never been in contact with Blue-winged Warblers showed almost no responsiveness to Blue-wing primary song playback. Each species responded more strongly to playback of its own song. It is suggested that responsiveness to the other species' song probably has at least in part a genetic basis.
4159805|The territories of color-marked male Sharp-tailed Grouse were determined by mapping the locations of threats directed across territory boundaries. Of 10 males banded in the spring of 1959, five returned to the same lek the following fall and spring. The positions of territories of these males were essentially the same in both the spring and fall of 1959 and, with one exception, again in the spring of 1960. This stability, which apparently depended on the year to year use of natural landmarks, indicates a conservative tendency in the social behavior of this species that may influence genetic variability and survival.
4159806|Eggs from Bobwhite in incubation tests at 101-102 F indicated synchronization at hatching when placed in clutches and/or segregated pairs with 24 or 48 hour delay periods for matched eggs. One test at temperature 95-98 F and 48 hour delay period failed to show these results. Statistical treatment in the case of test number 4 (matched pairs with one 48 hours delayed) is given and showed T significant beyond 0.01 level in the Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank test. The behavioral characteristics of three phases of hatching are discussed and the term "chipping stage" is used to denote the last of these successive stages. The term "surgepip" is given to the rhythmic behavior repeated during the chipping stage. Elements of this behavior are discussed in relation to the anatomical parts involved and the events leading to the chick's emergence.
4159807|The behavioral development of the Mockingbird is established from observations of 38 young birds. Each behavior is described including its modifications with aging, and the initiations and cessations of the behavior are noted. Using the age classification periods and criteria of Nice, an effort was made to compare two related species; the Mockingbird and the Curve-billed Thrasher. This comparison shows a general slower developmental rate in the Curve-billed Thrasher after seven days of age relative to that of the Mockingbird.
4159831|Nine species of birds are known to make more or less use of thornbirds' nests for breeding. Most of these birds do so only occasionally, and they may occupy only old nests or abandoned parts of nests, so that they are hardly injurious to the thornbirds. The Troupial, however, appears regularly to breed in thornbirds' nests wherever the two species occur together, and it also uses them as dormitories. The nesting of a pair of Troupials was followed from beginning to end. The Troupials did not use the entrances provided by the much smaller thornbirds, but tore a wide gap in the side of each chamber that they occupied. This pair of Troupials opened in this way two nests built successively by one family and one nest of a neighboring family, destroying one set of eggs and one brood of nestlings. A month before laying began, a Troupial started to sleep in the chamber where the brood was reared. The male of this pair, repulsed whenever he tried to join his mate in this dormitory, slept in another chamber of the same nest and later in the replacement nest of the same family of thornbirds. While there were eggs and nestlings, he lodged alone in this nest close by the breeding nest. The Troupials' preparation of their breeding nest consisted in lining it with fibrous materials more liberally than the thornbirds had done and in pulling many sticks from the part of the elongated structure above their chosen chamber, causing it to become constricted in the middle. The Troupial's three eggs, laid in early June, were incubated by the female, for periods ranging from 12 to 61 minutes, with a constancy of 70.5 per cent. Both parents fed the nestlings with larval and mature insects, including many grasshoppers and crickets, and fruit pulp. Only the female brooded. Two young were reared and flew from the nest when about 21 and 23 days old. They did not return to sleep in the nest, which was now used as a dormitory by a single parent. Neither in external morphology nor in habits can Troupials be considered typical of the group of birds commonly included in the genus Icterus. Thornbirds may sleep in a chamber adjoining that occupied by a sleeping Troupial, but it is doubtful whether they could rear a brood in a structure where Troupials are breeding, as the latter become fiercely aggressive toward the builders of their stolen nest. A pair of Piratic Flycatchers and a pair of thornbirds simultaneously incubated and fed nestlings in different chambers of the same thornbirds' nest. The latter failed to raise their brood. In late May, three pairs of Blue Tanagers were found building in as many thornbirds' nests, but none succeeded in rearing a brood. Other birds known to breed in thornbirds' nests include the Jinete or Fire-crowned Flycatcher, Sayaca Tanager, and Saffron Finch. The Striped-backed Wren and Great Kiskadee sometimes use thornbirds' nests to support their own bulky structures. A pair of Thick-billed Euphonias built in a kiskadee's nest atop a thornbirds' nest.
4159832|Frequent and often prolonged aggressive interactions between conspecific individuals are characteristic of shorebird foraging aggregations during migration and on the wintering grounds. Aggression does occur between individuals of different species, but is normally infrequent and of lower average intensity than simultaneously occurring interspecific interactions. Population density and the patchiness of available food and foraging space appear to be the main features of the environment determining the frequency of aggressive interactions. The average intensity of aggressive interactions appears in turn to be determined by the frequency with which individuals interact. Aggression does act as a population spacing mechanism, but individuals are aggressive only because it is a means by which they may appropriate for their own use a portion of the environment (food or foraging space) which would otherwise be unavailable to them.
4159833|A study was made of movement and mortality of Great Horned Owls through use of 434 recovery records of banded birds on file with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on 30 November 1962. Population trends were studied with use of the Audubon Field Notes Christmas bird counts from 51 localities for the period 1949-65. The banding data indicate that some Great Horned Owls disperse in all directions in the fall and winter, but most remain near their hatching and breeding places throughout the year. Banding recoveries from the northern part of the bird's range were available only from Alberta and Saskatchewan, and movement from this region was chiefly southeastward. The longest flight was approximately 860 miles. Movement was confined to young birds. There was less movement in the southern than in the northern part of the range. Most recovered Great Horned Owls were intentionally killed my man, chiefly by shooting. First year mortality of young birds was 46 per cent; mean annual mortality after the first year was 31 per cent. The oldest bird lived to be between 13 and 14 years of age. The Christmas bird count data give no indication of major fluctuations, cyclic or otherwise, in the Great Horned Owl population during 1949-65.
4159834|Sonagrams made with a narrow-band filter of abrupt slurs in songs of the Townsend's Solitaire (Myadestes townsendi) show some of the slurs to have a characteristic banding, indicating that the pitch change is stepwise (a glissando) rather than continuous. Tonal fractions in these glissandos varied from about 1/2 to 1/9 tone; they usually decreased toward the end of a glissando, and often differed in different renderings of the same phrase or figure, and in two or more glissandos uttered in succession. Measurements of the time intervals between the start of successive steps indicated that these steps were begun at rates of 1282 to 6211 per second. Conventional musical scores are inadequate for representing such elements of a bird's song; a sonagram with notes of the musical scale superimposed on it is probably the closest to a musical representation of a song that can be obtained.
4159835|The agonistic behavior of Hairy Woodpeckers in relation to courtship and territory takes place on favorable days in winter when neighboring males, attended by their mates, seek encounters along a section of territorial borders held in common. Occasions when pre-copulatory behavior followed conflicts within seconds suggested that both sexes were aroused by such conflicts, even though the females did not participate directly. The greater aggressiveness of the males was revealed in other types of conflict in spring. Thus a male took the lead in driving an unmated female intruder from his breeding territory and in an interspecific encounter in April, a male Hairy Woodpecker defeated, whereas his mate was defeated by, a male Yellow-bellied Sapsucker. An unusual series of conflicts were observed in May in which an unmated male intruder finally defeated a mated male in the latter's own territory. This abnormal situation appeared related to the fact that the mated pair remained attached to a territory in which suitable nest trees were no longer available. A situation was observed in the case of a mated male, who appeared to have no territorial sense and took little interest in either agonistic or courtship activities, yet nested successfully later on. Hairy Woodpeckers have large, often ill-defined territories in New Hampshire. What is surprising is the degree of individuality shown in their agonistic and other behavior. They appear able to develop close, intimate pair bonds under a wide variety of circumstances.
4159836|The Red Warbler, a Mexican endemic and, at least in the south, non-migratory, is common in coniferous forests, ranging from about 8,000 to 12,000 feet above sea level, being most abundant at the lower middle altitudes. It prefers the mid-level of conifers along edges and sunlit clearings, where it remains in pairs throughout the year. It does not readily associate with winter groups of other species. Courtship consists of chasing, "pouncing," special display flights and singing. Song, given by the male only, is heard from February to June. The songs of mated and single males are different. During three seasons of study, nine nesting attempts were observed, five of which passed to the incubation stage. The female alone prepares the nest, which is built on the ground and may be either cup or oven-shaped. The normal clutch is three eggs, but one clutch of four was recorded. The male does not incubate, but shares in feeding the young, although he usually does not approach the nest until three days after the eggs hatch. Eggs pip in about 16 days and fledging occurs 10 to 11 days later. Three weeks after fledging, the young are fully grown and, preceding the inception of the Fall molt, are driven away by their parents. Nestling mortality is high and only two out of 13 nests fledged more than one bird. Success of three eggs was never recorded.
4159838|A group of Common Rheas was studied in a large outdoor enclosure at the Detroit zoo. A small individual distance is maintained, but the major defensive display is a head-forward movement derived by ritualization of biting movements. In Nest-defense this includes a nest-covering movement of the wings. The male performs three types of displays. A Call Display begins with a booming call given in an unpraised posture with the wings raised and the base of the neck swollen. The rhea then runs across the enclosure in a zig-zag course. He may chase a female, who then runs away in a similar manner, or may perform the display alone. It seems likely that the running phase is derived from an aggressive chase, and probably the female regards it as such. The function of this display is uncertain, perhaps it acts in long-term stimulation of the female. The Wing Display is always directed toward a female, and may lead to copulation. The male walks beside the female with his neck in a low U-loop and his wings spread laterally. Then he may grasp the female at the base of her neck in an attempt to begin copulation, but the female usually runs away. The origin of this display may be the wing-preening posture of the male, which arises as a displacement activity resulting from approach-avoidance conflict prior to copulation. A Head-bobbing Display of the male is directed toward a seated female. It may be a precopulatory display, but its origin is uncertain. When the female is ready to lay an egg she comes to the nest and the male at first reacts aggressively, but gradually his defensive movements assume the appearance of a formalized display, permitting the female to approach closely. She crouches beside the male and lays the egg, then walks away, taking no further part in reproduction. The nest is a shallow hole in the ground three or four feet wide and sometimes lined with a bit of loose vegetation. The male spends some time in it, resting or "defending" it against other rheas, even though it may contain no eggs. In some ratites the wings are reduced to functionless vestiges, but in the rhea they are utilized in sexual displays and have apparently been retained by selection because of their value as a secondary sexual characteristic, rather than in their original function as locomotory structures.
4159857| 1. During the springs of 1963, 1964, and 1966 the day-to-day changes in numbers of "stopover" migrants at several study areas near Madison, Wisconsin, were used as an index to the arrival and departure of spring migrants in south-central Wisconsin. 2. The daily changes in numbers of stopover migrants were statistically correlated with weather components by means of the Chi-square test. Decreases in numbers of migrants at Madison were found to be positively correlated with clear skies and calm or southerly winds. Temperature changes showed no correlation and rain was found to be unfavorable for the initiation of migratory flight. Arrivals were correlated with southerly winds, night rainfall and temperature increases of 10 F or more or 5 F or more from the previous evening. 3. Ten weather patterns representing successive stages of a typical spring weather cycle were chosen and each of the nights of the three spring migration seasons assigned to one of these stages. The average increase and decrease in number of migrants per night were then calculated for each stage. Significant migration occurred in the weather zone stages between a high pressure system on the east and a low pressure system on the west. Largest decreases were observed when the center of a high pressure system was located just east of Wisconsin. As a low pressure system approached and moved through Wisconsin from the west, large numbers of migrating birds were grounded by shower activity and frontal passage. Little evidence of migration was noted in the weather zones to the west or north of a low pressure center or in the east sector of a high pressure system. 
4159858|The Swainson's Warbler is one of the least known of southern birds. Although fairly common in some parts of its summer range, observations of its breeding biology have been made by very few persons. The present study was conducted mostly at Macon, Georgia; Pendleton Ferry, Arkansas; and Dismal Swamp, Virginia. In central Georgia and east-central Arkansas, Swainson's Warblers usually arrive on their territories during the first two weeks in April. Territories in several localities ranged in size from 0.3 to 4.8 acres. A color-marked Arkansas male occupied the same territory for at least four months. Hostile encounters between territorial male Swainson's Warblers usually take place along the boundary of adjacent territories. Paired males were more aggressive than unpaired males. Toward the end of an encounter one of the two males would usually perform a display in which the wing and tail feathers were spread and the tail vibrated. Following boundary encounters males drifted back onto their territories and usually sang unbroken courses of songs for several minutes. During pre-nesting at Macon, a mated pair spent the day mostly on the ground within 20 feet of each other, often foraging 3 to 4 feet apart. What may have been a form of courtship display, in which the male flew from a perch down to the female and either pecked her rump or pounced on her, occurred about three times each hour throughout the day. During this period the male sang less than at other times during the breeding season. First nests are usually built by the first week in May. Although other investigators reported finding nests of this species outside of the defended territory, all nests that I have found were within the territory. The large, bulky nest of this species usually is placed 2-6 feet above the ground. It is built by the female from materials gathered close to the nest site; and takes two or three days to complete. Three and occasionally four white eggs are laid. The female incubates for 14-15 days. The Cowbird parasitizes nests in some parts of the breeding range of the Swainson's Warbler. During incubation the female spends about 78 per cent of daylight time on the nest. Both sexes feed young and clean nest. Young remain in nest from 10-12 days.
4159859|The species composition of birds killed on the night of 21-22 October at towers on Grand Bahama Island is presented with a description of the weather patterns preceding and following frontal passage. Gray-cheeked Thrushes and Blackpoll Warblers comprised almost half of all the birds killed. During this period a large number of migrants passed through the Bahamas, including several western vagrants. An annotated list of new and additional records for the West Indies represented by tower-killed birds or observations made during 20-24 October 1966 is included.
4159860|A tropical fruit tree in the family Meliaceae was observed to be visited by 16 species of birds, representing 11 families. Of these, 11 species were actually observed feeding on the fruit; and two general methods of feeding were noted. A variety of intra- and interspecific aggressive interactions were recorded. Most species arrived before 07:00. The species exploiting the tree most frequently included a woodpecker, a manakin, and a vireo.
4159861|The occurrence and variations of the oral flanges in nestlings of nidicolous birds are reviewed. The taxonomic significance of these flanges remains generally unknown for apodiform, coliiform, trogoniform, coraciiform, and piciform birds. As hole-nesting passerines tend to have relatively larger flanges at maximal development than do open-nesters, the degree of enlargement of the flanges in juvenile passerines generally appears to be correlated more closely with nest site than with taxonomic position.
4159862|1. Sixty Tree Sparrows (Spizella arborea) were collected during the winter of 1962-1963 in central Pennsylvania. Birds were measured, weighed, and frozen. Subsequently, specimens were thawed, weighed, dried, and extracted (petroleum ether: chloroform, 5:1) to determine wet weight, total fat, total water, fat-free weights, and fat and water indices. Age and sex were noted. 2. Adults were heavier (wet and fat-free weights) and larger (wing length) than immatures, but age classes could not be separated throughout the study. Age groups were, therefore, pooled. Males were heavier (wet and fat-free weights) and larger (wing length) than females, but the sexes did not differ significantly in fat. The most conspicuous diurnal change in major body components was in fat. 3. Subsamples collected from mid-winter through spring migration contained birds that were significantly fatter than fall and early winter birds. Wet weight and fat did not increase prior to vernal migration. There were no significant seasonal changes in water, fat-free weights, or wing length. 4. There is no field evidence for vernal premigratory fattening or for increased reserves as migration proceeds in this species, nor do additional reserves appear to be necessary since the Tree Sparrow should have adequate lipid levels to reach any portion of the breeding range in the time at its disposal. Therefore, we suggest a modification of the migrant categories proposed by Odum et al. (1961) to a) intracontinental migrants showing varying but moderate migratory reserves adapted to the species flight patterns (frequency of flights, distance of flights, time available for migration), and b) inter-continental migrants with varying but more massive maximal migratory reserves adapted to the barriers that must be crossed in a single flight but whose reserves are usually deposited only prior to such single flights.
4159863|In examining the factual evidence on which the concept of population regulation through territorial behavior is based it was found desirable to differentiate between three critical population densities. The effect of territorial behavior on limitation of reproductive success should differ at each level. At the lowest density, Level 1, territory sizes should not be limited by competition for territories and no individuals should be prevented from nesting in good habitats. At middle densities, Level 2, some individuals should be excluded from the better habitats but should establish territories in poorer habitats. This may under certain conditions create the "buffer effect". At the highest densities, Level 3, some individuals should be prevented from breeding and would form a breeding surplus or reserve which might exist as a floating population in and around occupied territories or on separate ground. The evidence supporting these hypothetical actions of territorial behavior on reproduction is found to be mostly behavioral and especially weak at the population level. The widespread importance of a buffer effect in population control has not been substantiated; the evidence is at present sparse and inconsistent. The prevention of females from breeding by territorial behavior has only very rarely been demonstrated in significant numbers. Surpluses involving primarily males are known in several species. In future population studies more attention should be paid to determining the magnitude and persistence of the surplus, especially in females. When a surplus exists, removal of the breeding population would be desirable to show that the surplus individuals would breed if allowed to establish themselves on territories. Although the hypothesis of population regulation through territorial behavior is a tempting one, too few critical studies on it have been done to conclude now that it is of widespread importance in limiting reproduction of avian populations; and, in any case, such a limit will be determined not by territorial behavior alone but by complex interactions between the environment, the number of birds competing for territories, and territorial behavior. Territorial behavior probably also influences populations in some species by increasing the emigration and mortality rates of individuals unsuccessful in finding territories. The size of the surplus depends on the excess of gains over losses and should be especially sensitive to variations in survival rates between species. The surplus and the conditions which tend to create it are considered as a link in the control of population density both through behavioral effects influencing reproduction, mortality, and dispersal and through natural selection acting on individuals. The surplus and conditions which create it are conceived as selective forces. Some of the hypothesized evolutionary consequences are lowered reproductive rates, polygyny, delayed maturation, and group territoriality. The hypothesis of the evolution of territoriality via individual selection resulting from aggressive competition is reaffirmed, and the hypothesis based on interpopulation (group) selection for prevention of overpopulation is rejected.
4159890| All five allopatric species of plump, short-tailed antbirds of the genus Rhegmatorhina follow army ants and capture arthropods flushed by the ants low in the undergrowth of lowland forests along the Amazon. The most common foraging motion is sallying to the ground, as in birds of the related ant-following genera Gymnopithys and Phlegopsis. Rhegmatorhine antbirds chirr and mob the observer. Freezing, and a sound of "keening" in some species, seem a reaction to distant danger. Single-note chipping, panicking, and hyperactivity result from the appearance of hawks and other nearby danger. The tail is flicked when a bird is excited. Submissive behavior has not been noted, but there is a strong aggressive display, "challenging." The bird stands upright, ruffs up the crest (characteristic of the genus), and partly spreads the wings and tail. The bright blue bare areas around the dark eyes then show prominently against black faces, reminding one of the eyespot patterns of moths and other animals. Supplantings are frequent when several individuals of a species attend a swarm of ants. Two pairs or more attend a swarm at times, suggesting that there is a territorial system in which the pair on its own territory dominates other birds. Interspecific aggression is frequent. Rhegmatorhine antbirds supplant smaller species, up to the size of woodcreepers of the genus Dendrocincla. Larger woodcreepers and large antbirds, such as members of the genus Phlegopsis, exclude rhegmatorhine antbirds from the best places over the ants. Courtship feeding has been seen in three species and probably is the main courtship ritual in all. All adult females seemed to be paired, for there is apparently a surplus of males. Males lead their mates to swarms. A "nest-showing" display was noted for one male berlepschi. In most behavioral aspects other than crest-raising, these antbirds resemble the noncrested antbirds of the related genus Gymnopithys. These and other ant-following genera have diverged less in behavior than in morphology. Of the five species of Rhegmatorhina, melanosticta (ranging through upper Amazonia) is the most distinct in morphology and behavior. The isolated R. cristata, from the Uaups River in northern Brasil and nearby Colombia, differs from other species in its loud-song but in few other respects. R. berlepschi, the Harlequin Antbird of the west bank of the Tapajoz in central Brasil, looks like but probably is not a hybrid between the white-throated R. hoffmannsi of the east bank of the nearby Madeira and the black-and-brown R. gymnops from the east side of the Tapajoz; juvenal plumages differ strongly. Possibly the presence of berlepschi and hoffmannsi rather than one species of the genus in forests between the Madeira and Tapajoz resulted from river piracies shifting the mouth of the Tapajoz eastward, creating for a time a forested island on which berlepschi evolved. The forested island may have been additionally isolated during dry interglacials by savannahs or by marine flooding up former and present river channels. The different banks of the Tapajoz and Madeira and Amazon, with their rather different species and guilds and communities, should be fertile ground for ecological studies of changes in species diversity in areas of low environmental diversity. 
4159891|A study of the reproductive success of the Wood Thrush in a suburban area was conducted near Newark, Delaware during 1965-1966. Nesting peaks occurred in the last week of May and in the second week of July. A total of 142 "nesting attempts" was recorded with 93 active nests; 35 (38 per cent) of which were successful. Destruction of 49 nests (58 per cent) was attributed to predators. Inclement weather and desertion caused some nest failures. In general, the greatest nest success was associated with (a) late season nests (June and July), with (b) spicebush and black gum vegetation, and with (c) the lower heights of nests above ground level (below 8.5 feet). Low nest success was associated with May nesting, red maple, and heights above nine feet. There was little difference in success between the two vegetational types: upland and lowland. Arrowwood, black gum, red maple, spicebush, and flowering dogwood were the most commonly used plant species of the 17 used to support active nests. Mean clutch size decreased from May to July. The average clutch size was 3.3 eggs per nest with clutches ranging from 2-5 eggs. Thirty-three per cent of the total eggs laid, hatched while 65 per cent of the hatched birds survived to leave the nest.
4159892|Following elm spraying on the Madison campus of the University of Wisconsin in 1959-61, at least 232 adult Robins apparently died of DDT poisoning between the extreme dates of 6 April and 20 June with peak mortality occurring each year during late April. Males died earlier and in greater numbers than females, and male specimens from several similar studies contained lower insecticide residues and tissue fat in both brain and breast muscle. Male specimens tended to die with lower tissue toxicants in April than in May, although the percentage of brain and muscle fat was similar in male victims of both months. Most dead and dying Robins contained almost no subcutaneous body fat, males averaging 69.4 g and females 72.8 g. Normal wild males banded soon after arrival in late March averaged 89.3 g, reached a low weight in late April, and increased slightly by June, while female weights reached a mean of 88.9 g during peak egg laying in late April before declining gradually. The seasonal loss of fat reserves in male Robins appeared to increase their susceptibility to DDT poisoning with fatter females showing greater tolerance.
4159893| We investigated body weight, molt, and locomotor activity of caged non-migratory White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) over a period of one and one half years including two springs. The four adults and six immatures used were captured in 1961 from the population which is permanently resident of the sand dune area near the mouth of the Pajaro River in Monterey County, California. Locomotor activity patterns of two immatures ( ) and two adults ( and ) were continuously (24 hours per day) recorded in cages with single activity-sensitive perches from December 1961 to August 1963. The orientation of the locomotor activity of two imatures ( ) and two adults ( ), each in eight-perch activity-orientation cages, was monitored 24 hours per day from December 1961 to December 1962. In December 1962 these four birds were transferred to single-perch activity cages where their activity patterns were monitored until August 1963. Two additional immatures ( ) were held in a walk-in aviary. All ten were weighed and inspected for molt at weekly intervals. All birds were exposed to the natural weather at San Jose, California. Body weight was inversely related to the mean environmental temperature. The weight of the fluids in the growing feathers probably accounted for an increase in weight in August. The mean body weight of the immatures was consistently, but not significantly, higher than the mean body weight of the adults in all months. Five of the six immatures showed a light prenuptial molt their first spring but not in their second spring. None of the four adults showed a prenuptial molt. The adults' postnuptial molt was about two weeks later than that of the immatures. The circadian locomotor activity patterns of these birds displayed characteristic morning peaks and somewhat lesser evening peaks. The evening peaks were generally reduced or absent when the birds showed night activity. The morning peaks of activity increased greatly during the spring and early summer months. This increased restlessness during the day seems related to an increased availability of energy associated with a readiness to breed. During the spring of 1962 all four immatures, but only two of the four adults, showed significant amounts of night locomotor activity. There was a remarkably strong positive correlation of peaks of night activity with nights of bright moon in all birds displaying night restlessness. The night activity of the two adults was of comparatively low intensity. In the fall only one adult and one immature showed night activity and that was very light in quantity. In the spring of 1963, by which time the original immatures were also adults, night activity levels of the two groups were broadly overlapping. In the activity-orientation cages one immature showed a preference at night for north during the spring and summer months, whereas the other immature showed a definite preference at night for the east sector of the cage during the same period. No significant night activity was registered in the activity-orientation cages in the fall months. The very limited (less than ten nights combined) night activity of the two adults in activity-oriented cages was none-the-less strongly oriented. The moon appeared to have little effect on the orientation of night activity, but it may have contributed to north-south "across the cage" movements in one bird. The angular deviations of both day and night activity compared favorably with those of migratory Zonotrichia. We propose the night restlessness of these non-migratory sparrows is a vestige of ancestral migratory behavior. The possible significance of weakly but frequently oriented daytime activity is also discussed. The possible importance of post-fledgling dispersal is discussed but judged to be unimportant in the behavior of these captive birds. It is possible that the quantity of night activity was somewhat influenced (presumably increased) by a surplus of metabolic energy incident to the restrictions of life in a cage. 
4159894| Critical features of ecological significance in the energy balance of the House Sparrow include 1) the lower limit of ambient temperature tolerance (-35C in winter, -2C in summer) where existence metabolism is maximum (35.8 kcal in winter, 25.9 kcal/bird-day in summer), 2) the temperature at which there is the greatest work capacity (22C, the lower critical temperature), 3) the potential productive energy available throughout the year (7.5kcal/bird-day), 4) the upper critical ambient temperature (37C) beyond which activity leads to hyperthermy, and 5) the extreme upper limit of ambient temperature tolerance (47C). This information correlates well with the apparent environmental control over distribution, time of nesting, and extent of reproduction. 
4159920|Three possible cases or alternatives are presented to explain the evolution of clutch size in Ross' Geese and other Arctic nesting geese, which do not feed their young. It is suggested that food reserves, acquired by the breeding female goose before the time and place of nesting, are allotted to ova and non-ovarian tissues. The number and size of eggs is limited to provide enough reserve food material to the young until they are able to feed themselves, and also to provide the breeding female with food so that she can give maximum protection to the clutch. The total amount of food stored before the breeding season, is limited by the maximum increase in body weight the female can carry during the spring migration.
4159921|Mean clutch size in 236 sets of North American Brown Pelican eggs was 2.95 and did not vary geographically between North American populations. Shell weight varied from 8.05 g to 10.99 g along a geographic continuum. Shell thickness averaged 0.510 mm for Pelecanus occidentalis, 0.554-0.557 mm for P. o. carolinensis, and 0.569-0.579 mm for P. o. californicus. The ranges of breeding dates for the more southern populations were wider than those of northern ones. Small numbers of eggs taken in Texas and Florida after 1949 were 20 per cent below normal weight; 1962 eggs from California were 26 per cent below normal; and three taken in Panama, 15 per cent below normal. Shell thickness had likewise decreased 15-27 per cent.
4159922|A widespread phenomenon in tropical forest is the gathering of varied assemblages of birds in trees bearing fruits, flowers, or some other plentiful food source. Repeated censuses of such feeding trees lead to a time-dependent measure of feeding for each species present. Results from 20 feeding trees in the New Guinea Highlands indicate the breadth of the food spectrum of many species and the extent of niche overlap between different species. Honeyeaters and lorikeets accounted for more than 90 per cent of the use of each of 3 different species of flowers. Small fruits attracted more diverse assemblages comprising many families among which honeyeaters and pigeons predominated. Larger fruits were taken almost exclusively by pigeons. Evidence is presented that niche overlap in feeding trees is reduced to some degree by species-specific behavioral attributes. These include aggressive supplanting of individuals and specialized feeding techniques. Many regular feeding tree users displayed marked tendencies to concentrate their activities at particular levels in the vegetational column. From the point of view of the average avian user of feeding trees, 67 per cent of the tree usage is by species in other genera and 46 per cent by species in other families, indicating broad niche overlap. The range of feeding behavior displayed by different species did not correlate closely with phylogenetic status and varied greatly from restricted to diversified.
4159923|The contexts of singing were studied in a population of marked individuals of Parus atricapillus, and in short-term captives confined as couples. Exchange of the "whistled" song attracts rivals to a common boundary where a skirmish, accompanied by calls of varying frequency, may occur. Thus the song attracts rivals rather than repelling them. Songs of low volume are uttered by males when approaching the nest and when leading the mate or fledglings. Females sing softly in similar contexts of intrapair signalling. Captives of either sex delivered primitive song notes when separated from a partner of a few days' acquaintance. In most contexts song seems to function as a summons. The origin appears to be from an intrapair signal enchanced by hormonal influence, and related to occupancy of an area. This song is not as indicative of a tendency to attack as are the fighting calls of varying frequency. The phoebe song does not function as a distant threat, and relates more to the defense of the mate than to defense of fixed boundaries. The structure of this song is such that it may be detected in dense woodlands at greater distances than the fighting calls.
4159924|1. Currently recognized northern and southern subspecies of the Mexican Duck are not based on sufficiently distinct or consistent size or color characters to be maintained. Therefore, the species is considered monotypic. 2. Although a borderline case in species distinctness, the Mexican Duck (Anas diazi) appears to have a certain amount of reproductive isolation from the Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) in areas of sympatry. Therefore, it is considered as taxonomically a distinct species. 3. The Mexican Duck has virtually the same overall geographic distribution now as formerly which is southeastern Arizona, the Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico, and central-western Texas southward through the central highlands of Mexico to the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt south of Mexico City. However, it has disappeared as a breeding bird from much of this extensive area because of the drying up of its habitat. The trend of decline of the Mexican Duck and its breeding habitat, both in Mexico and the United States, indicates that it is probably in danger of extinction.
4159925|Two Brown-headed Cowbird eggs were laid in a Brown Thrasher nest. A male and female cowbird, which, from the attendance of the former on the latter, seemed likely to have a pair bond, twice visited the nest area. We think this was the female that also showed a high degree of interest in the nest on other occasions over several days. Both cowbird eggs were eventually removed from the nest, at least one being thrown out by a cowbird. The cowbird may discriminate between its own and, at least, similarly colored eggs on the basis of size and would thus be expected to make a high percentage of mistakes at Brown Thrasher nests. Two cowbird eggs were also laid in a Catbird nest and were being incubated by the Catbird until the nest was destroyed by a storm.
4159927|A roadside technique was developed for indexing population densities of the Cardinal by counting birds after the playing of a tape-recorded song. The mean number of birds responding at sample points was used as an arbitrary index. The use of tape-recordings resulted in a marked increase of birds seen and heard. Numbers of responding birds were influenced by rain, wind, and time of day. Seasonal fluctuation was relatively small, permitting the technique to be used into late summer. The method has been used to obtain indices of relative abundance in different parts of the Cardinal's range, to compare the same area for annual differences, and to delimit the range in southern Ontario. The relationship between index and actual density is virtually unknown, but is probably close to linear in low densities. Hence, the technique is better suited to moderate population densities than to very high ones. Where a rapid method of detecting differences in densities is required, the technique should work well for any species having a loud or distinctive song or call.
4159946|The large Magellanic Woodpecker (Campephilus magellanicus) inhabits the Nothofagus forests of southern South America, where only one small species of woodpecker (Dendrocopos lignarius) is a sympatric potential competitor. In the virtual absence of competition the Magellanic Woodpecker forages in diverse ways and at various sites. The sexes differ in bill length (almost no overlap between sexes), probably correlated with a difference in feeding habits. Nesting sites vary, as may the size of the clutch. The breeding season in southwestern Argentina commences in November. Drum-tapping is generally like that of other campephiline species for which data are available. Vocalizations resemble those of the Ivory-billed Woodpecker (Campephilus principalis) and other campephiline species (e.g., Phloeoceastes rubricollis). The Magellanic Woodpecker shows certain morphological similarities with the northern ivory-billed species (Campephilus principalis and C. imperialis), but also many differences which suggest that these two groups of woodpeckers independently evolved from ancestral species of Phloeoceastes. It is suggested that the Magellanic Woodpecker and the northern ivory-bills comprise but two of five groups of campephiline woodpeckers, no group of which is sufficiently distinct to merit separate generic recognition. Accordingly, the 11 species of campephiline woodpeckers are considered congeneric (genus Campephilus).
4159947|Food habits, breeding density, and breeding success of Pomarine Jaeger populations nesting in response to different spring densities of the brown lemming population were studied at Barrow, Wainwright, Pitt Point, and Cape Sabine, northern Alaska. Food habits of nonbreeding populations were studied for comparison with breeding populations. When Pomarine Jaegers breed, their food supply is at least 80 per cent lemmings with birds the next most important food category. Lemmings occurred in less than half of the stomachs of nonbreeding populations, suggesting that the jaeger cannot obtain enough food to support breeding unless there are enough lemmings to provide most of its food. Jaeger breeding density correlated with spring density of the brown lemming up to a maximum density of approximately 19 pairs per mile. Three lemming highs (1953, 1956, and 1960) supported virtually identical mean Pomarine Jaeger densities although lemming density differed between peak years. Breeding success was low at low breeding densities and low to moderate at intermediate densities. At maximum density, breeding success ranged from almost complete failure (1956) to high success (1960). The size classes of lemmings in the jaegers' diet was determined from the length of femurs in regurgitated food pellets of adults and chicks. The number of prey taken was determined by the amount of food eaten by chicks raised in the laboratory, and by several 24-hour watches of jaeger pairs. The sex ratio of lemming prey was determined from the pelves in jaeger pellets. Calculations from these data indicate that a pair of jaegers raising two chicks in a year of maximum jaeger density remove an average of 31 lemmings per acre from their territory in the season. Other predators remove an additional 18 for a total of 49 lemmings removed per acre by the action of all predators. This is sufficient to depress a lemming population of approximately 25 per acre in the spring but not a population of 35 per acre or above. The role of the avian predators in the lemming cycle is to truncate the peak populations, but they are unable to reduce the lemming population to the low point of the cycle. It is suggested that mammalian predators, especially Mustella rixosa, are responsible for reducing the population completely and delaying recovery of the lemming population until they themselves decline in numbers.
4159948|A singing-male census of the endangered Dusky Seaside Sparrow, conducted in the spring of 1968, revealed a remnant population of 33-34 males on Merritt Island and a heretofore unknown population of 372 males in the St. John's River marshes between Routes 520 and 46 on the east side of the river. Efficiency of the census varied from 73 per cent (95 per cent confidence limits 63-82 per cent) from 06:00-08:00, dropping gradually throughout the morning to a low of 27 per cent (18-38 per cent) from 11:00 to 17:00, and rising again in the evening to 48 per cent (34-62 per cent). Therefore, the St. John's figure of 372 actually represents about 641 males (95 per cent limits 530-829). An additional 253 males probably exist in unsearched habitat.
4159949|Territorial behavior in the American Redstart was investigated by playing a recorded redstart song in the center and on the periphery of a male bird's maximum utilized territory. The bird's responses to the playbacks were observed and analyzed in order to determine what effect breeding condition, size of territory, and location of playback have on territorial defense. One series of experiments was conducted before a male had acquired a mate; a second series was run after a mate had been acquired. During pre-mating the center was defended more vigorously than the periphery; during post-mating the center and periphery of a territory were defended equally. Some of the factors that might have been interacting to bring about this differential aggression were discussed with no definite decision reached as to which were the most important; how-ever, there was sufficient evidence to suggest that the redstart's past experience and normal activities were not particularly relevant. The maximum territory of a redstart appeared to shift in size and shape between the time a male arrived and the end of nest building; usually a decrease in size occurred.
4159950|Nineteen color-banded Tufted Titmice were trapped and observed on a tract 5400 feet by 1800 feet in the seven months from 1 September 1967 to 1 April 1968 in order to observe winter territorial activity. They restricted themselves to four territories with five, three, six, and five birds per territory. The territories seemed to be of irregular shape, making total areas impossible to state. The maximum distance between two points within one territory was 3000 feet. At two points territories were contiguous and few or no titmice were to be found; at two other points territories overlapped and the number of birds was quite high. No conflicts or territorial clashes could be seen. One clan of five titmice included three birds which had occupied another (nearby) territory one or two winters before, but which now remained almost completely outside their previous territories and within their new territory. Adherence to territory was close.
4159951|This study indicates that Baltimore Orioles feed early in the morning and to a lesser degree again in the late afternoon during their stay in Costa Rica. Baltimore Orioles tend to visit certain plants that are either in flower or fruit. Lepidoptera larvae are the most important fraction of this species' diet and coleopterans are the next most important part, the two accounting for about 68 per cent of the total food. A variety of other insects and spiders made up 12 per cent of the diet. Plant material accounts for only 7 per cent of the total diet; 12 percent of the total volume of stomach contents was unidentified but was composed mainly of fragmented insect remains.
4159952|Forty-one Herring Gulls were radio-tracked during homing trials. Twenty-nine radio-tracked gulls returned successfully, 18 of which were tracked during essentially all of their flight. Initial flight behaviors were classified as direct, delayed, and those involving "rest periods." The flight patterns of successful, unsuccessful, and delayed homers are discussed. Three factors contributed to slow homing rates: (1) flights in non-homeward directions; (2) long periods involving other than flight behavior; and (3) hesitancy to actually enter the colony upon return. Flight patterns of homing birds resembled the theoretical search patterns described in the literature. There were apparent responses in relation to particular topographical features, some of which could be predicted in advance by observers. Gulls followed shorelines of lakes, a river basin on one occasion, and a terminal moraine. Landmarks apparently influenced the direction of Herring Gull flight and may have played a role in orientation.
4159953|The postnuptial and postjuvenal molts of Red-breasted Nuthatches occur from middle June to late September. Some birds may be nearly finished with the complete molt before other individuals begin, so that specimens taken at any given time may differ by as much as two months in the age of their plumage. No characters useful in ageing birds after the completion of the autumn molt were found. The proposed racial subdivision of Sitta canadensis was based on misleading evidence resulting from variation of plumage age in birds assumed to be seasonally comparable, sooting of birds in industrialized parts of the country, and variation in quality of prepared specimens.
4159977|From 1960 to 1967, 450 nests of the Eastern Meadowlark were found in the vicinity of Carbondale, Illinois. All nests were located at ground level and most were in cover 10 to 20 inches high; 17.3 per cent were open from above, 44.5 per cent were partially roofed, and 38.2 per cent had full canopies. The rush Juncus, meadow fescue, cheat, and bluegrass were most commonly used in nest construction. Almost 49 per cent of all nests faced in a general northeasterly direction. Earliest date of egg laying was 14 April, the latest 23 July; peak egg laying occurred from 22 April to 12 May. Pastures showed the highest nest density per 100 acres with an average of 20.9, followed by hayfields 12.6, soilbank fields 5.1, wheat fields 4.8, idle areas 3.8, and fallow fields 2.0. Average size of 101 complete clutches was 4.16 (range 2-6); number of eggs tended to decrease as the season progressed. Overall hatching success of 262 nests was 37.4 per cent; fledging success was 30.5 per cent. Predation (51.2 per cent) and mowing (12.2 per cent) were the primary destructive agents of nests. Extremely heavy losses to predators (72.2 per cent of 97 nests) in one field was discussed in detail. There appeared to be a direct relationship between degree of nest construction (amount of overhead protection) and nest success. The percentage of successful nests also increased as the season progressed.
4159978|Dominance--subordination relationship were studied in 8 groups (2-8 individuals per group) of captive House Sparrows between January and September, 1965. In each group a highly combative male won the majority of contests, but a linear hierarchy was blocked by reversible site-related dominance. The significance of site-related aggression in large flocks of foraging House Sparrows is questioned. The adult females rarely fought among themselves and were largely free from adult male aggression. First-year birds were treated as adult females by adults of both sexes. However, when attacked they demonstrated "stay threat" behavior. "Stay threat" was characterized by the first-year birds actively defending their positions when attacked without pressing the encounter beyond the immediate site. Activity patterns were greatest during "morning" and "evening" periods with a characteristic "mid-day lull." The birds tended to engage in the same activities at the same time. The top-ranking adult male showed a tendency to divorce himself from the flock and demonstrated no marked potential for initiating new flock activities.
4159979|Bill-wiping is reviewed for Tinamidae, Ardeidae, Tetraonidae, Phasianidae, Psittacidae, Picidae, and 20 families of Passeriformes. Bill-wiping occurs in at least one, but not all, species of Laridae and has not been reported for Anatidae. Functional interpretation of this behavior as a displacement activity remains uncertain. Bill-wiping appears to have moderate potential utility as a taxonomic character.
4159981|The b values for the slope of the growth curves for weight of Red-winged Blackbird male and female nestlings showed a significant difference (p < 0.05); the males grew faster. An index for rates of growth for weight, lower mandible, mandible tip to nostril, gape width, toe span, wing length, total length, and tarsus length showed that males grow faster only in weight. Growth rates are presented for eight major feather tracts of males and females; there were no sexual differences. Feather capsules project from the epidermis and fringe on the ends in a greater percentage of females earlier than males. Therefore, although feathers grow at a little faster rate in males, females have feathers nearly the same length in each tract near fledging time. Red-winged Blackbird nestlings can usually be sexed on the basis of weight by day eight. However, there was some overlap in weights of male and female nestlings on day 10. A revision of a method for sexing nestlings on the basis of weight is given. A ratio of males to females hatched from eggs of known laying sequence is given. The sex was determined on 50 males and 68 females of which 41 males and 54 females fledged. A secondary ratio of 50: 50 is suggested and hypotheses for reasons leading to an adult ratio in favor of females are given.
4159982|Data were collected on 33 active Lark Sparrow nests from 7 June 1968, to 1 August 1968 in the vicinity of the University of Oklahoma Biological Station. Parasitism of Lark Sparrows was greater than had previously been reported. A comparison of the success of parasitized versus non-parasitized nests is presented. Egg laying dates for Lark Sparrows and Cowbirds are presented and analyzed. General nesting site data is presented along with a detailed description of three unusual nest sites. Notes on predation are also given.
4159983|Site factors and soil characters associated with dust bath locations of Ruffed Grouse were investigated near Highlands, North Carolina. Important factors were those which combined to provide dry, loose substrate and safety from predators.
4159985|A study was made of breeding activities of Vermilion Flycatchers in a mesquite woodland, near Mesa, Maricopa County, Arizona. Hostile behavior in territorial defense is described. Four distinct vocalizations were recognized; the song is a function of the male. Data on nest building, clutch size, egg-laying, incubation period and behavior, hatching, and parental care of the nestlings are given.
4160007|Geographic variation in plumage and measurements is discussed in the Dendroica coronata (L.) complex, consisting of two semispecies coronata and auduboni Townsend, particularly with reference to features which bear on segregation of populations, either as formal subspecies or as "infra-subspecies." The latter are populations that have some distinctive character(s) by which individuals can be identified, but which lack sufficient separability to warrant formal recognition. In the coronata group only the nominate race is formally recognized, although breeding populations of northwestern North America ("hooveri" McGregor) are infra-subspecifically separable from more easterly ones on the basis of extremes in wing length, i.e., long versus short. In the auduboni group three subspecies are recognized: auduboni, nigrifrons Brewster, and goldmani Nelson. Within the first, infra-subspecific segregation of breeding populations in the coastal northwest from those of the interior ("memorabilis" Oberholser), is possible on the basis of extremes of wing length, i.e., short versus long. Because of the largely clinal or mosaic nature of mensural variation, the characterization of the four accepted subspecies in this complex is basically on plumage characters. Plumage characters also show clinal gradation but discontinuities or steps in the clines are such that formal naming of subspecies is justifiable. The provision for the identification of infra-subspecies is to allow study of dispersal and other features in populations which have identifiable extremes but which are not sufficiently separable to warrant formal, subspecific recognition.
4160008|Intensive studies of the nesting birds in four plant communities representative of the White Rocks-Bandlands unit of the Missouri River "Breaks," Montana were conducted during the summer of 1967 and 1968. The greasewood-sagebrush shrubland has the fewest species and lowest relative density of the four communities. Density for all breeding species averaged 65 pairs per 100 acres. The Lark Sparrow and the Western Meadowlark were numerically the most important species. Although life form measurements and frequency ratings for big sagebrush and greasewood are similar in this habitat, a more granular soil under big sagebrush appears to be a nesting requirement for the Lark Sparrow. The sagebrush-grassland community supported six species and 78 pairs per 100 acres. The Brewer's Sparrow was by far the most abundant species. The greatest density of nesting Brewer's Sparrows was found in silver sagebrush areas having a canopy coverage of around 50 per cent. The pine-juniper woodland provided a diversified ecological community for nesting birds and supported about 146 pairs per 100 acres. The Mourning Dove was numerically the most important and was the only species having the ecological adaptability to nest in all of the major habitats found in the study area. The cottonwood community supported the largest population of nesting birds (390 pairs per 100 acres) and the greatest number of species (30). This community provided more opportunities for ecological specialization and nesting sites than the habitats in the other communities because of its multi-storied vegetation and greater total biomass.
4160009|A high incidence of nest association between Arctic Terns and Oldsquaws was found at Churchill, Manitoba, in 1967 and 1968. Distances between nests of these species averaged only 2.3 m on islands in fresh-water ponds, increased to an average of 13 m on mainland beach sites, and reached 72 m on mainland tundra. Potential avian predators of Oldsquaw eggs included the Herring Gull, Parasitic Jaeger, and Common Raven. Clutches lost to predators did not exceed a maximum of five of 28 nests observed. Observations of Arctic Terns attacking potential predators suggested that Oldsquaws derived protection from nearby terns. It is suggested that such protection, coupled with a tendency to return to successful nest sites in successive years, affords a possible supplement to habitat preferences and imprinting of ducks to terns as the proximate mechanism responsible for the maintenance of nest associations between these species.
4160010|1) Starling populations in west-central Illinois dropped to one of its lowest levels of the year in July 1965 (100 birds per 100 miles of census route) as a result of either young Starlings migrating northward or the postjuvenal molt making the Starlings less active flyers and less conspicuous to the observer. 2) The initial stages of migration were observed in August as the average flock size increased from 2.5 birds per unit to over 8 birds per unit. From this time the Starlings began to accumulate until populations reached a peak of over 800 Starlings per 100 miles of census route during the period 26 September through 2 October. 3) The migration from further north of young Starlings through west-central Illinois after the adults already had migrated through was thought to be the cause of a second peak in the population to nearly 800 birds per 100 miles of census route in late October. 4) Starling populations gradually declined over the winter from 250 birds per 100 miles to about 100 birds per 100 miles of census route as a result of "weather movements." 5) In late February the average flock size decreased from 6.5 to 2.5 birds per unit as some Starlings began showing an interest in potential nest sites. 6) Spring migration into west-central Illinois which began in the first week of March did not exhibit the large flocking tendency of fall migration and it occurred over a longer period of time. 7) During the nesting season the numbers of Starlings observed along the census routes were low, about 100 birds per 100 miles of census route, because the adults were confined to the vicinity of the nest by nesting activities. The numbers along the census routes did not increase again until June when the fledged young formed into juvenile flocks, and the counts rose to near 300 birds per 100 miles of census route. 8) The flocking of Starlings was of two distinct types: during August through January, there was a tendency to gather into large flocks and during February through July, there was a tendency to occur only in pairs. It is believed that the tendency to flock among Starlings is inhibited by the level of sex hormones in the blood.
4160011|The bird possesses various senses to determine its spatial orientation. The visceral senses give the bird an indication of its body position in space and of the "G" forces acting upon its body during aerial gyrations. The "tactile" senses of the feathers will give the bird an indication of the airflow pressures on either side of its body and wings and allow the bird to sense a bank or a spiral dive. The proprioceptive senses give the bird an indication of its body position relative to its head. The vestibular apparatus can sense the bird's equilibrium. All of these senses, whether singly or in concert, are not sufficient to maintain a proper spatial orientation. The eyes are the predominant organ of spatial orientation, and for gaining cues to maintain spatial orientation. However, where there are discrepancies between the visual and sensory cues, the visual cues will be accepted rather than the sensory cues. The sensory cues still have sufficient effect to cause a metal block or confusion. The bird has not enough knowledge to analyse the situation and is therefore unable to take any true corrective action. The consequences of the situation is that the bird suffers from spatial disorientation and, in some cases, complete vertigo. The only conclusion is that birds are susceptible and suffer from spatial disorientation, and further that the causes of spatial disorientation in birds are exactly the same as those which affect the human pilot, namely; (a) the loss of true visual cues to the horizontal; (b) inexperience in flying under such conditions where visual cues are lost; (c) conflict between the sensory and visual cues to orientation; (d) entering an unusual position without being aware of it; plus (e) the lack of knowledge and reasoning ability when dealing with unnatural phenomena.
4160013|The winter flock behavior of Black-capped Chickadees was studied in relationship to their dominance hierarchy. Within the home flock a peck-right dominance hierarchy was described, but between flocks dominance relationships were better characterized as peck-dominant. The intolerance of the home flock males to dominant members of other flocks was associated with the location of subsequent breeding territories within the winter range, while the intraflock dominance hierarchy held wherever the flock traveled. Dominance-subordination within the home flock involved little calling, posturing, and no chasing, while interflock encounters did when they involved dominant males. Observations suggested that individual variability is important in interpreting the behavior of this species. One flock of seven chickadees, the home flock, moved around its winter range with little internal conflict; trespass of subordinate members of neighboring flocks was common, but the visiting birds were subordinant to the residents at the feeders. Dominant individuals of other flocks did not trespass deep into the home flock winter range, but remained on the periphery where they were challenged by dominant home flock males. The surrounding flocks varied in size from 4 to 18 individuals, were less cohesive, and could not be located at any specified time as could the home flock.
4160014|Forster's Terns and Black Terns occur in the same large marshes, but Black Terns nest in small "potholes" in dense vegetation, or more densely vegetated sites on large marshes. During this study, Black Terns used a variety of low and wet nest substrates, averaging only 3.3 cm above the water. In contrast, Forster's Tern nests were placed an average of 21.4 cm above the water and most frequently were placed on large muskrat lodges (83 per cent). Forster's Tern nests usually were on substrates in or at the edge of open pools of water surrounded by "islands" of cattail but Black Tern nests occurred in vegetative situations ranging from dense stands of cattail to "open water."
4160015|Both sexes of the American Coot share in nest construction. Coots used a variety of nest materials but seemed to use materials readily available, particularly dry materials. The number of platforms constructed by coots during a breeding cycle may depend on the availability of other structures in the marshes such as lodges built by muskrats. Even though coots used other structures for brooding and copulation, coots always constructed their own nests. Cold spring weather appeared to delay breeding and reduce the average clutch size from 10 to 8. Coots also were influenced by habitat conditions. Birds nesting late in suboptimal habitat tended to have smaller clutches. It was not known whether this was because of the habitat or merely reflected the physiological condition of birds associated with a particular habitat. In either case, these clutches not only contained fewer eggs but had a lower nest success than birds nesting in good habitat. Soon after hatching, the parents either ate the egg shells or carried them from the nest and dropped them in water. Because eggs in coot nests hatched over a period of several days, both brooding and incubation behavior were conducted simultaneously. During the first week after hatching, young birds were fed large quantities of aquatic insects and were brooded by the parents. Males appeared to do most of the brooding at night.
4160036| In 1963, 1965, 1966, and 1967, I studied aspects of the life history and ecology of the Dwarf Jay (Aphelocoma nana) in the montane forests of Cerro San Felipe, Oaxaca, Mexico. This jay is an inhabitant of humid oak-pine-fir forests on the mountain between about 2500 and 2900 meters elevation. Its occurrence is closely correlated with the existence of and largely confined to a secondary layer of trees below the canopy. The bird seldom ventures to shrubs and the ground vegetation or to the high canopy of the forest. It rarely enters pure pine forests, also present in the study area. It is sedentary. In foraging, the Dwarf Jay attacks plant galls and gleans arthropods from epiphytic growth. It is adept at exploring small branches and their epiphytes in a titmouse-like fashion. Occasionally it takes medium-sized flying insects. In the non-breeding season it frequently travels in small bands of less than a dozen birds associated with other species, such as the wren Campylorhynchus megalopterus. The Dwarf Jay is an asocial species in the nesting season, pairs occupying exclusive areas away from other breeding individuals of the species. Although widespread in the chosen habitat, the Dwarf Jay population studied was of low density. This may have resulted in the lack of frequent territorial behavior, but the exclusive occupance of areas by pairs and occasional encounters early in nesting indicate that the species is territorial. Nesting began in late March. At that time small groups of jays in which pairs were engaged in courtship feeding were seen. Both members of a pair are attendant in nest construction, both probably contributing to nest building. I found nests nearly completed in the first week in April. Nests are placed in the crowns of second story oaks or near the end of a branch. They ranged in height from 3 to 15 m. Nests are large in relationship to the size of the jays themselves. Construction is of twigs, mosses, and pine needles and the finished nest is compact and sturdy. In the time of nest building, the birds desert the nest area in afternoon hours to forage in deep ravines. They build in morning hours. Egg-laying commenced on 12 April in 1965. Complete clutches were composed of two or three eggs, which are pale-greenish-blue, marked with olive. Incubation is seemingly by the female only. She is attended by her mate, sometimes fed at or near the nest, and usually accompanied by him in her time off the nest. She incubates in periods ranging from 2 minutes to longer than 2 hours. The longer periods occur in afternoon hours. The incubation period was not precisely determined but is apparently 20 days or longer as in other New World jays. Hatching occurs in late April or early May. At the one nest studied in detail in the nestling stage, both male and female fed the young and only the female brooded. The fledgling stage was not observed, but observations made in early July, 1965, indicate that young are completely independent by this time, and the jays already are in the non-breeding bands with wrens and other resident species. The vocal repertoire of the Dwarf Jay is extremely simple, consisting largely of variations on the production of a single basic component, the shreup call. At times of extreme anger or fright the birds emit a harsh rasping call. The Sharp-shinned Hawk is seemingly a predator of the Dwarf Jay. 
4160039|In the Blue-backed Manakin (Chiroxiphia pareola) pairs of males perform joint displays on species perches low in forest undergrowth. The organization of a group of males in southern Guyana was investigated by color-banding. Contrary to the suggestions made as a result of study of the same species in Tobago, but in agreement with Gilliard's earlier observations, it was found that the group of display perches was the common property of the whole group of males.
4160040|In Michigan Henslow's Sparrow breeds in areas characterized by (1) herbaceous cover (usually grasses or sedges), (2) the presence of litter, (3) an intermediate range of moisture, and possibly (4) the presence of singing perches in the spring. Territories appeared to be established and maintained exclusively by song. Many territories (any area defended by song) were surrounded by areas where no males sang. During the height of the breeding season 58 per cent of the suitable habitat remained unoccupied. The average size of all singing territories was 0.8 acres. Territory size and density of the vegetation were inversely related. The maximum population was 50 singing males per 100 acres during the first half of July. Nests were built of dead grasses, and were placed in the center of clumps of vegetation. Thirty-seven per cent of the eggs and young discovered fledged. Incubation and brooding were performed entirely by the female. Incubation attentiveness was 70 per cent. Attentiveness decreased during the nestling period; brooding behavior was maintained after the fifth day only in those nests that contained unhatched eggs. Daily duration of song by the males was directly related to, but one hour longer than, the period from sunrise to sunset. In general, incubating and brooding females first left the nest before sunrise and began overnight roosting on the nest after sunset. Cloud cover appeared to be important in influencing the beginning and ending of the active day for both males and females.
4160042|Studies were carried out in Maine to investigate the nature of interactions existing among species of breeding thrushes following the recent addition of Wood Thrushes to the breeding fauna. Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) regularly encounter two other species of forest thrushes, Hermit Thrushes (H. guttata) and Veeries (H. fuscescens). Territories of Hermit Thrushes are in mesic to dry habitats, those of Veeries are distinctly moist ones, and those of Wood Thrushes are in areas intermediate to these two. Only limited overlap occurs between Hermit Thrushes and Veeries, and they may presently sort out largely by habitat selection. Considerable overlap in habitats utilized occurs between Wood Thrushes and both Hermit Thrushes and Veeries. Wood Thrushes maintain interspecific territories, and the boundaries appear to be demarcated by encounters with Hermit Thrushes and Veeries as soon as the socially dominant Wood Thrushes arrive on their breeding grounds in the spring. Overt encounters between Wood Thrushes and the other two species after a week are either markedly reduced in frequency or nonexistent. The presence of Wood Thrushes potentially lowers the population sizes of Hermit Thrushes and Veeries, but the latter two species nest in certain habitats that are seldom if ever exploited by the Wood Thrush. Thus, in localities containing wet, mesic, and dry forests one would predict coexistence of the three species.
4160043|Records of the use of sideward bill movements in terrestrial feeding are summarized and analyzed for more than 45 species of birds. Variable features in sweeping include the nature of the substrate, conspicuousness of the movements, and the method of use of the mandibles; at least some of these aspects appear to be species-specific. The scattered taxonomic distribution of bill-sweeping indicates that considerable evolutionary convergence has occurred, but bill-sweeping may in some cases be used along with other evidence as indicative of phylogenetic relationships.
4160044| An inhabitant of warm, humid forests, the Broad-billed Motmot rarely ascends to more than 3,000 feet above sea level. It is usually seen alone, perching well up in the trees. Its diet consists of insects and their larvae, including many cicadas and a few butterflies and dragonflies, supplemented by spiders, centipedes, small frogs, and lizards. It was never seen to take fruit. The motmot's call is a loud, wooden note, devoid of timbre. At daybreak, the hoarse croaks are among the earliest bird notes. Except in March and April, when the motmots appear to be courting, they are rarely heard after sunrise. Courtship appears to consist of interminable calling by the male and answering by the female. In a free bird in the Panam Canal Zone, the denudation of the shafts of the central tail feathers was followed and photographed. In the lowlands of northern Costa Rica, these motmots nest in April, May, and June. Three burrows, in high, vertical banks partly screened by vegetation, were 33 to 39 inches long, and either quite straight or slightly curved. No lining was brought. One nest contained three plain white eggs and another two nestlings. These motmots incubate according to the same simple schedule that the Blue-diademed Motmot follows. One parent, evidently the female, enters the burrow around midday and sits continuously until the following dawn. After an interval of 16 to 45 minutes, the other parent enters before sunrise and remains until midday, sitting for 5 to 8 hours continuously. Often, but not invariably, he waits to be relieved by his mate. The motmots incubate with head inward and long tail projecting back into the entrance tube, where alone there is room for it without bending. Nevertheless, the partner who sat through the night had, in two consecutive years, a badly damaged tail. The nestlings, which hatch blind and perfectly naked, were fairly well feathered at 16 days. The two parents took about equal shares in feeding them, bringing a single item in the bill on each visit. Three feathered nestlings were fed 42 times in 9 hours. No waste was removed from the burrow, which soon swarmed with maggots. The young left spontaneously at the age of 24 or 25 days, an exceptionally short nestling period for a motmot. However, they could fly well. Shortly before they emerged from the earth, they began to utter soft, mellow notes, much like the calls of certain trogons and antbirds, but wholly different from anything heard from younger nestlings or from adults. These surprising utterances continued for some days after their departure. Neither the parents nor the fledglings returned to sleep in the burrow after the latter left. At the northern end of its range in Central America, the Rufous Motmot is restricted to humid lowland forests and adjacent shady plantations, chiefly below 2,500 feet. It generally remains high in the trees and is usually seen alone, but one gathering of 13 excited motmots was watched before sunrise in April. Its diet includes both fruits and small invertebrates, with an admixture of small vertebrates, all of which are usually seized on a sudden swift sally. It often forages with army ants, when it catches fugitive insects and other small creatures from low elevations or even from the ground. The call, a hollow, ghostly hoo hoo hoo, uttered in contrasting pitches, is one of the characteristic dawn sounds of the lowland forests. In May, a pair of these motmots were discovered carrying food into a cave-like den or burrow, apparently dug by some middle-sized mammal, in a steep, wooded bank above a river. The nestlings, which could not be seen, were evidently at the end of a tunnel that the motmots had dug from the side of the semicircular cavern. These nestlings were given both fruits and insects, in contrast to the diet of a neighboring brood of Broad-billed Motmots, which consisted of only animal food. The outcome of this nesting is unknown, but in early June the Rufous Motmots were again entering the cave to dig. The male and female took turns at the work and emerged from the earth with muddy bills. Most of the earth appeared to be removed by kicking backward as the birds entered the ground, but sometimes they emerged holding a lump of clay in their bills. In May of the following year, Rufous Motmots were again nesting in a burrow dug from the side of this den, and by 1 June they were feeding nestlings here. 
4160065|Perched captive and free-living Red-tailed Hawks were categorized according to posture and then offered prey to test for differences between those that would and those that would not attack. No differences were found in hawks before they sensed an actual prey item. After sensing prey hawks that were likely to attack could be identified by their alert reaction toward the prey but such behavior was identical, except for orientation, to pre-flight behavior when food was not involved. It is doubtful whether prey can distinguish between hungry and satiated hawks, except after the hawk has begun an actual attack. Habituation of prey to the raptor provides an alternative explanation for most prey behavior that has been observed.
4160066|The Rusty-margined Flycatcher (Myiozetetes cayanensis) is one of the commonest breeding birds in Surinam. The birds are strictly territorial. Breeding takes place all through the year. Apart from its shrill call which is uttered by both birds while flapping their wings in a duet, a special alarm call for hawks and hawk-like birds is described. The nest is an untidy ball with a wide side entrance, and the male may on occasion help build it. A newly started nest is often pulled down and the material from it used for the next trial. Nest-building lasts from 9-14 days. The eggs are laid on alternate days. Nine full clutches contained six of two eggs and three of three eggs. Incubation is by one bird only and lasted 16 days. The nestling period lasted 19 days and the fledglings were fed for another 20 days. With one pair three broods were reared in rather quick succession, the second brood overlapping with the first during the building period of the second nest. The rearing of three broods from which six nestlings fledged took a period of five months. After a pause of six months two more broods were reared. Predators are the Great Kiskadee (Pitangus sulphuratus) which pilfers nests, the Piratic Flycatcher (Legatus leucophaius) which takes over inhabited nests, and the Yellow-headed Caracara (Milvago chimachima) which robs nests.
4160068|Descriptions are given of the songs and singing behavior of the six species of sparrows in the genus Aimophila occurring in the United States (Bachman's, Rufous-winged, Botteri's, Cassin's, Rufous-crowned, and Five-striped), based on a study of 66 recordings (1,769 songs). The songs of Bachman's, Rufous-winged, and Botteri's Sparrows are similar in some respects, but there is little similarity between the songs of these three species and those of the other three species. The six species differ in the size of individual repertoires, the way the repertoires are used, the occurrence of identical songs by different individuals, and the singing rate.
4160069|The hatching success of the Great Black-backed Gull and two Herring Gull groups was significantly different. The "Control" Herring Gull group had the greatest success (82 per cent) while the Black-Backs (44 per cent) were least successful. "Experimental" Herring Gulls were intermediate having a 67 per cent success. The Great Black-Backs laid eggs about two weeks earlier than either Herring Gull group. The mean laying interval was 22-25 April for Black-Backs and 7-10 May for both groups of Herring Gulls. Hatching success was somewhat dependent on the laying date of the eggs. In Black-Backs, "Late" layers had a higher hatching percentage than either "Early" or "Peak" egg layers. Conversely, "Late" laying Herring Gulls were less successful than "Early" layers (Experimental group) or "Peak" layers (Control group).
4160070|An hypothesis arising from present studies is that Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers have a search image of aspens having straight boles and diameters of 20 to 25 centimeters as being optimal nest sites when they bear mature conks of Fomes igniarius. This fungus also attacks the heartwood of other trees. When butternuts are infected they may be as suitable for nesting as aspens in providing a tough living shell of sapwood surrounding a center of soft decay which can be excavated readily. Such trees offer maximal, although not always complete, protection against raccoons which appear to be the main predators. Raccoons may leave a characteristic circle of superficial tooth marks in unsuccessful attacks on nest entrances but several examples are given where they succeeded, after persisting efforts, in dragging sapsuckers out through undamaged entrance holes, as evidenced by piles of feathers on the ground below. The nest sites involved were either too near the ground or possibly too shallow. Sapsuckers, unlike other species of eastern woodpeckers, have a habit of re-using suitable nest trees, making fresh excavations each year and in some Fomes-infected aspens, for periods of 6 or 7 years. Such trees come to resemble tenement houses with the old nest holes being not infrequently occupied by flying squirrels. Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers appear to be well adapted to living in the close presence of squirrels and this may give them a competitive advantage in relation to Hairy Woodpeckers which can, under some circumstances, seek the same type of a nest tree.
4160071|An inland heronry consisting mainly of Little Blue Herons was studied in detail during the summer of 1969 in Nacogdoches County, Texas. Behavior associated with nesting was observed from an observation tower and nest success was followed by tagging each nest. Nesting occurred primarily in buttonbush, which was the most abundant woody plant in the heronry pond. Time of arrival, courtship, and nest building were similar to that for heronries in other southeastern states. Predation, however, was one of the most extensive ever reported. A total of 140 nests were located during the first nesting attempt but no young were produced due primarily to predators. Renesting was initiated one month later and 181 nests were located. Predators also caused the failure of this attempt although 24 young survived for a few days. Crude estimates indicate that crows destroyed the majority of the eggs and young although raccoons, snakes, and mink perhaps destroyed a few. Nesting has occurred in the pond every year for at least 10 years but detailed observations were not made prior to this study. No explanation for the total nest destruction is available although increased human activity may have been partially responsible.
4160072|An analysis of eight studies of nesting success in Red-winged Blackbirds shows that there are significant differences in success among years, localities, ecological habitats, and vegetation form. Differences in nest success as related to nest height, water depth, and time of initiating nests were not substantiated by statistical analyses.
4160074| A young Roadrunner was hatched in an artificial incubator at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C., after an incubation period of 18 days. Descriptions of size, appearance and mouth patterns are given. Detailed descriptions are given of growth patterns, behavior manifestations and rearing techniques from the age of 24 hours to 60 days. 
4160097|Quantitative vegetational data obtained in the breeding territories of 46 species of birds are organized by species as samples of the characteristic life form of the vegetation for each. Examples of outline drawings of the niche-gestalt represent those structural features of the vegetation that were consistently present where a certain species occurred. Principal components and discriminant functions are used to describe habitat relationships among the species as positions along one-, two- and three-dimensional continua representing gradients in the structure of the vegetation. Although all 15 vegetational variables contributed significantly to the ordinations, the most powerful variables for describing habitat differences were per cent canopy cover, canopy height, and the number of species of trees per unit area. If one considers the vegetation of a geographic area to be a set of continuously-varying phenomena, and if one assumes that bird distribution is at least partly based on species-specific adaptiveness to the resources offered by this heterogeneous structure, then ordination procedures are appropriate methods for its expression.
4160098|Lewis' and Red-headed woodpeckers for the first time were recorded nesting sympatrically, on the plains of southeastern Colorado. There was habitat overlap, although the Lewis' Woodpeckers nested primarily in farmlands while Red-headed Woodpeckers were more common in riparian woodland along the Arkansas River. Two pairs which nested within 35 meters of each other in 1969 and again in 1970 were interspecifically aggressive and territorial. Analysis of breeding vocalizations indicated that, with the exception of the Lewis' Woodpecker alarm note, the two species have functionally equivalent and in some ways structurally similar vocal repertoires; these consist of one call given only by males which advertises territory and nest site to rivals and mates, and a second type of call probably given by both sexes connoting general aggressivity during intra- and interspecific encounters. It seems certain that the interspecific aggression shown by these species is a direct result of competition for shared resources and not similarity of territorial defense behaviors.
4160099|I have described and interpreted a number of displays and vocalizations of the Sparrow Hawk. Most of the displays appear to function in territorial behavior and apparently have not been observed in the wild. The color patterns of the head and tail appear to have a signal function in territorial behavior. Individual birds react differently to various humans, suggesting individual recognition.
4160100|A study of Purple Martins was undertaken to determine the characteristics of this bird's breeding biology near the northern limits of its breeding range. Research was conducted during the summers of 1965 and 1966 in the vicinity of Edmonton, Alberta. The breeding cycle was divided into seven stages. These stages and the mean duration of each were: arrival, nest-cavity defense and pair-bond formation--6.5 days; nest building--11.8 days; nest completion--3.2 days; laying--4.8 days; incubation--16.6 days; nestling--27.4 days; post-breeding defense of nest cavity--5.9 days. Clutches laid later in the season were smaller. The number of young fledged varied from one to seven with a mean of 3.4 for 55 nests. These breeding statistics are not significantly different from those reported by Allen and Nice (1952), except that incubation was longer, and fledging success greater at the latitude of Edmonton. During the nestling stage, activity at the nest entrance, presumably reflecting the rate of feeding of nestlings, increased to day 10, was maintained through day 13, and decreased after day 14. As brood size increased, the nest entrance and departure activity decreased per nestling. Males in adult plumage were observed to feed young at a rate similar to females, whereas males in first nuptial plumage fed young at half this rate. Males in first nuptial plumage were the main participants in the post-breeding defense of the nest-cavity.
4160101|Recent studies of behavior and external anatomy suggest that the White-backed Duck (Thalassornis leuconotus) is related to the Dendrocygnini rather than to the Oxyurini as formerly suggested. Several features of the cranial and postcranial osteology support this theory, but other characteristics of the postcranial skeleton resemble the condition in the Oxyurini. Most of these can be interpreted as being parts of a general adaptive specialization for efficient aquatic locomotion, and it is suggested that the resemblance to the Oxyurini is therefore attributable to convergence.
4160102|The social behavior of fruit-eating birds was studied in the Panama Canal Zone. Intraspecific attractions, usually pair bonds, dominated the interactions. Interspecific attractions were weak, in contrast to those reported for insectivorous species. The ecological reasons for this behavioral difference are considered. The method described for gathering social data at single food resources is noted to be of value because of its quantitative nature and wide applicability.
4160103| Barn and Cliff Swallows both may be found nesting inside the same, or neighboring barns or sheds in West Virginia. However, though apparently similar the two niches were found to be separable, and no competition was observed. From arrival through nest building, differences in the breeding biology of these two species were found. Barn Swallows arrived in mid-April, while Cliff Swallows arrived in late April or early May. Pair formation in both species occurred in different areas around the barns. The requirements for a nesting situation are similar, except that Cliff Swallows entered only wide doors (8  8 feet) while Barn Swallows utilized any small opening as an entrance. Barn Swallows gathered mud near the barn entrances, while Cliff Swallows utilized the farm ponds and rain puddles where they occurred. Neither species traveled more than 100 yards to obtain mud. Barn Swallows build adherent and statant nests on girders scattered throughout the barn. Cliff Swallows build gourd-shaped nests immediately inside the entrance. In 1968, Barn Swallows reused 35 of the 62 nests used in 1967. Most Cliff Swallow nests fell down or were removed by the farmer during the winter of 1967, and had to be rebuilt in 1968. The average building time for 18 adherent Barn Swallow nests was 6.4 days, while 17 Cliff Swallow nests took 13.0 days to build. Incubation time for both species was 15 days, but other aspects of raising young differed. Male Cliff Swallows incubate more regularly than male Barn Swallows. First clutches of Barn Swallows averaged 4.6 eggs, while second clutches averaged 4.1 eggs. Total mortality for both clutches was 17.9 per cent. First clutches of Cliff Swallows averaged 3.31 eggs. Nine second clutches averaged 2.89 eggs, while total nest mortality was 41.5 per cent. Barn alterations, i.e., closing doors after hay was brought in, etc., did not markedly affect Barn Swallow nesting, but caused abandonment of Cliff Swallow nests. House Sparrows did not interfere with Barn Swallow nests, but caused high Cliff Swallow nest losses. Basic differences occurred in feeding and perching for these species. Cliff Swallows fed at a higher altitude and foraged as much as two miles from the nest site, while Barn Swallows fed lower and seldom more than one-half mile from the nest site. Barn Swallows commonly perched on low fences, while Cliff Swallows were seen perched on higher power lines. 
4160133|In this paper data collected in the cooperative Breeding Bird Survey and in nest record programs are used to obtain new perspectives on the breeding biology of the Common Grackle. Much of the range outlined in recent handbooks, especially in the north and west, is seen to be populated very sparsely--or perhaps very locally--by Grackles. The main range coincides well with agricultural areas and other open habitats where there are elevated sites (trees, bushes, buildings) for nests. The main range is mutually exclusive with those of the other blackbirds now placed in the genera Euphagus and Cassidix. Nest record cards are shown to be quite biased as samples for data on distribution, breeding habitat, and nest site. Data on laying dates and clutch size are more satisfactory, provided they are interpreted carefully. The start of laying is generally well correlated with temperature, and the clutch size is usually (but not always) correlated with laying date. There is a suggestion that nests in dense conifers are started earlier and at lower temperatures than those in less protected sites. The clutch size may decrease slightly from south to north, but there are insufficient published data from the central and southern parts of the main range to establish this at present. Data on reproductive success are generally meager, and this subject was not explored further.
4160134|A study of the population size, migration pattern, and structure of blackbird and Starling populations was carried out during the fall and early winter of 1964 and 1965 in western Oklahoma. In 1964, the peak population of 250,000 birds was observed in the second week of November. The peak the second year was 900,000 and occurred during the third week of December. Greater densities of birds were observed in January on the refuge portion of the study area. Possible reasons for the increased population the second year and greater densities on the refuge are discussed. The relationship between migration patterns the two years and the species, age, and sex composition of the populations are also discussed.
4160135|Seasonal changes were found in a number of aspects of the breeding biology related to territory of the Red-winged Blackbird. There was a significant decrease in the frequency of male song, male Song-spread displays and in trespassing upon occupied territories at the time mating occurred. This shift in behavior was paralleled by a decrease in the difficulty with which behaviorally impaired males (muted or epaulet-colored) maintained their territories as the season advanced. Experiments of systematically removing birds from their territories suggest that the surplus population of males which was present on the marsh prior to the occurrence of mating disappeared after mating. It was concluded that prior to mating many aspects of territoriality were at peak levels, that spacing of the population was probably achieved at this time, and that the population or surplus males was a crucial factor at this time. After mating, many aspects of territorial behavior decreased in frequency and the surplus male population disappeared. During the postmating portion of the breeding cycle males appeared to be primarily involved in defense of the female, eggs, and young from predation.
4160136|Certain aspects of woodcock usage of summer fields were studied in Maine. Findings were as follows: 1. On two study fields in 1968, numbers of woodcock first began spending nights in the fields during the second week of June. During 1968 and 1969, the number of birds flushed from the fields varied greatly between nights. Use of fields continued into the first week of November. 2. Woodcock started flying into summer fields approximately 26 minutes after sunset. Unless disturbed, birds remained on fields throughout the night and started departing for diurnal covers about 48 minutes before sunrise. The duration of evening and morning flight periods averaged 13 to 15 minutes. 3. Woodcock did not necessarily use the same field throughout the summer. Five of the 36 birds taken as repeats were caught on fields other than where originally banded. However, it was believed that flights to and from fields were essentially local movements. 4. Vegetation appeared to have been a critical factor influencing the distribution of woodcock in fields. Areas of low ground cover interspersed with taller and denser cover were used most frequently. 5. Immatures, especially immature males, were the predominant age-sex class captured on Maine summer fields. The question of whether the age-sex composition of birds using summer fields is atypical of the total woodcock population requires additional study.
4160137|We report on the nesting and reproductive performance of the Red-tailed Hawk and Great Horned Owl in south-central Montana during 1966 and 1967. Hawk and owl breeding seasons spanned 105 and 125 days respectively in 1967. Great Horned Owls wintered on the study area, but at least some Red-tailed Hawks winter south of the study area. Both hawks and owls nested primarily in cottonwood trees. The clutch size and number fledged from successful nests of Red-tailed Hawks averaged 2.9 and 1.7 respectively while Great Horned Owl clutch size and number fledged per successful nest averaged 2.2 and 1.8 respectively. The number of young fledged per recorded nesting attempt averaged 0.9 for the hawk and 1.2 for the owl. Nesting success for the hawk was 50 per cent and 64 per cent for the owl. All tissue and eggs contained measurable but relatively low levels of DDE, DDT, DDD, and dieldrin, and some samples contained heptachlor epoxide. The one hawk and one owl egg analyzed contained PCBs. The Great Horned Owl did not have thin eggshells but we did find thinning in Red-tailed Hawk eggshells.
4160138|Observations were made of 321 three-bird chases of Mourning Doves. In 28 chases, the sexes of all birds were known; in 46 chases, the sexes of two birds were known; and in 61 chases, the sex of one bird was known. No more than one female was identified in any chase, and in one chase, all birds were known to be males. When a known pair was involved, the female was always positioned next to her mate in the chase, sometimes in front of him and sometimes behind him. The most frequent cause of chase origin was when an unmated male pursued a pair that flew close to his perch. Flight patterns were straight when the female was last in line of chase, and twisting when she was in the middle or lead position.
4160160| All 276 oceanic records of Laysan Albatrosses are within the limits of 8 to 59 N and 132 E to 116 W in the North Pacific Ocean. The primary range, however, is between 28 and 52 N and 140 E--120 W. The northern boundary of their distribution is the Aleutian Islands and the relatively non-productive waters of the Bering Sea. The Kurile and Japanese islands, along with the warm Tsushima Current, constitute a western barrier. The North American continent with its warm inshore Davidson Current forms the eastern limit. The southern border is marked by warm equatorial waters of low salinity and low productivity. Within these limits Laysan Albatrosses tend to congregate in four regions: 1) east of Japan (35-40 N and 140-160 E); 2) south of the western Aleutians (50 N and 165 E-175 W); 3) off the west coast of North America (30-50 N and 120-135 W); and 4) near the large, eastern islands of Hawaii (20 N and 150-160 W). The Japanese region serves as a nursery foraging area for birds fewer than 4 years of age; seldom are they recaptured elsewhere. However, older juveniles and adults from Midway also return there to feed. There is evidence of seasonal shifts in concentrations; the birds move east in January and August, west in April and November; they move north in April-May and in August-September, south in October-December. In general these movements are associated with changes in surface water temperatures. Laysan Albatrosses tend to be associated with turbulent seas, eddies and currents; the birds most frequently are in water temperatures of 40 to 65 F. Such waters are generally most productive, and it is suggested that food is the primary determinant of the Laysan's distribution. 
4160162|Territorial behavior of Savannah Sparrows in a field in southeastern Michigan was observed for three successive breeding seasons. Most males arrived within a 10-day period in mid-April. Females arrived over a one-month period starting at the end of April. The males established territories immediately, often returning to the same area of the field claimed in previous years. Males defended their territories by singing from border perches, chasing intruders, walking side-by-side along the boundaries with males of adjoining territories or by assuming threatening postures face-to-face at the borders. Birds seldom left their territories except under stress, but adults accompanying fledglings could cross boundaries with impunity. Fifty-eight per cent of the territories ranged in size from 601 to 1,200 m
4160163| The Hairy and Downy Woodpeckers, Red-shafted Flicker, Clark's Nutcracker, and Starling were observed to form interspecific flocks with the highly gregarious Pion Jay. The general noisiness and restlessness of the jay flock, plus the drab coloration of its members probably acted to attract the associate species. The Pion Jay flock was intact throughout the year, although in a number of different forms, thus offering attendant species an opportunity to participate in mixed flocking year round. The frequency of occurrence and numbers of associates varied with season and foraging site diversity of the Pion Jay flock. A strong positive correlation exists between foraging site diversity of the jays and frequency of the associates. The ability of the associates to remain in the Pion Jay flock is enhanced by the lack of intraspecific aggression among the jays. The important characteristics promoting this association are similarities of foraging strategies and secondarily similarities in size. The benefits derived by associate species as a result of interspecific flocking are probably more effective utilization of the total food resources, indirectly resulting from efficient protection from predators while feeding and directly as a result of the greater ability of numerous individuals to locate scattered, but locally abundant, sources of food. 
4160164|The Yellow-faced Grassquit (Tiaris olivacea) is discontinuously distributed and highly social in Costa Rica. In Jamaica its distribution is continuous and it is aggressively territorial. On Cayman Brac we estimate that grassquit population consists of 400-1,500 individuals which seem intermediate between Costa Rican and Jamaican grassquits in their social organization. We speculate that aggressive behavior of the sort we have characterized as "selfish" cannot arise except under conditions of considerable genetic variability.
4160189|This paper summarizes the historical status of the Brown Pelican in the United States through 1970; presents data on the effects of human disturbance on clutch size and hatching success for a colony on Tarpon Key, St. Petersburg, Florida in 1969 and 1970; and presents data on eggshell thickness and chlorinated hydrocarbon residues, including polychlorinated biphenyls, for 87 eggs collected from four colonies in Florida in 1969 and 1970. Methods of reporting pollutant residues are reviewed and the relationship between PCB's and DDE in samples is noted. The significance of these levels of contamination and attendant eggshell thinning to the Florida Brown Pelican population is discussed.
4160190|I studied the behavior of migrating birds aloft by means of telescopic and binocular observations during the day (open sky overhead) and at night (ceilometer and moon-watching) and with WSR-57 radars in southern Louisiana. Spring passerine migrations across the Gulf of Mexico usually arrived on the northern Gulf coast during the daylight hours, and most of the birds were in tight flocks that averaged about 20 birds. On radar the flocks produced coherent dot echoes, and most occurred at an altitude of 4,000 to 5,000 feet (1,220 to 1,524 meters). When landing the migrants dove nearly straight down from these altitudes and produced a whizzing sound as they pulled out of the dive just above the trees. The daytime flocks of passerines disbanded about 30 to 45 minutes after sunset, and the altitude of the migration lowered approximately 3,000 feet (915 meters). At night individual passerines produced fine, dust-like echoes on the radar screen while flocks of waterfowl and shorebirds contributed the scattered dot echoes. Most nocturnal migration occurred between 800 and 1,600 feet (244 to 488 meters). Flight calls from migrants were heard during the day when the birds were landing. Passerine calling at the beginning of the night was primarily associated with landing and overcast. Waterfowl and shorebirds called regularly during the first part of the night even under clear skies. Calling by migrants aloft probably serves to keep individuals of a flock together and functions in the landing of songbird migrants at night.
4160191| 1. The birds' activity during early morning hours is concentrated in migratory direction, but only when the birds showed migratory activity in the night before. 2. When the magnetic field was artificially changed (magnetic north at 115 in ESE), the birds during morning hours selected their migratory direction according to the direction of the magnetic field. 3. The birds' behavior during late afternoon and evening shows a "nonsense orientation" towards the geographic NNW sector in Test (magnetic north in ESE) and Control (earth's magnetic field) in spring as well as in autumn. 4. This "nonsense orientation" seems to persist under clear, partly covered and overcast skies, and might be explained as a temporarily fixed part in the birds' behavior pattern caused by carrying the birds into the cage from the opposite side. 
4160192|The activities of a flock of gulls, which congregated daily to feed on the Kingston City Dump were studied in order to investigate the factors leading to the daily and seasonal fluctuations in flock size. The daily numbers of gulls on the dump were found to be influenced by food supply, severe fright stimulus, availability of water, and weather. The period after a warm front was associated with an increase in numbers while that after a cold front was usually associated with a decrease. First and second year gulls were found to spend considerable more time feeding than the adult and third year birds. The mean weekly numbers were found to increase gradually to a peak in late November or early December. This is thought to be due to the influx of Herring Gulls from the western Great Lakes. The final disappearance of gulls from the Kingston area came just after the local freezing of Lake Ontario and it is postulated that the lack of drinking water near the dump triggered the departure.
4160194|The song of the Vesper Sparrow in Oregon consists of a whistled introductory phrase followed by as many as seven different trills. One well-studied individual had a repertoire of 43 different trill types, and sang 218 different trill sequences in 400 songs. The similarities of the trills among neighboring males and the consistent inter-locality differences in the introductory whistled notes suggest that Vesper Sparrows learn at least portions of their songs from adult conspecifics. One male had a reduced song repertoire and sang like a Bewick's Wren; insufficient exposure to songs of adult conspecifics may cause interspecific learning.
4160196|The factors influencing rates of pellet formation and egestion were studied in a Barn Owl kept in captivity for 6 months. The pH of the gastric contents changes according to a regular pattern from feeding until pellet egestion, but it could not be implicated definitely as a mechanism that triggers actual egestion. Data on gastric pH demonstrate the presence of a cephalic phase of digestion. The pellet is formed in the gizzard within 6 hours after ingesting a meal, and is passed into the proventriculus where it is held until egestion. Pellets are not egested at a fixed interval after taking a meal; the interval is dependent in part upon quantity of food consumed, time of feeding and availability of a subsequent meal. Increased prey weight and night feedings prolong the time to egestion but have no effect when a subsequent meal is available.
4160197|Eggs of Common (Sterna hirundo) and Roseate (Sterna dougallii) Terns, were collected on Great Gull Island in June 1967. Roseate Tern eggs were significantly narrower than those of Common Terns and had a significantly lower shape index. Such specific differences were only found for the linear measurements and even these differences may not be consistent when the full range of interclutch and intraclutch variation is considered. Egg weight of Common and Roseate Terns was 18.1 per cent and 19.3 per cent respectively of adult weight, which is typical of values recorded for other species of terns. The weights of egg shell, yolk and albumen were highly similar for both species with yolk making up 28-30 per cent. This is appreciably higher than in the eggs of altricial species and less than for precocials. These data point out the correlation between the changes in egg component proportions and the several developmental patterns of birds.
4160198|Proposed explanations for rictal bristles are that they perform tactile functions, serve as an insect scoop, or protect other facial feathers. In the Tyrannidae, at least, motion pictures indicate that they do not play a part in prey capture.
4160221|Passerine nocturnal migration was observed with radar and portable ceilometer on 34 nights during fall, 1969, at Lake Charles in southwestern Louisiana. Weather patterns over the Gulf in fall are generally similar to those of late spring and summer and are usually characterized by southerly winds. These conditions, which favor large-scale trans-Gulf migrations in spring, are opposed to such flights in fall. The daily weather patterns observed during this study were grouped into five basic types. Passerine migrants at Lake Charles flew with the wind, regardless of its direction. Because of the frequency of southerly winds, "reverse" migrations were common. However, a strong net flow of birds in a southwesterly direction resulted from prevailing northeasterly winds and the occurrence of disproportionately large migrations when air flow was favorable for movement toward wintering areas. Downwind flight assures that small landbirds will not embark on long overwater flights in unfavorable winds, but at the same time allows them to take advantage of northerly post-frontal winds when they occur.
4160222|Responses of female Red-winged Blackbirds to substitute nests, eggs and young, and to displacements of nests and young were investigated. Females show a strong attachment to nest sites throughout the nesting period. They preferred to remain at the nest site even though the nest, eggs, and young (under 7 days old) were replaced with counter-parts from other Redwing nest situations. When young older than 10 days were displaced from the nest site, females abandoned the site and followed the young. Female Redwings therefore learn to recognize their young during the period they are in the nest. The earliest females were found to show signs of recognizing their young was 7 days post-hatching. This recognition is probably partly based upon the location call which is given only by older young. Though the structure of the location call remained the same from one utterance to the next for an individual, it differed markedly between individuals.
4160223|A young-of-the-year Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis probably canadensis) wintered with a "family" of Japanese Cranes (G. japonensis) consisting of a pair and two young, near Kushiro, Hokkaido, Japan. The group formed part of a wintering flock of the latter species. This is the second record of this species for Japan, the first for Hokkaido. The Sandhill and it's associated "family" of Japanese Cranes changed their feeding range twice or more during the winter, and correspondingly changed their roosting sites. In the spring, when the family broke down, the Sandhill associated with the two young. At times it danced lightly with them. Some behavioral associations between the family and the Sandhill or its relationship with others in the flock are given and discussed briefly. The attitude of the "family" and other cranes was generally indifferent to it. Therefore, the formation and maintenance of this association depended on the Sandhill's positive attachment to the "family" and the general tolerance of G. japonensis to smaller birds. But the actual process of attachment and time of arrival were not known.
4160224|A model was designed to evaluate estimates of bird numbers derived by methods employed in Audubon Field Notes winter bird population studies. Strictly accurate estimates of density would result if the percentage of visits to a study tract on which a bird was seen (called "occurrence") was the same as the percentage of that bird's home range lying on the tract. This linear relationship was not found; instead occurrence tended to level off at percentages above 40. Occurrence was also affected by the conspicuousness of the bird and by the speed of movement of the bird relative to that of the observer. It was concluded that in field situations fulfilling the conditions of the model very conspicuous birds would be overestimated and very inconspicuous birds underestimated. Estimates for species of medium conspicuousness might be fair approximations of actual density, owing to the tendency of the method to underestimate the contribution to density of birds with a high percentage of their home range on the tract and to overestimate the contribution of birds with a low percentage. These conclusions hold for birds moving slowly relative to the observer. Density of birds moving as fast as the observer will be drastically overestimated, except for very inconspicuous species.
4160226| Based on daily observation of the activities of a large wintering flock of Canada Geese and specific records of radio-marked families and individuals, the times and nature of flight patterns of these geese are described along with the environmental variables associated with these patterns. Characteristics of flight patterns were: regularity of onset of morning and evening flights in relation to light intensity under similar weather conditions; regularity of onset of the heavy flight with respect to the first geese which flew and the prevailing light levels, usually at or just after sunrise in the mornings and between sunset and civil twilight in the evenings; variability of individuals and families within the regularity exhibited by the flock as a whole; delay of flight under completely cloudy conditions; longer periods of time spent in feeding areas when cloudy, but not when cold provided it was not too cold to prevent flight; considerable delay in flight time or usually cessation of flight when below 15 F. The motivation and probable adaptive nature of goose responses to roosting on or near water during clear weather or in fields during stormy weather and their cessation of activity in cold periods are discussed. 
4160227|During the summer 1970, the authors studied a number of pairs of the Common Loon (Gavia immer) with respect to the reproductive behavior, on Iceland. The birds were studied from spring arrival till September, and the territorial behavior, courtship, copulation, nest choice, nest-building, incubation, and parental behavior was observed and filmed. The territorial behavior was observed and filmed rather extensively, and a description of the different movements is given. Of the several vocalizations the yodel is regarded as a territorial call, the wail as a low-intensity form of the yodel, the tremolo as a warning and agitation call. The courtship observed was very much like the behavior in G. arctica and G. stellata, but differs from earlier reports of G. immer. This seems to stem from the description of territorial behavior as courtship by many authors. The copulation, which took place ashore, was similar to the copulation of G. arctica and G. stellata, as might be expected. The nest site was chosen by the male, the main nest-building done by the female. Additional nest-building was observed when the parents relieved each other on the nest. The incubation period was 28 days. The parental behavior was as described in earlier reports, but differences noted in the feeding behavior (both parents feeding, no splashing or dipping of the food). The young were sometimes warmed ashore. A number of comparisons with G. arctica and G. stellata are made.
4160229|The evolution of the posterior border of the sternum in unrelated groups of tree-trunk foraging birds may be characterized, in general, by a tendency to increase the ossification of the border. In woodpeckers, which possess a four-notched sternum (type 6), there is an increase in the amount of closure of the notches. In woodhewers and woodhoopoes, which possess basically a two-notched sternum (type 3), there is a tendency to reduce the notches, resulting in some species in type 2 (with lateral fenestrae), and even type 1 (with no notches) in one species. Increasing the ossification of the posterior border of the sternum in the Dendrocolaptidae, Picidae, and Phoeniculidae is probably associated with increasing the strength of the sternum for tree-trunk foraging.
4160230|The involution of the bursa of Fabricius begins in the autumn and is fully achieved by the end of the winter in all studied species. The presence of this organ may be used as an age criterion in shorebirds collected during fall migrations. The degree of cranial ossification does not permit distinguishing young birds from adults, since large "windows" persist generally in adult was well as in juvenile shorebirds. Two different patterns of cranial ossification are found in shorebirds; one applies to most species while the other one is found in the American Woodcock, Common Snipe, Knot, and Short-billed Dowitcher. The genera of Charadriidae attain a higher degree of cranial ossification than the genera of Scolopacidae. The authors also discuss the adaptive value of the skull pneumaticity.
4160254|Plain-brown Woodcreepers usually forage over swarms of army ants and capture arthropods flushed by the ants. The woodcreepers occasionally forage away from ants, at times with the wandering interspecific flocks of the forest interior. They generally wait on vertical perches 1-10 m above the ground and sally like flycatchers to capture orthopterans, roaches, spiders, and other prey from the vegetation or the air. When competing antbirds are absent, the woodcreepers descend and capture prey on the ground more frequently. They use "anting" and "wing-flashing" as foraging techniques; the former behavior pattern apparently wipes harmful secretions off prey and the latter flushes concealed prey. Alarm behavior, especially fleeing and repetition of a loud call ("stieking") is well developed. In contrast, social behavior is as plain or inconspicuous as are voice and plumage. Agonistic behavior is mainly confined to ignoring conspecific birds, to sudden chasing, and to fighting. Submissive display is better developed but inconspicuous: there is wing-quivering, also a rigid posture during a "rattling" call; aggressive display is rarely seen. The relative lack of display or necessity for inconspicuous displays to avoid predators and competitors may be the reason for an observed high frequency of fighting, which in this species is perhaps not very dysgenic because the birds fight in the relatively open middle levels of the forest where entrapment is difficult. Settled females occupy exclusive areas, and seldom visit ant swarms outside these areas. Settled males wander widely around the separate centers of their own areas; their mutually overlapping foraging areas overlap with but do not correspond to the foraging areas of females. Settled females apparently dominate settled males occupying the same regions. There is no permanent pair bond. For a few days at the time of mating an individual female permits a male to come near her without fleeing or attacking. For a time the two squabble vigorously, but the female finally submits to mounting after the male "nibbles" her back repeatedly. "Cavity-sitting," a behavior pattern in which the two birds visit holes in stubs together, suggests that the pair association may extend for a short time beyond copulation. It is possible that the insectivorous niche of the species, and particularly its relatively irregular and marginal source of food, prevent evolution of lek behavior or hypertrophy of male voice or other characters by sexual selection. Nesting and care of young are tasks of the female. Begging and parental behavior are inconspicuous. "Singing" is used when female and young are widely separated, as it is when adult woodcreepers are alone and wandering away from swarms. A kind of "rattlet" call notifies the young that the female has food. After a month or so the juveniles leave the female and wander separately. The individuality of these woodcreepers and their relative plainness of plumage, voice, and social behavior may result from their irregularly available and exposed foraging niche. The woodcreeper depends upon irregular sources of food, when ants probe above the ground or when domineering antbirds happen to be absent near the ground. The premium this places upon rapid movement of individuals perhaps precludes development of pair bonds and parental behavior, which would require special calls and displays and thus attract domineering competitors. Moreover, these woodcreepers are adapted for using open sites in the forest midlevels and near the ground in places that antbirds hesitate to go; to use such unsafe sites the woodcreepers apparently depend on inconspicuousness of plumage and behavior, or sudden and unpredictable moves to get prey or chase competitors. They avoid fights with other species, or move in on them quickly or with wing-shivering, perhaps so neither predators nor competitors will be attracted. Individual woodcreepers seem successful at avoiding predation; some on Barro Colorado were over 10 years old.
4160255|A study of Red-tailed Hawk populations, ecology, and predation on Ring-necked Pheasants was conducted in east-central Wisconsin in 1959-65. The average winter density of Redtails on a 42-square-mile tract was 0.39 per square mile; the average breeding density over a 3-year span (1962-64) was 0.54 per square mile. Wintering Redtails consisted almost exclusively of adults, the majority of which appeared to be paired and permanently resident. Redtail nest success was 65 per cent, and the average number of young fledged per successful clutch was 1.8. The overall rate of productivity was 1.1 fledged young per breeding pair, well below the threshold of 1.3 to 1.4 young reportedly required for population maintenance in this species (Henny and Wight, in press). Rearing success was close to the maximum reported in the literature, the main limitation to breeding success being the high rate of nest mortality prior to hatching. Pheasants were the leading item of prey in an analysis of spring and summer food habits. Pheasants were also preyed upon in winter, but the percentage they comprised of the winter diet, though considered substantial, was not quantitatively evaluated. Over a seven-winter period (1958-65), Redtails removed an estimated 7 per cent of the hen pheasant population between early January and late March. In 1963-64, Redtail predation during the spring and summer period was estimated at 5 per cent of the 1 May population. Under conditions of the present study, it was concluded that the Red-tailed Hawk was a highly capable predator on pheasants, and that Redtail predation accounted for a significant percentage of year-round pheasant mortality.
4160256|A study of Barn Owl ecology was begun in 1965 at the Welder Wildlife Refuge, Sinton, Texas, and continued to the summer of 1971. Additional study of the small mammal prey populations took place between 1969 and 1971. The seasonal fluctuations of the rodent populations were severe, and trap success ranged from 48.3 to 1.9. Blackbird populations varied between an estimated 50,000 birds during the winter to 15,000 in the spring and summer. The availability of blackbirds as owl food was not limited. Food habits of the Barn Owl were determined from pellet analysis. This material contained 11,408 food items of which mammals comprised 85 per cent, birds 13 per cent, and insects 2 per cent. A strong correlation existed between the percentage frequency and the percentage biomass of these foods. Barn Owls initiated their nests in the first three months of the year with a peak of activity in March. The nesting season was irregular, lasting from two to ten months. Clutch size was calculated as 4.9 eggs per nest. Nesting success over a 7-year period was 65.9 per cent. There were 1.5 times as many young raised per pair in years when rodent prey populations were abundant than in years when prey was less available. Both the quantitative and qualitative nature of Barn Owl foods are important as the otherwise abundant blackbird population did not sustain successful Barn Owl breeding as measured by fledged owlets per pair. The changes occurring in a single small mammal population had no immediate effect on Barn Owl nesting density or success. However, when the overall small mammal population decreased in their availability as prey, the productivity of the Barn Owl population was greatly reduced. This point was reached when birds made up at least 32 per cent of the Barn Owl diet. Mammals, rather than birds, were the key staple on which Barn Owl reproduction depended.
4160257|Cardinals showed few preferences for seed (sunflower or hemp) size and little difference in ability to handle different seed sizes. A slight tendency to prefer short and thin sunflower seeds may be associated with the ability of females to husk this size more rapidly. Other species tested usually preferred small (short and thin) sunflower seeds corresponding to their small bills and general inability to handle larger seeds. Purple Finches preferred thin sunflower seeds to thick ones, regardless of length. Thick seeds were apparently difficult to hold in relatively short bills, long ones difficult for more slender bills. Relative forces applied by the main portion of the bill may be correlated more closely with bill depth, and perhaps width, than with length.
4160258|Nestling development of the Boat-billed Heron was studied at San Blas, Nayarit, Mexico August-October 1964. Daily measurements were made on marked young, including weight and length of culmen from nostril and from the tear duct, width of the bill at base, tarsus and primaries 3 and 8. Sexual dimorphism is minimal in all measurements, except length of the tarsus and culmen where it is about 8 per cent in adults, but did not constitute a significant variable in the measurements of nestlings. Weights of nestlings were exceedingly variable due in part to prolonged hatching period within clutch and to irregular regurgitation of food. Minimal adult measurements were not obtained by any structure studied by 28-30 days of age at which time the young could no longer be caught. Maximal tarsus measurement, for example, was 63 mm compared to minimal length of 71 for 27 adults from the same region. Variations within an age group were so great that measurements of even a combination of structure would be of little use in determining age of nestlings. The development of the final basic plumage is described.
4160259|Eggshell thickness in the Cedar Waxwing was analyzed in relation to various factors and the existence of important natural variation was demonstrated. Eggs from small clutches have thicker shells than eggs from large clutches. Embryonic development results in a thinning of the shell. Five other factors failed to significantly correlate with shell thickness. Recent waxwing eggs appear to have slightly (3.2 per cent) thinner shells than eggs collected before 1920. The possible significance of these findings to clutch size determination and other factors as well as to pesticide studies is discussed.
4160260|Sizes of testes obtained from wild populations of the Dickcissel on its wintering range in Panama and the Canal Zone were used to compute a logarithmic testicular growth-rate constant, k, equal to 0.03114 day
4160288|The endemic, endangered Okinawa Woodpecker (Sapheopipo noguchii), comprising a monotypic genus, inhabits scattered patches of original forest in northern Okinawa, Ryukyu Islands. Brief studies in February 1972 established that it forages by excavating for insects in trees, and particularly in rotting branches, and stubs, and in rotten trees and branches lying on the ground. It is found at low levels in trees and undergrowth, much as is Blythipicus rubiginosus in Southeast Asia. Various calls are described, as is drumming. Vocalizations show resemblances to those of Blythipicus and Picus. What is known of this woodpecker's anatomy, and its behavior strongly suggest that Sapheopipo noguchii is related to the Blythipicus-Gecinulus-Picus line of woodpeckers, and not to Picoides (Dendrocopos). Although only five to eight individuals actually were observed, information available from my field observations of its habitat, and from Ryukyu Island forestry officials suggests a population of 20 pairs (possibly as many as 60 pairs) distributed patchily over about 1500 ha of the Okinawan highlands. Wood-gathering, wood-cutting, forest clearing and replacement by exotic tree plantations, and fires are reducing the natural forests. Because the woodpecker requires undisturbed forest with plenty of rotting trees for foraging, and with standing trees and stubs 25 cm or more in diameter for nesting, the various human activities just mentioned are fragmenting its remaining small population and threatening it with immediate danger of extinction. Loss of this distinctive species and genus of woodpecker can be prevented only by fast action to establish one or, better, several effectively protected, suitably large preserves containing a few pairs of Okinawa Woodpeckers. Proper management of forests in the surrounding regions may permit reestablishment of the species over a large area, such that it no longer would be in danger.
4160289|A two-year study of the Wilson's Warbler was made in two different habitats. Older males appeared to return earlier than second-year males and females. With one exception, males returned to essentially the same territories in 1970 they occupied in 1969. The average area of the defended territory was 0.54 hectares. Most of the nests found were supported by blackberry and averaged 68 cm from the ground. Aspects of adult behavior were discussed including territory defense and feeding rates of young by adults. In one 14-hour day, the parents made an estimated 812 feeding trips to the nest, an average of 58 trips per hour. Plumage changes in young from hatching to 40 days of age were described. Field observation and mist net data suggest peak adult post-breeding wandering occurred in late June.
4160290|A study of molt and changes in body weight of American Woodcock was conducted to better understand the summer and fall behavior of these birds and to indicate periods of physiological stress. The postnuptial molt of adults was a complete molt beginning in late June and ending by the middle of October. In contrast, the postjuvenal molt was a less intensive partial molt beginning in mid-July but also extending to the middle of October. Both male and female adult birds experienced weight loss in August during peak molt. Young birds gradually gained weight throughout the summer. Fat deposition was negatively correlated with molt while fall body weights were positively correlated with fat deposition. The data indicated that the majority of Maine woodcock are not physiologically prepared for migration until mid-October. Weights of adult males during the spring suggested that this is an important period of stress for these birds.
4160291|Since the erection of the 1,500-ft TV tower near Bithlo, Orange Co., Florida, studies on the disasters of nocturnal migrants have been conducted. This paper covers the autumn periods of 1969-1971; 7,782 individuals of 82 species are reported. Data on weights, ages, sexes, subspecies, and molts are presented.
4160292| Existence energy requirements of a covey of eight females were measured and compared with those of the same eight females individually confined. The roosting formation generally was more compact at cold than at warm temperatures; huddling provided a metabolic advantage at 5C but became energetically disadvantageous at higher temperatures. Occasionally tight roosting circles were observed at warm temperatures, when the behavior was seemingly metabolically disadvantageous. Analyses of differences in energy requirements of individuals and covey resulted in a departure from linearity between 10 and 20C, which presumably represented a shifting LCT (manifested by different temperatures of acclimation and a concomitant lower feeding level). The adaptive significance of covey behavior when temperatures are warm enough to confer a seemingly metabolic disadvantage may be associated with proximate and ultimate factors. Ultimately the behavior is concerned with energy conservation, but the proximate control (which would be other than temperature) could be photoperiod. Roosting disks may also have an adaptive advantage in regard to predation. 
4160293|The 37 species in the subfamily Charadriinae are compared and possible functions of the head and breast patterns are reviewed. It appears that these patterns disrupt the body and eye outlines, which is especially important for the nesting bird. In some species the patterns may enhance sex recognition and may serve as reinforcers for aggressive displays. It is proposed that the primitive Charadrius stock had breast bands and nested on shingle and that as this genus radiated the markings took on social signal functions and were modified by new selective pressures in new habitats. It appears doubtful that the black lore lines have any value as feeding sight lines among the Charadriinae species.
4160315|A banded population of Stilt Sandpipers was studied at Churchill, Manitoba, in the summers of 1964-1967. The species arrives in late May or the first days of June, with males tending to arrive a day or two in advance of females. Mate and territorial fidelity is high. Experienced breeders return to their nesting territories in well-drained sedge meadows, where they encounter their mate of the previous year. Nesting begins almost at once; often the old nest scrape is re-used. There is no evidence that birds form pair bonds during migration. The apparent en route pairing that has been alleged in several species of arctic sandpipers can be attributed to the strong homing ability and site fidelity of experienced breeders. The complex vocalization of the Stilt Sandpiper, and the contexts in which they are used, are outlined. Territories are established and maintained through aerial displays. Territorial defense wanes about a week after the clutch is completed, at which time late-nesting pairs may be able to nest in close proximity to established pairs. Nesting behavior is described in detail. The role of the sexes in incubation is rigid, with males incubating by "day" (05:00-19:00), females by "night." Males are capable of breeding immediately upon arrival, but females do not attain breeding condition until several days later. Gonadal regression occurs about a week after the clutch is completed and after that time re-nesting seems impossible. The incubation period averages about 20 days. In most years the peak of hatching occurs in the first days of July, old pairs hatching young, on the average, a few days earlier than pairs nesting for the first time. The chicks are led from the drying sedge meadows to wet areas near the coast. Females remain with the brood for about a week, males for two weeks, before migrating. Most chicks leave the Churchill area by mid-August. In this study predation was the major cause of nesting failure. Separation from the adults and adverse weather are probably the major sources of chick mortality. Stilt Sandpipers do not feed to any appreciable extent on the territory, but forage in small tundra ponds up to five miles from their nests. Analysis of stomach contents suggests that by exploiting pond habitats the species is able to avoid food overlap with most other sandpipers. Body molt of adults begins in July, after the chicks have hatched, but flight feathers are not molted until after the birds migrate from the nesting areas. Variations in the molt pattern do not seem to be associated with age or sex. No geographic variation was detected in this species. There are no strong reasons for maintaining Micropalama as a monotypic genus distinct from Calidris. Evidence from behavior, morphology, vocalizations, and biogeography indicates that the Curlew Sandpiper (C. ferruginea) is the closest relative of the Stilt Sandpiper.
4160316|A statistical analysis employing measurements of breeding specimens representing the three migrant subspecies of Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis canadensis, Grus c. rowani, and Grus c. tabida) provided supportive evidence that the intermediate population, rowani, is separable on the basis of wing chord, tarsus length, and exposed culmen. A series of 180 migrant Sandhill Cranes was collected in Minnesota, North Dakota and Montana during the fall migration periods in 1970 and 1971, and racial determinations were made according to similarity with breeding specimens of known origin. On the basis of this classification, it was demonstrated that the subspecies differ in relative proportions to body size of tarsus length and culmen post nares as well as differing in overall body size. The racial composition of migrating cranes collected in different areas varied; tabida was predominant in Kittson County, Minnesota; rowani in Kidder and Pierce Counties, North Dakota; and canadensis in McLean County, North Dakota and Phillips County, Montana. Measurements of immature cranes were found to vary in the same general way as those of adults.
4160317|During a three-month visit to the Kanaku Mountains in southern Guyana (January-April 1970) observations were made on the four species of hermit hummingbirds resident in forest at the foot of the mountains: Glaucis hirsuta, Threnetes leucurus, Phaethornis superciliosus, and P. ruber. Two other species, P. augusti and P. longuemareus, were recorded but were scarce and probably not resident. The period of observation coincided with the end of the breeding season. Observations were made at the solitary song-perch of a Threnetes leucurus, which was occupied first by an adult and then by an immature bird and was visited by a third, juvenile bird. In display this species exhibits the contrasting throat-pattern, which seems to serve the same function as the colorful gape exhibited in display by Phaethornis species. Its general behavior is similar to that of T. ruckeri in Central America. Regular observations were made at a very large singing assembly of P. superciliosus, and a very small assembly of P. ruber (five birds). The songs and behavior of these species are compared with previously published accounts. The relative abundance of the four hermit species was assessed from the size of the singing assemblies, the number of feeding records, and the number of birds trapped. T. leucurus, the least abundant of the four, is probably mainly insectivorous. It is suggested that the development of lek behavior (or its absence) is related to the population density of the different species. Of the two species which do not show lek behavior, G. hirsuta has linear nesting territories along streams, while the nests of T. leucurus are dispersed throughout the forest. It is suggested that the male's active role at the nest in G. hirsuta, in contrast to T. leucurus, is related to the relative scarcity and the need for defense of stream-side nest-sites.
4160320|Food consumption and pellet formation rates were studied for one year in captive Great Horned, Long-eared, Burrowing and Barn Owls. Mean food consumption for the whole year in the Great Horned Owl was 4.7 percent of its body weight per day; in the Long-eared Owl, 12.7 percent; in the Burrowing Owl 15.9 percent; and in the Barn Owl, 10.1 percent. Average pellet rates per day for the year were 1.2 for the Great Horned Owl, 1.4 for the Long-eared Owl, 1.5 for the Burrowing Owl and 1.7 for the Barn Owl.
4160321| Winter-acclimatized Mourning Doves were subjected to a photoperiod and an ambient temperature range designed to simulate conditions of a severe winter storm, common to central Illinois. Metabolic rates were recorded for two daily cycles of decreasing temperatures (10 C to -18 C) in darkness and increasing temperatures (-18 C to 10 C) in light; the doves were fasted throughout the 44-hour experiment. Juvenile doves had higher metabolic rates than adults, and females had higher rates than males, but neither difference was statistically significant (P > 0.05). The metabolic rates of doves were greater during exposure to decreasing ambient temperatures and darkness than during exposure to increasing ambient temperatures and light, the difference being statistically significant (P < 0.05). The doves responded metabolically more to the directional temperature gradient than to either actual ambient temperature or light. The consumption of oxygen by doves did not follow a straight-line increase with concurrent declines in ambient temperatures. Oxygen consumption was not only less at -18 C than at -10 C (in darkness), but also diminished with extended exposure at -18 C. These observations suggested that Mourning Doves employed a physiological mechanism (perhaps reduced body temperature) to decrease their metabolic expenditures at low ambient temperatures; the mechanism permits the conservation of energy and thus augments survival. The potential survival ability of doves exposed to simulated winter storms was related to sex and age attributes. Adult doves (particularly males), because of their age or greater weight, or both, were better equipped physiologically than juveniles (particularly females) to survive the stresses of low ambient temperatures without food. Thus, among Mourning Doves wintering in the northern and central U.S., the autumn-to-spring changes in sex ratios and in age ratios, which usually favor males and adults, respectively, probably reflect the differential survival abilities of the sex and age cohorts. 
4160322| Double-crested Cormorants have experienced reproductive failures in colonies on Anacapa Island in southern California and Los Coronados Islands of northwestern Baja California. These failures were characterized by eggs with thin shells that collapsed in the nest during incubation. The pattern of reproductive failures was the same as that observed in Brown Pelicans breeding in the same areas. Shell thinning was not found on San Martn Island, and reproductive success of the cormorant colony there apparently was not affected. Data are given for eggshell measurements and chlorinated hydrocarbon residues for eggs collected from these colonies in 1969. The eggshells from Anacapa and Los Coronados show a 34 percent decrease in thickness from pre-1946 museum eggs. DDE levels in the yolk lipids show a concentration gradient decreasing southward from Anacapa to San Martn. The values of r, (Spearman rank correlation coefficient) between decreasing shell thickness and increasing concentrations of both DDE and PCB are highly significant. PCB levels parallel those of DDE; it was not possible therefore to separate the effects of PCB and DDE on eggshell thinning in this study. The relationship between DDE and shell thickness of these eggs, however, was equivalent to that of midwest fresh-water cormorant colonies. The eggshells from Anacapa and Los Coronados were found to be lacking a chalky cover characteristic of normal eggs, possibly contributing to a greater fragility of the shells. Further field observations indicate an apparent increase of productivity on Anacapa in 1972. No young were observed on Los Coronados in 1970 and 1971. The San Martn colony suffered a decline in 1970, presumably from lack of food resources, but returned to normal numbers in 1971. 
4160323|Growth rates of Red-winged Blackbird nestlings in marsh and upland habitats are similar in that they result in the same mean weight at fledging. The percentage of nests with some nestlings starving, and the percentage of nestlings that die from starvation are similar in both habitats. The mean number fledged per successful nest is also similar between habitats. There is, however, in both habitats, a trend of increasing nestling starvation as the season progresses. It is suggested that the relative abundance of food is approximately the same for nestlings in either marshes or uplands, but that a higher absolute abundance of food in marshes makes large, dense nesting colonies possible. The relationship between nesting density and food supply is not simple because obvious differences in the phenology of vegetation used as nest support are also correlated with colony size and density.
4160324| Cloacal temperature, standard metabolic rate, and lower critical temperature were determined for 16 Ruffed Grouse in February and March. Oxygen consumption values were determined over a temperature range of 20 C to -40 C. Differences were not statistically significant when results were arranged by sex, month, and absorptive condition. A regression describing the relationship of oxygen consumption to air temperature was derived for the combined results of all grouse. Standard metabolic rate for a grouse of average body weight (644g) was 0.01 ml O
4160346|Radar records of bird movements along the northern arctic coast of Alaska appear to document the westward summer migration of eiders past Pt. Barrow, Wainwright, and Lonely. In addition the records show a sometimes heavy fall westward migration that persists into November at Pt. Barrow. An extensive spring east-west migration and a high-altitude eastward summer migration have also been observed by radar at Oliktok, near Prudhoe Bay east of Pt. Barrow. At the time of the summer westward eider migration, identification of radar echoes as due to eiders was based on correlation with visual observations and on the fact that no major westward migration of other species is known to take place then. In the other cases positive identification by visual or other means was not accomplished. The spring migration at Oliktok was complex in nature, presumably involved at least several species, and took place at a time of heavy overcast when the ocean and tundra were frozen and covered with snow. The summer eastward migration recorded at Oliktok took place at a sufficiently high altitude that it could not be seen visually by naked eye or binoculars in clear weather. The results reported represent the first application of DEW radars to the study of bird movements.
4160347|Observations of the singing habits of Traill's Flycatcher at the author's ranch in extreme northwestern Montana cover a period of 53 years. The great variety of songs given in that locality are classified among four types of short perch songs, a perch song series, a perch-to-perch flight song, a chase song, and a true flight song. Use of these types varies with the season, hour of the day, and action of the birds. Little seasonal change in singing habits or types of short perch songs given occurs. Birds sing quite commonly throughout their summer residence period. Weather conditions have little effect on singing habits. Singing may continue during storms, on unusually cold mornings, and during hot summer days. In the locality studied Traill's Flycatcher is not among early dawn singers; generally song does not commence until after sunrise. But among species present it is one of the most consistent and persistent daytime singers, being heard commonly at midday and on hot afternoons when other birds are silent. Twilight hours are the time of true responsive singing, with timing, tempo, and song selection reflecting an interchange of communication among birds participating in a "chorus" period. Though prefaced by scattered calls and songs, the general chorus, usually lasting about 20 minutes, begins and ends quite suddenly. As a rule during the chorus all birds render the same song, which may be replaced by another on the succeeding night. Following the general chorus, occasional songs of a particular type are given. Singing ceases well after dark, usually after all other birds are silent. Time of cessation appears to be little influenced by light intensity. Occasionally birds engage in a distinctive song-flight, rising in an erratic manner to a height of 30 to 50 feet, then descending in a similar zigzag course to a perch, while in the air continually voicing a rapid series of notes or one- to four-syllabled phrases. Comparison with published data from the West and Midwest discloses a considerable variation among localities in the calls, songs, and singing habits of this species.
4160348|The temporal behavior of female Broad-tailed Hummingbirds is described for the period preceding natural abandonment of nests. Nesting failure can be considered in two classes: early and late failures. The early failures were due to infertile eggs and the death of a chick. Attentiveness persisted four days beyond normal incubation period and at least one day after the chick was dead. In the latter nest, abandonment was preceded by a lengthening of the recess periods. Of the late failures, three hens abandoned suddenly, while the other two exhibited a series of lengthened recesses. One of the latter two became hypothermic for a portion of the two nights preceding abandonment. The lengthened recesses are thought related to the declining food supply. Live chicks remained in both of those and one of the suddenly-abandoned nests.
4160349|An automatic nest-box trap was operated at one site throughout a nesting season, with the captured birds continually removed. Seventy birds were captured, including 39 male and 17 female Starlings and six male and eight female House Sparrows. As indicated by captures in the nest-box trap, cavity hunting by Starlings continued from 16 February through 19 June, with captures on 51 days. Scattered captures of House Sparrows continued from 17 February through 3 July, with captures on 11 days. Starlings and House Sparrows explored the nest box both as pairs and unpaired individuals. Nest box visits were made chiefly in the forenoon, but some visits of both Starlings and House Sparrows were made in the afternoon. A reduction in nest box visits by Starlings started 10 days after fledged young were first seen, but scattered visits continued another three weeks.
4160350|The relationship between locomotor morphology and feeding ecology was studied in fifteen species of North American ducks. Two general adaptive types are recognized. Dabbling ducks (Anatini) feed on the surface, seldom dive, walk and feed on land, feed in shallow, inshore waters, and take off from restricted areas by rocketing upward. Diving ducks (Aythyini, Mergini, Oxyurini) feed underwater by diving, walk on land poorly if at all, feed in open, offshore waters, and take off by running along the surface. These ecological differences are correlated with morphological differences. Dabbling ducks have the largest wing areas relative to body weight, the most rounded wings, and the best developed wingtip slotting. This improves their ability to land and take off from spatially restricted areas. They have the relatively smallest paddles, which is correlated with their lesser aquatic adaptations but giving them greater agility in walking on land. The smallest paddles are in Anas americana, the most terrestrial of the species studied. Diving ducks have smaller, more pointed, less slotted wings. These are adequate for rapid, direct flight, but inadequate for a rocketing take-off, thus limiting these birds to more open waters. They have the relatively largest paddles, however, in relation to their efficient diving abilities. The Ruddy Duck (Oxyura jamaicensis) is a superb diver but helpless on land. Its structural characteristics reflect this condition. Eiders, the most cursorial diving ducks studied, have paddle areas comparable to those of dabbling ducks. Similarities in the different tribes of separately derived diving ducks are due to parallel evolution in relation to similar adaptive specializations.
4160351| Energy requirements of Black-bellied Tree Ducks were studied at 2 photoperiods (11-and 15-hours) and a series of temperatures between -20C and 42C. Body weight did not differ significantly between sexes or photoperiods but increased with decreasing temperatures at both photoperiods. Gross energy intake, excretory energy and existence metabolism increased linearly with decreasing temperature. Existence metabolism increased more rapidly with decreasing temperature for birds on the 15-hour photoperiod. Black-bellied Tree Ducks could not tolerate -20C in a caged condition beyond 3 days. Their legs froze stiff and death followed within 24 hours. High temperature (42C) resulted in a 23 per cent loss of body weight within 9 days. Temperature may limit the northward distribution of the Black-bellied Tree Duck's breeding-range by restricting the amount of productive energy available for egg formation. Research is needed to determine the effects of other factors that contribute to this limitation. 
4160354|Equations were derived from empirical data relating egg weights for passerines and non-passerines and shell weights for both to published standard metabolic rates. Metabolic rates of two extinct or rare species were estimated.
4160386|Himantornis is the most primitive and distinctive genus of the Rallidae, showing some characters in common with the Psophiidae. It is placed in a separate subfamily, the Himantornithinae. No subfamilial distinctions can be made among the remaining genera of rails and these are all placed in the Rallinae. A classification of the genera of Rallinae is advanced. The following generic changes have been made: Mentocrex and Rallicula into Canirallus; Nesolimnas, Cabalus, Habropteryx, and the subgenera Sylvestrornis and Hypotaenidia (including striatus) into Gallirallus; Limnocorax into Amaurornis; Porzanula, Pennula, Aphanolimnas, and Nesophylax into Porzana; Ortygonax into Pardirallus; Megacrex into Habroptila; Porphyrula and Notornis into Porphyrio; Edithornis into Pareudiastes; Porphyriops, Porphyriornis, and Tribonyx into Gallinula. The limits of the following genera have also been altered: Sarothrura to include Coturnicops ayresi (after Keith et al., 1970); Anurolimnas to include Laterallus fasciatus and L. viridis; Tricholimnas restricted to lafresnayanus; Dryolimnas to include Rallus pectoralis; Rallus to exclude Pardirallus, R. pectoralis, R. striatus, and Hypotaenidia; Poliolimnas to include Porzana flaviventer. Flightlessness and the crake-like build have each evolved several times from different parental stocks. The ancestral rails are believed to have been forest dwellers, the family having only secondarily adapted to aquatic environments. The Rallidae probably had its origins in the Old World tropics with secondary radiations in the New World.
4160388|A survey on breeding Common Loons was conducted on 19 eutrophic and fishing lakes in east-central Alberta. Loons were only observed on the fishing lakes. The large majority of loons nested on islands; in sheltered situations and within a few feet from the water. Although no correlation was found between the number of breeding pairs of loons and the size of a lake, there was a positive significant correlation between numbers of breeding pairs and presence of lake islands. In addition there was a significant inverse correlation between number of breeding loons and the amount of human disturbance occurring at lakes. Inasmuch as loons are intolerant of human disturbance they may serve as indicators of the wilderness quality of fishing lakes.
4160389|Observations of wild and captive Whooping Cranes and Sandhill Cranes, and apparently analogous behaviors in other species with somewhat similar breeding characteristics, suggest that, although the clutch size of both species is normally two eggs, the brood size is usually reduced to one young because of (1) abandonment of the second egg after the first has hatched, or (2) sibling rivalry which results in the death of the weaker chick. This appears to be an innate behavior which is characteristic of several species, and is unrelated to the proximate availability of food.
4160390| Forty Japanese quail were kept on -inch mesh wire floors, and 40 were supplied with dusting material for 17 days. Sample feathers of dusting birds showed improved barb alignment and a decrease in dandruff. The most noticeable effect of dusting was the drying and fluffing of the down. 
4160391|There is competition between Franklin's Gulls and American Coots for nest sites, each species defending its nesting site against the other species. Coots were observed to be aggressive towards Franklin's Gulls throughout the breeding season. On two occasions coots were observed to eat the eggs of Franklin's Gulls and 19 nests in an area centered on a coot's nest contained pecked eggs.
4160392|Within the last 60 years Brewer's Blackbird has expanded its breeding range approximately 700 miles into the Great Lakes region. Its distribution has increased through the creation of suitable habitat resulting from forest removal by man. Three principal routes were followed eastward through the expansion zone, these routes giving rise to several of lesser magnitude. Expansion originated in western central Minnesota. From there one route went northward and west of Lake Superior, a second went eastward between Lake Superior and Lake Michigan and a third moved through central and southern Wisconsin across the southern end of Lake Michigan. The rates of expansion along the routes varied according to the extent of habitat modification and the presence of vegetational and aquatic barriers. Five vegetational and three aquatic barriers were encountered. Although aquatic barriers had a greater effect upon the expansion rate, both types of barriers only slowed expansion temporarily. The average expansion rate through the Great Lakes region has been 11 miles per year. In general the potential for range expansion is suggested to exist annually, the impetus being derived primarily from post-breeding dispersal activity and other species-dependent activity. However, a host of factors which operate independently of a species' biological activity continually work against expansion. Only with the alteration of one or more of the constraining factors is an expansion possible. Range expansions appear to demonstrate three basic patterns; an explosive pattern, a dendritic pattern, or a slow, even-front pattern. Each pattern is commonly associated with one or two specific constraining factors whose alteration has enabled the species to expand. The difference between expansion patterns is also particularly affected by the type of dispersal activity exhibited by the species. In Brewer's Blackbird, eastward expansion of the breeding range appears as a continually growing dendritic pattern along recently produced tracts of grassland habitat. The species is not characterized by any particular innate characters which promote sudden increases in numbers and range.
4160428|Hybridization between Pheucticus ludovicianus and P. melanocephalus was studied in South Dakota. The greatest numbers of hybrids were found in populations along the Missouri River near the Nebraska-South Dakota border. A shift from largely P. ludovicianus-like male phenotypes to largely hybrid phenotypes occurred abruptly over a 12 mile distance from Springfield to Greenwood. Within another 40 miles to the west occur reductions in P. ludovicianus and in intermediate hybrids, with P. melanocephalus becoming the predominant phenotype. An analysis of mated pairs revealed that pairing did not deviate significantly from that expected in a randomly interbreeding system, but there was some evidence that P. melanocephalus females prefer to mate with males of the same morphotype. Hybrid females had significantly smaller clutches. We concluded from the above and from other evidence that these grosbeaks constitute semispecies and together are superspecies.
4160429|Despite ideas to the contrary, the first prebasic molt of the Yellow-breasted Chat is incomplete and of doubtful taxonomic importance; but it does afford a valuable clue for age determination, even into the following spring or summer.
4160430| Frequency and duration of egg-neglect periods in Oceanites oceanicus were studied on Robert Island, South Shetland, Antarctica. Of three nests observed, two successfully hatched young, even though they experienced four and eight periods of egg-neglect before hatching, averaging 7.6 and 5.4 hours/day, respectively. Longest periods of egg-neglect were 42 and 48 hours. Body temperature of newly hatched chicks was 25-27C. Prolonged egg-neglect may be common in Procellariiformes, and may modify the length of the incubation period so that the chick fledges when food is most abundant at sea. /// Este estudio se llev a cabo en la Isla Robert, Shetland del Sur, Antrtica, durante la XXIII Comisin Antrtica Chilena. El objetivo principal fue para establecer la frecuencia de los abandonos del nido durante la incubacin de Oceanites oceanicus y ver cuales eran sus consecuencias. Tres nidos fueron estudiados y en dos de ellos hubo eclosin del huevo despues de varios abandonos sufridos. Este abandono temporal parece ser un comportamiento bastante difundido entre los Procellariiformes, y sera el un comportamiento oportunstico a objeto de modificar la lonitud del periodo de incubacin con lo cual se logra que, al momento de abandonar esos lugares, los polluelos de este petrel encuentren abundante alimento en el mar mientras realizan su primera migracin. 
4160432|In observations made in the course of 16 years in the field and in eight years for captive individuals, a number of forms of behavior appeared to serve no immediate function and, in their lack of "seriousness," were clearly recognizable as play. As with other animals, the play was a version of some major pattern of behavior and these, in this report, included agonistic, courtship, and food-storing. Play versions of agonistic (or defensive) behavior were of two types: (a) a form of play in which a woodpecker dodged about a tree trunk, with wings extended straight out backward before a chickadee or other small bird used as an imaginary assailant. Dodging was observed for Hairy and Downy Woodpeckers in the field and for these two species as well as for Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers and a Pileated Woodpecker in captivity; (b) a wild, erratic type of flight which was seen in a total of seven species, and in four of them in the aviary as well as in the field. These flights sometimes followed the dodging. Play versions of courtship were noted for immature captives of both Common Flickers and Red-bellied Woodpeckers, when only a few months of age. For the flickers, this play consisted of bill-waving dances performed among pairs of juveniles and for the Red-bellied Woodpeckers in miscellaneous tapping performed on slight provocation. The Red-bellied Woodpeckers, in what was interpreted as a play version of food-storing, picked up miscellaneous objects, such as bent nails, and tried to store them in crevices. This type of play was also observed once in a Yellow-bellied Sapsucker. All of the woodpeckers were most exuberant and playful in the first half hour of the day after roosting. Only those individuals, however, that were the most tame and the least disturbed by the observer made good subjects for the study of play.
4160433|A population of 35 Horned Screamers was observed for eight days in the llanos of Colombia. The birds tended to be sedentary, remaining on a single perch for as much as two hours during the morning. Occasional flights to new perches were rarely longer than 200 m. The birds were never seen soaring and only rarely seen flying. Three basic vocalizations were used--loud goose-like Honking and Trumpeting and a somewhat melodious Moo Co. Calls were limited almost completely to the morning hours before the birds fed. Isolated pairs frequently duet with the Moo Co, primarily in response to disturbance. Arrivals of relocating individuals were typically accompanied by Honking, often with head bobbing. Communication between groups scattered around the lake involved Honking, Trumpeting and Moo Cos. The low fundamental frequencies and the well-developed harmonic of these calls suggest a long trachea (about 30 cm). Comparison is made with the other two members of the family--Chauna chavaria and C. torquata, and the behavior of certain waterfowl, especially the Magpie Goose, Anseranas.
4160434|A pair of first-year Carolina Wrens successfully fledged three Brown-headed Cowbirds in Montgomery County, Indiana; their own two hatchlings died within a day or two. The feeding rates in this pair of wrens was higher than those reported for non-parasitized nesting wrens--probably as a response to the demands of the cowbirds. Factors leading to this case of parasitism, which is rarely recorded in Carolina Wrens, may be related to the high local density of cowbirds, the scarcity in 1972 of normal nest-hosts, the vulnerability of the nest, and associated inexperience of the pair of wrens. Interestingly, the following year the male wren (and two new mates) built well-concealed nests and raised three broods of wrens.
4160464|This study provides new examples of taxonomic variation in foot-scutes. Coexisting, closely related, species sometimes differ significantly in the arrangement of foot-scutes; examples are Thryothorus sinaloa--T. felix, Regulus satrapa--R. calendula, Cardinalis cardinalis--Pyrrhuloxia sinuata, Pipilo fuscus--P. aberti, and Passerella iliaca--Melospiza melodia. Variations in scutellation in some cases possibly correlate with behavioral differences, but marked variation within Cardinalis cardinalis might be functionally unimportant with respect to use of the feet. Auriparus, Peucedramus, and Icteria are distinct in scutellation with respect to the families to which they are currently assigned, at least in North America. Sturnella, on the other hand, seems well-placed in the Icteridae, although it differs in scutellation from other North American members of the family. Chamaea is like many Old World Timaliidae in lacking two narrow scutes at the proximal end of the outer toe, as found in North American representatives of the Cinclidae, Troglodytidae, Mimidae, and Turdidae to which Wrentits have sometimes been linked taxonomically. The scutellation of Rhodinocichla resembles that of the New World nine-primaried oscine assemblage more than that of mimids or turdids, to which relationship has also been suggested. Certain taxonomic interpretations of scutellation are tempting, but without more study of function and of a wider array of species, this must be done with caution, Particularly in view of variation between more clearly related taxa.
4160466|The fossil species Rhegminornis calobates, based on a fragmentary tarsometatarsus from the Lower Miocene deposits at Thomas Farm in central Florida, has previously been regarded as constituting either a distinct family within the Charadriiformes or a sub-family of the Jacanidae. Re-examination of the type, and two additional specimens of the same element here assigned to the species, shows that Rhegminornis is actually a galliform referable to the family Meleagrididae. Rhegminornis thus becomes the oldest known turkey and is much smaller than modern members of the family. We suggest that the family Meleagrididae has had a fairly long and diverse history in North America. The allocation to the Cracidae of Boreortalis laesslei, another galliform bird from the Thomas Farm deposits, is confirmed. Additional cracid material from the same locality, possibly indicating the presence of more than one species is briefly noted.
4160468|In the late fall and winter, we conducted a distributional survey of vegetation and of six avian species on north and and south facing mountain slopes in New Jersey. Substantial differences in vegetation were found; the north slope supported a denser and more mesic plant community. The birds showed a great preference for the south slope (82 percent of sightings for all species combined). We suggest that the birds were attracted to the warmer, drier and less windy conditions on the south slope, with any slope differences in food availability not being a major factor.
4160470|The tendency of Ring Doves to remove introduced eggshells from their nests was investigated over the course of the reproductive cycle. This tendency increased markedly around egg laying, remained constant through the incubation period and showed evidence of a further increase just after hatching. If an eggshell was removed from the nest, it was most likely to have been removed within 15 minutes of its introduction. Comparisons with the eggshell removal tendencies of Black-headed Gulls are made, and the possible adaptive significance of eggshell removal behavior is discussed. The incidence of defecation at the nest was studied throughout the reproductive cycle. Adult doves refrained from defecating at the nest during the incubation period, although they exhibited a slight tendency to do so during other reproductive phases. Adults did little to keep their nests clean of the excrement of their young. The squabs showed some evidence of nest sanitation behavior, defecating over the nest rim.
4160471|A Wood Thrush nest appeared to be complete when found, 12 days after the male first sang on the territory. Three days then passed before laying began. Four eggs were laid on consecutive days, probably all of them at about noon. Only the female appeared to incubate; she spent every night on the nest after the first egg was laid. According to one method of sampling, the female spent about 64 percent of the daylight hours on the nest during the incubation period; on a day when the nest was watched continuously she was present 72 percent of the time and left the nest 31 times. The male often perched on or near the nest and sang when the female was absent. Behavior of the pair toward birds and other animals is described. The incubation period was about 12.7 days, and the two young that hatched left the nest when slightly over 12 days old. The weights of the nestlings at various ages are presented, and the development of the plumage and certain nestling behavior are described. The female began a second-brood nest about 17 to 19 days after the nestlings left the first nest, but this effort was unsuccessful.
4160472|Measurements of shell thickness of the eggs of five species were subjected to nested analyses of variance. The analyses separated variation into two or three levels for which variances and percentages of the total variation were derived. The results show that differences among measurements of the same egg contribute little to the sample variance, whereas differences among eggs within clutches contribute nearly as much as differences among clutches. It is more efficient and less costly to collect entire clutches of eggs in most studies of shell thickness. Using entire clutches, sample sizes needed to detect differences of 10 percent in shell thickness (at given significance levels and power) were estimated to be eight to 11 clutches for the species studied. For differences of five percent, 26 to 38 clutches are required. Guidelines are presented which may assist other workers in evaluating the efficiency of their sampling designs, and in estimating sample sizes for detecting differences in eggshell thickness in wild birds.
4160499|The extent of habitat reduction, distribution, and population size of the Plain Chachalaca were studied in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas. Suitable habitat, i.e., dense woodlands, has been severely reduced over much of the southern Texas range of this species. Expansion in agronomic production and residential development contributed largely to this reduction in habitat. The distribution of chachalacas in Texas includes much of Cameron County and portions of Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy Counties. Density and abundance estimates were higher in Cameron and Hidalgo than in Starr and Willacy Counties. The overall density estimate for areas containing Plain Chachalacas in the Lower Rio Grande Valley was 1.0 bird per acre. The total Plain Chachalaca population in Texas was estimated at between 18,000 and 21,000 birds. Trends in population size remain unknown, although artificial feeding by local residents, reduced predatory pressures, and initiation of transplanting programs may be responsible for slight increases in Plain Chachalacas in recent years. Additional transplanting of birds to suitable, unoccupied areas within their natural range may benefit chachalaca populations in Texas.
4160500|A method of estimating Sora and Virginia Rail populations by spot-mapping responses to tape recordings of their primary advertising calls was devised and tested in north-central Colorado. Individual response counts appear to be affected by stages of the breeding cycle and relative breeding densities on each area. Within the response radius of 60 m, a 5-minute playback period, preceded by five minutes of no calling, appeared to be adequate in eliciting responses from a large percentage of rails without counting a single individual more than once. The recorded-call technique provided a satisfactory means of censusing and studying territory distribution of breeding rails.
4160501|In Surinam, the Yellow-breasted Flycatcher inhabits tall mangroves and shade trees in the coffee plantations in the coastal plain. It feeds on small insects plucked in flight from among the foliage. The call is a shrill and high pitched "tchee-ee." A display consisting of slow waving movements of the wings moved alternately, was observed. The nest is a pensile, retort-shaped structure with the entrance at the bottom on the side, attached to slender twigs and usually at a great height. The presumed female alone builds the nest of yellowish fibers; building lasted 34 days in one case. Most nests (76 percent) are built near wasp nests. The 2 or 3 eggs are laid on alternate days and only the female incubates. Incubation lasted in one case 17 days, the eggs hatching on successive days. The nestlings are dark in color at hatching and devoid of down. They are fed on insects--one at the time--by both parents. They are brooded by one of the parents until the 4th day. The breeding season is a protracted one but mainly during the long rainy season. Apart from being robbed by snakes, the nests are sometimes pilfered by other birds and taken over by the Piratic Flycatcher.
4160502|Nine calls of the adult Mountain Plover, one chick call, and noises emitted from the egg are described. Tentative interpretations are made regarding the motivation and/or function of some of these calls.. Of special interest is the speculation that one call may have evolved to enhance the effectiveness of injury-feigning behavior. A comparison between Mountain Plover vocalizations reported in the literature and those recorded in my study is made.
4160503|During June and July of 1966-1968, 100 male grosbeaks (Pheucticus) were randomly collected in North Dakota. The hybrids consisted of three P. ludovicianus-like, two phenotypically medial, and one P. melanocephalus-like hybrids, these occurring along Beaver Creek near Linton and along the Souris River. Hybridization is thus less frequent than in the more southern Great Plains. The breeding ranges of the two species in North Dakota are separated by relatively treeless country between the Missouri River and other rivers to the east. Invasion of each other's range and subsequent hybridization are apparently limited by this treeless country and large reservoirs on the Missouri River. Compared with orioles (Icterus) and flickers (Colaptes), grosbeaks hybridize less frequently, possibly because of greater phenotypic and physiological (e.g. molt) differences, narrower habitat requirements, and assortative mating. Adult males of the two species were significantly different in all six size characters measured.
4160504|The gaits of four broadly distributed species of whistling duck (Dendrocygna) were compared. Differences in the angular displacement were greatest at the hip joint and separated the four species into two groups: one group containing the relatively cursorial species, D. autumnalis and eytoni, and the other the predominately swimming species, D. bicolor and arcuata. The first group initiates its stride with a larger hip angle and less angular displacement than the second group. The autumnalis-eytoni group also assumes a more vertical posture on land than the second group. Consideration of the feeding habits of each species sharpens the ecological distinctions between the two pairs of species. The possibility that autumnalis and eytoni evolved the same type of gait independently is suggested by phenetic analyses of the group.
4160505|Telecrex grangeri, from the Upper Eocene of Mongolia, is removed from the Rallidae and placed in the Numididae (guineafowls) of the order Galliformes. It was smaller than any of the modern guineafowls and appears to be the earliest Old World galliform yet known. Telecrex suggests that the more advanced groups of Galliformes evolved early in the Tertiary and that the Numididae may not have originated in Africa.
4160507|A three year study was undertaken to determine the role of geomagnetic cues in Ring-billed Gull orientation. The study was designed to provide data for answering three basic questions: 1, will superimposed magnetic fields cause disorientation?; 2, will reductions in the geomagnetic field result in disorientation?; 3, are gull chicks able to obtain directional information for artificial magnetic fields? Orientation-cage experiments were conducted in the natural environment, in a magnetically-shielded room (MSR) equipped with Rubens' coils, and in an unshielded control room. Detailed descriptions of the equipment and test procedures are provided. The resulting data were tested for the presence of a significant sample mean and for the clustering of responses about a predicted population mean. The latter test took into account information based on the migratory history of gulls from the colony under study. Certain inconsistencies exist in the data and an attempt has been made to account for some of these. In general it appears that any significant alteration in the geomagnetic field will cause Ring-billed Gull chicks to disperse randomly in the test apparatus. In contrast chicks tested as controls usually indicated a preferred heading. It appears that Ring-billed Gulls are capable of perceiving geomagnetic stimuli and that their ability to express a directional preference may be based on such cues.
4160508|Eighty-two percent (402) of 492 House Sparrows collected in the vicinity of Lubbock, Texas, were infested by the quill mite, Syringophiloidus minor (Berlese). An average of 13 feathers (range = 1-42) was infested per bird. The youngest bird infested was estimated to be 11 days old. Dispersing female mites enter the superior umbilicus of developing feathers. Entry into the lumen of the quill is regulated by formation of a plug which seals the superior umbilicus during feather development. Once seated in the umbilical passageway, the wedge-shaped plug prevents further entry of mites. Exit from the lumen of the quill is accomplished by displacement of the plug into the ventral groove or by specially constructed exit channels. The exit channels and the small holes which are produced in the quill wall by the feeding activities of the mites do not appear to structurally weaken the feather.
4160533|Examination of 58 Clapper Rail specimens taken in the breeding season from the Colorado Valley and the west coast of mainland Mexico verifies the distinctness of the races Rallus longirostris yumanensis, R. l. rhizophorae, and R. l. nayaritensis. Rallus l. yumanensis is a relatively pale brown, pointed-winged, summer resident of freshwater marshes along the valley and delta of the Colorado River. Late winter specimens of yumanensis have been taken in freshwater and saltwater habitats in the Mexican states of Sinaloa and Puebla. Both R. l. rhizophorae, a pale grayish bird, and R. l. nayaritensis, a darker grayish form, are presumed year-round residents of the western Mexican man-grove swamps. Both have more rounded wings than yumanensis. The range of rhizophorae extends south along the coast from central Sonora to central Sinaloa, and that of nayaritensis from central Sinaloa to the vicinity of San Blas, Nayarit. Features of the range and characters of birds where the range of these two races approach each other are unclear.
4160534|The Barn Owl appears to be a more opportunistic feeder in the southern Bahamas than on the North American continent. Although rodents are the predominant item of diet in both places, samples of food remains from the islands contain a higher proportion of non-rodent material, especially of birds, than do continental samples. These results probably reflect the lower abundance of rodents on islands. Skulls representing new locality records for two species of birds (Porzana carolina and Spindalis zena) and two species of bats (Lasiurus sp. and Artibeus jamaicensis) are part of the skeletal debris collected at feeding sites of Barn Owls in the southern Bahamas.
4160535|Playback broadcasts were made of Black-capped and Carolina Chickadee songs during five breeding seasons in southeastern Pennsylvania. Responding chickadees were recorded at 87 different localities and their songs and song bouts were classified. We found a predominance of Blackcap song in the north of our study area and of Carolina song in the south; birds in the central segment sang songs of both species and sometimes songs that were abnormal in some way. We discuss two explanations for the situation in the central segment: one, the songs may reflect interbreeding; two, the two species may be interspecifically territorial in the area of contact, with individuals giving both species' and abnormal songs in defense of their territories.
4160536|The kingbirds Tyrannus verticalis and T. vociferans were studied for possible competitive relationships in the Trans-Pecos region of Texas during June-August 1969 and May-August 1970, with supplemental observations in November 1970 and May 1971. The geographical and ecological distribution, nesting habits, food composition, and behavioral interactions were examined in each species. Although the kingbirds were geographically sympatric, verticalis generally occupied elevations of less than 4,000 ft and vociferans predominated above 4,000 ft. Desert shrub and farmland were typically occupied by verticalis, whereas vociferans was more abundant in the pine-oak-juniper, grassland, and riparian habitats. Both species preferred trees as a nesting substrate, but verticalis often nested on man-made structures such as utility poles in open habitat where trees were not commonly found. Despite their occurrence in different habitat types, the kingbirds fed in a similar manner and had similar diets. There was no apparent interspecific defense of feeding areas, although the nest sites were defended.
4160537|The population of Kirtland's Warbler declined from an estimated 1,000 in 1961 to about 400 in 1971. Principle causes appear to be parasitism by the Brown-headed Cow-bird and a possibly inadequate amount of breeding habitat. The species requirements on its wintering grounds in the Bahama Islands are virtually unknown. Necessary conditions there may be worsening. Most of the winter records of Kirtland's Warbler are reviewed. I spent 800 hours in the field on 11 of the larger islands during the winters of 1971-1972 and 1972-1973, trying to find Kirtland's Warblers by means of recorded song, and surveying habitats and recent habitat changes. One male Kirtland's was seen on Crooked Island. The bird was under observation for just under two hours during three days--11, 12, and 22 March 1973. It occupied an area perhaps twice the size of an average breeding territory. This area consisted of low, broad-leaved scrub with a stunted habit, possibly due to the brackish ground water. The plants on this foraging area are described in some detail. The most profound habitat change observed has been the lumbering off of the Caribbean pines by the Owens-Illinois Company on the "pine islands" of Grand Bahama, Abaco, and Andros between 1956 and 1973. This destruction of the pine ecosystem may well have contributed to the recent decline in the Kirtland's Warbler population. It may be, however, that most of the population utilizes young or stunted broad-leaved scrub areas in winter. The proportions are unknown. A drought in the Bahamas and southern Florida in the winter of 1970-1971 may have led to the observed heavy loss of birds in the spring migration of 1971. This, too, may have contributed to the Kirtland's Warbler decline.
4160538|A continuous study of predation by three rural cats was conducted in Union County, southern Illinois, from 1 January 1968 through 31 December 1971. The results established a basis for examining the possibility that cat predation may result in depleted winter populations of microtine rodents and other prey of Red-tailed Hawks, Marsh Hawks, and American Kestrels. Although one of the three cats never ate prey and each cat was assured an ample supply of daily food at home, all captured prey. Their combined predation removed an annual average of 483.5 vertebrates and 286.4 mammalian fetuses from a combined home range of 22 acres of field habitat and three acres of woods. By volume, the principal prey were non-adult cottontails, by frequency of captures, prairie voles. Rodents of seven species constituted 81.9 percent of the total combined diurnal-crepuscular-nocturnal catch, and over 95 percent of the crepuscular-nocturnal catch. The cats obtained 92.6 percent of their average annual diurnal captures between 1 March and 30 November. Their hunting success in winter was very poor, probably as a result of prey shortages that their own prior predation may have helped create. It is suggested that when captures of preferred prey by skillful, experienced cats on their natal hunting grounds sharply decline, the home range of the cats contains few such prey for rodent-seeking hawks.
4160539|Breeding bird population studies were carried out in the hemlock sere at elevations of 3,800 to 4,100 ft on the Highlands Plateau, western North Carolina, over a twenty-five year period. Populations of three carefully selected stages of succession in the sere (mesic shrubland, intermediate hemlock-hardwood, and virgin forest) were studied using the spot-mapping technique. Breeding bird population analyses in 1959-1960 and 1971-1972 were compared with the initial survey of these study areas by Odum (1950) in 1946-1947, and population density and species composition were compared with changes in the vegetation. Increases in density and species richness were correlated with the age of the seral stages, as evidenced by comparing percentage differences in bird populations of the study areas in the different census years. Both avian density and species richness showed an increase in the intermediate stage and a decline in the climax stage of the hemlock sere.
4160540|Male and female Downy Woodpeckers remain separate during winter months, when supplanting attacks by the male keep the two spaced out in relation to feeding. Early breeding behavior usually begins in March in New Hampshire and is marked by prolonged territorial conflicts, accompanied by bill-waving dances between males. Drumming, of which a number of types are described, serves to bring the two sexes together as well as having a territorial function. Signs of an increasing bond between members of pairs are that the two travel together at times in foraging, the female tolerating supplanting attacks by the male, and that when the male flies the female follows. Either member of a pair may percuss a stub to determine its suitability for the excavation of a nest, then drum or tap to attract its mate. Once a nest stub is found, signs of increasing harmony between the members of pairs are leisurely preening, one of the pair resting motionless in the presence of the other, duets of drumming, courtship flights, and joint defense of the nest stub against potential competitors. When no adequate nest site can be found, the pair bond breaks down, the female leaving while the male remains in the territory, carrying on prolonged drumming over many weeks. Dominance by the male partner, occasional reversals of dominance where the female takes the lead, the nature of the bill waving dance, and courtship flights are discussed.
4160541|The breeding biology and annual cycle of Laughing Gulls in the Tampa Bay region are outlined. Wintering adults begin obtaining their black hood in February, and by March the gulls begin occupying the breeding areas. Courtship and nest building occur in April, and by early May the first eggs are laid. The usual clutch is three eggs, and incubation usually takes 23-24 days. A flotation technique was used to determine the incubation stage of eggs. About 75 percent of the eggs hatch, and fledging success appears high--judging from the thousands of birds-of-the-year present in late June. Adults begin their post-nuptial molt in June, and the molted feathers are present in the colony through July and August. Dispersal from the colony starts in July, and by mid-August most adults and birds of the year have left the breeding sites. Adults begin molting their hood in July, and by September virtually all are in winter plumage. In August and September birds-of-the-year rapidly molt from the basically brown juvenal plumage into their first winter plumage. Large numbers of Laughing Gulls remain in the region during the winter. Nesting populations are thriving, but are threatened by development.
4160542| White Pelican eggs were collected at the time of laying on Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, Utah. Egg yolks were analyzed for the presence of dieldrin, DDD, and DDE, and shells were measured for thickness. Wet weight concentrations of residues averaged 3.64  0.46 ppm dieldrin, 3.70  0.31 ppm DDD, and 13.62  1.46 ppm DDE. These levels are comparable to those reported for the species from other regions of North America. Concentrations of dieldrin and DDE were significantly higher in eggs laid late in the reproductive season, but reasons for this are not known. Our data suggest that the residue levels observed in the eggs of free-living avian populations may depend on the time of collections. Shells of pelican eggs were significantly thinner than for pre-1940 eggs. Shell thickness of an egg decreased with increasing levels of DDE in the yolk. 
4160543|A public response survey seeking information about Purple Martin, House Sparrow, and Starling populations and nest site characteristics reveals that: 1, significant geographic variation occurs in the rate of occupancy of apartment houses by Purple Martins and House Sparrows; 2, height of apartments has no significant effect on the rate of occupancy by any of the species; 3, apartments farther than 30 m from the nearest building had significantly fewer martins than closer apartments; 4, there may be fewer martins and more sparrows occupying apartments as height of vegetation increases; 5, in Mississippi, martins show a significant preference for and sparrows a significant avoidance of gourds as nest sites; 6, Starlings may avoid aluminum houses; 7, martins may prefer white apartments while Starlings may favor darker ones; 8, martins tend to prefer apartments that have not been cleaned out after a previous occupancy; 9, suburban have significantly fewer martins than do urban or rural colonies and rural tend to have fewer sparrows than do suburban or urban colonies; 10, the presence of a pond, lake or stream within sight of the apartments may result in a greater occupancy by martins; 11, the presence of other apartment houses within one-half mile has no significant effect on occupancy by martins, but may result in a greater occupancy by sparrows; 12, significantly fewer apartments are occupied the first year by martins than in subsequent years; 13, competition between martins and sparrows may result in significantly fewer martins occupying a colony, but the Starling is not a serious nest-site competitor.
4160544|Incubation constancy behavior of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) was studied in the egg-laying, normal incubation, and prolonged incubation intervals by direct observation and use of an automatic continuous recorder. Diurnal incubation begins on day one of egg-laying and the constancy increases each day, until the last day of egg-laying. Nocturnal incubation usually begins the night just preceding the day the last egg is laid. Incubation temperature and constancy indicate that in most nests, incubation is effective before the clutch is complete, especially in the last two days of egg-laying, when incubation constancy may exceed 60 percent. In the first nest of the year, effective incubation temperature is reached somewhat more slowly than in renests. Incubation constancy remains highest throughout normal incubation (64 to 71 percent) and is in the range of 60 to 80 percent reported for passerine open-nesters; it then declines as prolonged incubation continues, reaching a low of only 38 percent on the day the nest is abandoned.
4160571| A marked population of Mountain Plovers was studied in northern Weld Co., Colorado during parts of the five breeding seasons of 1969-72 and 1974. Special attention was given to breeding adaptations in relation to the arid, shortgrass prairie habitat. Nests were found on flat, open expanses of blue grama or buffalo grass, frequently near old cow manure piles. Nests were initiated in late April with egg-laying terminating in mid-June. Eggs are normally laid at 1-2 day intervals with some extreme delays (4 days) recorded. The normal clutch was three and eggs averaged 38.1 mm  28.6 mm with an average weight of 15.6 g. The eggs have a relatively rounded shape and thick shell. The daily attentive period was relatively short and the incubation period averaged 29 days. Eggs are rotated during incubation, but not during hatching. Slight cracks appeared 3-4 days before hatching and noises were emitted by the hatching chicks. Seventy percent of the nests in 1969 and 52.6% in 1971 produced young. Predation accounted for 15.1% of the egg losses in 1969 and 15.8% in 1971. Weather accounted for 13.7% of the losses in 1969, mainly a result of hail damage. Badly damaged eggs were removed as were egg shells at hatching time. Adults perform distraction behavior during incubation and with chicks. One adult died as an apparent response to stress during a distraction display performance. Although adults performed distraction behavior in the presence of man, they frequently attacked other intruders. Most chicks were raised within 300 m of the nest and mortality was highest within three days of hatching. Chicks fledged at 33-34 days, but not more than 56.5% of the chicks reached the fledging stage in 1971. Flocking began in mid-summer and flocks began leaving in August. Many characteristics of this species appear to have evolved in response to (1) high summer temperatures, intense solar radiation, and aridity, (2) sudden storms, (3) predators, (4) fluctuating food levels. 
4160572|Consistent, significant associations of morphological variation in avian bill dimensions, measured by continuous variation and by sexual dimorphism, and autecological characteristics were few. Species with a limited resource base may be more frequently sexually dimorphic in bill size, and the frequency of dimorphism may change with habitat structure. Problems of this approach are discussed.
4160573|A 7-year-old female Bald Eagle from Alabama was paired with a 4-year-old Alaskan male in a large flight pen during December 1969. Both birds were free of physical defects when originally placed in the pen but the female was blind in one eye prior to the 1973 breeding season. Nesting first occurred during 1971 when at least two eggs were laid; all but one, which showed no sign of embryonic development after being incubated for 56 days, were broken by the adult birds. Two of three eggs laid in 1972 hatched. Both young died a few days after hatching following a period of inclement weather. Three eggs were laid and hatched during 1973. Antagonism between the nestlings was observed soon after hatching and may have been responsible for the unobserved death of one nestling, two days after the third young hatched. The two remaining young were raised by the adult birds and eventually left the nest 85 days after the first egg hatched. Incubation periods for the 1972-73 clutches averaged 35 days. No renesting attempts were made by the eagles during the 3-year period.
4160575|Glaucous-winged Gulls break open clams by dropping them, using either standing or flying drops. Both techniques preferentially utilize hard substrates, in distinction to previous reports for several European species. The relative efficiency of hard vs soft substrates, and high vs low standing and flying drops was investigated. Adults are more efficient clam droppers than are juveniles, and certain clam dropping areas may be actively defended.
4160576|A quantitative habitat ordination was carried out on 24 species of passerine birds inhabitating the riparian community of the Virgin River Valley, southwestern Utah. This work was compared to that of a previous study done by Frances James (1971). Many similarities were found between the two studies, including an interesting example of ecological replacements as exemplified by the Eastern and Western Kingbirds. Numerous differences were discussed and possible explanations for their appearance presented.
4160577|The rhinonyssine nasal mite literature was surveyed for records of infection of the Mimidae, Turdidae, and related groups and these data were evaluated with respect to the systematic position of the Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis). The Gray Catbird harbors Sternostoma dumetellae, a species not recorded from other mimids but closely related to S. technaui and S. spathulatum which are recorded from the Turdidae and Cinclidae. Sternostoma kelloggi from the Gray Catbird, Brown Thrasher, and Mocking-bird is a distinct species but again closely related to S. hutsoni, S. siaphilus, and S. dureni from the New and Old World Turdidae. Ptilonyssus euroturdi from the Gray Catbird is also found in a number of turdids in both the New and Old World. Thus, the parasite evidence suggests that the Gray Catbird has affinities with both the Mimidae and Turdidae. The occurrence of Sternostoma technaui in the Mimidae, Turdidae, and Cinclidae also suggests relationship among these families.
4160578|During a month-long study of habitat selection and feeding behavior of waterfowl on Argentine Isla Grande, 15 of the 17 species of waterfowl were seen. Habitat segregation of breeding waterfowl was quite distinctive and resembled the pattern of the same species in the Falkland Islands. Dabbling ducks of the genus Anas overlapped most in freshwater marshes but, even there, seemed to be segregated by feeding sites and feeding behavior.
4160579|The timing of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) roosting behavior on 21 evenings during February and March, 1972, in the Piedmont of South Carolina was compared to the total daily amount of solar radiation, the time of sunset, and the ambient light levels during twilight. The movement of birds toward the roosting area was closely associated with the total daily amount of solar radiation, while the termination of roosting was more closely correlated to light intensity levels following sunset. The timing of roosting behavior in relation to the quantity and quality of light was in accordance with the circadian rule.
4160580|Observations of certain aspects of the breeding biology of Upland Sandpipers were made from 1966 to 1973 on the Woodworth Study Area in east-central North Dakota. After arriving on the area Upland Sandpipers completed their breeding ground activities and departed after a period of 110 to 122 days, first arrivals were usually seen around 5 May, and in most years no birds were seen after 25 August. The maximum period from the earliest clutch initiation until the latest hatch was 67 days. The average time lapse between the laying of any two eggs is probably between 24 and 36 hours. All clutches known to be complete contained four eggs. The mean incubation period was 24 days, and all eggs in any one clutch completed pipping and hatched within a period of 1 to 3 days. Egg hatching success for 400 fully incubated eggs was 94%. The appearance of a completely hatched clutch was most commonly a shallow, bowl-shaped depression containing few to many minute egg shell chips and very little vegetative litter.
4160615|In the summer of 1969 we studied the morphology and behavior of the Indigo Bunting (P. cyanea) and the Lazuli Bunting (P. amoena) along a transect across the Great Plains. We concentrated on studying singing, territoriality, and mating behavior of known individuals that were later collected for morphological examination. Our hope was that this integrative approach would lead to a better understanding of the breeding biology of Passerina at their zone of contact. An examination of 274 specimens showed that most individuals from the Plains fall within the normal ranges of eastern (P. cyanea) or western (P. amoena) reference populations as defined by either principal components analysis or discriminant functions analysis. Only 6 to 7% of the specimens showed signs of intermediacy (hybridization) and there was little evidence of introgression. Intermediate specimens as well as both phenotypes were encountered near Chadron, Nebraska. Comparisons of the species compositions collected by us and by Sibley and Short (1959) indicate a rapid westward shift in the range of P. cyanea and, correspondingly, in the location of the area of sympatry. In areas of allopatry in the Plains, the songs recorded from Passerina were indistinguishable from those of their counterparts recorded far to the east or west. At Chadron, however, birds of both species sang songs incorporating figures from both song types. For example, P. amoena songs ranged from 100% "appropriate" (100% P. amoena figures), through intermediates, to cases of complete song interchange (100% P. cyanea figures). Temporal parameters of song also tended to converge toward intermediate values at Chadron, especially among the less common species (P. cyanea). Behavioral playback experiments showed that territorial male P. cyanea from the eastern Plains (Niobrara) respond agonistically only to songs of conspecifics; P. amoena songs are ignored. Conversely, P. amoena from the western Plains (Shoshoni) respond fully to playback of P. amoena song but fail to recognize the song of the congener. At Chadron, however, both species as well as intermediates give full agonistic responses to either song type. We hypothesize that buntings learn to respond to heterospecific song as a result of individual encounters and experiences. Territorial behavior observed at Chadron complemented these findings. The birds were interspecifically territorial, with both species as well as intermediates defending territorial boundaries against all other Passerina. An analysis of mated pairs at Chadron suggested that most females were mated to appropriate males and that inappropriate pairings (defined morphologically) were delayed in their breeding compared to normal pairings. We speculate that females rely, at least in part, on visual cues in mate selection; such a strategy clearly would be advantageous since morphology is a good predictor of genotype whereas song (which is learned and often "inappropriate" at Chadron) is not. Four lines of evidence suggest that mis-matings, where they occur, are selectively disadvantageous: (1) the small number of intermediate individuals and minimal introgression found, (2) the rarity of mixed-mated pairs, (3) the temporal retardation of breeding of such pairs, and (4) the occurrence of a high percentage of both first-year males and intermediate phenotypes at one particular study site that was judged on the basis of vegetation to be sub-optimal. We conclude: (1) That massive convergence and introgression is not occurring among the Passerina of the Great Plains. (2) The species appear to have diverged to a point where hybrids and mixed-pairs are at a selective disadvantage. (3) The 2 forms minimize possible ecological competition through the maintenance of non-overlapping, interspecific territories. Both the changes in singing behavior and the increased responsiveness to congeneric song noted in the area of sympatry are seen as adaptations that promote recognition of, and aid in the defense of, these territories against heterospecifics.
4160617|Six male Red-winged Blackbirds scattered throughout 2 marshes were vasectomized in 1971, and their females began laying infertile clutches in 5 days. However, of 39 clutches on their territories, 27 (69%) were fertile. In 1972, 30, 50, and 100% of the males in 3 small isolated marshes were vasectomized, and 44, 33, and 12% of the clutches on their territories were fertile, respectively. All clutches were fertile in a fourth marsh where /// all males were sham-operated. All clutches checked were fertile on territories of fertile males adjacent to sterilized males. During the 2 years there were only 4 partially fertile clutches, 2 each on vasectomized and fertile males' territories. Examination of reproductive tracts of female Red-wings from other marshes showed that sperm retained from copulation were abundant during nest-building or egg-laying but had dropped to a few by hatching. In vasectomy studies, vasectomized males whose territories were the farthest from fertile males had the lowest percentage of fertile clutches. This and other evidence indicated that fertile clutches on territories of vasectomized males may have been due to females being promiscuous with fertile males. The occurrence of fertile clutches on territories of vasectomized males indicates that sterilizing some of the males in a population (as in a chemosterilant program) would not result in a proportional decrease in fertile clutches. However, the decreases achieved (up to 88%), and the probability of better results in an actual program, indicate that male chemosterilization would be a feasible means of reducing Red-wing populations.
4160618|Bird populations were censused in both summer and winter in pasture, cropland, oldfield, young forest, and mature hardwood forest habitats at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas on the floodplain of the Missouri River. In both summer and winter, species diversity was lowest in the pasture, low in the cropland, and increased through the successional habitats to the mature hardwood forest. Equitability was higher in summer than in winter in the cropland and pasture habitats and increased with the successional stage. A comparison with breeding-bird census data from mature floodplain forests in Maryland and Illinois revealed that species richness did not vary greatly with longitude, but that the density of territorial males decreased markedly from east to west. Although some species reached their highest densities in the Leavenworth forest, this trend in overall density reflects the general westward decrease of species characteristic of the eastern deciduous forest.
4160619|The purpose of this study was to describe the development of young Brewer's Black-birds. Observations were made of morphology and behavior in 41 free-living nestlings aged 0-13 days, and of behavior in four hand-raised birds aged 5-42 days. Recently hatched nestlings averaged 3.7 g or 6% of the weight of adult females. Daily weight gains increased until day 5, then decreased. By day 10, the birds averaged 70% of adult female weight. Within asynchronously hatched broods, last-hatched birds made smaller daily gains than did first-hatched birds. The wing, the tarsus, and the hallux followed a sigmoidal growth pattern. By day 10, the tarsus was almost fully grown, whereas the wing chord was slightly over half of adult size. Growth of the commissure exceeded that of the culmen on days 1-4, then dropped below that of the culmen. The nestlings were sparsely covered with whitish down at hatching. Sheaths of primaries emerged through the skin on day 2 and ruptured on day 6. Sheaths of teleoptiles in other regions emerged on days 3-7 and ruptured on days 6-10. The nestlings' eyes began to open on days 1-3 and were fully open by days 8-9. Sexual dimorphism in eye color was faintly discernible at 12-13 days and was obvious in hand-raised young by 3 weeks. The nestlings had red mouth linings. Their bills, tarsi, feet, and claws were pale at hatching and were nearly black by the time of fledging. The nestlings first gaped shortly after hatching. They began to orient their gaping at 7-9 days and to show independent feeding responses near the time of fledging. Hand-raised birds attained complete independence in feeding by 39 days. Nestlings and fledglings occasionally regurgitated pellets. The birds began to preen and to stretch in the middle part of the nestling period. Hand-raised young scratched their heads from the age of 12 days, at first directly, later indirectly. Nestlings were first able to right themselves on days 1-2. Most birds were able to grasp a perch for 5 sec on day 6, to balance unsteadily on day 8, and to balance with good coordination on day 10. They fledged on days 9-13, and they hopped before they walked. Free-living birds were capable of short (< 1 m) flights on days 10-11 and of longer flights by day 13. Free-living nestlings began to crouch at my approach at 7-8 days. Hand-raised birds showed agonistic behavior, including pecking encounters and an open-billed threat posture, starting at 25-27 days. Birds aged 0-13 days gave two begging calls, a squawk, and a "location" note; and hand-raised young produced subsong beginning at 4-5 weeks.
4160620|During the breeding season the territories of the Black Phoebe, Western Wood Pewee, and Western Flycatcher overlapped, and the species showed little sign of interspecific aggression. Potential competition among these flycatchers appears to be reduced by /// interspecific differences in nest site selection, nest height, breeding season, foraging tactics, and the choice of perch sites. It is suggested that the Black Phoebe is the most versatile of the three species, and it is the only one to feed on the ground.
4160621|Individually marked American Kestrels studied in central Ohio showed definite winter territoriality. Winter population density was much higher and territory size was smaller than in similar studies done in Illinois and Michigan. Presence of a roost may be an important part of a territory. The population was quite dynamic, peaking in late December, dropping to a low in late January which correlated with cold weather and snow, and peaking again in February. During most of the study females outnumbered males by more than 2 to 1.
4160622|The behavior patterns of male and female Wilson's Phalaropes during the later stages of pair formation and the paired period are described. Females initiate nest-site searching behavior by leading males away from shores of sloughs into drier, grassy areas. During searching behavior each sex is equally likely to lead the other or both may wander in separate directions. Displays during this period are described and illustrated. The male alone prepares several nest scrapes for egg-laying by removing old and new grass, leaving a bare cup. A single observation of a male defending an area around the nest scrapes is the only evidence of territorial behavior by males observed in the entire study. Pre-copulatory behavior is described and an attempt is made to quantify display sequences leading to copulation. There are no post-copulatory displays. The average duration of copulations is 46.5 sec. Only 1 of 51 observed copulations took place while swimming. Paired birds and birds in the final stages of pair formation exhibit several behavior patterns which seem to function as aggression-reducing mechanisms. Most conspicuous are periods of ritualized preening and performance of Bill-Down displays. Flights in which the female leads the male are frequent at this time and may indicate laying readiness. The female lays eggs in one of the prepared scrapes. The male is usually at the nest when she arrives and she replaces him. Usually the male flies to a slough where he is joined by the female after egg-laying, which lasts about 14 min. A clutch of 4 was usually completed in 4 days with an average interval between eggs of 26.4 hours. The male begins lining the nest with dead grass shortly after the first egg has been laid. Incubation is solely by the male and usually begins on a regular basis after the third egg is laid. The male is hostile toward his mate soon after the last egg is laid and the bond is essentially dissolved at this time. There was one observation of a female directing sexual behavior toward another male after completing a clutch, but microscopic analysis of ovaries from collected birds did not show evidence of multiple clutches. The motivational and evolutionary relationships among several displays are discussed and possible homologies with displays of other phalaropes investigated. The evidence for polyandry is examined in light of recent studies and one possible mechanism for its evolution is presented.
4160623|Nestbuilding activity of incubating Laughing Gulls was concentrated on experimentally damaged parts of the nest. This demonstrates that sideways-building is guided by feedback from the nest even when it occurs during incubation.
4160646|The first nest of Brachyramphus m. marmoratus was found on 7 August 1974 in Big Basin Redwoods State Park, Santa Cruz Co., California. The nest, located 45 m above the ground at the base of a limb of a Douglas-fir, consisted of a depression in bark nearly surrounded by murrelet droppings atop living moss. Eggshell fragments removed from the nest are similar in color to previously described eggs but exhibit one new spot color. A downy nestling, the first of the species known to science, is described and compared to B. brevirostris; morphological similarities demonstrate their close relationship, while differences are believed to be cryptic adaptations to nest site. The nesting habits and downy plumages of these 2 species support the treatment of Brachyramphus as a genus distinct from Endomychura and Synthliboramphus. A theory is presented that correlates the nest site with the cryptic colorations of the breeding adult, egg, and chick. The nest site is similar to that of B. m. perdix, proves tree nesting, and is thought to be used traditionally but not more than once per year. The characteristics of the Big Basin site are summarized to facilitate the future discovery of nests. The summer range of the murrelet corresponds closely with the distribution of the coastal portions of the moist coniferous forest biome. Within this area optimal nesting sites are provided by about 9 species of trees, all conifers, of which the birds must use at least 2. In central California possibly only the Douglas-fir is used. Evidence indicates a clutch size of one. The fledglings are believed to reach the ocean by flying.
4160647|The Chestnut-sided Shrike-vireo, the largest vireonid and one of the few species with dimorphism in plumage color, occurs above 1850 m in the mountains of Mexico from San Luis Potosi south into the volcanic highlands of western Guatemala. We studied this species in northern Morelos in May 1972 and 1973 and in November of 1971 and 1972 in pine-oak forest in the mountains above 2880 m. Shrike-vireos were fairly common at both these sites. Six vocalizations comprising both songs and calls were recorded in the field and then spectrographically analyzed. These vocalizations included: (1) primary song, a monosyllabic wailing whistle of the male; (2) short song, a non-musical song of the male; (3) myaaaah, a call given in an aggressive context; (4) distress calls, resembling those of other passerines; (5) contact calls, single low-pitched buzzy calls given by both sexes; and (6) buzz-rattles, which structurally resemble contact calls, given by both sexes. Territories were as large as 4.1 ha and were defended against conspecifics by song and occasionally by physical combat. The Chestnut-sided Shrike-vireo forages at heights between .6 and 30 m in trees and shrubs, taking arthropods from leaves and less frequently from bare branches and trunks. Some seeds and fruits are also eaten. /// The first 2 nests known, found in northern Morelos, were quite large but nonetheless of typical, pensile, vireonid construction. Both sexes participated in nest-building, but the female did more of the work in the latter stages of construction. Construction took between 20 and 25 days. The male accompanied the female with song during this building and foraging. Copulation was seen once at Nest 1 at the end of building activities. The breeding season begins in late April, coinciding with the beginning of spring rains, and continues at least into mid-summer. Behavioral similarities between Vireolanius spp. and other vireonids suggest that they are closely related and thus should be included in the Vireonidae.
4160648|Time budgets for pairs of Gadwalls during the breeding season were calculated based on 71.2 hours of observation. Feeding occupied the greatest proportion of the time of female Gadwalls during the spring arrival, prenesting, and laying phases of the breeding season. Feeding rates for prenesting and laying females were significantly greater than for their mates regardless of the time of day. The percentage of time paired males were involved in agonistic encounters other than 3-bird chases decreased from 1.4% during spring arrival to 0.4% during laying. Paired males, however, spent a maximum amount of time in 3-bird chases during the prenesting phase. Feeding rates did not change significantly for males or females during the day in the prenesting or laying phase. Gadwall drakes apparently use more energy defending their females from the approach of pairs than from unmated drakes because pairs could directly compete for an activity center. Mated drakes help assure the reproductive output of the pair by maintaining an exclusive feeding area for the female before and during the time of egg formation.
4160649|The breeding biology of the Boreal Chickadee was studied in the summers of 1971 and 1972 in Algonquin Park, Nipissing District, Ontario. Pair formation develops gradually, beginning while birds are still in the flock. Male-female chases (3 types) and hole-inspection may play a part in pair formation, but this is not certain. Begging behavior apparently does not play an important role in pair formation in this species, as it does not occur until after the pair has been associated for 2 to 3 weeks and has established a territory. Excavation of cavities may occur at several holes before a nest site is chosen. Although both sexes excavate, the female alone builds the nest, which consists of soft plant and animal material. The cavity forms the structural part of the nest. Copulation may be initiated by either sex, and the calls given by the male while mounted suggest an aggressive component to this activity. The female alone incubates and is fed largely by the male. She incubates for shorter attentive periods when called from the nest by the male than when terminating an attentive period spontaneously. Hatching occurs about the 15th day. Both parents feed the young, with the male feeding more at the beginning of the nestling period; both sexes feed more or less equally by fledging. Some females show a behavior not reported in other parids, i.e. "nest watching." The young fledge on about the 18th day of life and are fed with decreasing frequency for about 2 weeks. After this they are no longer found regularly in the nesting territory.
4160650|Analysis of Christmas count data for 27 inland regions in the U.S. revealed major patterns of woodpecker abundance. Data for 6 woodpecker taxonomic groups were subjected to ordination analysis. In general, abundance patterns correlated well with information on the foraging ecology of the species and genera. Dendrocopos (plus Picoides) showed a strong northeastern abundance pattern due to the high densities of Hairy and Downy woodpeckers in that region. The Common Flicker is very abundant at lower latitudes and in relatively open habitats. The Yellow-bellied Sapsucker was concentrated in the Mississippi Valley and the Southeast. Sphyrapicus varius varius appeared much more abundant than the western subspecies. The Pileated Woodpecker was most abundant in forests of the Midwest and Southeast, and relatively rare in the West. The Acorn, Lewis', and Red-headed woodpeckers wintered where mast crops are available. Acorn Woodpeckers were much more common in California than in the Southwest; Red-headed Woodpeckers were abundant in the Midwest, where oaks and corn are available. Melanerpes and Asyndesmus forage extensively by flycatching, and are most abundant in open habitats, even in winter.
4160651|The distraction display of the Alpine Accentor, a ground-nesting altricial species, increases progressively in conspicuousness and risk to the parent as the egg-nestling unit grows older. By contrast, precocial species appear to reach maximum display intensity around the time of hatching with progressive declines thereafter. This difference in temporal pattern is consistent with an evolutionary interpretation of behavioral strategies serving to maximize return on "parental investment."
4160652|The movements and habitat preference of 2 flocks of Dark-eyed Juncos were studied in the winter of 1971-1972. One flock established a new home range following a heavy snow fall. The 3 home ranges were found to be 27, 33, and 17 ha in area. Each flock night-roosted in dense vegetation at one end of the home range, and spent midday at the opposite end. Most feeding activities were restricted to areas containing grasses and forbs with taller vegetation in the general vicinity. Most day-light hours were spent in scrub and in short grass pasture habitats. Home range overlap of 2 junco flocks resulted in temporary intermingling among members of the flocks at certain times during the day.
4160653|Extremes in avian terrestrial gaits are hopping (synchronous leg movements) as opposed to walking or running (asynchronous). This review summarizes newer records for gaits of passerine families and subfamilies. At least 19 of these higher taxa include both species that are largely synchronous and species that are chiefly asynchronous. Variation within many species indicates that gait behavior per se might not be directly inherited. Presumably inherited structural differences between species contribute to the ontogenetic development of taxonomic differences in gait.
4160654| During a general banding program conducted on weekends for 5 years at the Cincinnati Nature Center, weights and wing chord measurements of American Goldfinches were recorded. From this, 1448 weights of 978 males and 756 weights of 538 females were obtained, treated as separate populations, and divided into agerelated samples representing various time and biological periods. The means  2 S.E. were used to make simple comparisons between seasons, weekends, days, and hourly periods. A comparison of weights by months showed weights were inversely related to temperature. Evidence of an increase in weight during molt was noted. During the summer, the lowest (basic) mean weights were attained (12.5 g for males and 12.4 g for females), and both sexes gained about 4% during the day. During the breeding season the females gained 7.3% and males gained 4.9% above the basic mean weight. In February, the male mean weight was 35.6% and the female mean was 34.4% above the basic mean weight. At this time males gained 19% during the day, but in March they gained only 5.5% in a day. Fat classes (deposits) were shown to change paralleling the hourly changes in mean weight. /// The date of capture and mean weights were not correlated. The hour of capture produced significantly lower mean weights in the earlier hours of the colder months, but not in the warmer months. The handling of birds appeared to reduce the gain in diurnal weight during February and March. Variations in mean weights between various years in selected months were found to be related to hour of capture or weather in some cases. The effects of weather were demonstrated. Changes in solar radiation, wind direction and velocity, and immediate changes in temperature seemed to affect weight and feeding activities in hourly and daily periods. The ratio of total weight to wing chord was shown to vary with season, sex, and age. In both sexes, the newly fledged young had significantly longer wing chords than most adults of their sex. 
4160681|The little known Rufous Flycatcher is restricted to the coastal desert of northwestern Peru. Its predominantly rufous color sets it apart from other Myiarchus and has contributed to its uncertain generic status. Data presented here on the species' behavior, nest, eggs, and vocalizations support Zimmer's conclusion, based on morphology, that the Rufous Flycatcher is best retained in Myiarchus.
4160682|In field studies of nesting birds, many nests are not found at the very beginning or are not followed to a conclusion. When nests are not under observation for their full duration, the observed loss rates are less than the actual rates of the species. The amount of error varies according to the total exposure of all nests not spanned by human observation in the sample. A way of incorporating the time span of observations is to measure the exposure in nest-days, and calculate mortality and survival rates in these units at each stage of the nesting cycle. This method allows pieces of data to be used that would be discarded in customary analyses. A suggested worksheet simplifies analysis, and illustrations answer some questions that troubled users of this method.
4160683|A survey along the Yukon coast in August and September 1973 showed that approximately 5500 Oldsquaws and 4500 Surf Scoters use the reef-barrier-enclosed bay between Herschel Island and the mainland. No other such large sea duck concentrations were observed along the Yukon coast. Oldsquaws and Surf Scoters will be the most likely victims of potential oil spills because of their concentrations, long molting periods, reaction to spills, and nearness to expected oil exploration activities. Large numbers of brant and Northern Phalaropes, which stop during migration in coastal lagoons and river deltas, will also be vulnerable to oil pollution, although to a lesser extent than the sea ducks, because of their relatively short migratory stops.
4160685|Bald Eagles in Florida Bay, Everglades National Park, exhibit interspecific territorial behavior toward Ospreys. On Murray Key, an intruder pair of eagles in 1972 resulted in relocation of nest sites by 8 of 13 pairs of Ospreys and reduction in Osprey nesting success. The conflict on Murray was not repeated in years after 1972, and Osprey nesting success improved although the pair of eagles remained. Aerial surveys of the entire Florida Bay showed an increase in numbers of Osprey nests on keys that lost a pair of eagles, and a decline in Osprey nests on keys that gained eagles. I suggest that a pair of eagles only exhibits territorial behavior toward Ospreys in the year when eagles first nest on a key, and that this behavior is not maintained in following years due to adjustments made as pairs learn to recognize adjacent pairs, a process that is possible because of the site tenacity and pair fidelity of both species.
4160686|The breeding biology of the Golden Eagle was studied along 240 km of the Snake River canyon, southwestern Idaho, from 1968 to 1971. A density of 1 eyrie per 73 km
4160687|This study was designed to measure and evaluate prey selection and food intake of 2 male American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) under semi-natural aviary conditions. The kestrels selected the meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) as their primary food source during the initial 5 days of the study even though the deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were equally abundant and were considered by the authors to be equally vulnerable to capture. On this basis, the feeding strategy of these kestrels resulted in the capture of a larger energy reward. The kestrels exhibited a mean ingestion rate of 0.42 kcal/g wet wt/day, a value slightly lower than for owls of comparable size and maintained under comparable outdoor conditions. From these data it appears that the American Kestrel is more efficient in using its food than are similar-sized owls.
4160688|Captures of Flammulated Owls in mist nets from one site each in New Mexico and Arizona for periods of 7 and 5 years form the basis for this report. Owls were captured only in the spring at the New Mexico site at a lower elevation than the Arizona site where owls were only captured in the fall. Insects sampled in the ponderosa pine forest site in Arizona show that large moths are much more abundant in the fall than in the spring. The owls appear to select different migratory habitats in fall than spring. The major reason for the habitat shift appears to be an ample supply of large, nocturnal insects at higher elevations in the fall allowing the bird to efficiently exploit a migratory habitat similar to its breeding habitat.
4160689|Nesting pairs of Ring-billed Gulls were visually separated into 3 pair types, based on the plumage of mated individuals. Pairs consisted of either 2 mature-plumaged birds, one mature-plumaged bird and one immature-plumaged bird, or 2 immature-plumaged birds. Aspects of the breeding biology confirmed that mature-plumaged pairs nested earlier, had larger clutches and larger eggs which were more successful than pairs with one or more immature-plumaged individuals.
4160690|Wing-loading of House Sparrows in midwinter increases northward and is greater in females than males. Experimental tests of wing-loading in male House Sparrows indicates that sparrows at northernmost localities may be excessively weighted by increased amounts of fat and water needed to survive long, cold winter nights. Survival may result from their close association with man.
4160713|From 1966 through 1968, robins reproduced successfully in commercial apple orchards which were periodically sprayed with DDT, dieldrin, and other pesticides. Observations by a 2-man team using walkie-talkies revealed that breeding robins obtained essentially all food for themselves and nestlings from unsprayed areas adjacent to the orchards. Invertebrate trapping in sprayed and unsprayed areas showed that these food items were 5 or 6 times more abundant in unsprayed habitat. Worms forced to live in sprayed orchard soil displayed significantly greater mortality than controls. Mean robin clutch sizes in the study orchards were lower than those reported for robins in other studies, perhaps because of food shortage and/or increased foraging distances. Levels of DDT and its analogs in food items from robin foraging areas did not exceed 8 ppm wet weight basis. From late April to July, adult robins showed small but significant increases in DDE levels in all tissues examined, as well as an increase in dieldrin in brains. Pesticides sprayed on the farm had no direct demonstrable adverse effects on the robins; productivity was high and adult mortality low. The situation was in large measure fortuitous, since any changes in orchard management practices which resulted in the presence or availability of invertebrates under orchard trees would be expected to result in robin mortality and/or reduced breeding success.
4160714|Daily activity patterns of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) were studied about an artificial feeder near Fairbanks, Alaska, from September to May, 1960-1967. The daily light cycle was the dominant environmental factor determining the daily activity period. Activity days were longer relative to daylength before the winter solstice than after. Light intensity was the second most influential factor. Chickadees began activity in the morning at lower light intensities than those at which they ended activity in the evening, and they began and ended activity at lower intensities during the last half of November and the first half of December than at other times of year. At cold temperatures, chickadees had shorter activity days than when it was warmer, but their feeding intensity was greater; they apparently conserved energy by reducing activity during cold periods. Even after accounting for the effects of light intensity, chickadees began activity in the morning earlier on clear than cloudy mornings. Solar radiation tended to result in shorter activity days during early and late winter, but longer activity days during mid-winter. Snow and wind appeared to have only slight effects on activity patterns. The relative influence of several of the environmental factors appeared to change during the winter, and each factor exerted more influence on the timing of first activity than of last activity.
4160715|Three sympatric vireos, the Red-eyed, the Warbling, and the Yellow-throated, were the objects of this foraging and habitat study conducted in southern Ontario in the summer of 1966 and 1967. The foraging behavior of Red-eyed and Warbling vireos was found to be very similar, both species hovering to obtain most of their food from leaves about the periphery of trees. Yellow-throated Vireos foraged in the interior of trees, stalking insects along the branches. A large vertical foraging range is displayed by all 3 vireos. The Yellow-throated Vireo avoids competition with the other species by lateral separation within trees, whereas the Red-eyed and Warbling vireos avoid overlap through habitat selection. Red-eyed prefer shady forests while Warbling Vireos inhabit more open areas, with a scattered assemblage of trees. The Yellow-throated Vireo may overlap both of the other species in habitat choice, and has been observed occupying at least parts of territories occupied by one or the other species. Data on interspecific reactions, and bill morphology tend to support the above results.
4160716|Molt in Ashy Storm-petrels proceeds rather regularly from one phase to another; when one phase reaches peak intensity the next begins. In adults, body molt starts at about egg-hatching, 40 days later rectrices begin their molt, 30 days after that primaries begin molt, followed by secondaries almost immediately. Most Ashy Storm-petrels have half-completed tail molt and are molting the first 2 or 3 primaries when their chick fledges. They are still molting the last 2 or 3 primaries on their first visits to the island in the following nesting cycle. The total time required for molt averages 257 days. Molt in Leach's Storm-petrels proceeds in the same order but the intervals between start of the various phases differ. Tail molt begins only 20 days after start of body molt, 50 days later primaries begin molt, and about 30 days after that molt in the secondaries begins. When the chick fledges, parents have almost completed tail molt but usually have not begun wing molt. Most Leach's Storm-petrels complete molt before visiting the island in the following breeding cycle. Total time required for molt averages 274 days. The sequences of feather replacement and the rates of growth in individual feathers are described. Immatures begin molt earlier in the year than adults, starting about the time the latter are laying and incubating eggs. Little overlap occurs between molt and migration, and between primary molt and breeding in the Leach's compared to extensive overlap between these activities in the Ashy Storm-petrel. The different molt regimes correspond to the overall divergence in life styles of the 2 species, Leach's being a long-ranging, migratory species of subtropical open-ocean waters and the Ashy being a short-ranging, sedentary species inhabiting subarctic coastal waters. Molt in the Leach's is similar in its timing and degree of overlap with other activities to the British Storm-petrel; but the molt regime in the Ashy is unique among storm-petrels so far studied.
4160717|Bushy-crested and Nelson San Blas jays were studied in captivity and in the field in montane Nicaragua and lowland Nayarit, Mexico, respectively. Bushy-crested Jays inhabit disturbed cloud forest and are especially common in coffee plantations. The species flocks at all seasons and is communal in breeding. The breeding season consisted of 2 overlapping nesting periods, with either one or 2 nests in each. Two or 3 birds attended nests during incubation and at least 2 birds incubated. Other flock members visited the nests toward time of hatching. Nests were mostly in coffee trees, in the understory of the forest. Care of young at one nest was probably by 11 adults plus juveniles of a first nesting of the year. Two adult females brooded the young. Nelson San Blas Jays inhabit mixed palm and tropical deciduous forest in the breeding season in Nayarit and are communal in reproduction. Five adults plus a yearling attended one nest and 4 adults plus a yearling attended another nest. There are 2 overlapping nesting periods for a communal group. The presumed female parent of fledglings occasionally left her charges to incubate briefly at a second nest at which another adult female was the principal incubator. Two adult males and a yearling fed both the fledglings and the incubating birds. Home ranges of the birds were mapped for both species; best data suggest these varied from 3 to 4 ha. These ranges may correspond to territories in the passive sense, but only one possible instance of territorial behavior was seen--in the Bushy-crested Jay. Bushy-crested Jays fed on beetles, grasshoppers, and figs. Young were fed insects. San Blas Jays fed on insects and lizards, feeding the young these as well as fleshy portions of palm fruit. Food was seemingly not a limiting factor in nesting success of Bushy-crested Jays, which experience no marked dry/wet season. In Nelson San Blas Jays, the breeding season began in the severe dry season when insects seemed to be in short supply (hence the presence of lizards and vegetable materials in the diet provided the young) and ended in the rainy season when insects were abundant. Possible predators are listed for the Bushy-crested Jay; an arboreal iguana was recorded as a predator on fledglings in the Nelson San Blas Jay. The adaptive value of communal groups in predator detection and buffering is equivocal. Communal reproductive habits in these jays do not seem correlated with the same basic historical and ecological factors and thus it is premature to speculate on the origin and basis for persistence of communal social behavior or on its temporal relationship to a lesser degree of sociality.
4160739|The communication of Great Blue Herons during pair-formation was studied for 4 breeding seasons (2 each) in Minnesota and Texas. Each signal is described for form, variability, and contexts and interpreted for probable functions and evolutionary derivation. An attempt was made to apply the message classification system of Smith (1968, 1969) to heron displays. Six displays are described for the first time in this species. Overall, the communication system of the Great Blue Heron can be characterized as a visual one with acoustic cues serving for reinforcement. Intra-repertoire redundancy and multiple functions of the signals are probably also important.
4160740|We studied populations of color-marked Blue-winged, Golden-winged, Brewster's, and Lawrence's warblers at 2 places in south-central Michigan in 1969, 1970, and 1971. The birds arrived in late April or early May, but some individuals appeared on and competed for territories as late as early June. Arrival dates for the species broadly overlapped with only a few Blue-winged Warblers appearing before the earliest Golden-winged Warblers. The territories of Blue-winged and Golden-winged warblers broadly overlapped in habitats occupied by both species. As expected from playback experiments most individuals discriminated, or at least did not respond to, the other species. Few birds were persistently interspecifically aggressive. The intraspecific and interspecific aggressive behaviors of these warblers are described in some detail. They are characterized by their diversity in duration, intensity, and associated vocalizations. The interactions between a Blue-winged Warbler and a Golden-winged Warbler with Blue-wing Type I song proved of particular interest. We suggest the possibility that the development of species discrimination in males involves, in part, the kinds of responses the birds generate in other birds.
4160741|Some aspects of the breeding ecology of Black and Say's phoebes were studied in the Trans-Pecos region of Texas. The geographical and ecological distribution, nesting habits, food composition, and behavioral interactions were determined for each species. There was no apparent elevational difference between the phoebes, but differences were noted in habitat types. Black Phoebes nested only where mud was available in the immediate vicinity of suitable nest substrate, i.e. a vertical surface protected from rain. Nesting requirements of Say's Phoebes were less restrictive and account for that species' wider distribution within the study area. Rapid replacement of lost breeding birds indicated a shortage of nesting sites. On several occasions the birds were not separated interspecifically, but intraspecific separation was maintained. The clutch size for nests in close proximity (interspecifically) was similar to that of the species means for other nests in the area. Differences in feeding behavior of the phoebes were reflected in the composition of the diets.
4160742|The sympatry of 2 hummingbird species, Anna's (Calypte anna) and Allen's (Selasphorus sasin sedentarius), on Santa Cruz Island, California, was examined during the fall when there is only one abundant food resource, Zauschneria sp. nectar. A study of the sub-division of this resource by the species revealed 2 strategies. Allen establishes small feeding territories containing a high density of flowering Zauschneria and Anna uses large feeding territories with a low density of food plants. Analysis of feeding behavior indicated that Allen feeds more frequently and for shorter periods of time than does Anna. These differences in feeding strategy and choice of feeding territory are likely the results of differences in crop size and variable nectar renewal rates.
4160743|A study of an interspecific territorial system involving 6 species of hummingbirds (Bumblebee, Atthis heloisa; Violet-eared, Colibri thalassinus; Rivoli, Eugenes fulgens; White-eared, Hylocharis leucotis; Amethyst-throated, Lampornis amethystinus; Blue-throated, Lampornis clemenciae) was carried out between 2500 and 3000 m on Cerro San Felipe in the Sierra de Oaxaca north of the city of Oaxaca, Mexico. The basis of the system was a complex of 12 hummingbird-pollinated plants, the most important of which were Rigidella orthantha (Iridaceae) and Penstemon kunthii (Scrophulariaceae). Blue-throats, Rivolis, Violet-ears, and White-ears were both intra- and interspecifically territorial, but Bumblebees, the smallest in the system, and Amethyst-throats, were non-territorial. Interspecific territoriality, as judged by the response of territorial individuals to thieving birds, appeared as well developed as intraspecific territoriality. Species' success in establishing and maintaining territories was directly proportional to body size. The 2 largest species and nearly equal in size, Blue-throats and Rivolis, dominated the richest nectar sources, but partitioned these sources on the basis of habitat. Initially, early in the season all significant Penstemon stands were held by territorial Blue-throats, but by mid-July in 1968 Rivolis had displaced territorial Blue-throats in all open meadow situations, yet were unable to do so in meadow-forest edge or open forest areas. In 1969 no displacement of Blue-throats by Rivolis occurred and this lack was associated with a much smaller population build-up of Rivolis compared to 1968. When it occurred, displacement was total, with Rivolis confiscating entire territories and with no noticeable alteration in boundaries. The interspecific territoriality of Blue-throats and Rivolis also appeared effective in limiting the number of hummingbirds which could feed in the meadows. Most marked birds were seen for only short periods following their initial capture and few marked nonterritorial individuals were recaptured, indicating a rapid turnover in the nonterritorial population. White-ears demonstrated the most flexible feeding behavior of any species in the system. They not only were able to use a wide range of blossom sizes, but also showed a functional and presumably learned raiding pattern involving secretive low approaches to Penstemon stands located within territories held by Blue-throats and Rivolis. Bumblebees were non-territorial but their small size allowed them to subsist on the blossoms of unprotected plants located outside territories. Also, their peculiar bee-like flight appeared to permit them to feed for long periods in stands of Rigidella within White-ear territories without being evicted. The phenology of flowering was the main factor controlling the behavioral events and interactions among species of hummingbirds. In May and early June Rigidella was the most important nectar source for White-ears, but as flowering waned, White-ears were forced to feed increasingly on early blooming plants of Penstemon even though these stands were defended by territorial Blue-throats. However, because Penstemon blossoms were widely dispersed at this time, territories were necessarily large and defense, though efficient against most species, was inefficient against the raiding strategy of White-ears. As flowering continued with season, blossom density of Penstemon increased and was accompanied by the expropriation of parts of Blue-throat territories by conspecifics. Mean territory size therefore decreased and this increased the efficiency of territorial defense. By mid-July defense was so efficient that White-ears were effectively excluded from all significant stands of Penstemon and became dependent on other more scattered or smaller-flowered hummingbird plants, particularly Cuphea.
4160744|The results of 1972 and 1973 surveys indicate a total North American Gannet population of about 32,731 pairs, of which 22,747 (69.5%) nest in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and 9984 (30.5%) on the Atlantic coast of Newfoundland. A considerable decrease in Gannet numbers has taken place at 2 of the 3 colonies (Bonaventure and Gullcliff Bay) in the Gulf since 1969. Reasons for these declines are obscure, though contamination by toxic chemicals seems a likely prime cause. Colonies in Newfoundland appear to have remained somewhat stable (Cape St. Mary's and Baccalieu) or undergone a slight increase (Funk) in recent times.
4160745|Visual observations and regurgitated pellets were used to study the feeding behavior and the diet of the Long-billed Curlew and Willet on Bolinas Lagoon from July 1973 through February 1974. Samples of the invertebrates in the tidal flats were collected at different locations and at different times to obtain information on their spatial and temporal distribution for comparison with the shorebirds' diets. The Long-billed Curlews' major prey were 3 large, burrow-dwelling decapods that the curlews obtained primarily by probing into burrows. No seasonal change was detected in the curlews' diet. Most of the Willets' prey were too small to identify in visual observations and too finely divided in the pellets to permit determination of the number of individual prey in each pellet. Therefore, the percentage of the pellets in which each prey occurred was used to compare the abundance of each prey species in the Willets' diet. The Willets' feeding behavior and diet were much more variable than the curlews'. The Willets' diet and feeding success varied among different areas in the estuary and between a fall and winter period.
4160777|The bill color change of Roseate Terns breeding on Great Gull Island, New York is illustrated and discussed. Bills of 872 Roseate Terns of known nesting status, including 235 mated pairs, were measured in 1968-1970, 1972, and 1974. The mates in 10 pairs had identical amounts of red, suggesting that there is not necessarily a sexual dimorphism in bill color. There is extensive variation in extent of red on individuals of similar nesting status measured within the same week, and also among birds of the same age. Significant differences in the extent of red in different years correlated with estimates of food available and weights of the birds. No consistent relationship was found between clutch size and extent of red. The black bill of the Roseates when they are pairing may be a means of species recognition. It may also make the Roseates appear less aggressive when they are choosing nest sites and thus facilitate their establishment in mixed colonies with the more aggressive Common or Arctic terns. The extent of red on the bill of Roseates on Great Gull Island is greatest when their chicks are 4 to 6 weeks old. The presence of red may serve an aggressive function at this time, helping the adults to deliver fish to their young when competition for food may be at a peak. Roseate Terns in the Virgin Islands, where egg collecting obscures the normal breeding cycle, had bills as much as 2/3 red at the end of May. These appear to become red more quickly than do those of Great Gull Island Roseates.
4160778|Patterns of habitat selection and territorial behavior of the Horned, Eared, and Piedbilled grebes were examined in North Dakota. Each species seemed to prefer a distinct pond type which could be explained in part by the species-specific methods of nest dispersion and territorial defense. The Eared Grebe preferred large, open ponds with abundant feeding grounds but where a compact colony of nests could be situated in a sheltered site. Horned Grebes seemed to prefer small ponds with open water where they could defend a territory visually. The Pied-billed Grebe occupied the widest variety of pond types but was always associated with heavy emergent vegetation. As this species has a distinct vocalization, it was suggested that it was the best adapted of the species for defending its territory in low-visibility habitats. Possible dominance interactions were discussed to explain the presence of certain species on ponds suitable for 2 or more species. The advantages of being colonial on open ponds were also discussed. Parallels between pond selection by grebes and island biogeography were noted.
4160779|The nesting biology of the Long-tailed Manakin (Chiroxiphia linearis) was studied over several months in 1971-1974 in Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. Thirty-nine nests were discovered, 12 of which contained eggs or young. These nests were shallow cups suspended from forks in small trees. They were placed so that adjacent branches provided camouflage and protection from weather. Nest materials included primarily spider web or insect cocoon fibers, fungal rhizomorphs (Marasmius), moss, leaf blades and petioles, bark fibers, grass blades, and other dry plant fibers. Nest building normally took about 3 days when not interrupted. Females did not incubate over much of the morning and in the late afternoon, although they often remained in the vicinity of the nest. Clutch size was 1 or 2. Young were sparsely covered with grayish-tan natal down; gapes and mouth linings were golden-yellow. Older young, at least, were fed on fruit, and they repeatedly made soft, cheep notes. Nesting success was very low, presumably because of high predation. Only one of 15 eggs which were followed hatched; neither of 2 nestlings observed fledged. Growth form, size, and fruiting time are probably the most important features of the tree controlling the selection of trees for nest placement because of their influence on nest suspension, camouflage, and protection from weather and predators. Long-tailed Manakin nests described from Chiapas, Mexico by Wagner (1945) were probably misidentified. The Costa Rican nests and eggs also are compared to those from Oaxaca, Mexico and to those of the other 3 species of the genus Chiroxiphia. All are strikingly similar.
4160780|Eggs of wild Screech Owls were collected from nests in northwestern Ohio in 1973. One egg was taken from each of 19 nests near the start of incubation. Mean shell thickness in these 19 eggs and mean thickness of 16 unhatched eggs did not differ from 49 archival eggs collected in Ohio and Pennsylvania prior to the widespread use of organochlorine pesticides. Residues were generally low although all eggs contained DDE and PCB's. No relationship was found between hatching failures and the presence of organochlorine residues. Low residues are consistent with a long history of good nesting success and a stable population.
4160781|In recent years there has been a decline in loon reproduction in the Superior National Forest. The biota of certain lakes in the Superior National Forest on which resorts are located contain high concentrations of pesticides and these may affect reproductive success of loons, but, the most important factor seems to be the increasing number of canoeists in the area. Virtually every island in some of the lakes is occupied several times a week by campers during the critical early nesting period. Campers usually do not destroy loon eggs directly, but do frighten loons off of their nests, leaving them susceptible to predators.
4160782|Variation in the intensity and objectives of studies on species which winter in tropical regions makes the derivation of a comparative synthesis difficult. An examination of my own data combined with a review of published literature shows that the abundance of migrants from the temperate zone varies with (1) vegetation type, (2) elevation, (3) food type, and (4) season within each of the 3 major geographical areas considered in this paper. In addition, there is variation (5) between continents and adjacent islands and (6) among the continents. With respect to vegetation type, lowland forest habitats are avoided in Africa, but support some birds in the neotropics and in southeast Asia. Grasslands and savannas are generally avoided in the neotropics but used heavily in Africa. Middle to high elevation areas support large numbers of migrants in the neotropics but relatively few in Africa. In southeast Asia the situation varies seasonally and among areas to a greater extent than in Africa and the neotropics. In general, migrants harvest superabundant and/or sporadically available food resources. This often involves opportunistic shifting of food and habitat types during a single winter season. Migrant abundances seem generally to be highest during the fall passage period, lowest in the winter, and intermediate during the northward migration of the north temperate spring. Some seasonal movements associated with wet and dry season shifts and varying food abundances have been documented in various parts of the tropics. Finally, densities of migrants on islands tend to be higher than densities on nearby mainland areas. In general, it appears that the evolutionary strategies of migrant birds are keyed to the exploitation of superabundant and/or sporadically available resources in their tropical wintering areas. These resources are often most easily exploited in disturbed, transitory, or isolated patches of habitat.
4160783| A portable beta-backscatter gauge was used to measure the shell quality of 416 eggs laid in a colony of Common Terns located on Buffalo Lake, Alberta, Canada (52 20 N, 112 50 W) in 1972. Eggshell quality as measured by beta-backscatter (a composite response to thickness, chemical composition and ultrastructure) was an important determinant of hatching success. Abnormalities in shell structure and chemical composition were responsible for shell damage, which resulted in egg disappearance, and for death through hypoxia. There were also indications that low levels of DDE contamination had detrimental effects on the visual perception of chicks. No difference in intensity of incubation instinct could be detected between parents who produced eggs with high and low quality shells. Eggshells had a mean thickness index which was 3.8% lower than the pre-1945 mean for this geographical population. Denting of shells accompanied a 13.3% decrease in the thickness index which was not accompanied by a significant decrease in calcium content, but by increased molar Mg:Ca ratio. Both dented shells and shells of eggs in which the embryo died had significantly increased phosphorus contents when compared to shells surrounding viable embryos. Although small size of the pre-1945 sample prevented statistical comparisons, the chemical and physical characteristics of shells surrounding viable embryos were very similar to pre-1945 shells. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that shells of eggs in which embryos died had 44% fewer pores, and 21% fewer mammillae which were larger and more irregular in their distribution than those of shells of eggs which hatched. Evaporative water loss from eggs which were incubated but failed to hatch was 39% less than that from eggs which hatched, reflecting the reduction in pore numbers. The mean DDE content of 39 eggs with nondented shells was 3.42 ppm wet weight, while 5 eggs with dented shells contained a mean of 6.77 ppm. PCB's were present at about 1/10 the concentration of DDE. Food fish from Buffalo Lake contained a mean DDE content of 0.02 ppm wet weight basis. Hence, contamination is assumed to occur on the wintering grounds. 
4160824|We studied communal behavior of the Yucatan Jay (Cyanocorax yucatanica) mainly in 1972-73 in Campeche, Mexico, mostly in a strip of dense forest and cultivated clearings along 9.5 km of an unpaved road. Nesting, flock age-composition, movements, behavior, foods, weights, gonadal condition, and age characteristics were studied. Study of a captive flock in California provided some information. The climate of the study area is warm, humid tropical. A dry season from November through April and a rainy season from May through October are irregular in onset and severity, effecting irregularity in foliation and defoliation. Pre-breeding (April 1968) flocks of fewer than 10 individuals, moved about in discrete areas with some separation of pairs. Gonadal development suggested (as was experimentally supported) that due to internal rhythm or photoperiod, prior to rains, birds (especially males) were coming into breeding condition. Breeding was early in 1973 relative to 1972. The typical reproductive unit consists of a pair of adults plus other adults, 2-year-olds, and yearlings. Breeding season flocks averaged 7.7 in 1972, 12.4 in 1973. Some flocks had 2 or probably 3 overlapping nests per breeding season, with division of labor among flock members, including juveniles. Breeding season flocks seemed to occupy separate areas, up to 400 m in diameter, with preference for patchy environments of forest and milpa. Dispersion of flocks suggested a spacing mechanism such as territoriality. Intraflock behavior was usually benign, even among captives, consisting primarily of ritualized displays, postures, and social allofeeding. The flimsy twig nests seemed concentrated near the road, generally were 2-5 m beneath the crown of the upper canopy, and ranged in height from 4.3 to 9.0 m. Nest-building is communal but primarily by an adult male or female. Eggs in all Cissilopha are pinkish-buff speckled with reddish-buff. Seemingly the clutch of 4-6 eggs was laid and incubated by 1 female, who spent over 90% of her time on the nest; she was fed there by 2 or probably more other birds. Eggs are apparently laid at 1-day intervals and the incubation period is about 17 days. Hatching seemed synchronous. Brooding of young was almost continuous at first (90%), dropping to 62% by day 7, and to none in late nestling stage. A brooder off the nest was usually replaced by a guard that perched on the rim and occasionally appeared to brood. Some attendant birds spent much time "inspecting" and probing with the beak at the nest's interstices. At all but 2 nests it was certain that more than 2 adults fed the young. Adults brought most food; fledglings contributed the least but sometimes were conspicuous visitors. Young probably fledge in about 26 days. Flying juveniles beg for food and probably are largely dependent for it on the communal flock. Enterprise and opportunism characterize this species' diet. Maximum reproductive success of all nests studied based upon probable number of eggs laid to young fledged was 41% or 2.1 young fledged per nest. Predation was the likely predominant cause of losses. Jays defended against predators with some success. Although fledging rates appeared low, our census of the population suggested 2.7 to 3.2 young per flock in 1972 and 4 to 5 juveniles per flock midway through the breeding season in 1973. Discrepancy here we attribute to multiple nestings. Low breeding success seemingly occurred in 1971, with low rainfall in early months of the breeding season probably a factor. Winter flocks consisted of 45 to 53 birds, with roughly 40-50% being first-year birds. Winter flocks ranged up to 1 km. Most birds marked in June 1972 or January 1973 were observed the next breeding season within the range of a single winter flock; only 2 birds moved across flock boundaries. A preference for forest edge and disturbed forest is shared by all Cissilopha jays. Probably the now common Yucatan Jay, like its relatives, was rare and restricted to natural edge and clearings prior to man's appearance. Kinship of breeding flock members seems likely based on their sedentary character. The species has certain behavior and ontogenetic changes that reduce and formalize intra-flock conflict. Correlates of K-selection (that promote values of kin-selection and altruistic communality) shown by the Yucatan Jay are delayed maturity, low reproductive rate, low dispersal, and nonmigratory habits.
4160825|Of 520 nests of 14 host species, 111 (21%) were parasitized. The frequency of parasitism varied from 2.7% (Say's Phoebe) to 100% for 3 Cardinal nests. All but 1 grassland host species received moderate to heavy parasitism. Parasitized nests fledged 1 less host (0.5 per nest) than non-parasitized nests (1.5 per nest). Only 0.3 cowbirds fledged per nest. Probable adaptations to parasitism were nesting prior to the cowbirds breeding season by Horned Larks and nest desertion and removal of cowbird eggs by Lark Buntings.
4160826|The breeding phenology of the Ruddy Duck (Oxyura jamaicensis) in Manitoba, Canada, is described. Most females began nesting about 4 weeks after their arrival on the breeding grounds. The delay in onset of nesting may be correlated with the availability of suitable cover. The incidence of interspecific nest parasitism by the Ruddy Duck was low. A relationship is indicated between degree of parasitism and the chronology of nesting concomitant with the quantity and quality of available nesting cover. Parasitic laying apparently results from a lack of attunement of a female's physiological and behavioral responses to environmental cues.
4160827|Four species of woodpeckers used trees with heartwood softened by fungal heart rots prior to cavity excavation. The woodpeckers were apparently able to detect the presence of the heart rots and select suitably infected trees for nest excavations, thus reducing the energy expenditure necessary to excavate nest cavities. Spongipellis pachyodon was the primary rot in most of the trees we examined. Nest trees were usually infected secondarily by other Basidiomycetes, imperfect fungi, and bacteria.
4160828|A partial reanalysis of MacArthur (1959) has shown that (1) North American neotropical migrants are less prevalent in grasslands than in forests (as MacArthur also showed) but that there is no significant difference in the proportion of neotropical migrants in deciduous and coniferous forest (unlike MacArthur's results); (2) coniferous forests have relatively fewer year-round resident individuals than grasslands or deciduous forest, and grasslands and coniferous forests have slightly fewer resident species than deciduous forests; (3) most neotropical migrant birds breed primarily in deciduous forest and most of those that breed in coniferous forest are parulids. The results suggest that seasonal changes in available food resources may be effectively less in deciduous forest than in coniferous forest (in contrast to MacArthur's conclusion). Possible ecological bases for the habitat differences are suggested, but remain to be demonstrated.
4160829|Descriptions are given for variations in song morphology in a population of Field Sparrows and for variations in singing cadences in a variety of circumstances. Each male Field Sparrow had a single song-type that was distinctive within the study population. Intra-individual variation consisted of adding or omitting notes, without alteration of the basic song-type morphology. Accelerating tempo within the song, due to progressive shortening of the notes, was characteristic of all songs. Cadences, i.e., the time interval between successive songs in a bout, varied 2-fold within the population. Cadences were shorter later in the season, but cadence rates were unaltered by time of day or matedness of the singer. Neighboring birds appear to sing in response to each other. Differential responses of individuals to taped playback of their own songs confirm individual recognition by song in Field Sparrows.
4160830|Carolina Chickadees (Parus carolinensis) were observed roosting only in cavities during the fall and winter months in Knox County, Tennessee. Twenty-five roosts are described. Each chickadee roosted alone and changed roosts frequently during the season. All captured roosting chickadees were located within their flock range. Chickadees entered roosts before sunset and departed before sunrise. Chickadees remained in roosts for as long as 15 hours during mid-winter. During inclement weather chickadees entered roosts earlier and departed later than on sunny days.
4160831|Comparative statistics on laying chronology, clutch size, and nesting success are presented for 4 species of hole-nesting birds in the Cariboo region of British Columbia in 1958-59, about 10 years after Starlings first appeared there. Data obtained from nest boxes were similar to those from natural sites (flicker holes) for Starlings and Tree Swallows. Circumstantial evidence suggests that competition for nest sites affected Mountain Bluebirds adversely, these birds having a wider scatter in laying dates and lower nesting success than the others. Common Flickers and Tree Swallows showed considerable scatter in laying dates, with most nest losses occurring during periods when Starlings were establishing nests, but their nesting success overall was near normal. Starlings had the most closely synchronized laying schedule and the greatest breeding success. As the most successful species, they must be viewed as influencing the breeding of all other species which use similar nest sites. All species nested later and less successfully in the wet, cold season of 1959 than in 1958.
4160832|Regurgitated food samples were collected from Ring-billed Gulls at 2 breeding colonies on Lake Huron and 1 on Lake Michigan during May through July of 1964 and 1971. Fish comprised 76% of the total diet volume, insects 22%, and earthworms 1%. By frequency of occurrence, fish appeared in 61% of the individual samples, insects in 64%, and earthworms in 5%. Frequency and volumetric data are provided for each major taxon. Changes in diet were noted as the breeding season progressed. In May, June, and July, fish constituted 56%, 72%, and 84%, respectively, while for the same 3 months insects accounted for 2%, 28%, and 16% of the volume. Earthworms contributed 26% of the total May volume but declined to 1% in June and nothing in July. Food types in samples were indicative of aquatic, aerial, and terrestrial foraging. Food habits are discussed in relation to gull population dynamics on the Great Lakes. Dietary differences were noted between gulls nesting at mainland and offshore sites. Fish accounted for 69% of the volume at Rogers City and 88% at Ile aux Galets; insects contributed 30% of the total volume at Rogers City and 11% at Ile aux Galets. There was a greater diversity of food items in the Ile aux Galets samples as well as a larger percentage of food of aquatic origin. The periods of peak abundance of the 3 fish species in the samples roughly coincided with the respective spawning seasons.
4160833|Black-bellied Plovers arrived on the north coast of Devon Island in the second week of June and occupied the coastal lowland at a density of 0.3-1.0 pairs per km
4160866|Experiments on 28 Northern Oriole nests showed this species does not tolerate cowbird parasitism. Artificial or real cowbird eggs or real House Sparrow eggs, which simulate cowbird eggs, were rejected at every nest. Real eggs were ejected whereas most artificial (plaster) ones were damaged and left in the nest. Observations at nests immediately after they were parasitized showed: (1) 4 of 4 rejections were by females, (2) cowbird eggs are often ejected within min, (3) cowbird eggs are usually dropped at least several m from the nest. The oriole's rapid removal of cowbird eggs indicates that the natural parasitism that is observed is a fraction of the total parasitism that occurs. The Northern Oriole corresponds closely to species previously designated as rejecters--these species reject cowbird eggs at rates close to 100%. But other rejecters usually remove artificial cowbird eggs whereas most orioles damaged them and left them in the nest. This difference demonstrates orioles eject cowbird eggs by spiking although other species do so by lifting the egg in their mandibles. The oriole's special ejection technique is probably an adaption to its pendant nest. Although orioles reject cowbird eggs throughout the egg stage, the effort exerted in rejection seems to weaken during incubation. This decrease in rejection effort may have been selected for because cowbird eggs laid during the oriole's incubation pose little threat to the oriole's offspring but ejecting them endangers the oriole's own eggs. Orioles correctly distinguished between their own and foreign eggs even when the latter outnumbered their eggs, as orioles at 2 experimental nests ejected 3 and 4 real Loggerhead Shrike eggs even though only 1 oriole egg was present.
4160867|A pair of Red-necked Grebes (Podiceps grisegena) was studied in a northern Lake Huron marsh from 20 June to 29 August 1975. Observations were of a renesting attempt and courtship behavior was brief and infrequent. Copulation occurred on the nest platform from shortly after nest building began into the egg-laying period. The nest site was selected by the male although both sexes built the nest. The pair constructed 9 nest platforms, one of which ultimately became the nest in which 3 eggs were laid. Incubation began with the laying of the first egg and both sexes incubated, although the male incubated more during the mid-day and the female more in the morning and evening hours. Nest reliefs were initiated primarily by Head Shaking by the returning bird. The first egg had a 26-day incubation period. Hatching occurred in mid-morning. The nest was abandoned 2 days after the hatching of the last chick. The chicks were brooded on the adults' backs under their wings. Both sexes brooded and fed the young. Food items consisted of minnows, crayfish, and probably insects. The mean number of feedings per hour increased from 3.5 to 12.5 to 18.0 during the first, second, and third weeks, respectively. Three chicks were successfully raised to over 7 weeks of age.
4160868|Plain Chachalaca growth and development were investigated in 1971 and 1972 in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas. Chachalaca chicks are precocial and growth and development of juveniles is rapid. At 4 or 5 months of age, juveniles resemble adults and field recognition of differences becomes difficult. Size measurements are valid age criteria only during the summer and fall when juveniles are less than 4 or 5 months old. Differences in tracheal loop development (males), molting of outer primaries and rectrices, color and strength of bills and color of legs are valid criteria for distinguishing juveniles from adults. Plumage changes also occur rapidly; postjuvenal molting begins in early fall when juveniles are nearly 2 months old. Postjuvenal molting of rectrices follows a definite sequence of pairs (from innermost to outermost) and is usually completed before January of the first year. Juvenal primaries are also molted sequentially from the innermost to the outermost. Postjuvenal molting of secondaries is not distinctly sequential. Adult rectrices are molted in an irregular pattern during the postnuptial molt (August and September). Adult primaries are molted in a sequential pattern (innermost to outermost), but postnuptial molting of adult secondaries follows no definite pattern.
4160869|Female Cassin's Finches were determined socially dominant over older and yearling males in flocks during 2 winters. Few females disappeared either winter in contrast to males. With number of females limiting for breeding effort, the dominance of females in winter is interpreted as a behavioral modification to maximize reproductive effort. This species' trait and the need to semiannually colonize a new and often unpredictable environment are correlates of an r-strategy. Displays in agonistic encounters are considered homologous to other fringillids. Reasons for the observed disparities in sex ratio or hormonal factors influencing female dominance are not known.
4160870|Inter-brood movements of juvenile Spruce Grouse were recorded in Alberta from 1970 through 1973. Although brood ranges were not mutually exclusive, broods generally maintained their original constituency. Only 4% of the marked juveniles changed broods; they moved from 7 broods and in 4 cases the hen had died. All juveniles that moved were at least 11 days old and all joined a family in the immediate vicinity. Juveniles that changed broods or which were orphaned survived well until autumn. Although data are limited on the fate of juveniles that mix or which are orphaned, the question arises as to why broods exist as individual units for perhaps longer than necessary to ensure survival of the chicks.
4160871|The relationships between age and breeding biology of female Red-winged and Yellow-headed blackbirds were studied in northwestern Iowa during 1972-1974. Yearling females of both species began nesting later, laid shorter eggs, and fledged fewer and slightly smaller young than did older females. Primary (first-nesting) females were mostly older adults while yearlings were typically of secondary status. Yearling primary females laid larger clutches than did yearling secondary females, but both yearling and older adult primary females fledged more young than did secondary females of the same age. Possible factors affecting delayed breeding and subsequent reduced production of yearlings are discussed.
4160872|The food habits of Oldsquaws wintering on Lake Michigan were examined from material collected in 2 periods: 1951-1954 and 1969-1972. Grit averaged 25% of total contents in the earlier sample, and 90% of all grit was sand. Animal food constituted about 99% by volume of the food organisms present in the 1951-1954 sample. The principal food item was an amphipod, Pontoporeia affinis, which occurred in 52-96% of the earlier sample and in 88-95% of the 1969-1972 sample. Clams occurred frequently in both samples but the volume ingested was relatively low. The occurrence of fish and fish eggs in the diet varied with the locality and individual flocks. Oldsquaws are related to the coregonid fishery in Lake Michigan through the common food organism Pontoporeia affinis. Oldsquaws will also eat fish eggs when available. The decline in Oldsquaw carcass lipids during the winter may be related to a decrease in the volume of food ingested during that period, but a rise in the volume of ingested food during early spring does not appear to be associated with a premigratory increase in lipid deposition. Oldsquaws apparently decrease their feeding activity just prior to migration and do not resume heavy feeding while on spring migration.
4160874|Eggs of the White-faced Ibis were examined for natural variability in shell thickness. Eggs collected soon after they were laid had thicker shells than those collected just prior to hatching. Eggshell thickness also varied with the order in which eggs were laid. Different clutch sizes (3 or 4 eggs) did not contribute to the variability in shell thickness. A design for collecting eggs to determine shell thickness is suggested. The most efficient sampling scheme for eggs of the White-faced Ibis, and perhaps other species, involved collecting only one egg per nest rather than entire clutches.
4160875|Studies of the characteristics of a wintering population of White-tailed Ptarmigan were conducted in alpine areas in north central Colorado, primarily at Guanella Pass. Of 799 Ptarmigan identified on the wintering area, 80% were females and 65% were adults. Numbers of juveniles identified varied with year depending upon production success. Climatic conditions had a pronounced influence upon the timing of arrival and departure to and from winter use sites. Partial segregation of sexes coincided with the arrival of birds on wintering areas with males usually remaining closer to breeding areas. Large concentrations of females wintered in areas at lower elevations near treeline where dense, tall stands of willow occurred. At times sex separation was only spatial, but usually habitat separation occurred. Winter flocks ranged in size from 2 to over 80 birds with about 69% of all flocks (172) encountered consisting of 2 to 25 members. Flock sizes did not change significantly among years or months. Following a summer of good production, ptarmigan formed more flocks instead of gathering into larger groups. Due to greater mobility and higher mortality, fewer juveniles than adults returned in subsequent winters, but all age and sex classes exhibited a high fidelity (60% return) to the wintering area.
4160876|Breeding densities and migration periods of Common Snipe in Colorado were investigated in 1974-75. Sites studied were near Fort Collins and in North Park, both in north central Colorado; in the Yampa Valley in northwestern Colorado; and in the San Luis Valley in south central Colorado. Estimated densities of breeding snipe based on censuses conducted during May 1974 and 1975 were, by region: 1.3-1.7 snipe/ha near Fort Collins; 0.6 snipe/ha in North Park; 0.5-0.7 snipe/ha in the Yampa Valley; and 0.5 snipe/ha in the San Luis Valley. Overall mean densities were 0.6 and 0.7 snipe/ha in 1974 and 1975 respectively. On individual study sites, densities of snipe ranged from 0.2 to 2.1 snipe/ha. Areas with shallow, stable, discontinuous water levels, sparse, short vegetation, and soft organic soils had the highest densities. Twenty-eight nests were located having a mean clutch size of 3.9 eggs. Estimated onset of incubation ranged from 2 May through 4 July. Most nests were initiated in May. Spring migration extended from late March through early May. Highest densities of snipe were recorded in all regions during 10-23 April. Fall migration was underway by early September and was completed by mid-October with highest densities occurring about the third week in September. High numbers of snipe noted in early August may have been early migrants or locally produced juveniles concentrating on favorable feeding areas.
4160878|We analyzed affinities of 37 species in the subfamily Cardinalinae using 75 external morphological characters and 49 skeletal characters. Affinities are presented in phenograms and 3-D models. The phenograms are compared among themselves and with previous classifications. A "best" phenetic classification was constructed using the guidelines of Schnell (1970) and taking into account correlation between basic similarity matrices. The phenogram thus chosen did not include 7 of the species. These 7 species were placed into the clusters they would probably join if they had been included in the analysis. This was accomplished by studying the phenograms and 3-D models in which these species had been included. This phenogram was then used to look at similarities and compare these similarities with the classifications of Hellmayr (1938) and Paynter (1970). Based on phenetic groupings, several saltators (S. rufiventris, S. albicollis, S. cinctus, S. atricollis, S. aurantiirostris, and S. orenocensis) were found to have little similarity to the remaining saltators. In the case of S. rufiventris, S. albicollis, and S. cinctus, insufficient data may be the reason for their lack of similarity to the saltator cluster. However, S. atricollis, S. orenocensis, and S. aurantiirostris are clearly distinct. The genus Pheucticus clusters much as one would expect from Hellmayr's (1938) classification. The species placed in the genus Passerina by Paynter (1970) could be grouped according to either former classification.
4160904|The breeding biology of Chasiempis sandwichensis gayi was studied from November 1965 to May 1968 in Manoa Valley, island of Oahu, Hawaii. Birds bred monogamously from mid-January to mid-June. The phases of courtship were territory establishment, attraction of females by singing males, and chasing. The territory, which averaged 2.0 ha, was defended against other C. s. gayi, Leiothrix lutea, and Zosterops japonica primarily by males. Nesting habitat in the study area was a dense forest of Eugenia cumini, Aleurites moluccana, Citharexylum spinosum, and Psidium guajava; whereas, Eucalyptus sp. and Melaleuca leucadendron forests were suitable for feeding, but not for nesting. There were 4 types of vocalizations: (1) chipping, given during feeding, or by one bird before it replaced the other on the nest to incubate or brood, or as a mild alerting note; (2) chatter, a prelude to song, a low-intensity alarm note, and, in modified form, a food-begging or copulation-solicitation call; (3) song, given by both sexes; (4) the alarm call, a raspy cry, given by the parents when their young were being disturbed or by the young themselves in the same situation. Singing reached peaks of daily frequency during nest building; it was infrequent during incubation, and increased again from the time the young hatched until they were independent. It decreased after May, and resurged in December. The nest site, selected by the female, was a tree fork or a lateral branch. Nest building, carried out by both sexes, took about 2 weeks. Nests, placed at an average height of 7.9 m were made of spider web, bark, grass leaves, leaf skeletons, lined with rootlets and animal hair, and covered with lichen and liverwort. Nest width averaged 7.2 cm, depth 7.8 cm, cup width 4.6 cm, and cup depth 4.1 cm. Nest dimensions of renestings were similar to those of first nestings, but height, nest habitat, and time taken to build varied. Eggs were usually laid in clutches of 2, and were white with reddish-brown spots. The eggs were laid before 08:30 with an interval between layings of about 24 h. They were incubated 96% of the day and all night for at least 14 days. Both sexes incubated, brooded and fed young, and sang on the nest. Nine-day-old young were fed an average of 10 times per hour; the nestling period was 16 days. Total nesting success was 13%; hatching success was 29%; nestling mortality was 42%. Although high winds and heavy rains were the primary causes of nest failure, predation by rats may have been a factor. Many aspects of C. s. gayi's breeding biology indicate that it is related to the monarchid group of muscicapids.
4160905|Forest birds, especially those of mesic forest, have life history traits favoring a lower intrinsic rate of natural increase (r
4160906|Common Ravens in Virginia were primarily cliff nesters. The major factors apparent in selection of a nest site were cliff profile, determined by a suitable ledge with an overhang above and steep rock face below, and the distance to other active raven nests, the closest 2.2 km and the average 4.3 km. Nest cliffs averaged 19.7 m in height. No significant difference was found between heights of successful and unsuccessful sites. Nest cliffs close to human activity were not taller than those in remote areas. Observed proximity of roads and dwellings to nests had no significant effect on nest productivity. Nest sites were found between 335-1130 m above sea level, with 44% below 580 m. Successful nests below 580 m fledged a mean of 3.08 young compared to 2.37 at higher elevations. Starvation of nestlings, due to a loss of feeding efficiency in adults nesting at higher elevations, was suspected.
4160907|Characteristics for aging Ring-billed Gull embryos to within 3 days are given. Body weight, total length, back length, and culmen length from 10 days after laying to hatching were the most accurate aging parameters. No overlap at 1 standard deviation occurred in any of the above characters in 3-day intervals.
4160908|Habitat relationships within a community of passerine birds were examined using multivariate statistical techniques and one index of niche breadth here termed "habitat use." Four species pairs were not significantly distinct when analyzed using multivariate analysis of variance. A 2-dimensional ordination along known vegetational gradients was constructed using principal component analysis. A regression line was drawn through this ordination providing a third gradient. Habitat use analysis defined several habitat generalists, including the Blue-gray Gnatcatcher and Brown-headed Cowbird, and several habitat specialists, including the Willow Flycatcher and Blue Grosbeak. Reasons for taking care in discussing avian habitat selection were presented.
4160909|The Upright display involves slight feather erection of the crest, upper neck, while the heron raises the head upward. In the Forward, the heron exhibits extreme erection of the crest, upper and lower neck feathers, and aigrettes while the head is extended upward. Both aggressive displays are typically accompanied by the "aaah" call. While Twig Shaking, the heron moderately erects the crest, upper and lower neck feathers, and aigrettes as it extends the head out to grasp and shake a branch. The Louisiana Heron appears to be unusual in that it tends to combine the Snap and Stretch displays into 1 sequence, though each is observed being performed separately. As the male moderately erects the crest, upper and lower neck feathers, and aigrettes, he extends the head out and down with the bill oriented downward. Bending of the legs results in a lowering of the head and body. At the farthest downward extension, a branch is usually grasped. Thereupon, the Snap ends. Next, the heron rises, lays the head on the mantle, and orients the bill toward the zenith. In an upward movement, the head is partially lifted off the mantle, the wings begin to open and droop, and the bill is slightly opened. As the heron drops by bending the legs, the opened mandibles are snapped closed, and the wings are partially fanned out to the sides. The up and down motions are often repeated one or more times before the male returns to the head-on-mantle posture and gives the "unh" call. The intensity and number of each component in the Snap and Stretch vary greatly. In the Circle Flight, the male jumps into the air, the head is extended fully outward and held there for an exaggerated amount of time as the wings beat in deep arcs. The head is then tucked back as normal flight is assumed in a circular path. As the male returns to the nest, the legs drop, the crest, feathers of the upper and lower neck, and aigrettes are erected, and the head is fully extended. Several "culh-culh" calls are given during this time. Both male and female Louisiana Herons engage in Bill-nibbling, in which they open and gently close the mandibles and thereby create a "rattling" sound. This behavior is thought to function in appeasement and in reducing the agonistic behavior between herons. In the Greeting display, the crest, feathers of the upper and lower neck, and aigrettes are erected, the head is extended up, and the bill usually holding a twig is repeatedly oriented to the zenith and then waved downward, as the heron gives several "culh-culh" calls. Bill-nibbling usually accompanies the Greeting display. This behavior is performed by both members of the pair during twig passing associated with nest building and the nest relief of an incubating or brooding mate. The greeting ceremony probably functions in appeasement, reducing agonistic behavior, and mate recognition.
4160910|We studied the breeding biology of the Cliff Swallow in Virginia where it has recently become established as a new breeding bird. Data are presented on nest lining, clutch size, incubation period, hatching success, brood size, egg mortality, nestling period and mortality, and second broods. Little difference in breeding biology was found between the Virginia colonies and those in the remainder of their range.
4160911|An examination of the cloud cover and wind conditions that accompanied bird losses at a 366-m tower in southeastern North Dakota revealed that most fall losses occurred under overcast skies associated with the passage of cold fronts. In the spring, 58% of the mortality took place on non-overcast nights, generally with southeasterly winds. Rails were killed in relatively equal proportions on overcast and non-overcast nights in both spring and fall. Warblers were killed in significantly greater numbers on overcast nights in both seasons, as were fringillids in the fall. Losses on non-overcast nights tended to be distributed farther from the tower than were those on overcast nights. Fall losses were concentrated closer to the tower than were spring losses because fall losses occurred mostly under overcast skies as migrants milled about the tower. Spring losses seemed to occur primarily on non-overcast nights through collisions with outlying guy wires and the transmitting cables. Behavioral differences among species or families of migrants may be involved in migrant mortality at towers.
4160912|Breeding biology of the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) was studied in 4 colonies of marked birds during the breeding seasons of 1972-1974 in Oktibbeha Co., Mississippi. The male-female ratio of breeding birds was 1:1. The male generally remained faithful to his nest site (86.0%) but not so faithful to his mate (60.5%) for the entire breeding season. Each nest site was used an average of 2.84 times per season, but the number of incubated clutches per pair was 1.84. There was a trace of cooperative nest-building, but there was no evidence of communal egg-laying or incubation. Rhythmic patterns were manifested in both nest-building and egg-laying with peak periods of nest-building followed within a week by intensive egg-laying. Mean clutch size was 4.2 eggs. The mean incubation period was 12.2 days. A mean of 3.4 eggs hatched, and 2.8 young fledged per nest. Young fledged at 17.1 days of age. Nestlings were fed at a mean rate of 16.5 times per hour. Feeding of nestlings by sparrows other than the parents was observed in 161 of 254 nests in which feeding was significantly higher than in those nests without helpers. Helpers accounted for 12.4% of the feeding in those nests which they visited. Hatching success (83.2%) and fledging success (64.1%) were significantly higher than those reported by other researchers but do not appear to be the result of assistance by helpers; they may be attributed to the small percentage of eggs lost to predation and breakage, high hatching success of surviving eggs, and low mortality of nestlings.
4160913|Activities covered in this report extend from excavation through time of fledging of Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers. Males did nearly all of the excavating. When a first excavation failed, one female excavated harder and longer than her mate in starting a new one. Two females were dominant at the nest hole at time of egg-laying. Males started incubating more promptly than some females, but after 4 to 5 days delay, females of 2 nests incubated more than their mates in daylight hours. Eggs were left uncovered 16% of the time. The tasks of brooding and feeding the young were shared by both sexes almost equally. When free of brooding, which lasted for 8-10 days, the combined feeding rate of the sexes doubled almost immediately in 2 pairs. Males did the most of the nest cleaning. Comparisons are made of feeding rates of parents caring for 1, 2, 3, and 4 young and of the behavior of 2 lone or widowed males as compared to 3 lone females. Both situations brought out the greater role of males. The loud vocalizations of young sapsuckers are considered as having selective value in stimulating parents to a high rate of foraging and feeding of nestlings.
4160939|Between 1897 and 1919, 40 nests of Bachman's Warbler were found in the Southern Coastal Plain. Thirty-five were in headwater swamps and adjacent wet flats in South Carolina and 5 were in bottomlands along rivers in Missouri, Kentucky and Alabama. From descriptions of nesting habitat at 32 of the sites, it appears the bird used the portions of the bottomlands and headwater swamps that were inundated for relatively short periods compared to the lowest and wettest areas. The sweet bay--swamp tupelo--red maple association of the headwater swamps, the sweetgum--willow oak association of the wet flats and the bottomland hardwoods of the first bottoms and terraces form the complex of plant communities most probably used as nesting habitat. The overstory of areas chosen for nesting appeared to have been subjected to disturbance, either natural or man caused, that stimulated development of a relatively dense understory of shrubs, palmetto, and cane. Many of the nests found in South Carolina could have been in or on the edge of abandoned rice fields that were undergoing secondary succession.
4160940|There is significant morphological variation in North American Pine Grosbeaks. Variation in wing length and bill length in birds of the taiga is clinal. Beginning in the southern Labrador Peninsula, body size increases to the north and to the northwest. Variation in all characters is clinal in the Rockies. Body size becomes smaller to the north, and is highly correlated with the altitude of breeding localities. There is no evidence of clinal variation elsewhere. The largest birds occur in the taiga of northern Quebec and Labrador, and west of Hudson Bay to western Alaska, and in the southern Rocky Mountains. Small birds occur in the Canadian Maritime provinces, and in California, but the smallest are in the Queen Charlotte Islands. Bills of western taiga birds are short, deep, and wide, especially in comparison with the long, wide bills of coastal Alaska birds, and the extremely narrow bills of California birds. It is suggested that there is no basis for the recognition of 3 subspecies in the taiga, and that one name, P. e. leucura, should be applied to the clinally variable, continuously distributed form.
4160941|Breeding success was assessed and nest site characteristics were measured in a colony of Red-winged Blackbirds nesting on a tidal salt marsh. Breeding success was not directly related to the plant species used as nest substrate, vegetation height over the nest, or density of cover over the nest. However, negative correlations were found between hatching success and both nest height and height of the shrub used as nest substrate. Nests incurring losses from nestling starvation were characterized as being in areas of significantly greater nest density than nests not incurring such losses. Also significant differences were evident in vegetation height between nests incurring predation and nests not incurring predation.
4160942|Eastern Bluebird foraging behavior was studied in southeastern Michigan during 1972 and 1973. Bluebirds seize most prey after a short flight ("drop") to the ground from a conspicuous perch. Other foraging tactics that may be used are flycatching, gleaning, flight-gleaning, and hopping. Frequencies of various feeding modes depend on season and weather, although dropping comprised 78.8% of the foraging sequences observed under all conditions. The base of a feeding drop increases with foraging height, suggesting a relatively constant search angle. Prey is usually located from a perch before it is pursued and habitats having a short, sparse ground cover are preferred by feeding bluebirds. Foraging height is greater in summer and during favorable, warm weather than in spring or cold, inclement weather. Bluebirds travel shorter distances to new perches if prey is sighted from the previous perch than if prey is not sighted. Males and females exhibit no differences in temporal and spatial use of perches. Perch abundance, however, influences the size of the area required by adults feeding nestlings and may be a factor limiting the distribution of bluebirds, especially in spring.
4160943|Immature Herring Gulls are less efficient in capturing starfishes by diving and possibly also in transporting them in flight than are adults. In contrast to the adults, the immatures steal much of their food from other gulls on the ground and in aerial pursuits. As the birds mature, stealing gives way to independent methods of finding food.
4160946| Seventeen female Ruffed Grouse were equipped with radio transmitters and monitored with an automatic radio tracking system. Activity data were divided into pre-incubation, incubation, and post-incubation periods for each hen. During the pre-incubation period peaks of activity were closely associated with sunrise and sunset. The evening peak was greater than the morning peak for all hens. Activity normally began 30-60 min prior to sunrise and ceased 15-45 min after sunset. Day-time activity seldom fell below the 50% level. Egg laying patterns were determined for 8 hens. Hens seldom visited the nest site prior to the onset of egg laying and, once laying began, were rarely near the nest except during presumed laying visits. During laying visits hens typically remained inactive on the nest from 1 to several hours. Laying visits occurred 1-5 days in succession at 25-30 h intervals. When the next egg of a sequence appeared to be due sometime after the end of evening activity the egg was not laid until the following morning. Evidence is presented that one hen successfully renested. During incubation hens most often left the nest 2 or 3 times per day to feed. Most birds averaged 18-24 min per absence and 57-70 min off the nest per day. All hens exhibited a change in timing of the first activity period of the day as incubation progressed. This activity change may be related to plant phenology. During post-incubation, once activity began in the morning, birds usually maintained a high percentage of activity throughout most of the daylight hours until activity ceased in the evening. Evening activity peaks tended to be higher than morning peaks. Brood hens did not attain the morning peak until 1-2 h after sunrise. The evening peak occurred 15 min-2 h prior to sunset. In contrast, broodless hens reached morning peaks 15-30 min after sunrise and evening peaks from 15 min before to 15 min after sunset. This difference between hens with and without broods is related to brooding of the chicks during the cooler portions of the day by the brood hens. 
4160947|Weights and fat scores are described for 7 species of migrant parulids mist-netted in Jamaica in 1970-72. Weights were variable in autumn in most species, some of which may have been on migration; most autumn arrivals were probably winter residents. Fat levels and weights were low during the winter and 2 species (Black-and-white Warbler and American Redstart) were significantly lighter than birds caught in June and July in Pennsylvania. Mean weights of all species increased in spring, though few birds were trapped then and it is possible that some individuals left Jamaica with low fat levels.
4160980|Nesting habitat of Canada Geese in southeastern Michigan is described. Most nesting pairs (92%) preferred wetlands that contained 2 or more hectares of open water. Data were collected from both muskrat lodges and islands used and not used by Canada Geese as nesting sites. These data were analyzed using a discriminant function analysis to determine which factors best separated used from unused nesting sites. Top width of muskrat lodges and percent slope of island relief along with the density of island vegetation were most important in the discrimination. This approach provides a quantitative technique for evaluating the potential availability of nesting habitat along with revealing species-specific nest site preferences.
4160981|Clutches of merganser eggs were collected in 1973 and 1975 to determine whether levels of organochlorines and mercury might be responsible for possible population declines and to compare eggshell measurements with those of early museum collections. One egg per clutch was selected randomly for chemical analysis. Overall, residues of DDE, PCB's, and mercury were low in Hooded Merganser eggs; locality means for DDE ranged from 0.07 to 13.2 ppm, PCB means ranged from 0.44 to 4.91 ppm, and mercury means ranged from 0.16 to 1.49 ppm on a wet-weight basis. Residues of DDE and PCB's appeared to be high in Red-breasted and Common merganser eggs. DDE averaged 15.7 ppm in Red-breasted Merganser eggs and PCB's averaged 44.6 ppm; Common Merganser eggs contained an overall mean of 19.5 ppm DDE and 61.0 ppm PCB's. Hooded Merganser eggs from the Midwest had thinned 8.3%, but the change was not significant. Highly significant shell thinning was detected in Red-breasted and Common merganser eggs; Red-breasted Merganser eggs were 17.7% thinner and those of Common Mergansers were 23.5% thinner than museum collections.
4160982|We used the Breeding Bird Survey technique to study breeding bird populations in relation to habitat in Waterloo County, Ontario, in 1971. Four survey routes across the county were each covered 8 times between 18 May and 16 July. In conjunction with these surveys, we devised a classification of habitat types and estimated the coverage of each type at each sampling point. We compared bird numbers among survey routes, and found that numbers of several species were closely related to the extent of particular habitat types. We also compared bird numbers in 3 major habitat categories (fields, forest, and urban areas), based on results from selected sampling points. Because of the nature of the sampling and of the habitats themselves, all 3 contained a high proportion of forest-edge birds. Our data support those of others showing that forests have the most species of birds and urban areas fewest, and are consistent with a pattern of densities highest in urban areas and lowest in fields. In a critique on the method, we looked at the effects of time of day, weather, and especially time of year on bird counts. Counts in the third week of May were high for some species which were still migrating in large numbers, and low for others which were still arriving. Counts after 4 July were high for some visually-conspicuous species which congregate in family groups or flocks, and low for other species because of a decrease in song. Between 28 May and 4 July, however, counts varied little for most species. We conclude that interpretation of the significance of changes in bird numbers shown by Breeding Bird Surveys would be facilitated if complementary data on land use were gathered. We recommend the development of a classification of habitats usable throughout North America, and its application in conjunction with the continent-wide Breeding Bird Survey.
4160983|There are statistically significant differences in the composition of the mud selected by Barn and Cliff swallows for nest building. Furthermore, these differences appear to be related to the complexity of nest design. Cliff Swallows select mud with a higher sand and lower silt content than that used by Barn Swallows. A high sand content, based on the physical properties of other composite mixtures, probably improves the ease with which the mud may be manipulated and shaped into a retort-shaped nest. However, this increased workability of the mud is accompanied by a reduction in strength. There are also statistically significant differences in the amount and form of organic matter incorporated in the mud of these nests. Mud from Cliff Swallow nests contains small amounts of seeds and other fine particulate matter, while that from the nests of Barn Swallows contains large amounts of coarse items, such as grass stems, horse hair, and feathers. The design of Cliff Swallow nests probably precludes the inclusion of such bulky materials, which in Barn Swallow nests probably serve to bind together pieces of mud. The type and character of the mud used by these species varied from locality to locality, but within relatively narrow limits. The factors affecting the construction and design of mud nests (e.g., adhesion, cohesion, etc.) may well place constraints on the type of mud which can be used.
4160984|Demographic parameters of the Verdin are discussed. Clutch size displayed a decreasing gradient from east to west and north to south. Breeding season length decreased from south to north. Nesting success was greatest during the first 2 months of the breeding season and varied with locality and year. Based on immature/adult ratios, annual adult survival was 60% in southwestern U.S. and 50% in Mexico. Survival increased during the first year of life and approached adult levels at about 6 months.
4160985|Behavioral tests using freeze-dried female Red-winged Blackbird models were conducted on 11 territorial males through one breeding season. The intensity of courtship in the tests reflected recruitment success but not territory quality, indicating that those male attributes associated with territory establishment differ from those related to female recruitment. A negative correlation was found between recruitment success and territory quality and a possible explanation is presented.
4160986| The effects of p,p-DDE on the intensity of male Ringed Turtle Doves' courtship behavior were determined for dietary levels of 10 ppm and 50 ppm (dry weight). Pairs of doves were placed in cages for 12.5 min on 5 consecutive days for behavioral observation before dietary treatment and for periods 31-35 and 59-63 days after initiation of the treated diet. Total amount of time spent displaying courtship behavior and bow-coo frequency were analyzed through video tape recording. The 50-ppm diet caused a reduction in total courtship activity time and in bow-coo frequency for both posttreatment observation periods. The 10-ppm diet did not affect bow-coo frequency and total activity time at 31-35 days but did cause a significant reduction in courtship behavior during the 59-63-day observation period. The DDE residues found in the male Ringed Turtle Doves showing reduced courtship behavior were lower than residues found in many species of birds that have shown reproductive failures in the wild. 
4160987|Between April 1967 and December 1974, over 6000 Great-tailed Grackles were banded in Brazos County, Texas. Through September 1976, 117 recoveries were reported, with 60 from outside of Brazos County. These outside recoveries were grouped into 3 geographic areas: birds recovered to the south that represent a mid-winter population shift; those recovered to the west and northwest, representing migration along the Brazos River valley; and birds from the north that may represent migration along the edge of the East Texas pine lands. These latter 2 groups probably also include young birds dispersing away from breeding colonies in the study area.
4161020| Growth of young was measured in a marked population of Florida Scrub Jays that has been censused from 1969 to the present. Data were gathered mostly in 1973 when samples ranged up to 59 nestlings, which were the reproductive efforts of 28 pairs. Fresh eggs weigh 5.8 g, 7.6% of adult female weight, and lose about 13% of their weight during incubation. Newly hatched, unfed young weigh about 4.5 g, about 78% of a fresh egg. Based on growth curve computations, nestling growth is half completed at 8.2 days. The overall growth rate index of 0.335 is similar to that of Pion Jays, and the young grow only slightly slower than expected for their body size. Development at fledging lags behind most passerines thus far measured, as is true also of Pion Jays. Florida Scrub Jays do not attain "adult" weight during the first year. Growth of certain extremities also requires many months. Fluctuations in fledgling weights parallel those of "adults" from fall to early spring. Desertion and weather rarely cause nesting failure, and starvation of nestlings accounts for less than 10% of nestling losses. Predation is the major factor; it accounts for over 80% of all nestling losses. Breeding pairs with helpers produce more young, especially fledglings, than do unassisted pairs. Nestlings fed by relatively more feeders are heavier, but survival as fledglings does not correlate with nestling weight or the feeder index. Even nestlings half normal weight at day 11 appear to survive as fledglings as well as do heavier birds. Decreasing predation, especially on nest contents, is proposed as the major way that helpers increase reproduction. Elaborate active nest defense by breeders and helpers supports the suggestion. The suspected predators they may sometimes dissuade are certain snakes, Fish Crows, Blue Jays and Scrub Jay cannibals. 
4161021|Vertical height data from 4103 sightings of 26 species of birds were analyzed in order to better understand height segregations and resource use. Height categories used were: ground to 0.6 m, 0.6 m to 7.6 m, and 7.6 m to canopy top (approximately 25.9 m). Bird height distributions were compared by means of the chi square test for 2 independent samples. Height diversities were computed by the information theory. The most ubiquitous species in height dispersion were: American Robin, Common Flicker, Rusty Blackbird, and American Goldfinch. The species most restricted in the forest profile and the zones they inhabited were: Red-headed Woodpecker, Pileated Woodpecker and Blue Jay--canopy; White-eyed Vireo, Kentucky Warbler, and Carolina Wren--mid-story. There was a gradual upward shift in distribution of all birds from winter through spring to the summer breeding season. There was a highly significant winter to summer height distribution change from a nearly equal distributon at all levels in winter to a predominantly mid-story and canopy distribution in summer. Corresponding with this was a reduction in height diversty of the aggregate of all birds. These shifts were presumably a response of the birds to the seasonal change in foliage profile and food supply of a deciduous forest.
4161022|Habitat preferences and use, food habits, and impact on agriculture were studied for 11 million blackbirds and Starlings roosting in Gibson County, Tennessee, in the winter of 1975-76. The roost was composed of Common Grackles (64%), Red-winged Blackbirds and Brown-headed Cowbirds (27%), Starlings (9%), and Rusty Blackbirds (<1%). The various species had strikingly different niches in their daily existence and impact on agriculture. Waste corn was of primary importance to grackles and Red-wings, which spent most of their time feeding in corn and soybean stubble and woodlots. Red-wings fed commonly on cocklebur seeds in soybean stubble. Cowbirds and Starlings commonly used pastures and feedlots. Starlings did almost all the bird damage to sprouting wheat. Starlings, a minor species in the roost, had the greatest negative impact on agriculture. Simplistic management schemes are likely to fail in solving bird-man conflicts caused by multi-species roosting populations--they may even exacerbate them. Long-term relief most likely will require an integrated management program with a sound ecological basis.
4161023|Observations on the breeding behavior of the Louisiana Heron were made in a large heronry on Grand Island, Barataria Bay, Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana. Male Louisiana Herons with breeding soft-part colors set up large territories initially. The male appeared tense at first but soon began performing Snap-Stretch and Circle Flight displays. Soon after establishing a core display site, a male constructed the foundation of the nest there. During the early courtship period the male defended his territory from both intruding males and females. As additional males entered the breeding cycle and females began to move through the heronry, the size of the male's territory shrank. At first a male threatened and chased away all females, but a persistent female was soon tolerated on the edge of the territory. The frequency of Snap-Stretch and Circle Flight displays increased with time and in the presence of the female. With time, she was allowed closer and closer to the nest. Assuming the Withdrawn Crouch, the female was finally allowed onto the nest where copulation took place within a short time. Later the female was allowed to occupy the center of the nest and began final construction. The male brought twigs to the female on the nest as both engaged in the Greeting display and Bill-nibbling. The first eggs appeared 4-6 days after the initial copulation. On Grand Island the average clutch size was 3.0 (range = 2-5, mode = 3, N = 99). Both sexes incubated. When one mate returned, the pair engaged in the Greeting display before the heron that was relieved flew off. Both sexes fed the young, at first regurgitating small fish onto the floor of the nest. Nestlings 2 weeks and older fed by grasping the bill of the parent. Adults brought food to the brood 4-5 times a day. Many of the youngest nestlings died of starvation; chicks of all ages occasionally died in accidents. A mortality rate of 22.4% was recorded for nestlings on Grand Island for the period from egg laying through the second week after hatching. The parent-young bond began to break down when the juveniles were 6-7 weeks old.
4161024|During 1970-73, regular counts of North American waders were made along the Surinam coast to obtain quantitative data on their status and numerical fluctuations through the year. An extrapolation of these counts for the entire coast renders it likely that maximum numbers for the Lesser Yellowlegs, Short-billed Dowitcher, and the Semipalmated Sandpiper may amount to over 100,000, for the Greater Yellowlegs, Least Sandpiper, and possibly the Willet to 50-100,000, for the Semipalmated Plover, Spotted Sandpiper, Ruddy Turnstone, White-rumped Sandpiper, and the Stilt Sandpiper to 10-50,000. All other species, except the Black-bellied Plover and the Solitary Sandpiper, whose numbers may possibly amount to over 10,000, are less numerous. Comparison of the data with counts from northeastern Venezuela suggests that in the fall many species reach the coast of Surinam through a non-stop flight across the Atlantic Ocean. In spring, many waders that spent the winter south of the Guianas seem to migrate across the South American continent, by-passing the Guianas. Only the Short-billed Dowitcher, the Red Knot, and possibly the Greater Yellowlegs and the Willet, mainly fly directly to the Guianas and from there non-stop across the Atlantic Ocean to North America.
4161025|The behavior of adult Eastern Bluebirds feeding nestlings and fledglings and the diet of young bluebirds were studied in southeastern Michigan from 1971 to 1973. Females fed nestlings more often than males. The feeding frequency increased with nestling age until just prior to fledging, when a decline occurred. Feeding rate of males and females combined was relatively constant throughout the day although females fed young more often earlier in the day and male feeding rate was greater later in the day. Lepidoptera larvae were the most common food of both nestlings and fledglings and comprised 32.4% of the nestling diet. Orthoptera (mostly Acrididae and Gryllidae) were also common (25.6%), especially in summer. Spiders (11.3%) were particularly important early in the season and for newly-hatched young. Fruit was uncommon in the diet of nestlings but was fed to fledglings in summer and made up 11.0% of all fledgling foods recorded. Adult males and females fed different foods to the young, thereby partitioning the feeding niche. Males fed significantly larger percentages of Gryllidae and earthworms; females fed larger percentages of Arachnida and Acrididae.
4161026|A comparative study of the environmental relationships among 14 species of wintering waterfowl was conducted at the Welder Wildlife Foundation, San Patricio County, near Sinton, Texas during the fall and early winter of 1973. Measurements of 20 environmental factors (social, vegetational, physical, and chemical) were subjected to multivariate statistical methods to determine certain niche characteristics and environmental relationships of waterfowl wintering in the aquatic community. Each waterfowl species occupied a unique realized niche by responding to distinct combinations of environmental factors identified by principal component analysis. One percent confidence ellipses circumscribing the mean scores plotted for the first and second principal components gave an indication of relative niche width for each species. The waterfowl environments were significantly different interspecifically and water depth at feeding site and % emergent vegetation were most important in the separation. This was shown by subjecting the transformed data to multivariate analysis of variance with an associated step-down procedure. The species were distributed along a community cline extending from shallow water with abundant emergent vegetation to open deep water with little emergent vegetation of any kind. Four waterfowl subgroups were significantly separated along the cline, as indicated by one-way analysis of variance with Duncan's multiple range test. Clumping of the bird species toward the middle of the available habitat hyperspace was shown in a plot of the principal component scores for the random samples and individual species. Naturally occurring relationships among waterfowl were clarified using principal component analysis and related multivariate procedures. These techniques may prove useful in wetland management for particular groups of waterfowl based on habitat preferences.
4161027|During 1972 there were 15 active Osprey nests on the 62.5 ha of Seashorse Key, Florida. The Osprey population on this key produced 0.73 young per nesting female which is below the 0.95 to 1.30 young per nesting female necessary to maintain a stable population. Adult Ospreys were successful in 18.6% of their fishing attempts. The fishing technique of the Osprey is at least a partially learned behavior: adults required only 5.4 attempts per catch and 38.3 min per catch, but the young required 12.6 attempts and 77.3 min per catch. Pesticide analyses of 3 osprey eggs indicated low levels of organochlorines and PCB's. Eggshells (n = 7) were approximately 9% thinner than shells collected prior to 1947.
4161049|Variation in the Mexican representatives of the genus Piculus was studied in order to determine the status of the described forms (species and subspecies). A qualitative analysis of museum specimens representing population samples was presented along with quantitative data including statistical treatments of bill, wing, and tarsus measurements. The status of Piculus auricularis sonoriensis Van Rossem and Hachisuka was discussed: the type and a topotype examined did not differ from samples taken in neighboring states as indicated by the authors. However, northern samples of Piculus auricularis from Sonora to Colima were separable from material from Guerrero and Oaxaca on the basis of size and color. Two races are thus recognized. Variation in Piculus aeruginosus Malherbe was studied and evidence was presented suggesting genetic continuity and introgression with P. r. yucatanensis so that it is here regarded as a race of rubiginosus. Two races of Piculus rubiginosus are recognized for Chiapas, maximus of the Pacific Cordillera and yucatanensis of the Atlantic lowlands, separable on the basis of coloration and wing length. All the forms of Piculus in the Mexican check-list (Miller et al. 1957) are thus recognized with some changes in geographic distribution; these were divided into 2 species complexes including the gray crowned auricularis forms occupying the more xeric west and the slate crowned rubiginosus races of the more mesic east and southeast. In aeruginosus and auricularis size decreased clinally from north to south and intensity of coloration was found to increase in a clinal fashion in the same direction in accordance with Gloger's rule. Manifestation of Gloger's rule was discussed as being possibly the result of selection for crypticity. Both laws seem to operate locally in Chiapas to produce the larger, lighter colored highland race maximus. Size dimorphism between the sexes was found to decrease from north to south in both species complexes. Size dimorphism was most pronounced in bill length in all but one form (yucatanensis). The possible ecological significance of these findings was discussed.
4161050|Distribution of nests and nesting success were determined for Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus), Cooper's Hawks (A. cooperii), and Goshawks (A. gentilis) in western, southwestern, and eastern Oregon during 1969 through 1974. Nesting density was determined by intensively searching a 9284 ha area in western Oregon and an 11,741 ha area in eastern Oregon. These searches produced 4 Cooper's Hawk nests (1 nest/2321 ha) in 1970 and 5 nests in 1971 (1 nest/1857 ha) in western Oregon and 4 Sharp-shinned Hawk nests (1 nest/2750 ha), 5 Cooper's Hawk nests (1 nest/2200 ha), and 4 Goshawk nests (1 nest/2750 ha) in eastern Oregon. An analysis of hatching success, fledging success, and number of nests that were successful showed that Sharp-shinned Hawks suffered the greatest losses during the incubation period, and Cooper's Hawks and Goshawks during the nestling period.
4161051|The population density of warblers wintering in arid coastal scrub in Puerto Rico was much higher than comparable sites in Jamaica. Warblers wintering in the coastal scrub usually foraged alone or in stationary (passive) flocks. Few were organized into cohesive (integrated) flocks. Warblers in stationary flocks gave contact calls with the same frequency as those alone, while warblers in cohesive flocks called more often. Aggressive behavior was common, and occurred most often between members of the same species or those with similar foraging behavior. The stationary flocks were usually composed of birds that gathered to harvest concentrations of insects whose distribution varied between vegetation patches. The few predators in the study sites apparently did not influence the flocking behavior of the warblers. Warblers showed considerable overlap in their feeding behavior, which may be due to convergence of foraging on the same abundant food source.
4161052|Investigations in southern Illinois in 1971 and 1972 suggest that the Loggerhead Shrike has been contaminated with DDE and that the species has experienced eggshell thinning. Mean concentrations of DDE were 21.89 ppm in fat of 69 birds and 3.09 ppm in the contents of 104 eggs. A negative correlation was found between concentrations of DDE and eggshell thickness, and the mean value for the shell thickness index was 2.57% less for eggs collected during the study than for eggs in archival collections. However, nesting success was high, suggesting that the factor--DDE or other--causing the recent decline of the shrike population in Illinois was more closely associated with survival of fledged juveniles or adults than with reproduction.
4161053|Variation in avian selection of tree species in a community which had undergone an overstory removal form of timber harvesting was compared to a virgin, mixed-coniferous forest, in the White Mountains, Arizona, during the summers of 1973 and 1974. Tree species preferences for all birds observed indicated Douglas-fir, white fir, and Engelmann spruce were the most frequently visited species in both habitats and were used in both the unmodified and logged areas in excess of the proportion of foliage volume they contained in the entire habitat. Ponderosa pine and southwestern white pine were frequented less than expected on the basis of availability. Although aspen constituted over 50% of the available foliage in the harvested habitat, birds did not appear to compensate for the reduction in density of firs and spruces by increasing their use of it. Whereas some species in the modified environment, such as the Mountain Chickadee, became more generalized and therefore less selective as to tree species, the Ruby-crowned Kinglet apparently became more restricted, and hence, more specialized in tree species preferences. Use of quaking aspen, the only species not removed during harvesting, and snags (dead trees) was higher in the modified than in the unaltered habitat.
4161054|Four adult pairs of Purple Martins in a colony of 35 pairs in Sherman, Texas, successfully fledged second broods in the breeding season of 1976. Two additional pairs raised second broods in 1977. Breeding behavior of these second nestings was studied and was found not to differ significantly from breeding behavior of first nestings. Purple Martin propagation efforts in Sherman, Texas, in 1973-76 resulted in great numbers of martins in the local area in 1976. Many martins were unable to find breeding places in the early part of the season and raised their first broods much later in the season than usual. Such late nesting apparently served as a stimulus to the raising of second broods by pairs that fledged young earlier. Purple Martins may raise second broods in the southern part of their range whenever large numbers of martins remain at the colonies later than usual.
4161055|A study of the food of nestling Purple Martins at Elk Island National Park, Alberta, during the summers of 1970 and 1971 indicated that insects of the families Syrphidae, Nymphalidae, and Aeschnidae comprised the majority of their diet. The quality and quantity of food fed to the nestlings changed with season, time of day, and age of nestlings. The influence of brood size was investigated to see if adults were compensating for the energy requirements of a larger brood in ways other than increasing the number of visits to the nest. They did not bring a greater biomass of food per feeding trip. They did increase the percentage of trips to the nest that were feeding trips, but, in spite of this, individual nestlings from smaller broods were fed more often than those from larger broods. This was reflected in nestling growth curves in which nestlings of smaller broods attained a greater weight prior to fledging. Adults with larger broods spent less time brooding nestlings than did adults with smaller broods, possibly a result of a smaller surface-area-to-volume ratio, and consequently lesser heat loss by nestlings in larger broods.
4161056|Data were collected on 755 active nests of the Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) in a largely forested area of north Louisiana from 1963 to 1975. Nesting began in early April and continued until early August; the height of the nesting season was during May. Completed clutches contained an average of 3.82 eggs (range, 2 to 5); broods contained an average of 2.87 (range, 1 to 5) young. During 1975, 0.83 young fledged per nest for 127 active nests. Thirty species of plants were used as nest sites, with the ratios of plants used being different in each of the 4 major habitats. Average nest height varied with the habitat in which the nest was located. Open freshwater areas were the most heavily used habitats. Nesting success was directly related to the height of the nest, depth of water below the nest, type of vegetation used for nest support, and nesting habitat. Predation was a major factor involved in nest loss.
4161057|Brood parasitism of Shiny Cowbirds on Rufous-collared Sparrows was studied in 1970-1975 in north Buenos Aires province, Argentina. Summary information on the local hosts of Shiny Cowbirds is reported. The overlap in the breeding seasons of cowbirds and sparrows was at least 87%. Shiny Cowbirds parasitized 72.5% of the nests. Non-parasitized nests were found almost throughout the breeding season of the sparrows. Observations on the nest-searching behavior of female cowbirds are included. The sequence of egg-laying in 5 parasitized nests is described. Parasitized nests contained an average of 2.03 cowbird eggs and 2.14 sparrow eggs. Cowbirds removed about 1 sparrow egg per parasitized nest. More than 50% of the nests were parasitized with 1 cowbird egg. Up to 5 cowbird eggs were found in parasitized nests. Cowbird eggs in nests of sparrows were immaculate (about 55%) or spotted (about 45%). Immaculate eggs are more rounded. Rufous-collared Sparrows deserted some parasitized nests. The sparrows have a low nesting success probably because they are ground nesters. Few nests produced fledglings. Data on weights of nestlings suggest that sparrows cannot rear more than 4 nestling sparrows or 2 nestling cowbirds, but the latter situation was not observed.
4161083| Ages and sexes were determined for 3223 birds killed at the 308 m WCTV tower in northwestern (Leon County) Florida in the autumns of 1973-1975. The data are compared with those from other studies, especially one at a tower in central peninsular Florida. The  :   ratio at WCTV was 1278:1267 (50.2%  ) and the adult: immature ratio was 1455:1694 (46.2% adult). Seven species showed differential migration of age and sex classes temporally at the WCTV tower. For 12 species, the trans-Gulf migrants killed at WCTV had significantly more immatures than did the circum-Gulf migrants killed in peninsular Florida. The peninsular migrants had significantly high ratios of adults when compared with those from WCTV. It is suggested that adults and immatures of some species follow largely different migration routes as a result of allopatry on the wintering grounds. 
4161084|Foraging distances for the Chase Lake flock range up to 611.8 km round-trip or twice as far as previously reported. Nest abandonment accounted for 31% of the nest loss in 1973 and 75% in 1974 in intensely observed colonies. It also appeared to be a significant problem throughout the entire colony in both years. The larger nestling in 2-chick broods survived more frequently than the smaller one in both 1974 and 1975. One week after tagging in 1974, 79.5% of the large young and 10.3% of the small young in 2-bird nests (N = 40) were known to be alive. In 1975, 74% of the large young and 28% of the small young in 2-bird nests (N = 88) were alive 1 week after tagging. Survival of small young in 2-bird nests was less than 5% after 2 weeks. Large young fed more frequently and successfully than small young in 2-bird nests. In 1974, 187 feeding attempts were observed. The larger young initiated 122 (65.2%) of these attempts. Fifty-one successful feeding attempts were observed and large young completed 38 (74.5%) of these attempts. Production was estimated at 2100 young from 3911 nests in 1973 (.54 young per nest) and 1200 young from 3082 nests in 1974 (.39 young per nest).
4161085| Known volumes and measurements of eggs of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) collected near Bloomington, Indiana, revealed that the formula length 
4161086|Breeding behavior and sex roles of nesting Anhingas were studied in San Blas, Nayarit, Mexico during July and August 1975. The Anhingas nested in a mixed species colony of egrets, herons, and cormorants. The egg-laying period for Anhingas was 21 days. Anhingas built nests in the open areas of trees near exposed perch sites and nested closer to conspecifics than to other species. We observed 14 nests for 483 h during the incubation period. When data were summed for all nests, males incubated for 55% of the time, and females incubated for 45% of the time, although these differences were not significant. However, males did incubate for significantly more time during days 1-5 and 26-30. From 06:00 until 15:00 there was an equal probability of finding a female or male incubating, but significantly more males incubated at sunrise and sunset. Males incubated 65% of the nighttime. At a given nest, the same sex did not always incubate on successive nights. Mates often remained near the nest when not incubating, and there were no sexual differences in time spent nearby. The amount of time a mate was present when non-incubating decreased seasonally. During days 1-5 post egg-laying, mates were present 56% of the time, by days 11-15 they were present 14% of the time, and by day 25 they returned only to exchange. Nest relief, which usually occurred from 06:00 to 08:00 and from 14:00 to 15:00, always involved vocalizations. Males made significantly more trips for nest material than did females. Males brought nest material with leaves 75% of the time, whereas females brought material with leaves only 20% of the time; 85% of the nest material trips occurred after nest relief. Most (95%) of the nest material trips occurred during the incubation period, although some occurred while chicks were in the nest. Aggressive encounters were brief and usually involved displacing an intruder. Males performed significantly more aggression (86%) than did females. The non-incubating mate performed 50% of the aggression from days 1-10 and 100% thereafter. Conspecific aggression decreased seasonally. Heterospecific aggression accounted for 25% of the aggressive encounters. Eighty-one % of the eggs laid in 21 nests hatched. Egg loss occurred through dismantling of the nest and by eggs being knocked in the water from active nests. Of the chicks that hatched, 95% survived until at least 16 days of age. Males and females spent equal amounts of time brooding chicks. One adult brooded the chicks at all times until they were 12 days of age, when the parents began to leave the chicks alone. Both sexes fed the young. Breeding chronology, success, and sex roles are discussed.
4161087|I studied post-fledging behavior of Purple Martins in north central Texas from 1972 through 1977. Detailed studies were made during 1974 and 1975. This report describes various aspects of post-fledging behavior of juvenile, subadult, and adult martins, including accounts of leaving the nest, assembling the brood, feeding, returning to the nest, and post-breeding nest defense. Grouping areas in which broods assembled after fledging are described, as is the habit of leaving these grouping areas. Certain behavior by adults and young during the post-fledging period likely contributes to a very high survival rate of juvenile Purple Martins during the first 4-5 days after fledging.
4161088| Nesting ecology of the Plain Chachalaca in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas was investigated during the mid-1960's and early 1970's. Pairing and strengthening of pair bonds apparently occur in the late winter; the sex ratio approximates 1 male:1 female, and Plain Chachalacas are apparently monogamous. Gonads enlarge rapidly during early spring; testes size peaks in March and April and ovaries are largest in April and May. Nesting begins in April and is usually completed in July or August. Chachalacas are apparently capable of breeding during their first year, but the incidence of this occurring in wild birds remains unknown. Plain Chachalacas use flimsy nests supported by a variety of native trees, shrubs, and vines. The mean clutch size for 158 complete clutches was 2.88  0.43 eggs. Incubation by the female takes approximately 25 days, and overall egg hatchability for 249 eggs was 92%. Nesting success for 135 nests over the 4-year interval was 65%; major causes of nest failure included mammalian predators, snakes, and wind damage. Chicks left 47% of the nests in which eggs were incubated and these successful nests (N = 89) produced an average of 2.5 chicks per nest. Chicks are extremely precocial and leave the nest within hours after hatching. 
4161089|Field observations and still and motion pictures were used to analyze the spatial patterns of perched Barn and Cliff swallows in Chase County, Kansas from 23 June to 19 September 1975. Individual distance was determined from analysis of spatial interactions between approaching and incumbent birds. Both species perched near the individual distance; both species had greater interthan intraspecific spacing; and interspecifics did not tend to perch at the minimum approachable distance. A similarity of swallows' interaction distances and spatial behavior may help explain the apparent spatial regularity of mixed-species flocks. Individual distances of Barn and Cliff swallows differed significantly. The Cliff Swallow's individual distance appears to be more rigidly maintained, possibly because of a simpler social organization or increased integration of their pre-migratory flocks. The maintenance of spacing was dependent on head orientation and attentiveness. Distances increased during preening activities, which lessened interference and potential conflicts between adjacent birds. Adults tolerated young birds and adults in a submissive posture within their individual distance.
4161090| The foraging patterns, food supply, and population density of Bay-breasted and Cape May warblers were studied during a budworm outbreak in the spruce-fir forests of northern Maine. Bay-breasted Warblers foraged more intensively on low dead limbs than previously reported, probably a result of searching for budworms descending on threads from higher in the canopy. Cape May Warblers concentrated their activities in live vegetation near the tops of trees. Males spent no more than  to 1/3 of their time foraging. Bay-breasted Warblers were the commonest species upon plots censused both in lowland spruce-fir forest and in upland forest containing up to 40% deciduous growth. Budworm numbers were far in excess of the food demands of these warblers or the insectivorous birds as a group. 
4161091|Relative foraging efficiency of adult and immature Olivaceous Cormorants was compared on 2 study sites in Texas. Foraging success of adults was higher than immatures, a difference that continued as immatures entered their first winter. Success for both age groups fluctuated in much the same pattern among study dates, and may have been due to prey availability. Immatures increased daily food intake by returning to feed twice as often as adults. Immatures acquired the diving ability of adults soon after fledging. Lower capture success by immatures may be caused by relatively poor capture techniques, maneuverability, and prey search image. Similarities in dive/pause ratio among cormorant species may be related to similarities in the diving abilities of the group. Diving rate differences between study sites were likely due to variations in habitat characteristics. Significant correlations existed between water depth and all diving variables except % success. Foraging site selection is important to cormorant hunting success. Foraging time apparently increased to compensate for lower capture rates in areas of poor prey availability. Immature mortality is likely increased during the transition from fledgling to adulthood due to foraging difficulties. Lowered physiological conditions and/or increased feeding times of immatures resulting from poor feeding success may partially explain delayed attainment of reproductive maturity for several years in cormorants.
4161092|Wood Ducks were equipped with radio packages, and their roosting flights were observed throughout the fall to determine the validity of using flight counts as a Wood Duck population index. Seasonal trends in the numbers of ducks flying to roosts were similar to the results of other workers, but the trends could not be related to environmental factors such as temperature, day length, or light intensity. Evening roosting flight counts did not provide a valid index to Wood Duck population size for several reasons: (a) roosts were not always geographically discrete; (b) a changing food supply location caused the number of Wood Ducks flying to a roost to vary; (c) all birds that flew to a roost were not susceptible to being counted, because of confusion due to the presence of other waterfowl, poor lighting resulting from cloudy weather, birds not flying to the roost during the counting interval, or birds approaching the roost from a direction which offered poor counting visibility; (d) some birds did not fly to a communal roost on certain days, either because they never left the roost, or because they roosted alone elsewhere. Most ducks did, however, show high fidelity to their traditional roosts. The variability in the exposure of instrumented Wood Ducks to counting could not be related to temperature, day length, or the total number of birds being counted. As a result of this variability, 15 to 22 roost counts would have to be conducted simultaneously in an area for 15% accuracy at the 95% confidence level. We do not feel that this counting intensity is practical.
4161120|Observations of the birds at Cape Crozier, Ross Island, within the southernmost reaches of the Ross Sea in Antarctica were summarized for 12 summers during the period 1961-76. Data on the occurrence of 11 species were presented. The Emperor Penguin breeding colony at Crozier declined in size due to an unfavorable nesting situation and perhaps unknown factors. Wind conditions affected the occurrence of Snow Petrels and Antarctic Petrels; winds under 38 km/h had little effect but offshore winds above 38 km/h attracted significant numbers to the area. Rather interesting were records for Chinstrap Penguins, Brown Skuas, and Southern Black-backed Gulls, the relative rarity of Southern Fulmars, and the absence of Cape Pigeons, prions and Arctic Terns. The avifauna was most diverse in terms of population sizes and variety of birds during December, the month of peak plankton concentrations and of changing ice cover on the sea. The birds may have responded particularly to the latter because such conditions offer the greatest diversity of habitat and foraging opportunity.
4161121|Female Red-winged Blackbirds were found to feed less often on the field than were males; this may reduce intraspecific competition. The average size of organisms captured by sweepnet sampling in the marsh, the area in which females possibly fed, was significantly larger than on the field. The size of organisms fed to nestlings was significantly larger than if food selection were random. There was also an apparent preference for soft-bodied items. As females feed nestlings unassisted by males, time-energy budget constraints make it necessary for females to maximize feeding efficiency. Preferences in food size, food type, and foraging locations may serve to do this.
4161122|I studied foraging and territorial behavior of Red-headed Woodpeckers in south-central Florida. In autumn the birds leave their breeding territories and migrate to productive patches of oak scrub, arriving as acorn crops mature. Each individual establishes a separate territory within open scrub habitat and defends an area surrounding several dead trees, which it uses for storing acorns and excavating roost holes. Behavior patterns change markedly as the winter season progresses: most of early autumn is spent harvesting mast, which is then rearranged and covered during late fall. Flycatching predominates on suitable days in mid-winter, and the bulk of the stored mast is consumed only in late winter. Both intra- and interspecific aggressive behavior changes with the progression of different foraging activities throughout the season. Red-headed Woodpeckers resemble the congeneric Lewis' and Acorn woodpeckers in their dependence on mast harvesting and storage. Opportunistic Red-headed and Lewis' woodpeckers depend on sporadically abundant crops, and show specialized winter behavior associated with their seasonal movements. In contrast, Acorn Woodpeckers occupy habitats with more reliable acorn supplies, and the species is resident and highly social all year.
4161123|Data obtained from 22 color-marked coots recaptured in years subsequent to their banding indicate that during the breeding season yearling coots have green tarsi, 2-year-old coots have yellow-green tarsi, 3-year-old birds have yellow tarsi, and all older coots have tarsi ranging from yellow-orange to red-orange. Discrepancies between this aging scheme and ideas expressed by earlier workers are discussed. Data from captive coots indicate that tarsal colors fade outside of the breeding season. I recommend that without further study the aging scheme described be used only during the breeding season. The possible behavioral significance of age-specific tarsal color in coots is discussed.
4161124| A small colony of Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus catita) was found in the Mont region of the southern panhandle of Buenos Aires province near Jos S. Cass in October 1960. The parakeets constructed nests on telephone poles in association with the nests of Firewood Gatherers (Anumbius annumbi). Each duplex nest consisted of an Anumbius nest to which parakeets added a nest of their own; the latter included a separate nest cavity and entrance tunnel constructed of freshly cut thorny branchlets. The Anumbius nests appeared to provide the stimulus for nest building by the Monk Parakeet. 
4161126|The Yellow-rumped Warbler (Dendroica coronata) is a common winter resident on Presque Isle, a peninsula jutting into Lake Erie, Pennsylvania. This population was studied during the winters of 1974-75 and 1975-76 with the intent of exposing the factors which enable the warblers to remain this far north. Foraging behavior was found to be highly diversified and habitat selection was strongly influenced by weather variables and food accessibility. Bayberry was found to be the major food resource during periods of inclement weather. Though numbers fluctuated greatly in the study areas, the warblers remained on the peninsula throughout the winter. They were normally in flocks, which regularly included several other species.
4161127|Roadside occurrence and mortality of Scarlet Tanagers and other insectivorous birds are described in relation to unseasonably cold wet weather in late May 1974 in New Hampshire and Vermont. More tanagers were observed in 41 roadside surveys than individuals of all other species combined, and 83.5% of the dead birds found were Scarlet Tanagers. Total numbers of tanagers observed per hour of travel were greater along Interstate than on secondary highways. The percentage of live tanagers on the roadsides decreased by mid-day. Reduced availability of forest insects because of persistent rains and cool temperatures is considered to be the prime reason for tanagers shifting from forest habitats to roadsides and lawns, areas where they could obtain food such as ants and earthworms, more readily. Tanagers may have been forced to desert their normal forest habitat sooner than other insectivorous species because of their relatively large body size, heavy reliance on large adult insects, and high absolute metabolic requirements. The local Scarlet Tanager breeding populations in the Hubbard Brook forest declined by 33% in 1974 over the previous year and by 67% in 1975 and 1976 over the 1969-1973 average, suggesting a possible long term effect of this period of heavy mortality.
4161129|Helminths from Pelecanus occidentalis were described as communities of several successional ages and of 3 geographic regions. Community diversity was uniformly low, resulting from enormous numbers of Mesostephanus appendiculatoides in young hosts and Phagicola longus in old birds. Regional differences in diversity are attributed to unknown features of pelican habitat along Florida coasts and a history of pelican extirpation and reintroduction on the Louisiana coast, which appears to have caused extirpation of some parasite taxa. Seral changes in parasites indicate increasing diversity of food items as nestlings grow, sudden heavy feeding on mullet (Mugil spp.) at fledging, and apparent avoidance of other fish species by fledged birds. The success of P. longus populations in Louisiana birds is attributed to a lack of interspecific competition from M. appendiculatoides. Eventual decline of P. longus populations in adult pelicans may reflect development of age immunity, though other explanations are possible. Success of efforts to reintroduce pelicans into formerly occupied range may be enhanced by selecting birds with balanced parasite communities.
4161130|We examined the requirements for nesting in Willets in a salt marsh in southern New Jersey. Willets did not nest in an extensive area of tall Spartina alterniflora marsh, a few nested in an area of short S. alterniflora, and 18 nested in a S. alterniflora and S. patens marsh with mosquito ditching. The nest sites chosen by the Willets did not differ from random points with respect to several vegetation characteristics including species of vegetation, % live cover, % dead cover, mean height of live and dead grass, and distance to ecotone. Willets selected nest sites on high ground, in this case on spoil piles. The Willets nesting in the study marshes nested closer together than expected by chance. Upon examining the dense nesting area, however, Willets nested farther apart than expected by chance. Thus, Willets spaced themselves in a clump. We discuss the advantages of nesting on spoil piles, and the advantages and disadvantages of the nesting pattern with respect to social factors.
4161131|All 10 Wood Stork eggs collected at Merrit Island National Wildlife Refuge in 1973 contained residues of DDE (geometric mean 4.0 ppm wet weight) and PCBs (1.2 ppm). Nine other organochlorines were found at lower frequencies in the eggs. Eggshells from the recent period were 8.9% thinner (P < 0.001) than pre-1947 samples; decrease in eggshell thickness was more closely correlated with DDE than other organochlorines and correlation of DDE and eggshell thickness approached significance (P = 0.115). Anhinga eggs were collected at 7 localities; 45 of the 46 eggs analyzed contained DDE residues and 24 contained PCBs. Residues of other organochlorines were found less frequently. Shell thickness of recent eggs from Louisiana and Mississippi was significantly less (-7.5%; P < 0.05) than the mean for pre-1947 eggs, but there was no significant change in shell thickness of eggs from Florida. The change in clutch mean eggshell thickness was significantly negatively correlated (P < 0.05) with the concentration of DDE in the eggs.
4161132|Habitat preferences of breeding Red-winged Blackbirds in an agricultural area were determined by comparing population density, landscape characteristics, and vegetational descriptions. Observations were made throughout the breeding season. Preferred breeding habitats of Red-wings, in order of preference, were wetlands, hayfields, old fields, and pastures. Males and females occupied old fields and wetlands first, then hayfields, and finally, pastures. Cutting of hayfields caused territorial abandonment by both sexes within 48 h. The apparent movement of displaced females from cut hayfields to uncut hayfields suggests that habitat fidelity of females is strong after the breeding effort has begun. Breeding Red-wings exhibited general preferences for trees, large amounts of habitat edge, erect old vegetation, and sturdy, tall, and dense vegetation. Vegetative forms and species, such as upland grasses, broad- and narrow-leafed monocots in wetlands, and forbs were important to the Red-wing at various times during the breeding season. Landscape and vegetational preferences of breeding adults were easier to observe early in the breeding season (March through May) than later. Vegetational growth and increases in the size of the breeding population probably make these preferences more difficult to detect. Territory size was poorly correlated with landscape and vegetational characteristics in uplands but strongly correlated with broad- and narrow-leafed monocots and vegetative height in wetlands. Wetland territories were smaller than upland territories. Territories increased in size during the middle and late portions of the breeding season. Habitat selection by the Red-winged Blackbird can best be studied by evaluating vegetative preferences throughout the breeding season.
4161162| We studied the Beechey Jay most of 3 breeding seasons and in 2 short non-breeding periods near Mazatln, Sinaloa, Mxico. We color-marked 28 fully grown birds and 33 young. The Beechey Jay lives in low deciduous forest, mostly second growth, on the coastal plain and low rolling hills of western Mxico from Sonora to Nayarit. Near Mazatln, the dry season usually extends from November into June. The jays live year round in social groups of 2-5 individuals (x = 3.4). The basic unit seems to be an adult male-female pair; birds accompanying the pair range from yearlings to adults, but yearlings predominate. Groups are relatively stable, but some shifts occur in membership from year to year. Group home ranges were 24 to 43 ha and seemed virtually exclusive, suggesting territoriality, as did hostile interactions between birds of different groups near the empirically determined home range boundaries. Mobility within the range was high, and birds could be seen regularly only near nests. Beechey Jays are largely birds of the forest interior, venturing to the edge or the open only briefly to forage, usually in early morning or late evening. Groups had no more than 1 successful nest per year; an early unsuccessful attempt was soon followed by a second attempt. Nesting began in the dry season in early May (completed clutches known from 17 and 19 May). Latest laying dates were 9-11 July, presumably in second nestings. Nests were disorderly piles of sticks with a finer twig lining, placed an average of 5.5 m up, usually in trees that had retained some foliage, such as Zizyphus and Trichilia. All group members helped in nest building, with the adult female of the nucleus pair doing most of the construction. Incubation and brooding were solely by this female, who was attended mostly by her mate. When the female was off the nest another bird usually remained as a "guard" nearby or on the rim of the nest. Five eggs were the most common clutch-size; smaller clutches may have resulted from predation. All group members fed the young, all contributing significantly. Between 4 and 5 feeding visits to the nest/h was typical for groups with helpers; at 1 nest where only a pair attended the young the average was 3.5 visits/h. A single fledgling was fed 5.4 times/h, though there were other visits when the young would not accept food. By the second day out of the nest a fledgling was quite mobile. Though still alive, it was not locatable on the third day. Beechey Jays have an extremely varied diet including small seeds, fruits, insects, lizards, and mice. Sites and modes of feeding were varied; besides the forest, from ground to canopy, jays took food on a railroad right-of-way and in orchards. They probed bark, gleaned foliage, searched leaf litter, and hawked insects. Similarities in morphology and behavior indicate a close relationship between the Beechey Jay and other black-and-blue Jays. However, the ways in which it differs are interesting. It seems to be a form whose differences represent responses to a more arid, more highly seasonal environment. The lower degree of sociality, fewer nests per group, and low density are apparent responses to reduced and/or less predictable food supply in a less productive habitat. Large size may be related to this pattern, being itself an adaptation to reduced food resources. Recently certain authors have postulated that among related bird species, larger ones eat a broader size range of items. Small group size may be the result of intolerance of the nucleus male to other adults (males only?) but field evidence is lacking. The Beechey Jay should be regarded as threatened or endangered, since it requires forest and its habitat is being clearcut and put to grazing and agricultural use, as well as encroached on by human populations. 
4161164|Tape recordings of the advertisement songs of 20 Acadian Flycatchers located within 30 km of each other along a continuous belt of lowland forest on the C & O Canal in Montgomery County, Maryland, were examined. Time and frequency measurements indicated that the songs of an individual are significantly less variable than the songs of different individuals. Songs were subjected to multivariate statistical analyses for detection of behavioral differentiation of local populations. No pattern of local song dialects or of song matching by neighboring territorial males was found in these flycatchers. Phenetic distances between songs were not related in any simple manner to the microgeographic map distances between the birds. The results are consistent with a pattern of effective dispersal of the young from their place of birth to their place of breeding and with a view of the birds as comprising a very large effective population. We suggest that multivariate phenetic analysis of bird songs may help provide a common basis for comparing patterns of geographic variation in bird songs.
4161165|Behavior of Northern Shoveler pairs was studied during the 1975 breeding season near Delta, Manitoba. Time budget analysis indicated that paired females spent approximately 3 weeks, mostly feeding, on the breeding grounds prior to laying. Sexual differences in foraging rates were detected, and apparently reflect differential energetic costs of reproduction. Paired males maintained isolation for their mates through territorial defense. Consequently, foraging bouts of hens were rarely interrupted after territory establishment. Environmental food resources were apparently critically important for successful incubation. The female's strategy in obtaining energy for reproduction may have been an important factor in the evolution of the Northern Shoveler breeding system.
4161166|The nesting biology of the American Kestrel and the Long-eared Owl was studied during 1975 and 1976 along the Big Lost River on the INEL Site in southeastern Idaho. In 1975 the mean clutch-size of American Kestrels was 4.5 eggs/clutch (N = 13) and in 1976 it was 4.7 eggs/clutch (N = 23). Long-eared Owls laid a mean of 3.0 eggs/nest (N = 3) in 1975 and 5.3 eggs/nest (N = 15) in 1976. The productivity of American Kestrels was 3.7 young/nest in 1975 and 4.0 young/nest in 1976. The productivity of Long-eared Owls was 1.7 young/nest in 1975 and 4.1 young/nest in 1976. Avian prey composed the majority of the diet by biomass of American Kestrels in 1975 and 1976. Changes in the percent mammalian and reptilian prey occurred during these years. Mammalian prey made up 97.2% of the total diet by biomass of Long-eared Owls in 1976. Northern pocket gophers composed the highest percent in biomass. There was an increase in American Kestrel nests found on the INEL Site from 1975 to 1976 and an increase in Long-eared Owl nests in the same year. The reasons for the increase of both species may be the same--adverse weather conditions in 1975 and/or an increase in available prey. Other reasons may also have been responsible. There were more American Kestrel nest-sites in 1976 than in 1975 since the number of nesting boxes erected on the Big Lost River was increased and local Long-eared Owl populations have been known to fluctuate.
4161167| Least Tern nesting colonies on the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge and surrounding areas in South Carolina were studied from 1971 through 1975. We located 10 colonies including 6 on the Refuge and 4 on nearby coastal islands. The number of nests in each colony ranged from several up to 220. Least Terns began reproductive activity in April, and the egg-laying period ranged from May to July. The earliest hatching record was 6 June. Reproductive success in most colonies seemed poor. Tidal flooding of eggs, predation of eggs and young, and disturbance by domestic animals and man were responsible for most failures. Residues of DDE, PCB's, and other organochlorine pollutants in the eggs were low and posed no identifiable threat to the Least Terns. DDE residues in eggs declined from 0.63 g/g in 1972 to 0.33 g/g in 1975. In contrast, PCB residue trends were erratic; mean residue values were 0.40 g/g in 1972, 1.08 g/g in 1974, and 0.62 g/g in 1975. Eggshell thickness means for 1972, 1974, and 1975 were 2 to 7% lower than the pre-1947 mean; but the differences between means were not statistically significant. There is no evidence of a decline in Least Tern populations in South Carolina over the past 30 years such as observed in many other parts of the range of the species. A number of the current nesting islands seem secure from adverse environmental perturbations, although several colonies are on islands that are in danger of extensive development. 
4161168|Young raptors from nests near a nuclear reactor facility and a nuclear fuel reprocessing plant in Idaho were studied to determine the concentrations of gamma-emitting radionuclides in them. Young from nests close to the Test Reactor Area (TRA) showed the highest concentrations and largest variety of radionuclides of any birds studied. Since the same radionuclides were present in potential prey items collected near the radioactive leaching ponds and in samples of fecal material and prey remains from the nests, we concluded that the radionuclides originated at the radioactive leaching pond near TRA and were passed to the raptors through their prey. However, the concentration of radionuclides in raptors was much lower than in prey items from the TRA pond. Our data indicated that although radionuclides were transferred to higher trophic levels, the concentrations were diluted considerably by consumption of uncontaminated rodents. Raptors which nested immediately downwind of or near the Idaho Chemical Processing Plant (ICPP) showed detectable concentrations of Cs-137. Since the soils around ICPP were contaminated with low levels of Cs-137 and ICPP released Cs-137 to the atmosphere, the concentrations in these nestlings probably was due to atmospheric release of radioactivity from this facility. We concluded from our data that the influences of ICPP and TRA on radionuclide concentrations in nestling raptors were limited to an area within 3.5 km of the facilities.
4161169|Ten Common Grackles captured in the northern part of Lake Texoma, Oklahoma, were radio-equipped and monitored for 63 bird-days in November during the peanut damage season. This paper emphasizes those findings that cannot be obtained from visual observations alone. The birds used 3 major marsh roosts on 38 of 40 bird-nights that they roosted in that area, but they switched roosts 10 times. Three grackles were located in 5 different roosts after they migrated. The distance between the 5 roosts and the previous night's roost varied from 9.3 to 52.8 km. The distance of center of activity of the major diurnal activity range (MDAR) from the previous night's roost averaged 23.5 km for birds that remained in the refuge area. Distances between centers of activity on successive days averaged 11.9 km, but these centers tended to be clustered. The mean activity radius of MDARs averaged 1.9 km. Home ranges averaged
4161170|A study was made of bird populations in 3 arboreal habitats--bottomland forests, upland forest, and urban, in southern Illinois, comparing the severe winter of 1976-77 with milder winters of the 3 previous years. Prolonged severe cold, and snow cover caused massive population shifts, and high mortality among several species of birds. Populations of certain species left their preferred winter habitats to use special food sources elsewhere. Mortality was particularly high among ground foragers, but mortality rate was also related to body size, smaller species showing the greatest decline. Closely related species showed very similar patterns of population change. Some populations survived better in urban habitat than in natural habitats probably because of food provided by humans. Population declines in a habitat were related to: (1) the initial winter population density, and (2) the carrying capacity of the habitat as expressed in the average population density for the habitat during more normal winters. The higher the population was above average, the greater the loss.
4161171|A study of Red-shouldered Hawk (Buteo lineatus) nesting ecology and behavior was conducted during 1973-74 in a 5000 ha reservoir watershed in central Massachusetts. Courtship occurred in March, egg-laying and incubation in April, hatching in mid-May, and fledging in late June and early July. Mean clutch-size was 3.33 (at 9 nests), hatching rate was 73% (at 3 nests), and 71% of hatchlings fledged (at 5 nests). Hawks hunted and nested along the central strip of riparian habitat on the peninsular study area. Inter-nest distances averaged 1.7 km (N = 7, range: 0.9-3.0 km) in 1974. All nests (N = 12) were situated in mature deciduous trees, usually black birch (Betula nigra), on east or northeast slopes. Eastern chipmunks (Tamias striatus) were the principal prey fed to nestlings. Interactions of nestlings and adults during feeding are described. Behavioral trends throughout the nestling period were quantified at 4 nests using time-lapse automatic cameras. Adult attentiveness decreased rapidly from day 4 to day 19 post-hatch. Nesting activity increased linearly from day 10 to fledging. The number of feeding sequences per day decreased from day 10 to day 19, increased from day 20 to day 25, and then remained stable until the decrease just before young left the nest. Nestling self-feeding sequences averaged 8.1 min longer than adult feeding sequences. Feedings occurred more frequently between 08:00 and 16:00 than during early morning or late afternoon.
4161200|The 4 species discussed are the closely related allopatric Yucatan, Bushy-crested, San Blas and Beechey jays of the genus Cyanocorax, usually grouped in the taxon Cissilopha (here considered to be a subgenus). The Yucatan Jay has the largest vocal repertoire--24 call types are illustrated and discussed--about 1/5 of which is active, that is, employed frequently in "everyday" situations in the breeding season. Harsh staccato chatter constitutes the social alarm call and is the commonest utterance. The 2-note call seemingly serves as a contact call between individuals of a group not within sight of each other. Other calls include distinctive variations of the 2-note, overhead predator call, fear call, and a variety of calls that along with the 2-note variants seem to be typical of motivational conflict associated with unusual contexts. The San Blas Jay has 2 races that differ in 1 consistent way in vocalizations. The Southern San Blas Jay (nominate subspecies) has the social alarm call composed of simple regular nasal figures plus more complex sustained figures; the Nelson San Blas Jay utters only the simple figures. In the Southern San Blas Jay individuals may have consistently identifiable deliveries of the social alarm call. Besides a "fear" call and this call, others are 2 variants of the 2-note call. The Bushy-crested Jay has a social alarm call that may be described as a short cawing figure, intermediate in length between the short calls of the above 2 species and that of the Beechey Jay. A begging call and 2 variants of the 2-note call are shown and discussed. The Beechey Jay possesses the smallest active vocal repertoire. The only commonly heard call is a crow-like cawing without much interindividual variation but considerable variation in rate of delivery and cadence, depending on context. A distinct variant of this call is the "quavering caw" representing the "fear" call in this species. A contact call is seldom heard, and the soft cry and a 2-syllable peeping are rare. The former was heard mostly from birds that had just lost nests and eggs, presumably to predation. The Beechey Jay's very small vocabulary may be related to its smaller degree of sociality when compared to the other species considered in this study.
4161201| The endemic Galpagos Rail, Laterallus spilonotus, originally occurred in mangrove and moist highland habitats in the Galpagos Islands, Ecuador. Today it is restricted to high moist areas on 7 islands. We report the results of a 10-month field study of this species' behavior and ecology on Santa Cruz Island. Breeding records extend from the middle of the cool season (September) to the end of the hot season (April). The covered nests have a side entrance and are built on the ground. Recorded clutch-size ranges from 3 to 6; both adults incubate the eggs and feed the chicks. One bird was observed with 2 sequential broods in 1 season. The juveniles have brown to orange irises and a patch of white on the bill; adults have crimson irises and completely black bills. One breeding year-old bird was observed. L. spilonotus feeds primarily on invertebrates. The only recorded predation was by a domestic dog. Galpagos Rails are primarily diurnal and are relatively easily observed. They are basically ambulatory; we saw only occasional short and apparently labored flights. The 5 most common vocalizations are: cheeping (chicks and juveniles); chichichichirrooo call (the probable territorial advertisement); chirr call (heard most often in the breeding season); and "chatter" and "rattle" calls (the usual responses to taped calls; also associated with agonistic encounters). Two characteristic displays are foot-stamping and tail erection. Both parents remain with the young until the late juvenile stage. Adults feed chicks, but all juveniles observed fed themselves. We never saw more than 2 adults foraging together. Adult home ranges appear not to overlap. The Santa Cruz population seems stable; the effects of exotic predators and competitors on all Galpagos Rail populations should be examined. /// La endmica gallineta galapaguea ("pachay"), Laterallus spilonotus, se encontraba originalmente en manglares y en medios altos y hmedos en las Islas Galpagos, Ecuador. Hoy da existe solamente en las zonas altas y hmedas de 7 islas. Se exponen en el presente trabajo los resultados de los estudios efectuados durante 10 meses sobre la ecologa y el comportamiento de esta especie en la Isla Santa Cruz. Existen observaciones de reproduccin desde los mediados de la estacin de gara (septiembre) hasta los fines del invierno (abril). Los nidos tapados tienen una entrada a un lado y son construidos sobre el suelo. Nidadas observadas consistieron en 3 hasta 6 huevos; los dos adultos incuban los huevos y dan de comer a los polluelos. Un individuo tuvo dos nidadas sucesivas en una estacin. El iris de los jvenes es pardo o naranjado, y hay una mancha blanca en el pico; el iris de los adultos es carmes, y el pico es totalmente negro. Se observ un individuo de un ao de edad que haba reproducido. L. spilonotus come principalmente invertebrados. En el nico caso observado de predacin, un perro domesticado mat un pachay. Los pachay son principalmente diurnos y se los puede observar relativamente facilmente. Son bsicamente ambulatorios; observamos solamente de vez en cuando vuelos cortos que parecieron penosos. Las 5 vocalizaciones ms frecuentes son: el po (polluelos y jvenes); el canto chichichichirrooo (probablemente el canto territorial); el canto chirr (que se oye ms frecuentemente durante la poca de reproduccin); y los cantos "parloteo" y "traqueteo" (las respuestas comunes a cantos grabados; tambin asociados con encuentros agresivos). Dos exhibiciones de conducta caractersticas son golpes en el suelo con las patas y levantamientos de la cola. Los dos padres quedan con los jvenes hasta que son casi adultos. Los adultos dan de comer a los polluelos, pero todos los jvenes observados se alimentaron a s mismos. Nunca vimos ms de dos adultos buscando comida juntos. Aparentemente las reas donde viven los adultos no se traslapan. La poblacin de Santa Cruz parece estable. Quedan por examinar los efectos de predadores y competidores introducidos en todas las poblaciones de Laterallus spilonotus. 
4161202|Black-capped Chickadees in fall formed flocks that were nearly exclusive in membership. At end of winter, flocks broke up when males established territories. Similarly, Tufted Titmice in fall formed flocks that remained together through winter, yet no pair traversed the entire flock range. Black-capped Chickadees, but not Tufted Titmice, responded to supplemental feeding with a substantial increase in fall--winter flock size but only a minor increase in breeding density. Replacement following fall removal experiments did not occur in the Black-capped Chickadee and was limited in the Tufted Titmouse. We interpret these results as possible support of Lack's hypothesis for regulation of an avian population, but they did not resolve the role of late summer--autumn intraspecific strife in regulation of a parid population as suggested by Kluijver.
4161203|Foraging patterns of Blackpoll Warblers were studied on their breeding grounds in mountain fir forests of New Hampshire and during migration in Maryland and Maine. Populations were also censused at several altitudes in New Hampshire. Blackpoll Warblers spent most of their time foraging on inner parts of vegetation at medium heights, although their placement in deciduous trees was more peripheral than that in conifers, probably a result of differences in the distribution of foliage. Blackpoll Warblers were the commonest species of bird in mountaintop fir forests, but their density there was lower than that found in some mixed coniferous-deciduous, second-growth areas on the mountainsides. They showed the widest altitudinal gradient of any warbler and a wider one than any other passerine except the Dark-eyed Junco. Blackpoll Warblers forage very similarly to Bay-breasted Warblers, and only 1 of the 2 appears to breed at most sites. I suggest that their habitat use patterns are so similar that they cannot coexist under most circumstances.
4161204|Strickland's Woodpeckers were studied in the pre-nesting and early nesting periods in the Chiricahua Mountains of Arizona. This woodpecker prefers to feed upon pines in the pre-nesting season, but is less selective during the nesting season. In contrast to earlier reports, an avoidance of, rather than a preference for oaks was found. During the pre-nesting season, trunk feeding prevails; a preference for crown feeding emerges later. The relative frequency of use of various feeding techniques did not change during the period investigated. Changes in feeding behavior were associated with changes in other behavior. Differences between the sexes appeared only in the nesting season. Also, females differed from males with regard to patterns of seasonal change in behavior other than feeding. The changes in feeding behavior are discussed and the concept of schematic and opportunistic feeding is introduced.
4161205| The development of comfort behaviors in Adlie Penguins and the organization of comfort activities in adults, were studied at Cape Crozier, Ross Island, Antarctica. Non-oiling and dry-oiling (feathers not wet) comfort sequences were compared to one another; these results were then compared to data collected by Ainley (1974) on wet-oiling by adults immediately after they emerged from the sea. For purposes of analyzing the ontogeny of non-oiling comfort activities, chicks were grouped into 3 groups: 7-13, 14-20 and 21-28 days of age. Dry-oiling was observed in chicks 35-43 days of age. Our results were as follows. (1) Only yawning occurred on the day after hatching. The earliest preening movements appeared on day 7 (breast and belly preening). Oil distribution behaviors appeared between days 30-33, the same period during which the oil gland became functional. The first dry-oiling sequence was observed on day 35. (2) There was no difference in the duration of non-oil comfort sequences between chicks over 13 days of age and adults. Chicks performed fewer acts per min than did adults and therefore the mean number of acts per sequence was lower in chicks. (3) In general, behaviors were randomly distributed throughout comfort sequences. Exceptions include oiling by adults and chicks, bill-to-wing-edge by adults, and back preening by chicks. (4) During transitions from 1 act to another, chicks aged 21-28 days remained on the same side of the body and in the same area with the same relative frequency as non-oiling adults. (5) Dry-oiling by chicks and adults shared many common characteristics: (i) oiling occurred non-randomly in the beginning of the sequences, (ii) the relative frequency of occurrence of breast and belly preening was the same, (iii) during transitions from 1 act to another, the groups did not differ with respect to remaining on the same side of the body and in the same body area, (iv) actions leading to and immediately following oiling occurred very frequently (> 78%) on the same side of the body to which the head was turned when gathering oil in the bill. 
4161206|In this paper we describe an instance of unusual, agonistic behavior in a flock of migrant Short-billed Dowitchers (Limnodromus griseus). We compare this behavior to that of other flocks feeding at the same time at other locations in the same estuary and then present evidence suggesting that this behavior resulted from the patchy distribution of the probable foraging resource of this flock, eggs of the horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus). We propose that an extremely patchy resource has increased the agonistic behavior within the flock by increasing the variation in foraging success among individuals.
4161207|Studies were conducted to determine the levels of environmental pollutants in Canvasbacks wintering on Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, and their food items, in 1973, 1975, and 1976. Canvasback carcasses were analyzed for organochlorine pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls; livers, kidneys, wingbones, and food items (clams) were analyzed for selected heavy metals. Overall, levels of toxicants in Canvasbacks were below those levels known to cause problems in other avian species. However, 10% of the samples appeared to have elevated lead levels based on wingbone residues. Copper and zinc residues were high in Canvasback livers but their potential effects are unknown.
4161208|Oldsquaws were collected from commercial fishing gear between December and May on Lake Michigan, and in the Arctic during the breeding season. Carcasses were analyzed for lipids, moisture, and dry weight content. Males were heavier than females in the same age class, and matures were heavier than juveniles in the same sex class, but differences were not always significant within a particular month. Carcass weights varied seasonally with the heaviest weights being recorded in January and May and the lightest birds being found in April and late summer. During the summer, adult females steadily lost weight from the time they arrived on the breeding grounds in early June until the eggs hatched in early August. During the winter and spring, changes in the carcass weight as well as the component fractions varied together in the different age and sex classes. Trends in the lipid and dry weight fractions were similar to those exhibited in carcass weights, but the moisture fraction generally varied opposite to lipids and dry weight. Most of the seasonal variability in carcass weight could be accounted for by changes in the lipid fraction.
4161209|In pitch pine-oak stands in southwestern Virginia, winter species diversity and numbers of birds were lowest in the 3-year-old clearcuts and highest in the mature stands. Clearcutting reduced winter bird populations in all stages of pine-oak regeneration examined. There were no significant differences in bird species diversity among any of the study areas during the breeding season. The 3-year-old clearcuts had a higher number of birds during the breeding season than the other 3 differently aged areas. Species composition of breeding birds changed as the pine-oak stands regenerated toward maturity. When compared to the mature stands the net effect of pine-oak clearcutting on birds was negative.
4161239|This paper considers determinants of dominance among free-ranging Dark-eyed Juncos visiting baited feeding stations. The data are evaluated in terms of the insight they provide into factors that may have effected evolution of geographic variation in winter sex ratio. Dominant juncos near Bloomington, Indiana, tend to be adult males of large body size, as indicated by wing length. Because size varies with sex and age in the junco, the independent effect of these variables on dominance is difficult to determine; however, size appears to be the best single indicator of status. Early arrival on the wintering grounds also contributes positively to status. Because males are dominant and dominants are reputed to exhibit greater survivorship, females may have responded over evolutionary time to this set of conditions by migrating south of regions of maximal male abundance in order to lessen the effects of intersexual competition.
4161240|Techniques from multivariate statistics were employed to evaluate the phenetic (morphologic) similarities among the cranes (Gruidae). Both external and skeletal characters were analyzed using different data sets constructed by transforming and partitioning the data. The analyses included both principal component analysis and cluster analyses using distance or correlation coefficients. The results were summarized in 3-dimensional diagrams and phenograms. Phenograms as well as similarity matrices were compared and contrasted among themselves and with classifications of other authors. Phenetically the cranes form quite distinct groups; these are similar to the groups found in the classification currently in general use (Peters 1934) with the exception of Grus lecogeranus. This species is very similar to Bugeranus carunculatus, particularly with regard to skeletal characteristics and the two may in the future be considered congeneric.
4161241|Red-headed Woodpeckers influenced the horizontal distribution of Red-bellied Woodpeckers by aggressively displacing them to the lowland area in winter. In the presence of Red-headed Woodpeckers in the upland, Downy Woodpeckers shifted to lower portions of the canopy and used a wider variety of tree species and limb diameters to acquire food. In the lowland where Red-headed Woodpeckers were less abundant, Downy Woodpeckers did not shift height of foraging regardless of the competitive environment. White-breasted Nuthatches and Brown Creepers also shifted along some dimensions in response to the presence of Red-headed Woodpeckers. During the breeding season interspecific interactions had less influence on foraging patterns of the guild.
4161242|More than 2300 regurgitated pellets were examined for prey remains at 4 locations in the western Aleutian Islands. These and direct observation of foraging activities demonstrated that Glaucous-winged Gulls fed on a large variety of organisms, but at any given locality they specialized on those species which were most abundant and vulnerable. Inter-island differences in diet seem related to island physiography, the available food source, and the effects of sea otters on the structure of the nearshore community.
4161243|The timing of the primary molt and egg-laying in the Glaucous-winged Gull was studied on Mandarte Island, British Columbia, in 1976 and 1977. On the average molt in the population began on 9 May in both years, but some individuals began to molt primaries as early as 10 April. On the average primary molt in the individual lasted 6.5 months and began 19 days before the laying of the first egg. Cool weather delayed the mean date of laying in 1977 significantly compared with 1976, but it did not influence the mean date of initiation of primary molt. This suggests the importance of the photoperiod in the timing of molt. Egg-laying began in mid-May and the young were in the nest by mid-June. It is suggested that the early start of molt is timed to the spawning of eulachons. The timing of egg-laying is geared to the availability of Pacific herring fry in June and July.
4161244|Predation pressure on the eggs and nestlings of Red-winged Blackbirds was related to water depth at nest-sites, habitat type, and number of young in the nest. On the basis of signs left by predators, predations were classified into 3 types, thought to correspond to avian, large mammal (primarily raccoon), and small mammal predators. Mammalian predation was greater for shallow water nests than for deep water nests, particularly for large mammalian predators, the most important predator type. Avian predation was not significantly influenced by water depth. Total predation on nest contents was not significantly different between marsh and upland situations. Mammalian predation increased with brood size, where some broods were of artificially manipulated size. This pattern may or may not exist apart from experimental brood size manipulation.
4161245|Experiments were performed with Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) at different reproductive stages to determine the frequency of parental acceptance of nestlings. Nestlings aged 0-1, 2-5, and 6-9 days were placed in nests where the nest was complete without eggs and when the last, next to last, and second to last eggs had been laid. Nestlings of these different groups were also placed in nests during normal and prolonged incubation. There appeared to be no great differences in ability of females to accept any age group of nestlings. However, during the egg-laying period most females fed nestlings sparingly and sometimes were aggressive toward nestlings. The frequency of acceptance of nestlings did not differ significantly between (1) normal incubation and egg-laying periods and (2) normal incubation and prolonged incubation periods (P > 0.05). The internal physiological mechanisms and the external stimuli that may account for the observed differences in behavior are discussed.
4161246|Nesting ecology of Eastern Phoebes was examined in south-central Indiana in 1970 and 1971. The majority of the nests examined were on bridges and culverts. Nest building began about 1 April, took 7-12 days, and completed nests stood empty for 1-9 days before egg-laying began. Both adherent and statant nests were built, the former being larger and apparently more energy demanding. Phoebes frequently used nests from previous years and reused the same nest (47.1% in 1970 and 51.5% in 1971) for a scond brood. Nesting success in 1970 (70.3%) was significantly higher than in 1971 (57.3%), as was fledging success. Success changed little or declined slightly as the season advanced and varied according to nest-site. Fledging success was highest in months when nesting intensity was highest. Fledging success was slightly higher in statant than adherent nests, but partial clutch (brood) losses were highest in statant nests. Similarly, success was somewhat higher on bridges than culverts, but probability of partial losses was greater on bridges. An average of 5.97 young/pair/year was fledged. Predation was the major cause of nest failure with 49.3% of all losses, constituting 18.2% of all nest attempts, attributed to predation. Abandonment was the next leading cause, with Brown-headed Cowbird interference causing failure of only 3.6% of attempts. Cowbirds parasitized a significantly higher percent of nests in natural than artificial sites. Nest losses were greatest in early egg or mid- to late nestling stages. Nest mortality rate was 0.97%/day. Mortality rate was higher for eggs (1.35%/day) than nestlings (0.91%/day).
4161266| The population status of the Everglade Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis plumbeus) was studied in Florida from 1968 through 1978. Sixty-four nestlings (40% of known fledged young) were leg-banded with unique color combinations, and of these, 17.2% were seen 1 or more years after they were banded. Kites were capable of breeding at 3 years of age or possibly younger. The population was nomadic; its sex ratio unknown. From 1968 through 1976 breeding success was determined for 175 nests, of which 48% were successful: 161 young were fledged, x = 20.1 per year, or 1.9 per successful nest (N = 84). The percentage of successful nests ranged from 17.1 (N = 35) in 1974 to 84.6 (N = 13) in 1968 (x = 54.1 per year). From 1968 through 1976 there was a significant increase (r = 0.685, P < 0.05) in the number of nests observed (excluding 1971, and reproduction was not studied in 1977 and 1978). The mortality rate for young in the nest was 41%. Some individuals live for at least 8+ years. The mean number of kites for 10 annual censuses was 120.2 with a range of 65 (1972) to 267 (1978). The severe drought of 1971 resulted in a significant decrease in the population for that year and 1972, with no nesting attempts being observed in the dry year. From 1974 through 1978 the population increased significantly (r = 0.92, P < 0.025), apparently the result of favorable water conditions and increased food supply. The loss of suitable habitat is the major problem facing the species in Florida. A high water level is essential, as this affects food supply and its availability, as well as nesting success. 
4161267|Surveys of the resident population of Wood Storks in the southwestern United States showed that numbers of breeding adults declined 41% between 1960 and 1975. The decline has been sharp in the large south Florida colonies, while the number of birds breeding in a scatter of smaller colonies between central Florida and southeastern Georgia has remained stable or slightly increased. Reasons for the decline are discussed, including loss of colony sites, lack of protection at colonies, and loss of an adequate food base. We conclude, largely through circumstantial evidence, that the single important factor responsible for the stork decline has been a loss of feeding habitats coupled with a reduction in fish biomass or food availability in remaining wetlands.
4161268|A hybrid between the Anna Hummingbird (C. anna) and Allen Hummingbird (S. sasin sedentarius) is described. The dive display of the hybrid shows components from both parental types. The hybrid's song resembles neither parent. Quasi-circumannual breeding has been found for both parental species on the Palos Verdes Peninsula, California, setting the stage for occasional hybridization.
4161269|During May, June, and July 1974 and 1975, 47 male Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) from 9 localities in southern Michigan were observed and 1328 songs from these populations recorded. Spectrographic analysis of 745 songs yielded 40 different types of figures arranged in various combinations to form 4 Accented (AE) and 60 Unaccented Ending (UE) song patterns. Song variation in individual males resulted from variation in the number, arrangement, and kind of figures, deletion or addition of phrases, or change in arrangement of phrases within the song pattern. Twelve of the 14 song patterns that were combined to form 16 runon songs were UE Song patterns. The average number of kinds of figures per song was 2.87. A greater percentage of AE Songs was sung toward the earlier part of the breeding season, while more UE Songs were sung toward the end. Differences in the repetition indices between localities seemed to be based on this difference in seasonal behavior. Thirty-nine of the 40 different figures were recorded in 1974 and 33 in 1975. The mean number of song patterns containing a given figure was 4.98. High overlap values (84.0%-95.2%) for figure composition of songs were found in all the southern Michigan populations studied. Furthermore, 19 of the 24 figures found in songs recorded in 3 separate areas in the U.S. were the same as those found in southern Michigan. This suggests that the figures sung by the Yellow Warbler are limited in number and maintain great stability of form.
4161270|Free-living Willets were studied during the breeding seasons of 1974 and 1975 in Cache County, Utah. A spectrographic analysis is presented for the 1 chick and 10 adult vocalizations recognized in this study, and a numerical and a biological description is given for each call. The song-flight, copulatory behavior, and antipredator behavior are discussed. The vocal repertoire of the Willet is discussed in terms of its adaptiveness in an open country habitat. It is suggested that the information of Willet sound signals is encoded primarily in temporal rather than frequency components.
4161271|In 1973 and 1974 I studied the nesting success of 28 pairs of Great Black-backed Gulls on Walney Island, Cumbria, England. This represented the entire breeding population of this species on the island. Most of the nests were placed on slightly elevated positions, close to the water's edge. Much of the nest material was robbed from the nests of Herring Gulls and Lesser Black-backed Gulls. Several nests were found containing eggs of Herring Gulls as well as those of Great Black-backed Gulls. This probably resulted from a temporary or permanent take-over of the nests by the Great Black-backed Gulls. Nesting success was low in 1974, mainly because of the deaths of adults. Poison, possibly obtained on a nearby garbage dump, was suspected. Much of the food was obtained intertidally and much of it was stolen, mainly from Herring Gulls. Food samples obtained from the young as well as food remains collected near the nests showed that fishes form the main diet of the young. Behavioral observations of Great Black-backed Gulls interfering in fights among Herring Gulls, and apparent interspecific courtship between Great Black-backed and Herring Gulls are described.
4161272|Territoriality in Purple Martins in north-central Texas was studied at 2 martin colonies. Two types of territory were distinguished: maximum--the number of rooms males claimed upon their arrival at the colony; and minimum--the number of rooms males claimed at the end of the season. Maximum territories were larger than minimum ones; males arriving in February and March claimed larger maximum territories than males that arrived in April and May. Territory in females closely paralleled territory in males. Unpublished studies suggested that polygyny occurred in about 5% of male Purple Martins in Sherman, Texas. Resident male martins controlled about 75% of all available rooms in a martin colony, with House Sparrows and Starlings using the remaining rooms. It is suggested that territoriality in Purple Martins has evolved to facilitate polygyny. Polygyny remains at a low incidence because competition among evenly matched males in the population overrides strong sexual selection for polygyny. This hypothesis applies to martins that nested in woodpecker holes before man provided birdhouses and to martins presently nesting in martin houses. Polygyny, as a function of territory, is further supported by the temporal contraction of martin territory. As fewer potential mates are available in the later part of the breeding season, males may profitably restrict defense of their territories and assist their mates in feeding young. Territoriality in Purple Martins resembles the "super-territory" model, which postulates that increased territory size in the early part of the nesting season serves to exclude conspecifics from nesting, increasing the territory-holder's relative genetic contribution. But this model is weakened for Purple Martins because it is doubtful that the super-territory holders exclude any conspecifics from breeding. The maintenance of minimum territories larger than 1 room may indicate that Purple Martins have not adapted completely to the high apartment-room density of artificial birdhouses, or may be an adaptation for males' holding a roosting room.
4161273|In order to determine the effect of vegetation growth on bird community patterns, territories of Grasshopper, Vesper and Savannah sparrows breeding on reclaimed surface mines in West Virginia were studied during the summer of 1977. Eleven vegetation structure variables were measured weekly on each territory for 11 weeks during the breeding season. All variables, except litter depth, changed significantly during the study period. Multivariately determined habitat use overlap values showed that Grasshopper and Savannah sparrow habitats, after starting out to be quite distinct, became more similar in structure as the season progressed, going from 9% overlap in May to 86% overlap in July. It was found that habitats for all 3 species measured near the arrival date were statistically different from those measured in mid-June, at the "peak of breeding activity." Therefore, the habitats actually selected differed from those into which the young are fledged.
4161274| American Coot nest densities on a
4161275|Arctic Loons were studied on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska, from the time of their arrival in May to their departure in September, in 1974 and 1975. Pairs arrived on breeding ponds as soon as sufficient meltwater was available to allow their take-off and landing. Loons apparently do not initiate nests immediately after their arrival, even when nest-sites are available. Delayed egg-laying may be dependent on a period of yolk formation. Delaying yolk formation until after arrival on nest ponds is an adaptation by loons to the variable time suitable habitat becomes available for nesting. Predation of eggs by Glaucous Gulls, Long-tailed and Parasitic jaegers and foxes varied in relation to the location of the nest-site, and the availability of alternate prey. Hatching success was the lowest recorded for Arctic Loons (5%) in 1974, when eggs of both loons and Cackling Geese were taken in large numbers by predators. Hatching success increased to 32% in 1975 when an abundance of tundra voles was observed. No loon eggs hatched after the hatching of the Cackling Goose eggs when this alternate prey was no longer available. Nests destroyed by foxes were predominantly along shorelines, and those by gulls and jaegers were predominantly on islands. Nest-site selection by Arctic Loons may reflect an adaptive response to varying selective pressures by their predators.
4161289|In order to assess the advantage of bi-parental care for Killdeer (a species with precocial young) I compared time budgets for adult behavior when both parents tended the brood with the time budget when only 1 adult tended the chicks. In 2-adult broods only 1 parent at a time remained near the brood and adults did most of their foraging while away from the brood. Thus adults in 1-parent broods fed more while near their chicks and watched their chicks less than did adults in 2-parent broods. The data suggest that predator protection and need to prevent chicks from straying from the brood are factors that may select for bi-parental care in this species.
4161290|Agonistic response to tape-recorded playback of particular conspecific song-types was measured in male Passerella iliaca breeding in Logan Canyon, Cache Co., Utah, during 1976. Only 1 song-type (either A, B, C, D or E) was presented during each test day; each bird was tested twice with each song-type. Parameters measured during pre-playback, playback and post-playback to indicate level of agonistic response were: number of songs sung, latency to first song and latency of approach after the first song of playback, number of "chirp" calls uttered and number of flights performed. Response levels of all agonistic behaviors remained remarkably constant throughout the testing. However, a significant decrease in response between the first series of tests and the second series was noted in the mean number of flights performed during some of the playback and post-playback sessions. Except for a significant difference in the mean number of songs uttered during post-playback in response to song-type A, analysis of variance indicated no significant variation among song-types for any of the response criteria. However, mean number of songs, flights and chirps during playback increased significantly over pre-playback levels. Mean number of songs sung during post-playback also increased significantly over that during playback, whereas mean numbers of flights and chirps decreased. Birds which were never heard to sing a particular song-type responded to its broadcast as strongly as those which did sing it. These results are interpreted as indicating that male P. iliaca react similarly to all of the major song-types that may be sung by their neighboring conspecific. Song appears to serve mostly as a distant territorial proclamation, whereas flights, approaches and chirp calls are more important as close-quarter displays. Use of song by P. iliaca appears more similar to that observed in Melospiza melodia than that in Zonotrichia species. Possible reasons for the complex structure of song in P. iliaca and the use of more than 1 major song-type by individuals are discussed.
4161291|Flocks of American Robins habitually roost in dense vegetation during winter nights in eastern Washington. A microclimatic analysis indicates that this behavior produces only a slight thermoregulatory benefit. It thus appears that either nonthermal factors (such as protection from predators) or thermal effects too poorly known to quantify may be of major importance.
4161292|This study considers the feeding ecology of the Black-whiskered Vireo and 4 associated gleaners: Jamaican White-eyed Vireo, Blue Mountain Vireo, Arrow-headed Warbler and Bananaquit in a middle elevation forest (460 m) in Jamaica. In Jamaica, the Black-whiskered Vireo is migratory, the majority arriving in mid-March from northern South America and departing in early October. The Black-whiskered Vireo is perhaps the most common passerine in certain habitats. This species occurs from sea level mangrove and scrub forests to montane forests, up to 1500 m. Differences in foraging ecology of the Black-whiskered Vireo and associated gleaners were observed. The Black-whiskered Vireo foraged at a significantly greater height than the other vireo species, with 86% of its foraging being done in the middle and upper levels of trees. In some cases, the vertical feeding height overlap was high, but differences in the foraging behavior were noted. The Arrow-headed Warbler fed primarily by foliage and stem gleaning and the Bananaquit fed mainly by nectar gleaning, whereas the Black-whiskered Vireo fed largely on fruit and by foliage gleaning. For the Black-whiskered Vireo and associated gleaners, differences in their preferred habitat within a community and differences in their food and foraging ecology were shown, or suggested, to be important factors permitting coexistence.
4161293|In my studies the Anna Hummingbird fed on a nectar substitute primarily in the early morning. The quantity of nectar consumed increased steadily until 09:30 and decreased thereafter. There was also a short feeding period between 16:00 and 18:00. The quantity of nectar consumed appeared related to weather conditions. Maximum consumption was on clear days, with decreasing consumption with increasing cloud cover. During periods of rainfall, even light drizzle, many birds remained in the vicinity but apparently switched from nectar to feeding on small insects. C. anna appears to have a keen ability to recall the location of a food source. Sugar containers placed in new locations were rapidly located by the study population. Even when identical containers were placed side-by-side, 1 with and 1 without sugar, the birds learned to distinguish between them. Once a nectar source was located, the color of the source had no effect on the number of birds approaching it, or feeding from it, as demonstrated by repeated changing of the color of the sugar solution. Irrespective of the color of the solution, including clear liquid, the same number of drinks were taken per unit time. The animals did discriminate among colors when 5 colors were presented simultaneously in 5 identical containers placed side-by-side and randomly rearranged in order to avoid location preferences. Anna Hummingbirds approached, and fed from, the red container more frequently than the yellow, green, clear and blue containers (in order of decreasing frequency). Considering the above observations, the factors controlling the Anna Hummingbirds' feeding behavior, in order of importance, are: (1) time of day, (2) weather, (3) familiarity of the location of the source and (4) color of the source. It is not known what percentage of the bird's diet consists of nectar. Anna Hummingbirds may be attracted to nectar sources in order to feed upon insects that abide there, or, as a source of water.
4161294|I estimated the standing fruit crop in a mixed deciduous forest in Princeton, New Jersey at the beginning of fall migration in September 1974 and at frequent intervals until mid-March 1975. I made weekly counts of birds and recorded feeding observations throughout the fall and winter to determine how the fruit crop was used by migratory and resident species. Abundant, concentrated fruits, such as dogwood berries and grapes, were consumed by many bird species and were heavily depleted by the end of the migratory period. Other fruits found in the same parts of the forest fell to the ground uneaten. I estimated that only 20% of the original fruit crop remained on 7 December. As the preferred fruits were exhausted, the wintering birds added new items to their diets. These included the persistent fruits of several species which had previously been ignored. Mixed-species flocking was common among frugivorous birds during the winter months.
4161295|Through detailed observations I examined the territorial and mate guarding behavior in a mated pair of White-throated Sparrows. I recorded the birds' location and behavior each min for a total of 261 h (male for 197 h and female for 64 h). To obtain replicates within each of the stages of the nesting cycle I divided the data into samples of 100 min. Area was measured by using a bivariate home range model which generated a 95% confidence ellipse around each sample. I found that the female and the stage in the breeding cycle were responsible for the proximate changes in the areas used by the male for foraging and singing, as well as for changes in male territorial behavior (the singing of advertising and whisper song, defensive posture, and chases).
4161296|Four predictions about how flock size and a bird's location in a flock influence behavior were evaluated by observing wild Dard-eyed Juncos. In natural situations, birds in flocks were less vigilant and fed more rapidly than lone and pairs of birds. In areas where I provided evenly distributed food, birds in central locations in flocks fed more rapidly than birds in peripheral locations. Observations weakly suggested that central birds were higher in status than peripheral birds. These results suggest flocks should be large, although junco flocks averaged fewer than 10 birds. Small flock size may reflect non-linear increase of advantages with increasing flock size and disadvantages associated with large flocks.
4161297| Distribution, breeding densities, habitats and timing of migration of rails were investigated in Colorado between May 1975 and October 1976. Major study areas in the Arkansas, South Platte, Rio Grande and Yampa river drainages were censused by playback of taped rail calls. Soras bred from 1120-3140 m elevation and Virginia Rails from 1120-2730 m. No other rails bred in Colorado. Statewide, Virginia Rails exhibited higher breeding density indices (2.6 responding rails/ha) than Soras (1.3). Indices for Virginia Rails ranged from 4.7 in southeastern Colorado to 0.2 in northwestern Colorado. Indices for Soras ranged from 2.5 in south central to 0.4 in southeastern Colorado. Mean April air temperatures, a function of topography, influenced species composition. Soras were more abundant than Virginia Rails when mean April air temperatures were 5.6C, or below. Both species preferred marshes dominated by Typha with water depths less than 15 cm. Short emergents attracted Soras during fall migration. Peak concentrations of migrating rails occurred during May and from mid-August through September. Greatest concentrations (>50 rails/ha) occurred locally in late July as the result of irrigation practices. Virginia Rails and Soras wintered in Colorado in small numbers. 
4161323|The display behavior of the Magellanic Oystercatcher was studied in southern Patagonia and is described comparatively here. Original observations on H. ater, H. palliatus durnfordi and H. p. palliatus are also included. Behaviorally, H. leucopodus is an aberrant species within the Haematopodidae. Nesting adults have a unique tail-flagging display near the nest, when disturbed by man. Piping birds hold the tail upright and fluff the under-tail coverts, display components which are absent or only weakly developed in other oystercatcher species. Vocalizations of alarmed or piping H. leucopodus may also be unique. Most or all other Haematopodidae emit short, wide band calls in both contexts. Analogous calls of H. leucopodus are extremely narrow band and often of nearly constant frequency, and are much longer. These characteristics also occur in long-distance epigamic acoustic displays of some other waders which nest at fairly low densities in open habitat.
4161324|The incidence of runt eggs among most North American woodpeckers and all other species for which data are available is uniformly low (average 0.54%). In the Acorn Woodpecker, however, over 4% of all eggs are runts, and over 20% of all sets contain at least 1 runt. Both museum and field data support the hypothesis that this high frequency is related to communal nesting. I suggest that an unusual amount of inter-individual contact as a result of females nesting together within the confined space of a nest hole may be responsible for this high frequency of runt eggs. However, predictions from this hypothesis that hole nesters and other communal nesters should by themselves have high frequencies of runt eggs are not supported by the data presently available. Other data will be necessary before meaningful interpretations of the significance of interspecific variation in the frequency of runt eggs can be made.
4161325|The breeding Prairie Warbler populations of 2 uniform tracts of pitch pine forest in different stages of regeneration from fire were contrasted. One plot (BURN) had burned too recently for the tree layer to have regenerated, and it supported a much lower density of males compared to the second plot (REGN) which had burned less recently, and in which the tree layer had partially regenerated. Males in REGN also had much smaller territories. Reasons for these differences are suggested. A drought during the study caused a delay in leafing of the oak shrub layer (whose leaves are the primary foraging substrate for Prairie Warblers during the breeding season) in BURN, but not in REGN where oaks were protected in the shade of live pines. While male settlement was unaffected (it was completed even before normal leafing time), pairing by males in BURN was delayed by almost a month (until after the oak leaves emerged) relative to males in REGN. The significance of this delay is discussed.
4161326| Nesting events of White-tailed Ptarmigan in Colorado began in early June after females completed their prealternate molt. Average clutch-size was 6.2 for adults and 5.5 for yearlings. Eggs were oval and averaged 43.74  29.71 mm in size. Incubation began after clutches were complete and lasted 23 days. Hatching usually occurred in mid-July, but varied annually due to spring weather. Predation by coyotes and weasels was the major cause of nest failure. Egg hatchability (88.1%) and fertility (94.5%) were high. Data from 62 nests indicated that most (93.3%) were on moderate slopes of less than 40% at elevations between 3501 and 3800 m. There was no selection for aspect. Nests were typically located adjacent to rocks or boulders or in krummholz vegetation which protected them from the wind. Nests were usually shallow scrapes lined with dead vegetation collected at the nest-site. 
4161327|Nests of 5 species of wading birds were identified and marked during the breeding season at 6 locations from Massachusetts to North Carolina. At the end of the breeding season 12 characteristics of nest-site location were measured. Nest locations were mapped to examine dispersion and nearest neighbor relationships. Multivariate analyses were used to describe and compare sites and species. We found that variations in nest-sites between colonies were greater than between species; colonies differed mainly in the variety and size of vegetation; birds preferred to nest in vegetation that offered relatively stable nest-sites; and the dispersion of nests in the colonies was related to vegetative patterns. The interaction of these factors with the number of bird species and the abundance of birds in the colony seemed to determine whether nest-sites were stratified, segregated or randomly distributed.
4161328| The influence of parental age on the breeding biology of Ring-billed Gulls was studied on the Eastern Headland of the Toronto Outer Harbour in 1977. Ring-billed Gulls nested consistently earlier in the season and closer to the center of the colony as age increased. Mean clutch-size increased with parental age up to age 4 and then levelled off. Hatching success and the number of eggs hatched per nest increased with parental age up to age 5. The data suggest a decline in hatching success and the number of eggs hatched per nest for birds that are more than 5 years old. Young (2- and 3-year-old) Ring-billed Gulls tended to nest away from the center of the colony regardless of the date of clutch initiation. The mean clutch-size of young birds was slightly below that of old (4-year-old) Ring-billed Gulls both early and late in the season. Early in the season the hatching success of young birds was similar to that of old birds. Hatching success of young birds, but not of old birds, declined substantially in the late period. 
4161329| The motmots, Momotus momota and Eumomota superciliosa, were studied for possible competitive relationships in southern Campeche, Mexico, during parts of 1973 and 1974. Geographical and ecological distributions, nesting habits, food composition and feeding behavior were examined in each species. The preferred habitats of M. momota were characterized by medium to high partly deciduous forest whereas E. superciliosa occupied fairly open forests of low partly deciduous aspect. The species displayed differences in the occupation of nesting habitats. M. momota nested solitarily in small nesting banks, while E. superciliosa formed nesting colonies in large steep banks. There were several cases of interspecific aggression at the nesting banks. At 1 site M. momota excluded E. superciliosa, but in another place both species nested in the same bank. The diets of the motmots differed in kinds of prey, amounts of the same prey type, prey size, foraging behavior and, to a lesser extent, in time of foraging. M. momota foraged mostly on the ground where it generally obtained fewer but larger prey. E. superciliosa preferred small actively flying insects during the dry season and larger prey in the rainy season. The accelerated habitat modification in the Yucatn Peninsula may affect M. momota more adversely than E. superciliosa, because of the former's greater habitat specificity, greater food specialization and smaller population density. E. superciliosa may even profit from man's activities; it can nest in exposed road banks and its preferred habitats are low, secondary forests which are proliferating rapidly. 
4161353|Our observations of display at an arena of P. decora on Fergusson Island, Papua New Guinea, are described. Four trees comprized the arena and 8-10 plumed males were in attendance. Displays included male-male displays, female-male displays and displays by unplumed males. Copulations of plumed and unplumed males with females were observed. We stress the importance of setting up male-male hierarchies and postulate that plumes have evolved mainly in response to male-male pressures; display of plumes to a female may be secondary. The female does not seem to select a male but may be drawn to a particular limb within the arena, mating with whichever male is displaying. This is supported by the fact that soliciting females allowed unplumed males to copulate with them. That plumed males permit this would indicate that either these matings virtually never produce offspring in the wild or some form of kin selection is involved. We have also given a brief description of the traditional role of P. decora in the Fergusson Island culture.
4161354|This paper presents initial results of work on a population of White-eyed Vireos in Gainesville, Florida. The study involved color-banding a large part of the local population to study song in territorial males and their offspring. During the spring and summer of 1977 and 1978 over 60 territorial males were captured, measured, color-banded and released. These individuals were observed and tape recorded on subsequent visits. Discrete song is the typical species-specific song. Each male sings 5-15 different song types with a mean length of 1.02 sec. Rambling song is a long, loosely structured song that includes many harsh notes. Rambling song was observed in epigamic contexts and has related counterparts in repertories of other Vireo species. The chatter vocalization is a series of short harsh sound bursts uttered during agonistic encounters between males, or by a female in response to an intruding male's song. I have described 2 displays that have not been mentioned by other authors, sidelooking and sleek-fluff. Exaggerated sidelooking appears during intense search behavior. The sleek-fluff display may be analogous to the ruffled tail-fanned posture of other species. Several displays common to other vireos were observed including, alert posture, head-forward threat, displacement preening, supplanting attacks and grappling. Song learning is apparently very rapid. Young birds sing fully developed songs by the end of their first summer.
4161355|During a 3-year study of the behavior of Ovenbirds in New England, 13 non-song vocalizations were recorded from breeding adults. Most of these vocal displays are used in a broad range of situations, suggesting that they encode very general messages and that specificity in communication depends largely on the nature of the recipient and on contextual information. Most of the vocalizations are restricted to a single sex, possibly to assist in sex recognition in a species that is monomorphic in appearance. The use of 11 of the 13 vocalizations in male-female interactions suggests that pair-formation and courtship in this species involve complex behavioral adjustments.
4161356|Polygynous male Bobolinks in Oregon helped feed secondary nestlings (i.e., those of their second mates) in 3 of 4 years studied. This behavior differed from that of male Bobolinks in Wisconsin, which rarely feed secondary nestlings (Martin 1971, 1974). In Oregon, males began feeding secondary nestlings when their primary nestlings reached a specific age that varied between years, regardless of brood size in either of their nests. However, the number of trips made by males to their secondary nests was correlated with brood size in their primary nests. Males began feeding secondary nestlings later, or not at all, in years when primary nestlings were in poorer nutritional condition. Their poorer condition in those years was associated with reduced food availability. The relative reproductive value of secondary nestlings was lower in the 1 year when polygynous males did not feed them, but it was not correlated with the earliness that males began feeding them in the other 3 years.
4161357|On a study area near Atkasook, Alaska, in the early summer, male Willow Ptarmigan spent more time in apparent territory surveillance, while females foraged more, possibly to meet the increased physiological demands of egg-laying. Diets of adult birds consisted primarily of Salix catkins and buds in June, of young Salix leaves and maturing fruits in July, and of Salix leaves and buds, and the seeds of grasses in August. In addition to Salix leaves, chicks foraged on fruits, flowers and various insects. Foraging trials in various habitat types demonstrated the strong preference of Willow Ptarmigan for Salix leaves, and showed that these birds avoided the leaves of certain evergreen shrubs, perhaps because they possess chemical defenses. With exclosure experiments, we showed that ptarmigan reduce catkin numbers more along streams where willows are more aborescent.
4161358|Breeding success, breeding synchrony and condition of young at fledging were measured in 2 Black Guillemot colonies. Nest productivity was lower, but maximum chick weights were higher, in an area disturbed daily than in an area disturbed once every 4 days. Intraspecific agonistic behavior was more frequent in a high density subcolony, but nesting density was uncorrelated with breeding success and synchrony. No relationship was found between habitat structure and breeding success. The occupancy rate of available sites was greater in high density zones, suggesting a gregarious tendency in Black Guillemot nesting.
4161359|Sage Sparrows, Brewer's Sparrows, ground-nesting and sage-nesting Sage Thrashers each selected a unique vertical position for nest placement in their sagebrush habitat. All nests were located in or beneath sagebrush. Each species nested higher in taller sagebrush. Sage-nesting thrashers and Brewer's Sparrows also had more cover over the nest in higher sage. This indicated their preference for placing a nest at a proportion of the sage height available, rather than at a constant height. Sage Thrashers and Sage Sparrows selected sites within the densest portion of the sage while Brewer's Sparrows selected sites above the densest portion. Sage Thrasher nest height frequency profile corresponded well with the vertical vegetation density profile. Though the species' territories overlapped extensively there seemed to be enough sage for each pair of birds so that interspecific competition for nest-sites did not have to occur. Nest size differences among the species may have been one of the most important factors influencing vertical placement.
4161360|The average size of the winter home ranges of 4 clans of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers in the Carolina Sandhills National Wildlife Refuge was 31.2 ha. Distance between nest cavities of clans appears to be significantly related to the sizes of the home ranges of the 4 clans. No significant relationship was found between home range size and clan size, agonistic encounters or distances to peripheral cavity trees. Future research involving a larger sample size will clarify whether these factors may play a role in influencing home range size. The relationship between nest cavity distances and home range size does indicate that interclan pressure is a major factor influencing the home range size of 4 clans of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers in the Carolina Sandhills National Wildlife Refuge.
4161387| The distribution of song perches over territories, songs per bout and compass orientation of males on song perches were studied for 8 male Sage Sparrows. Each male had 1 nearly invariable song whose physical characteristics facilitated location of the singer. The uniformly varying habitat did not restrict the males' foraging and perching sites. For 6 males, song bouts of various lengths were distributed randomly among perch locations. Song perches were also randomly distributed in most of the male's territory, although a few 25  25 m plots had clustered perches. There was a constant probability that a male would sing 1 more song during any bout. All males showed perch orientation, song orientation or both towards the east and rising sun. Males also tended to sing towards unoccupied habitat and away from neighbors except where they approached too closely or consistently. Gross environmental stimuli, the uniform habitat and internal mechanisms may be important influences on the patterns considered. 
4161388|I studied intersexual niche partitioning of a relatively monomorphic population of Downy Woodpeckers in central Illinois during 3 winters and in 2 different habitats. By comparing the foraging patterns of male and female Downy Woodpeckers during the winters of 1973-1974 and 1975-1976 when Red-headed Woodpeckers were absent, to their foraging patterns during the winter of 1974-1975 when Red-headed Woodpeckers were present, I examined the influence of competition on intersexual niche partitioning in upland habitats. Additionally, I observed the foraging of males and females in an upland area where Red-headed Woodpeckers were experimentally removed and compared those differences to patterns in a control area where Red-headed Woodpeckers remained. Results showed that male Downy Woodpeckers usually pecked for food on small limbs, but females more often probed bark crevices of trunks and larger branches regardless of habitat or competitive environment. In upland forests, males chose black, red and white oaks, but females preferred white oak. In the lowland females more often selected maples, whereas males more often foraged on fallen logs and standing dead trees during the winter of 1973-1974. Males shifted to maples and honey locust trees during the winter of 1974-1975. When Red-headed Woodpeckers occupied the upland forest, both sexes foraged lower in the canopy and more often used understory trees. Sexes diverged more along the height dimension in the presence of Red-headed Woodpeckers, seemingly reducing interspecific competition. Analysis of diets revealed that males consumed more ants, whereas females ate more homopterans.
4161392|We suggest that nonparental Purple Martins (i.e., raiders) harass unrelated juveniles to disperse them, thus preventing juveniles from learning the location of nest-sites. Observations indicate that if given a period of perhaps 10-15 days post fledging, juvenile martins can learn site locations. Harassment prevents site learning in all broods except late-reared ones that fledge after most other martins have left the nesting colonies. Juvenile harassment, brought about by intense intraspecific and interspecific nest-site competition, is selectively advantageous (especially for males) in that it minimizes future potential competition from juveniles. Late first and second broods suffer little harassment from raiders, but selection still does not favor second broods, possibly because of high mortality of late-reared juveniles in migration.
4161393|Feeding ecology of the Clay-colored Sparrow was studied in 2 banded populations in southwestern Manitoba. Adults brought to their young a wide variety of prey items which they collected off territory and away from the breeding habitat. There were large differences between pairs in proportions of prey items collected, and each pair was probably exploiting whatever suitable foods were seasonally available. There were no major differences between members of a pair in food items brought to the young, or in the direction of foraging flights. However, within each pair, the male foraged at greater distances from the nest than the female, suggesting spatial partitioning of foraging areas.
4161394|The relative insulative qualities of 263 nests from 18 localities of the Northern Oriole were determined experimentally. Differences in the relative insulative qualities of the nests showed trends of geographic variation. Canadian Baltimore and Bullock's orioles' nests are less resistant to heating by an external source of radiant energy than nests of Baltimore Orioles in the Great Plains and Northern Oriole nests from the Baltimore-Bullock's oriole hybrid-zone. The relative insulative qualities of the nests were significantly correlated with local temperatures.
4161395|The migration of Saw-whet Owls during autumns of 1975 through 1978 was discussed. During that time 1128 birds were captured. Yearly fluctuation in the number of owls caught is largely accounted for by the fluctuations in number of hatch year birds. The highly significant correlation of NW winds and clear skies with owl catches suggests that these conditions stimulate migration in the Prince Edward Point area. In 1977, juvenile birds of both sexes migrated significantly earlier in the fall than adults, whereas in 1976 and 1978, female birds of both age categories migrated earlier in the season than males.
4161396|Directions and timing of foraging flights of adult Great Blue Herons did not indicate that they followed each other from the colony to feeding grounds. Some herons apparently went directly to predetermined feeding areas, while others joined aggregations in the adjacent estuary. Herons on less than half of the departures went to the estuary. The majority appeared to be flying to other more distant feeding grounds. Herons incubating or attending small young left promptly, whereas herons at nests with older, unattended young tended to linger in the colony.
4161423| Observations of 16 species of seabirds in antarctic waters were obtained during the austral summer of 1976 while the USCGC Glacier cruised from McMurdo Station (Ross Island) to Palmer Station (Anvers Island). Information on distribution, abundance, habitat (ice concentration) preference and behavior of these species is given and comparisons are made with recent seabird surveys in the Bellingshausen, Amundsen and Ross seas and the Weddell Sea. The Antarctic Patrel, Adlie Penguin and Snow Petrel were the most abundant species, respectively, in pack ice, where most of the 136.1 h of observation occurred. The Adlie Penguin, which was generally absent from the Amundsen and Bellingshausen seas, and the Antarctic Petrel both occurred in large concentrations, while the Snow Petrel was more uniformly spread throughout the pack ice encountered on this cruise. These species, the Arctic Tern and the Emperor Penguin, probably are the primary species of the antarctic pack ice ecosystem. Antarctic avifaunas are dominated by relatively few species. However, the same species were not dominant throughout all regions examined and in many cases the relative dominances were different. A part of these regional differences may be attributed to the distribution of sampling effort between different regions and habitats. Pack ice concentrations of 1-5 oktas appeared to support the greatest numbers of birds. There were indications that older, thicker ice is preferred by birds because its irregular surface provides shelter and its subsurface structure is inhabited by various invertebrate prey items of seabirds. Because there were few censuses in open seas, only general indications of characteristic species were obtained. The Wilson's Storm-Petrel, Blue Petrel, Black-browed Albatross, Gray-headed Albatross, Cape Pigeon, Light-mantled Sooty Albatross, Wandering Albatross and Antarctic Prion were sighted either entirely or mostly over open waters. The relative abundance of adults and immatures in pelagic observations is unknown because they are not distinguishable at sea. Also, both sexually immature birds and foraging breeders can be expected to occur long distances from breeding sites. 
4161424|Song variation and singing behavior of Ovenbirds were studied at 2 locations in New England. Each male possesses a single, distinctive "primary song," which may also be given in muted or incomplete forms. Males also possess a second type of song, "attenuated song," often used as part of an aerial display ("flight song"). Prior to pair formation, male Ovenbirds sing strongly from perches near the bottom of the forest canopy. Few songs are given from the ground, where the majority of foraging occurs. There is a sharp decline in singing at pairing, the result of the inhibitory effect of the female's presence on her mate's singing. Muted and incomplete "primary songs" are associated with both male-male and male-female interactions, but are used in other situations as well. "Flight song" is given primarily at dusk and dawn but may occur at other times, particularly during heavy overcast. Other performances of "attenuated song" are associated almost entirely with very intense interactions. The relatively simple pattern of song variation described may facilitate individual recognition of neighbors' songs by males. The incompatibility of singing and foraging in this species suggests that features of the foraging niche may influence the ability of birds to advertise territories. Similarly, the reduction in singing produced by the extensive courtship interactions may affect the efficiency of territorial defense at this time. The songs of Ovenbirds appear to be rich in the identifying messages they encode, but their message regarding future behavioral selections is probably very general, indicating only that the singer is prepared to interact in any manner typical of territorial male Ovenbirds. Muted and incomplete songs, and "attenuated songs," probably encode different supplemental messages about the probability and intensity of interaction.
4161425|Using a nesting model proposed by Mayfield (1960, 1961, 1975) we show that the estimator he proposes is a maximum likelihood estimator (m.l.e.). M.l.e. theory allows us to calculate the asymptotic distribution of this estimator, and we propose an estimator of the asymptotic variance. Using these estimators we give approximate confidence intervals and tests of significance for daily survival. Monte Carlo simulation results show the performance of our estimators and tests under many sets of conditions. A traditional estimator of nesting success is shown to be quite inferior to the Mayfield estimator. We give sample sizes required for a given accuracy under several sets of conditions.
4161426|During the winter and early spring of 1975-1976 the ranges of Parus atricapillus and P. carolinensis overlapped by about 25 km in northern Indiana. Evidence based on morphology and song suggest that isolated cases of interbreeding may occur. During the last 2 weeks of March most P. atricapillus withdrew from the range interface. A survey of vocal responses conducted from 29 April-31 May revealed that the breeding ranges were separated by a gap of about 30 km. The withdrawal of P. atricapillus included individuals occupying woodlots as far as 80 km north of the range interface. It is still not clear what factors cause the gap to occur. The resemblance of the elevational gap found by Tanner (1952) in the Great Smoky Mountains and the latitudinal gap found in northern Indiana suggests that the gap is maintained by similar factors at both locations. Since the gap becomes obvious with the withdrawal of P. atricapillus just prior to the breeding season, it is possible that these movements were selected for as a reproductive isolating mechanism. Other hypotheses attempting to explain the presence of the gap rely chiefly on proximate factors. The most likely of these hypotheses are: (1) the gap forms as a direct result of interspecific interactions between sedentary chickadees at the range interface; and (2) the gap is caused and maintained by the winter movement of P. atricapillus to the range interface. Competitive interactions reducing the fitness of sedentary chickadees in and near the gap may be important for either hypothesis.
4161427|The degree of toe fusion, here summarized for the oscine families, probably has only limited taxonomic usefulness, but may serve along with other characters to detect genera possibly needing further systematic study, e.g., Chlamydochaera, Ifrita, Newtonia. Terrestrial species often have lower fusion than do arboreal or climbing species, but there are important exceptions. Low fusion apparently aids balance on flat substrates, whereas high fusion facilitates perching or climbing. The large number of arboreal species with low fusion has not yet been satisfactorily explained.
4161428| Roosting of Chimney Swifts was studied in relation to several environmental variables in September and October 1976 and April through October 1977. An average of 70 swifts were recorded leaving and 83 entering 32 different roost-sites on 203 mornings and 166 evenings. Of 224 flocks, 65% numbered below 100 individuals. About 18% of the swifts that left the roost-site at dawn returned to it to reenter around sunrise. In the morning, 70% of the swifts left the chimney during light intensities of 0-7 fc, but in the evenings 70% entered between a more restrictive 0 and 2 fc. Swifts left the roost-site at 5.5  2.2 fc, 11.1  2.8 min before sunrise and entered at 1.7  1.2 fc, 20.7  2.4 min after sunset. Light intensity, time of sunrise and sunset, temperature, wind speed and precipitation were all associated with the time of departure from and entrance into the roost-site. Swifts left the roost-site later and entered it earlier on colder days, on days with precipitation, and on calmer days. The effect of sky haziness and cloud cover upon time of peak exit and entrance was not significant. All the environmental variables reported to affect flying insect abundance were similarly associated with swift activity patterns. 
4161455|Four species of Laterallus (melanophaius, leucopyrrhus, xenopterus and exilis) are known from Paraguay. L. melanophaius is found in both the Chaco and eastern Paraguay, whereas L. leucopyrrhus and L. xenopterus have only been recorded east of the Rio Paraguay. L. exilis is here reported for the first time from the country. L. xenopterus differs from the other three in having a relatively short, high bill and short tarsi and toes. The latter may be an adaptation for moving about on a firmer substrate. The species of the genus can be placed into 4 groups on the basis of the color and pattern of the under tail coverts. Other color characters and similarities of proportions within the groups are further indications of the naturalness of the grouping.
4161456|Wading birds, because of their large size and diversity, appear to offer some promise for unraveling of certain aspects of foraging ecology and resource use strategies. This paper presents a selective review of the current status of knowledge of resource use strategies in ciconiiform wading birds. Because of their large size, adult wading birds appear to be relatively immune to direct adverse effects of inclement weather, although indirect effects of weather on prey availability are important. Seasonal variation in resource availability can limit population levels of temperate species and is also a dominating influence in tropical populations, where seasonal fluctuation of surface water conditions determine in large part the nature of resource use. Wading bird species richness increases latitudinally toward the tropics and decreases away from continental areas. Population movements, including seasonal migration, radiative dispersal and intraregional movement, are adaptations to variable resource conditions. Predation pressure on nestlings may influence the evolution of growth patterns and time budgets of nesting adults. Foraging sociality, especially aggregative feeding, is an important aspect of resource use, and may involve commensalism, competitive interactions and interference. Differently-sized wading birds appear to forage differently, but similarly-sized species may show considerable overlap in foraging parameters. Territoriality and aggregative feeding can decrease search time, or increase or decrease foraging effectiveness. Foraging behavior is diverse and variable, and responds to prey availability. Prey selection of wading birds require study, particularly with respect to factors associated with effectiveness of prey choices.
4161458|Age ratios and abundance of 61 migrant passerine species comprising more than 42,000 birds were analyzed in an attempt to determine patterns of migration. The data were collected at 10 stations from coastal Massachusetts to inland Pennsylvania. Age ratios are thought to be useful in determining routes of migration. The principal criteria for the edge of a species' route are suggested to be a higher proportion of young and a lower density of the species than in other areas. Almost all species in this area fell readily into 1 of 5 patterns that suggest 5 possible routes: (1) immediately along the coast (3 species); (2) on the coastal plain (24 species); (3) west of the Appalachians (17 species); (4) overwater, direct to South America (only the Blackpoll Warbler); and (5) an unconfined, broad front, encompassing the entire area (14 species). For 3 species, no route could be determined. Almost all species showed the "coastal effect," a higher percentage of young along the coast than elsewhere. By the criteria given, this indicates that the coast is the edge of the migratory route of most species. Most probably the young found near the coast lack some navigational capabilities and are off course; many of them probably perish. In general, a given route was not strongly associated with either diurnal or nocturnal migration, distance to wintering grounds, or with any genus or family of birds. I speculate that this is evidence that routes have evolved independently in each species.
4161459|Autumn bird kills at the 308 m WCTV tower in northwest Florida during 1962-1966 were strongly associated with north winds and overcast. Nights with north winds (N = 313, 74.5% of total) accounted for 6744 (83%) dead birds; south-wind nights (N = 107, 25.5%) had 1379 (17%) birds. Cloudy nights (N = 214, 50.9%) had 6686 (82.3%) birds killed; non-cloudy nights (N = 206, 49.1%) had 1437 (17.7%) dead birds. Large kills were usually associated with the passage of a cold front, but birds were killed on all but 32 (7%) of the nights. The data seem consistent with radar and direct visual studies of migration in the southeastern U.S.
4161460|The variation in reproductive performance observed in this study appears to be partly attributable to the influence of weather. Box nests are well protected against the elements and usually birds nesting in boxes were more successful than those nesting elsewhere. Tree nests are exposed and, to be productive, must be constructed to withstand strong winds, storms and cold temperatures. South-facing nests, central position along a tree row and low nest height to tree height ratio were determined to be beneficial in reducing the impact of the cool north winds. South-facing nests fledged more young early in the season, while north-facing nests were more productive in mid-summer. Throughout both tree rows, the number and weight of fledglings was negatively correlated with nest height.
4161461|A study of marked Canada Geese examined the use of brood rearing areas and brood and gosling survival between 1972 and 1974 in managed marshes in northwestern Wisconsin. Between 60 and 67% of the pairs hatching goslings moved them to 1 of 5 major rearing marshes where there were other broods. However, 25-53% of the pairs nesting on a major brood rearing marsh also moved to a different brood rearing marsh to raise their young. Movements of all pairs with broods ranged from 0.7-8.4 km, and were made immediately after hatch with 47% of the families reaching their first rearing marsh in less than 4 days. Once on a rearing marsh, families rarely moved to another. Almost all pairs raised young on the same marshes in subsequent years. Observations of males and females with previous brood rearing experience that had formed new pairs between years suggested females may influence the selection of a brood marsh. At least 36-50% of the pairs adopted goslings into their broods at sometime between hatch and 8 weeks. Adoption was most prevalent before goslings were 2 weeks old. From 18-33% of all pairs failed to raise their young to flight. These pairs also had lower egg fertility and brood sizes at hatching than pairs raising young. Overall gosling survival determined by the observation of young in marked broods ranged from 60.7-70.5%. Serious biases due primarily to the behavior of the broods affected survival estimates determined in other ways with production being overestimated by an average of 27% if the loss of entire broods was not considered.
4161462| Species composition and population sizes of birds were determined in 12 plant communities of the Great Smoky Mountains during the summers of 1947 and 1948. Plant communities form a mosaic of seral and climax stages that varies with altitude and slope exposure. Coefficients of species and population similarities indicated that distinct bird communities may be identified, associated with deciduous forest, forest-edge, boreal forest and a south-eastern mixed complex. Each type of vegetation with its bird life has had a different geological history that affects its present composition and characteristics. Bird species are classified to the vegetation type to which they appear best adapted as indicated by their attainment of highest populations. Composition of bird species within particular stands of a vegetation type is influenced by the location of the stand in respect to species' ranges, neighboring avifaunas, annual fluctuations (especially of the less common species), inter-species competition and responses to temperature and possibly moisture as determined by elevation and slope exposure. The species diversity index (H) varied positively with species richness (s) and was of limited value in comparing bird populations. Distributions of bird population sizes in all plant communities was positively skewed. Skewness (g
4161463| The nest-site preferences of sympatrically breeding Adlie (Pygoscelis adeliae), Chinstrap (P. antarctica) and Gentoo (P. papua) penguins were quantified in rookeries at Point Thomas, South Shetland Islands. Adlies nested in larger, denser, more open colonies, at higher elevations and farther from landing beaches than those of its congeners. Chinstraps nested in steeply sloped areas; Adlies and gentoos nested generally in flat and gently sloped areas. It is suggested that differences in pygoscelid nest-site preferences may be partially attributable to differences in the degree of coloniality evident in each species. 
4161464|We recorded the responses of nesting Yellow Warblers to naturally deposited Brown-headed Cowbird eggs. The response varied, depending upon the stage of the nest when the cowbird egg was deposited, the time of the breeding season and the structure of nest support. An association between nest stage and time in the breeding season did not allow any conclusions about the relationships between either of these factors and response to the cowbird egg to be made, although both were thought to be influencing the choice of response. Acceptance of cowbird eggs resulted in significantly lower nest success for Yellow Warblers. The most frequent rejection response by the Yellow Warbler was burial of cowbird eggs. Parasitized nests in which burial occurred had success rates comparable to unparasitized nests. Egg burial was used as an anti-parasite strategy primarily when the cowbird egg was deposited early in the Yellow Warbler's laying cycle. Nest desertion was the alternative rejection response. Desertion, which released the pair from a nesting attempt in which the potential for success was low, occurred throughout the breeding season. Desertion was thought to occur when egg burial was not possible, either because of the resulting delay, or when the nest support structure would not allow burial.
4161465|Wintering Bald Eagles displayed food and perch displacement, aerial pursuit and talon presentation behavior on the wintering grounds. Immature eagles initiated most of these behavioral interactions, and most displacement attempts were successful. In displacement attempts, immatures tried to displace adults somewhat more frequently than adults tried to displace immatures. Nearly half of all aerial pursuits involved at least 1 talon presentation. An undetermined number of aerial pursuits and talon presentations involved food being stolen from the pursued eagle. Considering their relative abundances, adult eagles initiated significantly fewer displacement attempts, aerial pursuits and talon presentations with immatures than expected. Although immatures often entered into all 3 behavioral interactions with other immatures, they infrequently attempted displacement of adults.
4161495|Supposed subspecies should not be overlooked; some will later prove to be good species, when properly studied. This appears to be true of Turdus "rufo-palliatus" graysoni, which widely overlaps the range of T. rufo-palliatus in coastal Nayarit without known hybridization. Apparently 3 species are present, at least seasonally, along the coast. Field studies are badly needed.
4161496|Behavioral changes of Giant Canada Geese associated with accumulation of body weight prior to spring migration were studied in southeastern Minnesota. Daily duration of time spent in feeding areas by geese increased with increasing temperature. The percentage of geese feeding in grass fields increased, but cornfields remained important feeding sites throughout spring. Adult geese spent more time actually feeding when in pastures than when in cornfields. Paired females devoted more time to feeding than males in either cornfields or pastures and more time than females without mates in cornfields. Increased dispersal of geese in spring coincided with proportionately fewer vigorous triumph ceremonies and a lower percentage of aggressive encounters which involved actual fighting. However, the frequency of all triumph ceremonies and aggressive encounters may have increased. Sexual behavior increased exponentially through spring, but the highest frequency of successful copulations coincided with the onset of rapid yolk formation and with the termination of hyperphagia 1 week prior to migration. Hyperphagia and the associated accumulation of body reserves by Giant Canada Geese occurred in a period of less than 1 month prior to departure for the breeding grounds which coincided with availability of the highest level of protein in new growth grass.
4161497|The construction and field application of a multiple sensor (photoelectric-thermistor-photographic) system for avian nesting studies is described. The portable, battery-powered system has several advantages over previously described techniques. Foremost is the accurate and continuous recording of incubation time budgets. The system permits synchronous recordings of egg air cell and/or nest air temperature, postures, displays, preening, nest construction, and prelaying and incubation time budgets.
4161498|Male and female Black-throated Green and Yellow-rumped warblers isolated from con-specifics and nest predators on small islands foraged more slowly during the height of the breeding season than did ones in large mainland populations. Since food supplies on mainland and island were similar, differences between males are interpreted to result from a decrease in stationary singing associated with territorial maintenance, those between females a consequence of decreased nest attentive behavior associated with nest predators.
4161499|Although the island of Newfoundland shows a characteristically depauperate avifauna relative to continental Maritime Canada, Gull Island, a small offshore island, has lower passerine species richness than does a nearby area of comparable habitat on the Newfoundland coast. The decrease from 25 to 13 species was due neither to the loss of all members of some higher taxa nor to completely stochastic species losses. Rather it reflected the reduction of groups of congeneric or confamilial species in the coastal area to single species represented on the island. Overall density compensation did not occur, and patterns of density difference of individual species showed some insular increases, some decreases, and some cases of no difference. Habitat differences between the sites account for much but not all of these avian community differences.
4161500|The incidence of soaring by Red-tailed Hawks wintering in northwestern Arkansas fluctuated with several weather parameters. The percentage of hawks observed soaring increased as wind velocity and solar illumination increased, and as cloud cover and relative humidity decreased. Wind velocity was the most important factor associated with soaring incidence. Hawks also soared at greater altitudes as wind velocity increased. The results are interpreted to reflect the use of declivity updrafts to soar under conditions not conducive to thermal soaring.
4161501|Breeding success (number fledged/eggs laid) and nest desertion were determined in a flock of Rock Doves (Columba livia) breeding in an isolated, abandoned lighthouse in Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island, over a 1-year period. Breeding success was 42% in that year and 38% of nests with eggs were deserted. In the following year, 20% of eggs laid were removed. Nest desertion dropped to 16%, while breeding success was 48%, suggesting that recruitment might be related to nest desertion.
4161502|A series of call counts was taken from 13 April-23 July 1975, to determine relative abundance of Chuck-will's-widows and Whip-poor-wills in Clarke County, Georgia, and to determine how different environmental variables affected calling behavior. A 20-station route was separated into 3 general habitat types: suburban, pasture and mixed forest. Student's t-test was used to test differences between numbers of the 2 species in each habitat type. Analysis of variance and 1sd procedures were used to test differences in numbers of 1 species between habitat types. Tests were made for correlations between numbers of calling birds and different environmental variables. Overall, Whip-poor-wills were approximately as abundant as Chuck-will's-widows in the study area. Whip-poor-wills were significantly more numerous in forested habitat than Chuck-will's-widows and the opposite was true in open habitat. Whip-poor-wills were significantly more numerous in forested habitat than in open or suburban areas. Chuck-will's-widows were approximately equally abundant in all 3 habitat types. Change in land use from agriculture to forest is offered as a partial explanation for the south-ward range expansion of the Whip-poor-will. Of all variables tested, moon phase showed the strongest correlation with numbers of singing birds. This observation was supported by a series of counts taken during a total lunar eclipse, during which numbers of singing birds varied directly with moon phase.
4161503|A non-drumming and presumably non-territorial component is a persistent characteristic of male Ruffed Grouse populations on the Cloquet Forestry Center in east-central Minnesota. Based upon a 23-year study involving more than 1200 banded male grouse using in excess of 2300 drumming logs, it was found that the non-drumming component was least when the Ruffed Grouse population was lowest and greatest when the population reached peak abundance. During the 1972 period of peak abundance there was at least 1 non-drumming male grouse for every 2.3 known drumming grouse on this 13 km
4161539|All but one of the 13 currently recognized species of the scolopacid genus Capella display in the air during courtship, though aerial display is not restricted to the breeding season. Display flights are accompanied by hooting, bleating, neighing, or whinnying sounds that are widely believed to be nonvocal and that almost certainly are produced by vibration of some or all of the tail feathers. Drawings showing extra-wide spreading of the narrowed outermost feather on each side of the tail in C. gallinago gallinago have led to the belief that that feather is responsible for the sound; but investigation reveals the fact that this feather is not by any means always much narrowed in the Northern Hemisphere's three races of C. gallinago; that in the several Southern Hemisphere races of C. gallinago 2 or 3 pairs of outer rectrices are narrowed; that in several other species of Capella, notably C. stenura, one to several outermost pairs of rectrices are narrowed; and that in ground displays of C. gallinago in various parts of that species' very wide range the movements of the tail reveal such great maneuverability as to suggest that the hooting or neighing is produced by the pressing downward or from side to side of the whole tail. Courtship flights of the Giant Snipe (C. undulata), hitherto unreported, are like those of smaller snipes in some ways but are accompanied by trisyllabic sounds that are probably vocal. The courtship of C. gallinago andina, a form that inhabits the Andes, apparently has not been described. The Double Snipe (C. media), whose outer rectrices are largely white, displays on the ground rather than in the air. The Jack Snipe (Lymnocryptes minimus), a small species placed by some taxonomists in Capella, makes strange "cantering" sounds during courtship, but since these are given from the ground as well as from the air they are presumably vocal.
4161540|The influence of habitat structure on the foraging behavior of five bird species was studied in two stands in the Fernow Experimental Forest. Vegetation structure of the stands was found to be different. One stand had a high, stratified canopy with a well-developed understory and the other had a lower, less stratified, but denser canopy without a well-developed understory. Each bird species showed differences in foraging behaviors that could be related to differences in vegetation structure. One species, American Redstart, changed foraging maneuvers between forests. Changes by other species involved use of different substrates or locations in trees, use of different tree species, or changes in foraging heights. Species that foraged by gleaning and hovering at foliage demonstrated different foraging behaviors less often than species which foraged by flycatching. Some species in this study showed changes in their foraging that coincided with increases in potential resources, e.g., Acadian Flycatchers did more flycatching in the forest with more open subcanopy area. Parallel changes in several instances suggested that competition was not a proximate cause of these changes.
4161541|Adult sharp-shins have significantly longer and wider wings, greater wing areas, higher wing loadings and higher aspect ratios than juveniles. Juveniles have longer tails and greater tail areas than adults. Within an age class, females are larger than males in all of the above measures except aspect ratio. The differences in aerodynamic characteristics between the age classes permit and obligate adults to fly faster, result in greater striking force at prey, and probably require more energy consumption than in juveniles. Juveniles are more maneuverable and probably require less energy in flight. The higher weight of adults is probably due to increased flight musculature and the added power, plus experience, probably compensate for the aerodynamic disadvantages of adults as compared to juveniles.
4161542|This study indicates that tail keeling by Common Grackles functions aerodynamically as well as behaviorally. Deep keel functions behaviorally and is restricted to males. Medium keel was rarely observed. The primary function of shallow keel is probably aerodynamic, increasing stability during tail molt. Shallow keel probably also functions to prevent stalls during landing, banking and take-off. The Common Grackle showed flat tail in direct non-maneuvering flight and when flying into head winds.
4161543|Data on reproduction from Texas cave and culvert sites are presented for the Cave Swallow (Petrochelidon fulva), a peripheral U.S. species presently undergoing breakdown in ecological segregation at the northern margin of its range through modification of its nesting habits. Correlations exist between environmental influences, both natural and anthropogenic, and variation in pattern of reproduction of cave- and culvert-nesting colonies of this species. Seasonal declines in reproductive parameters occurred at both sites and are considered to reflect adaptations to within-season increasing aridity and diminished food supply. During a relatively wet year at a cavern-nesting colony, overall seasonal reproductive output and nestling survival were higher than during a drier year; much of this difference was due to significantly increased second clutch reproductive parameters. Increased investigator visitation of the cave colony during the first reproductive cycle of the wet year may have negatively affected hatch and survival of that year's first clutch. Culvert-nesting populations displayed significantly higher clutch-size and nestling survival than did the population nesting at the more typical cave site.
4161544| The breeding biology of the Horned Lark (Eremophila alpestris) was studied during the 1976 breeding season at Cape St. Mary's, Newfoundland. Territorial behavior was investigated, and territories were subsequently mapped to determine their size (2.3-5.1 ha, x = 3.5 ha). Nesting phenology was studied in detail. Nests were weighed, measured and their composition determined; they were so placed as to be protected on the windward side. Clutch-sizes of early and late nests were compared (early 3.0 eggs, late 3.5 eggs, overall mean 3.31 eggs). Forty-seven nestlings were measured to calculate growth curves for weight and other body variables. Breeding success (58.8%), incidence of renesting, and the mean number of fledglings (4.0) produced by each pair were calculated. Causes of egg and nestling loss were analyzed, and predation determined to be the most important factor. About 25% of the breeding pairs raised two successful broods. 
4161545|Lichtenstein's Orioles were studied for three weeks during the breeding season on the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge in southern Texas in 1974. I located 19 nests and made extensive observations at eight of them. All breeding birds were in full adult plumage. A first-year male was repeatedly seen in the vicinity of a widowed female with young and the possible significance of this is discussed. Nests are large, pendulous structures, situated in emergent leguminous trees and generally located in the NW portion of the tree. Food items brought to nestlings are listed. The mean interval between successive feedings decreases as nestlings get older. There may be a nesting association between these orioles and large tyrannid flycatchers which would benefit the orioles by protection from brood parasites and predators.
4161573| This paper summarizes the status of birds on islas Socorro and San Benedicto based largely upon visits in April 1978 and April 1981, and presents additional data on Isla Claron. Isla Socorro is in a state of change, seemingly as a result of increased human activities since 1958 and the consequent introduction of domestic animals. Nine endemic avian taxa have been described for Socorro. In the past two decades, several of these have shown sharp declines which seem largely attributable to predation by domestic cats. Pipilo erythrophthalmus socorroensis seems far less common than in the recent past. Mimodes graysoni, once described as the most common landbird on Socorro, is extremely rare and local and its condition seems precarious. Zenaida graysoni is apparently extinct. Thryomanes sissonii, Aratinga holochlora brevipes, Columbina passerina socorroensis and Parula pitiayumi graysoni remain common; indeed the warbler may have increased. We are unable to present any new data for Nyctanassa violacea gravirostris or Micrathene whitneyi graysoni. Two species have invaded Socorro. Zenaida macroura became well established between 1971 and 1978 and Mimus polyglottos between 1978 and 1981. Resident landbirds are absent from San Benedicto but seabird numbers have increased since the eruption of Volcn Brcena in 1952. Notes on 25 species recorded for the first time are included. 
4161574|The fluctuations of a Puerto Rican dry forest bird population were sampled by netting over a 5-year period that included drought conditions. The absence of normal May and June rains most affected the resident bird populations that breed during this period. Frugivorous species declined most sharply, while gleaning insectivores declined least. Winter resident gleaning insectivores actually increased as resident insectivores declined. It is suggested that insects may provide a scarce, but predictable, resource that attracts winter residents, and thus, in turn, restricts the breeding season of resident insectivores. Such restriction exposes breeding birds to variable early wet season conditions. The relative unpredictability of the fruit, seed and flower resource seems to limit winter residents that use these foods and releases resident members of these guilds from some of the restrictions in breeding. Despite pronounced population declines, no regular member of the Guanica Forest bird community disappeared during the drought.
4161575|This study compares nest-site microhabitats and nesting habitats of Red-shouldered and Red-tailed hawks in northeastern and central Iowa. RSH and RTH nest-sites differed significantly in nest tree height; tree-nest height difference, nest tree dbh, canopy cover at nest height, mean support branch diameter, mean nest diameter, mean distance between support branches, slope of ground supporting nest tree, woodlot size, distance to nearest water, distance to nearest road and distance to nearest building. Red-tail nests were characterized by accessibility, being placed high in a tree, on small support branches, in areas of little canopy cover, typically on a hillside and having large distances between support branches. Red-shoulder nests usually had secure support and protection by being placed lower in trees, on large support branches, in areas of greater canopy cover, on level topography and having smaller distances between support branches. Red-shoulders built nests in woodlots with more canopy trees and a greater tree density than woodlots used by red-tails. The area of floodplain forest, marsh, upland nonforested hunting area, cropland, open water, number of hunting areas, mean size of hunting areas and total edge surrounding the nest differed significantly between species. Red-shoulders required large amounts of floodplain forest, edge and numerous small hunting areas. Red-tails typically were found in areas with nearly equal proportions of woodland, pasture and cropland. Logging in floodplain forests may open these areas to encroachment by red-tails and displacement of red-shoulders.
4161576|The density of Ferruginous Hawk pairs in a 7000 km
4161577|We analyzed the status of southern Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus leucocephalus) nesting during and after construction of a flood control project in the Kissimmee River Basin in central Florida. A 74% decrease in the annual number of active territories was observed following construction of this flood control project in that segment of the study area where disruption of aquatic ecosystems and, therefore, a prey base for eagles, was most severe. Productivity of eagles nesting in all three sub-basins was comparable to that of eagles nesting in central Florida and statewide between 1977 and 1979.
4161578|Recently killed Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity trees were located during 1977-1980 in east Texas. Fungi from heartwood tissue at cavity sites and cavity starts was cultured on agar and identified. Heartwood decay was found in 63% of the cavity sites and 44% of the cavity-start sites examined. Longleaf pine cavity trees had a lower frequency of decay than did shortleaf and loblolly pine cavity trees. Phellinus pini was the most frequently detected fungus to be associated with red-cockaded cavity trees, but six other fungi species were detected. Our observations indicate that heartwood decaying fungi were not inoculated into the tree by the woodpeckers, but entered through broken branch stubs and were present prior to cavity excavation.
4161604|The relationships of the vireos (Vireoninae) have been debated for more than a century. The shrikes (Laniidae) and the New World nine-primaried oscines have been most frequently proposed as their closest relatives. Comparisons were made between the single-copy DNA sequences of the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus) and those of 34 other species representing other vireonines and the major taxa of passerine birds. Vireo, Hylophilus and Cyclarhis were found to be closely enough related to one another to be placed in the same subfamily. Their next nearest relatives are the members of the large and varied "corvine assemblage" which includes the cuckoo-shrikes, drongos, monarch flycatchers, crows, shrikes and several other taxa. The vireos are not closely related to the New World nine-primaried oscines. The belief in this alliance, which has been accepted for the past 50 years, was based upon the incorrect interpretation of the reduction of the outer (10th) primary and other morphological characters.
4161605|Overwintering Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli) were studied for 5 years (1975-1980) in honey mesquite-dominated vegetation of the lower Colorado River valley. Distributional diversity and evenness were reduced between fall and winter of each year. There was also a dietary shift from animal to plant material between seasons. Areas that consistently supported above-average populations had more inkweed shrubs. Results from three sites with controlled vegetation parameters suggest that Sage Sparrows actively select inkweed.
4161606|Aspects of macrohabitat use by Fox Sparrows (Passerella iliaca), Northern Waterthrushes (Seiurus noveboracensis) and Boreal Chickadees (Parus hudsonicus) differ between insular Newfoundland and coastal populations of each species. The differences generally reflected changes in the ranges of available habitats between localities, rather than responses to differing competitive environments. Foraging locations of coastal and insular Boreal Chickadee populations were also compared. Differences were found--the Boreal Chickadee expanded the breadth of its foraging activities to include areas used on the mainland by Blackcapped Chickadees (P. atricapillus), a species absent on the island. Seasonal differences were also found in chickadee foraging behavior at both sites. Niche partitioning between the two mainland species of chickadees was accomplished via differences in foraging position rather than macrohabitat differences.
4161607|Avian nest densities and nest-site selection were examined in seven Minnesota farmstead shelterbelts for two years. A total of 617 nests belonging to 17 bird species was noted. Suitability of shelterbelts as nesting habitats was determined by nest densities which were greater than those reported for non-wooded habitats in the region. Choice of nesting substrate by the total avian community or by individual bird species was not random. Nests-sites were segregated among the five most common bird species based primarily on two linear combinations of 11 structural characteristics termed as "herbaceous" or "woody stem" variables. The five common bird species were positioned along a generalist-specialist continuum in selection of nest-sites using two measures of nesting breadth. Measures of nesting overlap varied considerably between pairs of species. Farmstead shelterbelts, despite their small size, are important nesting habitats for birds. These "wooded islands" are sufficiently heterogenous to permit the coexistence of several nesting species at high densities. Information about nest-site choice should be used by designers of shelterbelts for the benefit of certain breeding birds in the midwest.
4161608|We compared the possible effects of weather, seasonality and topography on autumn hawk migration at two look-outs in the central Appalachians. Dan's Rock, located on the more prominent Allegheny Front, had more Red-tailed (Buteo jamaicensis) and Broad-winged (B. platypterus) hawks per hour than High Rock. The species composition of the flights was similar to those at Hawk Mountain, Pennsylvania. For Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus), migration was associated with good visibility and following winds. Broad-winged Hawk migration was associated with good visibility, strong favorable winds, high temperatures and afternoon periods. Red-tailed Hawk migration was associated with light, opposing winds, characterized by southeasterly flows.
4161609|Tissues from 252 Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura) were collected near seven different types of nuclear facilities and four other locations on and near the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory Site in southeastern Idaho and analyzed for gamma emitting radionuclides. Cesium-137 was the only radionuclide commonly present in tissues from all locations. Only Mourning Doves collected at the Test Reactor Area (TRA) and the Idaho Chemical Processing Plant (ICPP) contained higher concentrations of
4161634|Lowland guans of the genus Penelope (purpurascens group) in South America were studied to determine relationships within the group and present a speciation model for its members. New data available for the White-winged Guan (P. albipennis) provide insight into its phylogeny and speciation. A multivariate analysis of variance on six characters of P. purpurascens, P. jacquacu, P. perspicax, and P. obscura indicates that P. jacquacu and P. purpurascens are significantly different from each other in six characters, and that P. perspicax and P. obscura are more similar to P. jacquacu than to P. purpurascens. Analysis of vocalizations shows that P. albipennis calls are more similar to those of P. purpurascens than to those of P. jacquacu. Three speciation models proposed for Penelope were evaluated in light of the above data. The selected model proposed that P. albipennis was isolated in western Peru after the differentiation of a proto-P. purpurascens from proto-P. jacquacu. P. perspicax shared characters with both P. purpurascens and P. jacquacu, and was postulated to be closer to the ancestral form. P. obscura was clearly more closely related to P. jacquacu and was probably isolated in a forest refugium in eastern Brazil.
4161635|The mating system of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) is poorly understood despite frequent comments in the literature. Cowbirds have been reported to be monogamous, polygynous, or promiscuous. We present an hypothesis that the mating system of cowbirds combines monogamy and promiscuity. It is based on our observations of social groupings and weights of wild adult and yearling males, and on published observations of social behavior of cowbirds. We propose that males use two tactics to obtain copulations. The first is to guard a female from other males, i.e., be a 'paired' male to monopolize her copulations. The second is to be a 'sneaky' male and to steal copulations from 'paired' males. 'Paired' males could also be 'sneaky' males. Females are probably as promiscuous as the 'paired' male allows. This system is likely because: (1) the sex ratio of 1.5 males to 1 female excludes many males from being 'paired'; (2) females have no apparent reason to be faithful to the 'paired' male and may increase their fitness by copulating with 'sneaky' males; (3) females are continuously fertile for 8 weeks, thus 'sneaky' males have many opportunities to steal copulations.
4161636| South Polar Skua (Catharacta maccormicki) kleptoparasitism on Blue-eyed Shags (Phalacrocorax atriceps) was studied at Palmer Station, Antarctica (6446S, 6403W) from 28 October 1979-11 March 1980. Skuas attempted to induce shags to regurgitate fish by means of aerial harassment. The shags' most effective means of escaping attack was landing on the water. Of 280 chases observed, only 13 (4.6%) were successful. This success rate is lower than that reported for other skuas, jaegers and gulls which pirate food through aerial pursuits of hosts. The majority of chases (73%) were of shags returning to their breeding colony, but most chasing occurred away from (3.5-7 km) the colony itself. Chase success increased to 21% when groups of skuas pursued groups of shags but success per skua remained near 5%. Skuas struck shags during 64 chases resulting in 8 (12.5%) regurgitations. In contrast, during 68 chases where no shags were struck, only 5 of 227 shags (2.2%) regurgitated. All successful chases occurred during periods of dense pack ice which left few areas of open water. Dense pack ice caused an increase in chasing because it made the skuas' primary food (fish and krill) more difficult to obtain. Lack of open water also increased chase success by making it more difficult for shags to find suitable landing sites to escape attack. Energy budget estimates suggest it is unlikely that skuas achieve an energy profit at the low success rates observed and no skuas were known to rely on piracy as a major food source during the study. 
4161637|Cost-benefits of intraspecific food robbing in Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) were investigated to determine whether caloric gains per unit time were greater for robbers than for individuals that did not rob. During 10 weeks, gulls foraging on two clam beds were observed to commit 428 robberies at one study site and 418 at the other. Robberies were committed within and among three age classes of gulls and only over prey that required handling. With exception of some first-year birds, robbers foraged intensively and robbed only when handling of prey rendered nearby conspecifics vulnerable. Minimum caloric gains for robbers were estimated. Caloric expenditures for handling prey and robbing were subtracted from caloric contents of prey. Estimates revealed that caloric gains/h were greater for robbers than for individuals that did not rob. Most robbers augmented gains from foraging. But some first-year birds seemingly acquired crucial portions of daily food requirements from robbing. Suggestions for further study of food robbing were included.
4161638|The purpose of this study was to determine how vegetation structure affected the foraging behavior of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla). Two watersheds in the Fernow Experimental Forest near Parsons, West Virginia were used as study areas. The first area (WS1) is characterized by pole-stage timber. The second area (WS4) is approaching a mature forest. Ten male redstarts in WS1 and nine male redstarts in WS4 were used in this study. Foraging observations were taken each morning, weather permitting. Later, vegetation was measured in the place in which foraging occurred. Overall vegetation differed between areas. WS4 had a taller, less dense canopy than did WS1. WS4 contained more oak, beech, and birch trees, while WS1 contained more cherry, maple, and magnolia trees. Foraging differed between watersheds only in the height of foraging and in the tree species used. Tree species use, however, possibly was not biologically important. The more open canopy in WS4 allowed birds to forage higher. Vegetation structure in the place of foraging did not differ between watersheds. Birds in WS1 selected places to forage which had more open vegetation than the overall watershed mean.
4161639|Townsend's Solitaire (Myadestes townsendi) is a specialized juniper-seed predator. Winter abundance of this species is positively correlated with species density of Juniperus spp., while variability in numbers is negatively correlated with the same factor. These results support the hypothesis that species' ranges and centers of abundance are coincident with areas of diverse as well as abundant resources, because such diversity assures that the food supply will be predictable as well as abundant.
4161640|The timing and routes of the migrations of the Red Phalarope (Phalaropus fulicarius) off northeast Labrador and southeast Baffin Island are described from aerial and shipboard surveys made 1977-79. In spring, the birds migrated through the survey area in early and mid-June. The return migration began at the end of July and was completed by mid-August (1978) or mid-September (1979). Spring migrants were associated with a zone at the edge of the pack-ice, where there was less than 40% ice cover. Fall migrants occurred well offshore, in the area of a 'front' at the outer edge of the Labrador Current, over the Continental Slope. In both cases, the birds were in areas potentially rich in food concentrated at the surface of the water. Northern Phalaropes (Lobipes lobatus) were virtually absent, and it is concluded that the population which breeds in northern Labrador and southern Baffin Island migrates overland.
4161641|Annual recruitment and differential flocking tendencies of family group vs nonbreeding Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis) were studied at the Jasper-Pulaski Fish and Wildlife Area, Indiana, in the autumns of 1979 and 1980. Highly significant differences in age ratios of cranes at different roosts were found in both years. Age ratios at roosts were negatively correlated with total cranes counted during arrival or departure periods. Age ratios at different roosts diverged with progress of arrival period, suggesting that factors affecting roost preferences of family groups vs nonbreeders became more pronounced as more cranes arrived. Overall age ratio for ground counts in fields in 1980 was essentially the same as for combined roost counts. Total age ratios in fields showed considerable daily variation. This variation apparently resulted from daily differences in numbers of nonbreeders remaining in refuge fields, where large flocks were undersampled. Outside the refuge, variability and magnitude of flock age ratios declined as flock sizes increased. Current annual recruitment of the eastern population of Greater Sandhill Cranes is probably 10-13%. Age ratios must be interpreted carefully, relative to inferred population structure and potential bias in sampling procedures.
4161642|Following playbacks of an American Avocet alarm-call recording, Calidris sandpipers foraging on a mudflat either flew away from the nearby marsh vegetation, looked up without flying, or continued foraging. The probability of flying and of looking up was highest in birds closest to the marsh, even though they were farthest from the playback speaker. The results suggest that sandpipers assess their distance from the predator-concealing marsh vegetation and modify their behavior accordingly. Thus, contextual information and information in the alarm call jointly affect sandpiper behavior.
4161643|Nest-site selection by 10 cavity-nesting species was analyzed on the basis of five nest-site variables. Discriminant analysis showed considerable separation among nest-sites for 6 of the 10 species, mainly on the basis of nest substrate size. The other four species potentially compete for nest-sites. When analyzed separately, primary cavity nesters and secondary cavity nesters exhibited different patterns in nest-site partitioning. Woodpecker species chose different nest-sites mainly on the basis of support-structure height, whereas secondary cavity nesters primarily segregated nest-sites on the basis of cavity height. Differences in four of the five variables and results of discriminant analysis suggest that SCN were not randomly choosing cavities abandoned by woodpeckers.
4161644|Twelve male Sedge Wrens (Cistothorus platensis) defended all-purpose territories averaging 1780 m
4161671|The Zapata Finch (Torreornis inexpectata), endemic to Cuba, exists in three widely separated populations. Here we describe and compare the vocalizations of the Zapata Swamp population with the population living in a near-desert habitat 720 km to the east, near Baitiquiri. Adult Torreornis have a simple vocal repertoire of four sound types: chip, buzz, distress call, and song. Highly synchronous duet songs are used by pairs to defend territories throughout the year. The divergence in habitat and separation by distance have not resulted in major differences in the vocalizations of the two populations.
4161672|Scale-backed Antbirds (Hylophylax poecilinota) are 18-g birds that follow swarms of army ants for flushed prey near the ground in South American lowland forests. They evade larger ant-following species partly by being quiet and inconspicuous or immobile for long periods; they also cling to larger vertical perches in more open understory than do large antbirds; and they wander at the margins of ant swarms or leave the ants when many large birds are present. Horizontal postures and long toes allow them to cling to large trunks. At Manaus, Brazil, pairs occupy territories of about 8.2 ha and chase trespassing immatures or neighbors. Dusky young remain with parents at least 6 weeks after leaving the nest, while undergoing body molt to a plumage like that of the adult female. Young males later molt to a plumage like that of the adult male. Breeding and molt occur all year, but are not known to overlap in an individual bird. There may be two breeding seasons per year at Manaus.
4161673|Censuses were conduced from 1970-1972 in the Kohala Mountain Forest, Hawaii. Native passerines were the most commonly encountered birds, with the nectar guild of the Drepanidinae having the greatest numbers of recorded individuals and being the most consistently detected birds. A number of species, known to have occurred historically in the forest, were not found during the study; however, four endangered species (Hawaiian Duck, Hawaiian Hawk, Hawaii Creeper, Nukupuu) were recorded during count periods. The Nukupuu has not been reported previously from the island of Hawaii. Species composition was constant in the forest throughout the year. However, the nectarivorous species in the principal study area did undergo significant changes in numbers over the annual cycle. The number of non-nectarivorous birds recorded/hour of censusing did not change significantly in the principal study site over the annual cycle. Breeding periods, as determined from active nests and census data, were found to correspond somewhat closely with the presently known breeding season of each species in other areas of Hawaii.
4161674|Information on behavior, distribution, and taxonomy is presented for 36 species of lowland forest and marsh birds of southeastern Peru. Specimen data are given for the poorly known species. The first Peruvian records of Chauna torquata, Porphyrula flavirostris, Coccyzus cinereus, Synallaxis albescens, Myrmotherula iheringi, Myiozetetes cayanensis, Catharus fuscescens, and Oporornis agilis are reported. Simoxenops ucayalae, Myrmeciza goeldii, and Poecilotriccus albifacies, all known from fewer than 10 specimens, are discussed. The ant-bird Percnostola macrolopha Berlioz is shown to be the male of P. lophotes. A variety of resident species, including Drymophila devillei and Ramphotrigon megacephala, are found to be intimately associated with bamboo thickets. Finally, a small component of the avifauna, including Coccyzus cinereus, Satrapa icterophrys, Casiornis rufa, Pseudocolopteryx acutipennis, Inezia inornata, and Turdus amaurochalinus, is comprised of austral migrants.
4161675|Previously unreported migration routes, molting areas, and post-nesting dispersal patterns of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen c. caerulescens) in interior Keewatin District, Northwest Territories, were documented by aerial surveys in 1975-1977. In late May and June 1976, over 6000 migrants were seen over inland areas between the Caribou River, Manitoba, and Baker Lake, N.W.T. These geese probably summer in the Baker Lake area (ca. 300 geese), the Rasmussen Basin-Chantrey Inlet area (ca. 10,000 geese), and possibly the Queen Maud Gulf. Substantial numbers of Snow Geese, including broods, from the colonies along western Hudson Bay disperse inland in late August, presumably to feed. The movement is initially on foot. In September, migrants from areas farther north pass southward through interior Keewatin. The present of large numbers of Snow Geese in the Rasmussen Basin-Chantrey Inlet area and in interior southern Keewatin, the inland dispersal from western Hudson Bay, and the use of inland migration routes are all recent developments, and are probably related to the very rapid increase in Snow Goose numbers and consequent increased feeding competition at the west Hudson Bay colonies.
4161676|Faaborg (1976) studied macrohabitat separation of grebes on prairie potholes and postulated (1) that grebe diversity was related to an area-diversity effect on potholes greater than 7.3 ha, and (2) that the occurrence of single grebe species on potholes less than 7.3 ha was related to interspecific interference competition. A study of macro- and microhabitat use by coots and grebes revealed large overlap in macrohabitat use but significant differences in microhabitat use. Only one grebe species occupied small potholes because potholes differed with respect to the amount of vegetation-water interspersion used by each species; this results in disjunct species distributions. Presence of suitable microhabitat thus determines grebe diversity over all sizes of potholes, and it is unnecessary to postulate that short-term interference competition is responsible for single species occupancy of small potholes.
4161677|The behavior patterns of the Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) during the nesting cycle are reviewed. The frequencies of occurrence of discrete behaviors were monitored for each sex during the prenesting, egg-laying, incubation, and brooding periods and are compared graphically. Continuous behavior patterns were timed, and the total and average amounts of time spent performing these behavior patterns were compared for male and female Killdeers during these four stages of the breeding cycle. The roles of breeding male and female Killdeers are discussed with emphasis on the energetic demands and reproductive strategies of each sex. I propose that male Killdeers tend to compensate for the large energy investment of the female by taking a greater part in territorial establishment and defense, parental behavior, and nest and brood defense. The male assumed the major role in territorial establishment and defense during the prenesting and egg-laying period. The female defended her mate from other females through egg-laying but her role in territory defense was limited to passive displays, whereas the male manifested intolerance of intruders by active displays, chasing, and attacks. The male also assumed the major role in nest building and incubation. The greater proportion of time spent distracting by males and probable higher proportion of night incubation by males may represent higher parental investment due to increased risk of predation.
4161678|A population of approximately 27-29 pairs of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) was studied in southern Nova Scotia in 1975 and 1976. Birds arrived in late April, occupied nesting and feeding territories, and initiated courtship. The aerial display flight of males is similar to that of several other plover species and is used to advertise territorial possession and attract prospective mates. Horizontal threat charges, and ground or aerial chases are used in the establishment of territorial boundaries. Parallel-run displays are more frequently used for boundary maintenance. Scraping, tilt display, and copulatory and distraction behaviors are generally similar to those of other Charadrius spp. Mean size of nesting territories was 4000 m
4161714|Nest histories from Dickcissel populations in oldfields and prairies of Kansas were analyzed to ascertain the impact of cowbird parasitism on Dickcissel productivity, assess the productivity of Brown-headed Cowbirds in Dickcissel nests, and test Fretwell's (1977) hypothesis that the frequency and intensity of cowbird parasitism were inversely related to host nest density. Both the frequency and the intensity of cowbird parasitism were significantly greater in prairie populations than in oldfield populations of the Dickcissel. The fledging success of the greater number of cowbird eggs laid per prairie nest was also higher so that almost twice as many cowbirds were fledged from each parasitized prairie nest than were produced from each parasitized oldfield nest. In both habitats less than 10% of the nests were abandoned in response to cowbird activity. The major effect of parasitism on Dickcissel productivity was the removal of host eggs by the cowbird that resulted in a significant reduction in the numbers of Dickcissels fledged from parasitized nests in both habitats. Early in the nesting season, almost two eggs were removed from each parasitized nest, but this loss decreased to about one egg by mid-July. The reduction in recruitment (Payne 1977) is 26.9% in oldfields and 29.1% in prairies. Both the frequency of cowbird parasitism and intensity as measured by the "cowbird pressure" (McGeen 1972) were inversely associated with the density of available nests, supporting Fretwell's (1977) hypothesis. This relationship also explains the habitat difference in parasitism since Dickcissel densities were lower in the prairie.
4161715|I documented the effects of human disturbance on gull (Larus sp.) behavior and reproductive performance in two different colonies between 1976 and 1980 by observing gull behavior and reproductive performance during periods with different levels of investigator activity. Human disturbance precipitated changes in gull behavior which caused significant reductions in fledging success, fledglings per nest, and net reproductive output even when disturbance was limited. In contrast, areas which were relatively undisturbed during the post-hatching period in 3 years and two colonies had very few chick deaths. Human disturbance caused adoptions and enhanced seasonal patterns of chick mortality. I conclude that human-induced chick losses could have had confounding effects in most past studies involving larid reproductive success and may seriously confound theoretical interpretations of reproductive strategies in terrestrial-nesting colonial birds.
4161716|The displays and vocalizations of the Sora (Porzana carolina) and the Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola) were studied at three different sites over a period of 4 years. Many displays and vocalizations are common to both species, but some homologous displays were more elaborate and/or ritualized in the Sora than in the Virginia Rail. In addition, Soras had a larger repertoire of displays. Most notable of these differences were "swanning" displays by male Soras at territorial boundaries, more ritualized preening by Sora mates, performance of the "meeting and passing" display as well as a standard form of the post-copulatory display, and more elaborate begging postures assumed by Sora young. Differences between species may be attributable to the more aggressive, territorial nature of the Sora.
4161717|Foraging behavior of five avian species (Yellow-bellied Sapsucker, Mountain Chickadee, Ruby-crowned Kinglet, Yellow-rumped Warbler, and Gray-headed [= Dark-eyed] Junco) was compared in a recently logged mixed-coniferous forest (selective overstory removal) and a natural forest. The structure and profile of the vegetation in the two forest types differed, with the logged area possessing a different tree-species, foliage-volume distribution, far more open canopy cover, and a greater ground surface complexity resulting from abundant slash (logging debris). In the timber harvested plot, foliage volume, mean tree height, and overall tree density were substantially reduced. In the logged plot some species responded by reducing foraging heights and using shorter trees. Tree species selection varied significantly (P < 0.05) for all avian species when comparing tree species use to tree species availability based on relative frequencies and also when contrasting use in unlogged vs logged areas. The distribution of foliage volume by tree species was considerably different in the two plots. Aspen comprised over 53.1% of the total foliage volume in the logged area vs 5.0% in the unlogged. Use of aspen in the logged plot increased at least twofold for the Yellow-bellied Sapsucker, Mountain Chickadee, and Yellow-rumped Warbler. In the logged area the increase in degree of generalization for the Yellow-rumped Warbler was more pronounced than for any other species. In contrast, the Ruby-crowned Kinglet was quite stereotyped in its foraging and even more so in the harvested area; this coupled with substantially greater specialization in the warbler, was reflected in a reduction in niche overlap between the kinglet and both the chickadee and Yellow-rumped Warbler in the logged site. The results of this study suggest that changes in foraging behavior such as those observed for tree species selection, foraging substrate, tree height use, and foraging height, reflect a shift in vegetation structure and distribution and/or availability of resources.
4161718|Habitat associations of breeding birds in central Ontario were determined by measuring habitat characteristics at singing posts and nest-sites and by using these variables in principal component and stepwise discriminant function analyses. These results were then used as baseline data to predict avian responses to habitat disturbance caused by cottage development. Three habitat variables were important in accounting for large proportions of the total variance in all analyses. These were canopy volume, tree density, and amount of understory. The consistent importance of these variables in our analyses as well as in other published studies suggests that these variables may be significant in avian habitat selection. Coniferous composition was important in the discriminant function analysis, and may be important as another measure of horizontal structuring of habitat. By interpreting the positions of each species along the discriminant function and principal component axes, habitat associations could be described and predictions made regarding the response of a species to habitat disturbance caused by cottage development. In Muskoka-Haliburton removal of the majority of vegetation around a cottage leaves breeding habitat for Song Sparrows and robins. If some predominately coniferous vegetation is left, White-throated Sparrows will also occur. Phoebes and pewees occur on the periphery of cottage clearings. Selective tree removal while leaving the rest of the vegetation undisturbed would create breeding habitat for Veerys, Black-throated Blue and Yellow-rumped warblers, and Red-eyed Vireos. Cottage lots that have been cleared and allowed to go through natural succession to the immature tree stage would create breeding habitat for Rose-breasted Grosbeaks. Swainson's Thrush, Black-throated Green and Black-and-White warblers probably will not occur near cottages because they are intolerant of vegetation disturbance.
4161719|The growth, development, and food habits of nestling Curve-billed Thrashers (Toxostoma curvirostre), Long-billed Thrashers (T. longirostre), and Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) were studied during the summers of 1977 and 1978 in south Texas. The young of each species were typically altricial. The overall growth rates of Curve-billed and Long-billed thrashers were similar (K = 0.444 and 0.443, respectively) and somewhat slower than the smaller mockingbird (K = 0.452) or Sage Thrasher (K = 0.543, using Killpack's 1970 data). Nestling mimids fledged at weights lower than those of adults. At fledging, none of the young mimids could fly and the wing chords were much shorter than those of the adults. Bill lengths of each species were also less than adult measurements. The tarsometatarsus of each mimid species grew rapidly and by day 8, it had attained at least 80% of the adult length. The nestling diets of each species overlapped broadly and were dominated numerically and volumetrically by orthopterans. Other major prey were coleopterans, lepidopterans, and arachnids. The diet of nestling Curve-billed Thrashers changed relatively little between May and July.
4161720|Pairs of Plain-fronted Thornbirds (Phacellodomus rufifrons) maintain permanent territories and construct elaborate stick nests for breeding and for roosting throughout the year. Nest material was examined and measurements were made of the size and type of sticks used in one nest. Experiments showed that thornbirds, when given a choice, preferred long, thorny sticks, even though long, thorny sticks were not in the majority by either number or weight in the nest examined. The method of nest construction is described. Thornbird young continue to roost in the nest up to 16 months of age, and they occasionally bring sticks and lining material, but their contribution to nest-building and maintenance is minimal. Nest piracy by the Troupial (Icterus icterus) is described as is an apparent nest predation attempt by the Ferruginous Pygmy-Owl (Glaucidium brasilianum).
4161748| Evidence from morphology and distribution is combined with data on song to demonstrate the existence of two species of Microcerculus wrens in Central America: M. philomela Salvin (Nightingale-Wren), ranging from Chiapas, Mxico, to central Costa Rica; and M. luscinia Salvin (Northern Whistler-Wren), which ranges from central Costa Rica to eastern Darin, Panam. The importance of the Reventazn region of the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica as a zone of faunal and floral turnover is indicated. Perhaps because of habitat disturbance and/or ecological incompatibility, there is no known area of sympatry of the two forms at the present time. 
4161749|The sylviine genera Vitia, with different species on San Cristobal and Fiji, and Psamathia, a monotypic genus endemic to Palau, are here assigned to the subgenus Horeites of the genus Cettia on the basis of similarities in voice, egg color, and morphology. Within Cettia, the species C. annae, C. parens, and C. ruficapilla may share common ancestry with C. diphone. Their continental ancestor probably resembled C. diphone seebohmi of Luzon, but a direct Philippine derivation of these forms is unlikely. A colonization route through Indonesia, with C. annae reaching Palau from the Papuan region, is proposed. The three species may be relicts of a single formerly widespread Indo-Pacific species. The insular species have evolved longer bills and shorter tails than C. d. seebohmi. Cettia annae has become significantly larger, and its plumage may represent a retention of juvenile characteristics as shown by the young of C. parens. The Pacific species of Cettia have undergone few shifts in habitat choice. Competitive exclusion may be responsible for the absence of Cettia from suitable islands between San Cristobal and Fiji. The expanded genus Cettia is the only southwest Pacific land bird genus of Asian origin that is absent from New Guinea or Australia.
4161750|Two seasonal classes of hypotheses may be invoked to explain the delayed plumage maturation of males in sexually dichromatic passerine species. The female-like plumage of first-year males could be an adaptation either to their first potential breeding season or to their first winter. Proof that the female-like feathering is an adaptation to the first potential breeding season would be provided by showing that female-like, rather than adult-male-like, feathers were grown in a late winter molt. This molt could either be a delayed prebasic (i.e., post juvenile) molt as in Purple Martins (Progne subis) or a prealternate molt as occurs in tanagers. Contra Dwight (1900) no female-like feathers are grown by subadult male American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) in a prealternate molt. Both adult and subadult male redstarts have a very limited prealternate molt involving at least some of the rictal bristles and the feathers around the eyes and in the lores. This molt seems related to increasing foraging efficiency. Contrary to the suggestion by Rohwer et al. (1980), young male redstarts are not polymorphic in the age at which they achieve plumage maturity: young males probably never achieve the definitive plumage in their first prebasic molt and none of over 130 winter-taken first-year males showed evidence of an extensive or a complete prealternate molt. Our data for young male redstarts are more consistent with winter than summer being the season to which their subadult plumage is adapted; however, this conclusion is weak because of the very limited late winter feather replacement in redstarts.
4161751|Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) with a known history of migrating between Marshy Point Goose Sanctuary, Manitoba, and Rochester, Minnesota, were fitted with 50-75 g radio transmitters between August 1973 and April 1975. Part or all of the migrations of 25 individuals were tracked with a ground vehicle and an aircraft. Autumn migrations were characterized by a relatively direct flight path, nonstop flights when departure time and weather conditions permitted, and the resumption of interrupted migrations as soon as weather conditions permitted. Spring migrations involved shorter flights along the edge of the snow melt which facilitated arrival on the nesting grounds in close synchrony with soon to be available nest-sites. There may be nocturnal and diurnal migratory individuals or segments of the population, with the nocturnal geese tending to be early season migrants. The autumn migration corridor was on a direct path between Marshy Point and Rochester and was generally located along the forest-prairie ecotone in Minnesota where water was available in permanent potholes. Due to the path of spring storms in the Midwest and because snow on the prairie melted earlier than ice on the potholes, the formation of melt water occurred first on the prairie. The spring migration corridor was associated with this open water and was 20-55 km west of the autumn corridor. Thus, patches of open water served as major visual cues influencing the migration path. The paths of three birds indicated that the recognition of local landmarks probably determined their final approach to their destination. During nocturnal flights, when these landscape features may be unavailable, astral cues were available.
4161752|Fourteen winter flocks of Tufted Titmice (Parus bicolor) were studied in central Missouri from 1977 to 1979. The flocks formed during late September and early October. Flock size ranged from 2-5 individuals (x = 2.9). Males were more common than females among adults and juveniles. Six of the flocks consisted of one adult male and one female. The flock structure was generally stable throughout the flocking period. Seven birds disappeared from the flocks during the two field seasons. The intra-flock dominance hierarchies were linearly peck-right. Males were dominant over females. Dominance within a sex appeared to be determined by seniority on the flock territory. Titmice typically travelled alone, in pairs, or in groups of three. Certain pairs preferred specific portions of their flock's range for winter activity. The flocks disbanded during late February and March. In 12 of 14 cases the dominant males and females of the flocks proved to be paired and established breeding territories within the winter flock ranges. Consistently, these pairs were the first or only titmice to breed on the flock ranges. The asynchrony in the initiation of breeding between the dominant and sub-ordinate birds may be an important aspect of the titmice's winter flock dominance hierarchy.
4161753|Clutch-size, brood-size, and fledging success were observed at 96 Swainson's Hawk (Buteo swainsoni) nests in both grazed and cultivated habitats in southeastern Washington. Except in 1977, nests in cultivated habitats fledged fewer young. Decreased fledging success resulted from high mortality of youngest and next youngest nestlings. Using nestling weight as an index of food supply, decreases in nestling weight and increases in weight discrepancies between youngest and oldest nestlings in cultivated habitats indicated that a dearth of food increased the incidence of brood reduction. These data supported the food-limited hypothesis for the adaptive significance of hatching asynchrony in this species.
4161754| The 1977 and 1978 breeding seasons of non-migratory Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) in the Gulf of California extended from early January through mid-June with a high degree of asynchrony among pairs that was not caused by renesting. Thirty-two and 28 pairs produced eggs in 1977 and 1978, respectively. Mean clutch-sizes (SE) were 2.7  0.1 in 1977 (N = 28) and 2.9  0.1 (N = 24) in 1978. Hatching success (0.6 nestlings per egg) did not differ in the 2 years although the number of young fledged per active nest decreased from 1.0-0.9. Twenty-one pairs in 1977 produced at least one young to fledging (x = 1.5) and 14 pairs in 1978 averaged 1.9 fledglings. In 1977, pairs that initiated egg-laying during the first half of the laying period were more successful in producing fledglings than were pairs that laid later. Thirty-two fledglings were produced. In 1978, 26 fledglings were produced and there was no significant association of reproductive timing and success. Success in raising nestlings to fledging was similar in both years, indicating that factors influencing the differential production for the two breeding seasons occurred early in the breeding and/or environmental phenology. A comparison of patterns of reproductive loss indicated that the greatest difference between 1977 and 1978 breeding seasons in patterns of reproduction was an increased loss of reproductive potential due to non-breeding. 
4161755| Nestling growth and development patterns were analyzed for a population of cooperatively breeding Beechey Jays (Cyanocorax [Cissilopha] beecheii) near Mazatln, Sinaloa, Mxico. Nestlings were found to have a faster growth rate (Ricklefs' K value = 0.360) and shorter nestling period (22-23 days) than would be predicted for jays of their large size. Locomotor organs apparently developed rapidly, at the expense of overall body weight. At fledging the young were only 67% of adult body weight, but very mobile and difficult to locate. Three nestlings, heavily infected with subcutaneous larval parasites, grew atypically. Physiological and morphological stages were reached at the same age in both infected and noninfected nestlings, but behavioral capabilities in the infected group were retarded. Infected nestlings weighed more than the noninfected ones both prior to being parasitized (day 6) and after day 13 of the nestling period; between days 6 and 13 the weights of the two groups did not differ. Lengths of primary 9 and rectrix 1 of the parasitized nestlings were significantly shorter than those of fledging nonparasitized ones. The rapid growth rate, low fledgling-to-adult weight ratio, and subsequent short nestling period of normal Beechey Jays are seen as adaptations to facilitate breeding in a highly seasonal environment. Limited food supply during the dry season and intense predation pressure and increased likelihood of being parasitized during the wet season preclude breeding at any time other than the late dry season-early wet season period and strongly select for the shortest nestling period possible. The rapid growth rate of nestlings and survival of fledglings may depend upon the cooperative efforts of all group members. 
4161756|Three outbreaks of botulism type E occurring in waterbirds on Lake Michigan since autumn 1976 are discussed. Natural ingestion of food containing type E toxin by Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) and the presence of type E toxin in blood from moribund gulls were demonstrated. Concurrent presence of type C and type E botulinal toxins was found in a die-off of Common Loons (Gavia immer). In combination with previous reported outbreaks, these incidents suggest that this disease is geographically widespread in Lake Michigan, and that environmental conditions conducive to type E botulinal toxin production and consumption occur in both summer and autumn.
4161779|Color-marked Band-tailed Manakins (Pipra fasciicauda) were studied for 6.5 months in undisturbed lowland rain forest of southeastern Peru in 1980. Males congregate at localized, naturally disturbed areas in seasonally flooded forest. The display of P. fasciicauda differs from most other manakins in that usually two or more males perform coordinated displays to attract and excite females. At each display site, an alpha male (the dominant bird) usually performs coordinated displays with a subordinate male. Once a female arrives, it is only the alpha male that actively courts her. A male's display repertoire consists of several elaborate displays that combine visual and accoustical elements to enhance his conspicuousness to a female. The acoustical element is composed of both mechanically and vocally produced sound. The display repertoire of P. fasciicauda is remarkedly similar to that of P. aureola and P. filicauda. This, combined with the similarity in plumage shared by these species, supports the contention that the three species comprise a superspecies.
4161780|Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) were found to mob an Eastern Screech-Owl (Otus asio) at all times of the year. Mobbing was most intense during July and August and least intense during December and January. I suggest that, since chickadees alternate between breeding territories and home ranges, mobbing to force a predator away is adaptive throughout the year. For species that are largely sedentary, the benefits of causing a predator to move to another location may maintain mobbing at some baseline level that would be increased during the breeding season, as mobbing serves the additional function of protection of the young.
4161781|In 1975, 12 breeding bird species were spot-mapped in four pine stands of different heights and four comparable sized pine-hardwood stands. Vegetation measurements were made at 382 grid points within the eight stands. Vegetation at grid points within each species' territories was compared to vegetation not included in territories using a separate two-group discriminant function analysis (DFA) for each species. Correlations of original variables to the 12 DFA axes were calculated to determine which vegetation parameters were important to individual bird species. When compared to a single 12-group DFA, the two-group DFAs provided a more detailed description of individual species' vegetation requirements. Early succession bird species such as White-eyed Vireos, Yellow-breasted Chats, Prairie Warblers, and Northern Cardinals were positively associated with increasing density of shrub stems, foliage volume at 1 and 3 m high, percent sapling pines, and number of shrub species and negatively associated with increasing vegetation height, canopy closure, and number of pole-size trees. Late succession bird species such as Red-eyed Vireos, Black-and-white Warblers and Tufted Titmice favored increasing vegetation height, number of tree species, and canopy closure. Other bird species had their own specific vegetation requirements.
4161782|During the last 50 years, the Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) breeding population in the western United States has increased from a minimum of 4800 to 106,000 individuals in 1980. This increase, approximately 22-fold, is manifested in two forms: an increase in mean colony size from 397 to 1867 breeding adults and a proliferation of colonies from 12 to 16 in the 1920s to 57 today. Concomitantly, the breeding population of California Gulls (L. californicus) in the western U.S. has more than doubled, from ca. 101,000 to 276,000 in 1980. Interestingly, while the number of California Gull colonies has increased from 15 in 1930 to 80 in 1980, the mean number of gulls per colony has decreased, from 6734 to 3455 during the same period. Both gull species have apparently benefitted from increased food supplies resulting from edible human garbage and agricultural practices. Also aiding the proliferation of these gulls has been the creation of new nesting habitat on islands formed by large reservoirs and the reduction of human predation by egg and plumage hunters.
4161783|Numbers and movements of Brant (Branta bernicla) and Canada Geese (B. canadensis) were studied at Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge between 1 May 1978 and 1 May 1979. Jamaica Bay contains a variety of tidal habitats as well as two large freshwater ponds. Brant primarily used the tidal bay while Canada Geese were concentrated around freshwater ponds. Multiple regression analysis indicated that temporal and weather-related factors influenced the number of flocks and individuals of Canada Geese, while temporal, tidal and weather factors influenced Brant. The largest numbers of Brant and their flocks were present on the bay on falling tides and at low tides. The paper discusses the effect of temporal, tidal, and weather-related factors on the abundance and distribution of Brant and Canada Geese at Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge, and concludes that geese will use a diversity of habitats during different environmental conditions.
4161784|The winter feeding ecology of Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger niger) was observed for 1119 h in 16 areas at Cedar Key and four areas at St. Vincent National Wildlife Refuge on the Gulf coast of Florida. Skimmers used some tidal flat areas frequently, some intermittently, and some not at all; however, prey abundance and composition alone did not explain the Black Skimmers' selection of feeding areas. Of 5461 forages recorded, 71% occurred within 2 m of a land-water interface suggesting that the skimmer is best adapted to exploit prey in the shallow, smooth water along land-water interfaces. The structure of feeding areas used by skimmers was typified by shallow water (10-20 cm), maximal land-water interspersion, 43% mudflat, and 23% open water. Feeding sites within marsh/tidal pool habitat were specifically selected by skimmers, and an assessment of specific habitat characteristics in two independent locations showed similar feeding habitat selection in two skimmer populations.
4161785|Trophic structure of breeding bird communities in isolated forests (1.8-600 ha) in east-central Illinois was studied 1979-1981. Breeding species were assigned to one of seven trophic groups; two groups (nectarivore-frugivore, granivore) were represented by few species or individuals. Abundance and species richness within the remaining five groups varied with forest area and appeared tied to the size and structure of the forest itself and to the composition of the surrounding landscape. Small forests were dominated by omnivores that frequently foraged in surrounding farmland. Foliage insectivores, primarily Neotropical migrants, were uncommon in smaller forests, but comprised the largest component of bird communities in large forests. Species totals in major trophic groups were significantly correlated with area in all years. Highest correlations were observed for foliage insectivores and bark insectivores. The former group had the highest slope, indicating the most rapid increase in species number with area, a reflection of the increase in number of long-distance migrants in larger forests. Correlation with area generally was not as high for abundance of individuals within trophic groups. However, abundances of both foliage and bark insectivores were strongly correlated with area. Over the size range of forests covered, distribution of species within major trophic groups differed from that expected if species occurrences were independent of forest area. Omnivores were more common that expected in small forests, whereas ground insectivores and bark insectivores were more common than expected in large forests. Foliage insectivores were underrepresented over the entire range of forest size. Thus, trophic groups were not represented in all forests simply according to their contribution to the total species pool, suggesting that abundance of different food resources varied in dissimilar ways with forest area.
4161786|Reproductive success of the Common Loon (Gavia immer) in relation to cottage development was studied from 1977-1979 in central Ontario. Two-egg clutches were significantly more successful than one-egg clutches and loons that initiated incubation early in their breeding season tended to be more successful than those that nested later when the risk of human disturbance was greater. Hatching success declined as the number of cottages within 150 m of the nest increased. Once the eggs had hatched, chick survival appeared to be independent of cottage development around the nest. When human activity near eight nests within 150 m of at least three cottages were compared to eight nests where there was no development, the difference in human activity was highly significant (P < 0.01). It is believed that some loons nesting in developed areas may have become habituated to humans.
4161787|Vocalizations of the White-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta carolinensis) were studied from 1 October 1973-1 May 1975 in Le Sueur County, Minnesota. The vocal repertoire of this nuthatch was found to consist of two juvenile and 13 adult calls plus a song that was given at two different rates. A description of the behavioral context of the vocalizations is presented, and possible functions are suggested.
4161824|Most antshrikes (Formicariidae: Thamnophilus, Dysithamnus, and allies) are generalized perch-gleaning insectivores. Several species of the South American antshrike genus Thamnomanes, however, are characterized by a foraging behavior that appears to be unique within the family. These Thamnomanes are sally-gleaning insectivores that utilize a "sit-and-wait" foraging strategy accompanied by long prey-capture sallies. Quantitative data on some aspects of this foraging behavior are presented for two species of Thamnomanes studied in the field in Peru and Bolivia. The morphology of Thamnomanes is predicted to show specializations reflecting their sally-gleaning behavior: sally-gleaning antshrikes are predicted to have relatively longer wings, shorter tarsi, and wider bills than perch-gleaning antshrikes. These predictions are tested using museum specimens, and the morphology of Thamnomanes is shown to fit the predictions. The systematics of Thamnomanes is re-evaluated with special consideration given to foraging behavior and accompanying morphological specializations. The genus Thamnomanes is recommended to contain four species known or inferred to be sally-gleaners. Two species currently classified in Thamnomanes, T. plumbeus, and T. occidentalis, are believed on the basis of morphology to be perch-gleaners, and are removed from the genus.
4161826|Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) were studied along the south Texas coast during 1978-1981 to determine productivity and to evaluate the effects of environmental pollutants on reproduction. The average clutch-size was 2.6, ranging from 2.3-2.8. Sixty-six percent of the eggs hatched and 82% of the pairs hatched at least one egg. Productivity (fledglings/total nests) averaged 1.0 fledgling per nest. DDE and other organochlorine residues were low in eggs (usually <3 ppm wet weight) and were not suspected of causing reproductive problems. However, organophosphate pesticides sprayed on crops near the study areas reduced productivity by as much as 33% during 3 of 4 years, implying that certain of these chemicals may pose serious threats to the population.
4161827|Some Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) clutches of five and six eggs in the Gull Island colony in Lake Ontario in 1980 were attended by at least two females while others were attended by at least one male and one female. Since we did not ascertain whether or not a third individual was in attendance, we can only conclude that these supernormal clutches resulted from active female-female associations, polygyny, or from a single female. The female-female associations frequently involved one individual in subadult plumage. One female was a member of two consecutive female-female associations at two different colonies in the same breeding season. Minimum fertility of supernormal clutches was higher in those with a male in attendance. The prevalence of supernormal clutches is higher in growing colonies and in areas of range expansion than in saturated and declining colonies or in colonies within the long-established range. This suggests that supernormal clutches result from behavioral responses to a skewed operational sex ratio that accompanies range expansion and colonization.
4161828|More than 90% of Mountain (Parus gambeli) and Chestnut-backed (P. rufescens) chickadee nests in two interior California mixed conifer habitats were found to be infested with Protocalliphora parasites. In contrast, only 1 of 55 chickadee nests was infested in a coastal study area. Failure of most puparia in this nest to develop may reflect the presence of some environmental factor unsuitable for Protocalliphora. Infestation numbers varied considerably, and in one instance the hosts fledged despite an infestation exceeding 45 Protocalliphora per nestling. Nestling mortality was low and did not seem to be related to effects of the parasites. This observed result was surprising in light of expected effects predicted from parasite biomasses supported by many nestlings. However, fledglings stressed by blood losses resulting from heavy Protocalliphora infestations are nonetheless thought to have reduced post-fledging success.
4161829|Nesting success of Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura) and American Robins (Turdus migratorius) was studied for 3 years in Minnesota farmstead shelterbelts. Of 94 dove nests and 54 robin nests, 32% and 56%, respectively, fledged at least one young. Doves frequently nested in abandoned nests, whereas robins never nested in abandoned nests. No nest-site characteristics measured in the study were related to nesting success of doves; height of tree or shrub used for nesting and distance of nest from the main stem of the nesting substratum were associated with success of robin nests when compared to those of doves. Relative to nests of doves, nests of robins may be more susceptible to predation by red squirrels. Nesting success rates of doves did not show a seasonal trend, but rates of robins increased as breeding season progressed. Farmstead shelterbelts are relatively recent, manmade habitats in the Midwest. Thus, relationships between nest-site selection and nesting success may be different than those found in habitats that have been in existence for longer time periods.
4161830| Variation in foraging behavior between male and female Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) was examined during the breeding season in a mixed-coniferous forest, White Mountains, Arizona. Of seven foraging variables analyzed, the male and female Yellow-rumped Warblers displayed no significant differences (G-statistic, P > 0.05) in method, perch type, perch diameter, or in distance from the branch tip. However, pronounced significant differences (P  0.05) in foraging behavior were noted for tree species selection, and for the correlated variables tree height preference and foraging location with respect to distance from the ground. Males tended to forage in taller trees and at a greater distance from the ground. Females spent considerably more time in Douglas-fir than did males. Most of the variation in foraging behavior may be attributable to males foraging in the vicinity of song posts, whereas females spent a greater proportion of time nearer the nest-sites. Of the three possible alternatives examined to account for these differences, it appears that the alternative reflecting related energy savings gained by each member of the pair concentrating its foraging activities near the location of its most important reproductive duties, is the most persuasive. This alternative is also the one most closely aligned with optimal foraging theory. 
4161831|The use of space by grassland birds during winter is variable, but generally exhibits patterns which indicate high intra- and intersite mobility. Only the LeConte's Sparrow exhibited space use resembling territories, but these may be maintained by avoidance rather than defense. Individual distance was inversely correlated (P < 0.05) with habitat height and habitat density. Social behavior enhancing predator detection appears to be an important factor influencing the use of space by grassland birds.
4161832|Many temperate-zone bird species accumulate fat stores during winter. These stores are commonly assumed to serve as energy reserves for the longer nights, colder temperatures, and increased probability of fasting during periods of snow cover; but little is known about what regulates fat storage at the proximate level. If seasonal fattening is a response to winter climate, then a latitudinal cline in degree of fattening would be expected in many parts of the world. This paper reports such latitudinal variation in the body mass of Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) captured at six locations under a variety of environmental conditions during several winters. Juncos at higher latitudes (Michigan and Indiana) were significantly heavier than those from more southern sites (Tennessee, South Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi). This was true of young and adult individuals of both sexes and was not a function of latitudinal variation in body size (as measured by wing length). Visible fat stores were also greater at higher latitudes, and we conclude that northern juncos were fatter than their southern counterparts. Multiple regression of body mass on measures of temperature, day length, and snow cover as well as on wing length, latitude, and hour of day indicates that latitude was by far the best predictor of mass; but all the variables produced significant partial regression coefficients. Thus, juncos were heavier when recent temperatures had been colder, when days were longer, and when snow was present. Additionally, they were heavier if they had longer wings or were caught later in the day. Two explanations of latitudinal variation in fattening are considered. Northern and southern juncos may represent genetically differentiated populations varying in their regulatory physiology. Alternatively, juncos may simply respond in a graded manner to conditions that vary in their proximate physical environments. Results to date can be taken to support either view.
4161833|Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (Pheucticus ludovicianus) are extremely variable in several aspects of their flight feather molt. They have a high frequency of arrested molt of the remiges. They commonly show arrested and "omissive" molt in the prealternate rectrix molt of the first-year males, of which as many as half may replace only part of the tail. The coloring of adult and juvenal feathers shows great variability. Finally, most Rose-breasted Grosbeaks that strike TV towers during their nocturnal migration in the autumn are still molting flight feathers. No other species studied thus far shows such a prevalence of active molt during migration. The reasons for variability in molt and plumage are unknown, as are the reasons for an apparent relative lack of variability in the molt and plumage of other species. We hope that this paper will prompt further investigation of molt variation, and of overlap between molt and migration, in Rose-breasted Grosbeaks and other species.
4161866| Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus) in the lowlands adjacent to the Rasmussen Basin, Keewatin District, N.W.T., were counted during fixed-wing and helicopter surveys in 1975 and 1976. The lowlands support an estimated population of 4966  678 SE nesting swans and we estimated an additional 500 nesting swans to the southwest in an adjacent area that we did not survey systematically. Since only 6000 Tundra Swans are estimated to nest in the eastern Canadian Arctic, the Rasmussen Lowlands appear to be the center of abundance in this region for the species. Flocks of presumably immature swans also occur in the lowlands in summer. Spring was much later in 1976 than in 1975. Fewer Tundra Swans nested in 1976 and the broods of those that did nest were significantly smaller than broods in 1975 (P < 0.01). In both years the peak of hatch occurred after 10 July and, at least in 1976, family groups with flightless young were observed when freeze-up of freshwater was almost complete. The short summer season in the Rasmussen Lowlands in comparison with other areas with high densities of nesting Tundra Swans suggests that conditions for survival of this lowland population are less than optimal. 
4161867|From 1976-1978, I quantified the sexual behavior of adult male and female Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) rearing chicks. Male Ring-billed Gulls occasionally displayed sexually to their mates and rarely exhibited such behavior toward their chicks. However, females frequently performed sexual behavior toward their offspring which was indistinguishable from the sexual behavior of courting males. Males exhibited sexual behavior toward their mates when females begged for food during feedings of offspring. Persistent begging by chicks when feeding was not imminent apparently stimulated females to perform male-like behavior toward them. Females that engaged in sexual behavior with mates or chicks may have been food-stressed.
4161868|Lesser Sheathbills (Chionis minor) were studied at Marion Island in the sub-Antarctic. During the winter non-breeding season, pairs defended their breeding territories in King Penguin colonies against adult and subadult intruders, but they permitted their juvenile offspring to forage within the territories. Adults defended the territories at apparently little cost and gained immediate benefits by having greater access to the high quality food than intruders. Their offspring also benefitted by avoiding much of the aggressive competition for food, and this probably enhanced their survival. Adults remaining in their territories might also have improved their chances of retaining the territories in the following breeding season, but this was not directly confirmed. Although intruders were chased frequently and had less access to superior food, the King Penguin colonies remained attractive foraging sites in winter for many sheathbills. Only at these colonies was the food supply predictable and concentrated to allow territoriality in winter.
4161869|Samples of fish dropped at 10 Least Tern breeding colonies were, in general, valid indicators of the principal prey species being eaten at a colony. Collection of such specimens provides a simple means of crudely monitoring year-to-year and inter-colony differences in feeding habits. Northern anchovy, topsmelt, jacksmelt, and deepbody or slough anchovies were the primary food items eaten by Least Terns in California. In 1982, when smaller mean clutch-sizes, lowered asymptotic chick weights, and increased levels of egg abandonment and non-predator related chick mortality indicated conditions of low food availability near two study colonies, the dominant prey species eaten at these sites were dropped in the colonies less frequently than during 1980, 1981, and 1983.
4161870|Breeding bird populations were studied in eight deciduous forested wetlands located in the Connecticut Valley region of Massachusetts. Singing male birds were counted on 10 circular 0.25-ha plots in each study area in June 1978 and 1979. A total of 46 species was observed, with estimated densities varying among study areas from 134-720 males per 40 ha. Avian community parameters (total breeding bird density, bird species richness, and abundance of three foraging guilds) were related to 15 habitat variables by multiple regression and simple correlation. Results suggested that breeding bird communities in forested wetlands are significantly related to vegetation structure and hydrology. Generally, the most poorly drained sites appeared to have the most abundant and diverse breeding bird populations.
4161871| We compared breeding ecology and reproductive success between morphs of the White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis). Total arrival time was equally broad for both white-striped (WS) and tan-striped (TS) males, and no difference was found in time of arrival on the breeding grounds between male morphs. WS females were detected significantly earlier than TS females; this is possibly a result of quicker pair formation in TS male  WS female pairs as clutch initiation was earlier in this pair type in one year than in WS male  TS female pairs. Return rates of males to the study areas in successive years did not differ between morphs; return rates of females were very low in all years. Success rates of nests, number of young fledged per nest, length of nestling period, growth rates of nestlings, and weight of nestlings at fledging did not differ between morphs. Thus, the argument that TS males suffer a reproductive cost by occupying "suboptimal" habitat is not supported. 
4161872|Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) commonly establish territories along fencerows in Iowa corn and soybean fields, where Vesper Sparrow productivity can be below replacement levels. We evaluated the adaptiveness of selecting territories on cultivated land by: (1) identifying habitat characteristics preferred by Vesper Sparrows (as measured by male arrival date and pairing success); and (2) determining the relationship between territory preference and nesting success. Males arrived earlier and had higher pairing success on territories where fencerows contained more shrub groups and where more crop residue was retained on the fields. The relationship of number of shrub groups and crop residue to various territory requisites (song perches, nestling food, and nest-sites) is discussed, as well as the implications of site fidelity in annually cultivated cropland. Nesting success was related to the number of washes and amount of crop residue on territories; both are unpredictable from year to year. Due primarily to the disruptive effects of agriculture, preferred habitat characteristics corresponded little with those related to productivity.
4161873| Marked territorial male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were censused on a 30.6-km roadside route in Cass County, North Dakota from 23 May-25 July 1980 to determine the proportion observed during the most favorable daily and seasonal time periods for surveys. We found that censuses conducted in early morning and late afternoon in early June were the most reliable; 80.0% (SE 1.4%) of territorial males were seen at this time. Numbers of territorial males decreased steadily until early June, when most female red-wings were incubating and feeding nestlings. Most (65.8%) of the territorial males missed during censuses were off their territory. Radio transmitter information indicated that territorial males in late May sometimes roosted communally, and that unmarked adult males often quickly replaced the owner of the territory after he left to feed. 
4161909|The patterns of habitat use by foraging Arctic Terns (Sterna paradisaea) and Sabine's Gulls (Xema sabini) were quantified and compared at East Bay, Southampton Island, N.W.T., during the 1980 breeding season. Segregation of gulls and terns at the macrohabitat level served to loosely partition total food resources; dipteran larvae and adults were available to Sabine's Gulls in the freshwater macrohabitat and amphipods to Arctic Terns in the salt water zone. Microhabitat segregation resulted in further partitioning, especially when macrohabitat segregation was lowest (i.e., during egg-laying and incubation). Three explanations for these patterns are discussed: coincidence, optimal foraging, and interspecific competition. Arguments in support of both optimal foraging and competition interpretations are offered to best account for the habitat preferences of Arctic Terns and Sabine's Gulls at East Bay.
4161910|The territoriality, foraging behavior, and aquatic prey of breeding Louisiana (Seiurus motacilla) and Northern (S. novaboracensis) waterthrushes were studied in northeastern Connecticut. Although intensely aggressive toward conspecifics, the species had overlapping territories and were similar in both use of foraging sites and in methods of foraging. Few significant differences between territories of the two species occurred with respect to biomass, taxonomic composition, and size distribution of aquatic invertebrates. Despite similarity in behavior and in resource availability of their territories, evidence for interspecific competition between the species appeared weak. It is suggested that the waterthrushes coexist without competing because resources are not in limited supply, and that differences which do exist between the species have evolved in response to factors other than competition.
4161911|The eastern race of the House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) tolerates low winter temperatures very poorly. Laboratory tests indicate that their metabolism and cold tolerance is, at least partially, a function of food composition. In the laboratory, oil-supplemented chick mash was preferred over soy-supplemented or unsupplemented mash and was more efficiently metabolized. House Finches select sunflower seeds over millet and milo and this preference may be related to the distinctly higher fat content of the former. Evolution of larger bill size in the eastern race of the House Finch may be due to preference for sunflower seeds at bird feeders in winter, increased cold tolerance as a result of this choice, and the increased range of permanent residency of this species.
4161912| The Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) was studied at Isle Verte, Qubec, during the breeding season from 1976-1981. The temporal arrival pattern of males varied markedly between the 3 years of the study for which we had complete data: the time-span of arrivals diminished from 24-19-16 days for 1978, 1980, and 1981, respectively. Winglength was found to be an indicator of age. During the only year with complete data we found that older (longer-winged) males arrived earlier. Birds banded as nestlings (N = 281) never returned to the study area to settle as breeders. Birds having bred once in the study area were never found to settle elsewhere (i.e., in a 100-m belt adjacent to the area). Site fidelity was evaluated by comparing the position of the activity spaces occupied by known individuals at equivalent periods of successive seasons; 80% of all moves were less than the average diameter of a territory at Isle Verte (60 m). The distance moved did not vary between sexes, nor did it differ when nesting was not attempted, when nesting failed, or, when change of mate occurred. Strong site fidelity in this population of Savannah Sparrows is viewed as an alternative strategy to habitat quality re-assessment upon spring arrival. 
4161913|Structure and dynamics of breeding groups in the cooperatively breeding Beechey Jay (Cyanocorax beecheii) were studied near Mazatlan, Mexico, from 1974-1978. Breeding groups were composed of one breeding adult member of each sex and 0-4 helpers, which varied in age from yearling to adult (3 years or older). Most groups were relatively stable in membership and occupied the same territories throughout our study. A few groups dissolved, most when habitat of their territory was destroyed. Adults predominated among birds moving from one group to another; neither sex predominated. Breeders that disappeared were replaced more often by immigrants than by group members. All group members assisted in feeding and defending nests, fledglings, and territories. Most helpers were offspring of one or both breeders. Male breeders accounted for the majority of the feeding visits, followed by female breeders and yearling helpers. Individual birds did not account for an increased percentage of feeding visits as they matured. A group attempted no more than one successful nesting and produced an average of 2.3 fledglings per year. Major losses of eggs were through predation (15 of 99) and infertility (21 of 84). Predation was the principal source of nestling loss (25-33 of 40 lost, of 101 total). Groups with helpers did not realize an increase in annual reproductive success when compared to groups without helpers. The probability of survival increased with age; adult annual survival rate was at least 70% and probably nearer to 80%. Only one known bird failed to breed after reaching adulthood and at least 29 of 34 adults became breeders. Breeders incur few costs in allowing helpers to remain on the territory and assist at the nest. They probably benefit from the presence of helpers through increased survival and thus in lifetime reproductive output. Helpers forego breeding and remain on occupied territories because by doing so they have a greater opportunity to survive and ultimately reproduce than if they dispersed into ecologically unsuitable, unoccupied areas. Likely reasons that helpers help are that such behavior (1) is a form of payment to the breeders for allowing them access to territorial resources, (2) results in the gain of future help of the young they help raise, and (3) increases their indirect fitness because they help close kin. Any combination of these reasons may be operative. The social organization and demography of Beechey Jays are remarkably similar to those of Florida Scrub Jays but we found no evidence of the territorial expansion and budding characteristic of Florida Scrub Jays or of specialized dispersal mechanisms as in that species and Green Woodhoopoes. These differences may be related to differences in habitat. Similarly, variation in habitat seems to underlie the considerable differences in social organization between the Beechey Jay and its relatives in Cissilopha.
4161914|The breeding bird population in a stand of second growth red spruce forest in eastern West Virginia was determined at 5-year intervals by the spot-mapping method from 1947-1983. From 1962-1983 the population was also monitored annually by a somewhat cruder "index method." In these 36 years the overall species composition changed very little, although the number of species and the total number of males underwent a marked reduction at about the same time the crowns of the spruce trees coalesced and eliminated all other plant species from the area. Since that time the population has remained essentially constant, although a slow decline appears to be taking place. In boreal habitats such as this one the population determined in any one year is very sensitive to weather factors. Possible fluctuations due to such factors must be considered in drawing ecological conclusions from data obtained in a single year.
4161915|Reproductive activity in juvenile Common Ground Doves (Columbina passerina) was studied in mesquite-brushland habitats in south Texas from 1978-1980. Juveniles were reproductively active near the time they molted their sixth juvenal primary, at approximately 79 days of age. Evidence of breeding included enlarged testes, differentiated ovaries, active crop glands, and oviducal eggs. The contribution of juvenile breeders to the annual recruitment of the population was estimated to be 15-21%.
4161916|This study examined the frequency of supernormal clutches (SNCs) in gulls and terns by checking egg collections and literature reports. Supernormal clutches were defined as clutches that contained at least 50% more eggs than the modal clutch-size, except that a two-egg clutch was considered supernormal if 90% of the individual females lay a single egg. While SNCs were found in 15 of 18 examined gull species and 14 of 15 tern species, they constituted less than 1% of the clutches in most of these species. Most studies which have documented the causes of SNCs have shown that SNCs usually resulted from female pairings or polygynous associations. These results suggest that female pairings or polygyny may be widespread among the Laridae, as well as other normally-monogamous waterbirds. This study also tested the hypothesis that DDT has caused an increase in female pairings. If correct, there should be an increase in SNC frequencies since the late 1940s when DDT became widely used. In the Western Gull, the Great Lakes population of Herring Gulls, and the U.S. Caspian Tern population, there has been a significant increase in SNC frequencies since 1950. These two gull populations breed in areas which have had pollution problems and where high levels of organochlorines have been found in the eggs and tissues of these birds. For most gull and tern species, however, there has been no significant increase in SNC frequencies since 1950. Hence, this study's findings do not disprove this hypothesis but indicate that any pollutant-induced increase in female pairings probably is limited to a small number of species.
4161917| The sample egg technique and eggshell thickness-residue regression analysis were comparatively evaluated as tools in estimating critical levels of DDE in birds' eggs that seriously affect reproductive success and population starts. In comparing critical values of DDE that were derived from the two methods, the estimates were lower using the sample egg technique for both the Brown Pelican (3 g/g vs 8 g/g) and the Black-crowned Night-Heron (12 g/g vs 54 g/g) assuming a critical value of eggshell thinning at 20%. Extension of the regression line beyond the eggshell thickness-DDE residue data base is likely to result in spurious critical values of DDE. When sufficient thickness and residue data are available for estimating critical values of DDE from the regression equation, the estimates are meaningful but are likely to be inflated because adverse effects unrelated to eggshell thinning such as parental behavior and embryotoxicity unrelated to eggshell deficiencies are not taken into account. Establishing critical levels of pollutants in eggs and tissues is a necessary procedure in assessing effects of these chemicals on individuals and populations of sensitive species. There are inherent difficulties in quantifying the effects of any pollutant on population trends and declines in productivity. The sample egg technique is apparently a more sensitive method for estimating critical levels of DDE, but some subjective interpretation is required for results obtained by both methods. 
4161953|The West Indian Red-bellied Woodpecker (Melanerpes superciliaris) is resident throughout Grand Cayman in suitable habitats from mangrove to dense limestone forests. Despite the overlapping ranges found for weight, culmen, and tarsometatarsal length, mean values were significantly higher in males than in females. When the differences found in those characters that are important for feeding (e.g., bill size) in M. superciliaris are compared with the intersexual differences in foraging behavior, a relationship between dimorphism and feeding niches seems evident. The predominant foraging methods are fruit-eating (37.7%), gleaning (23.9%), probing (20.6%), and pecking (13.4%). Compared with the female, the male was often seen pecking. The larger-billed males are probably better adapted for pecking and feeding in the deeper levels of the bark and cambial layer. The intersexual differences in gleaning were statistically significant, the females gleaning more frequently. We expected to find the smaller female foraging upon smaller substrata (i.e., outer branches and higher up in trees). With the exception of the lower trunk, there were no statistical differences in the use of zones, although the females also tended to use the upper trunk and inner branches with a greater frequency than the males. There were significant differences in the foraging heights, with the males foraging higher. In their daily activities, pairs of M. superciliaris were often seen in close proximity, maintaining contact vocally. Sexual partitioning of the foraging resources is a possible mechanism of facilitating social organization in M. superciliaris by reducing intersexual aggression and competition.
4161954|Two types of competitive interactions occur among species in bird communities: exploitation and interference. Most theoretical and empirical approaches to the ecology of competition have assumed the evolutionary and ecological results of these two processes are the same. Interference can be active, a result of direct behavioral interactions which carry with them a cost, or passive, the indirect result of other activities of competitors (such as food gathering). A model is presented which suggests the type of ecological settings in which the various types of competition can occur. Generally, the model suggests that as resources become less abundant, more widely dispersed, and less predictable, exploitation should become more prevalent while interference should become less prevalent. Research on birds indicates that active interference is very common, however, exploitation and passive interference, if prevalent, may be difficult to document. Discussions of the prevalence of competition have centered on the Lotka-Volterra conceptualization of competition. However, if interference is common when resources are abundant, then resource limitation may not be a prerequisite of niche divergence. Exploitation should lead to niche partitioning via reduced resource overlap, while interference should lead to niche partitioning via reduced spatial overlap. However, both of these factors may act as selection pressures on competing species in addition to many other selection pressures, hence the ability of species to respond to selection to reduce competition might be greatly modified or inhibited.
4161955|Descriptions of Painted Bunting (Passerina ciris) visual displays and the context in which they occur are based on observations made during four breeding seasons on a barrier island in Georgia. The social context in which the displays occurred was used to infer their function. Many of these displays are similar to those of closely related species, but the bow display and the form and sequence of courtship displays differ from those of congeners.
4161956| Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) were studied during April-August 1976-1983 on Mitlenatch and Mandarte islands in Georgia Strait, British Columbia. Nesting territories (x = 0.49 ha) and internest distances (x = 17.8 m) were small compared to other species of Corvus. Nests were built on the ground or in shrubs and trees. Nests built early in the season tended to be ground nests as compared to those built later. The average height of tree nests was 2 m. About 25% of the nests each year were built on top of nests of previous years. Most eggs were laid at daily intervals. The mean weight of fresh eggs was 17.8 g and eggs lost 18.8% of their initial weight during the incubation period (x = 18.3 days). Fourth and fifth eggs were significantly smaller than first, second, and third eggs. Incubation began when an average of 2.3 eggs had been laid in a clutch. The mean clutch-size was four eggs. Hatching success was 74%. Nestlings weighed 14.9 g at hatching and 300 g about 4 weeks later. About 79% of the nests fledged one or more young. 
4161957|We used 9 years of banding data to study movement patterns and to estimate mortality of Cliff Swallows (Hirundo pyrrhonota). Adult swallows averaged a 79% return rate to their breeding "colony," but not necessarily to their breeding culvert. Young swallows averaged a 74% return rate to their breeding "colony." No significant difference was found between the rate of return of either sex. Using Downing's (1980) survival tables, we calculated a 45% annual mortality for both adults and juveniles. Juvenile first year mortality was 11% higher than adult mortality. Six 9-year-old swallows were captured during the study, tying the existing longevity record.
4161958|Four breeding bird censuses were conducted with the territory-mapping method in two rectangular forested plots adjacent to power-line corridors in eastern Tennessee. The plots were subdivided into 20 or more strip transects parallel to the corridors. Density was estimated for each transect and plotted on distance from the corridor/forest edge. Plots for 22 bird species are presented. The plots were often characterized by distinct peaks and lows, indicating that territories tended to line up in rows parallel to the edge. The Acadian Flycatcher and Ovenbird were significantly denser (P < 0.05, 0.01, respectively) in forest interior. The Summer Tanager, cardinal, and towhee were denser (P < 0.05, 0.01, and 0.05, respectively) near the edge. Densities of the other species were not significantly associated with distance from the edge (P > 0.05).
4161959|For 15 years after fire exclusion in 1966, annual breeding bird censuses were conducted on an 8.6-ha plot of oldfield pine forest in northern Florida. Changes in vegetation structure were assessed using data from plant succession studies and by taking 0.04-ha circular samples within the study area 15 years after fire exclusion and in a contiguous annually burned oldfield forest. Using rarefaction, a statistical technique, annual bird species totals for this study are compared to bird species richness in nearby old-growth longleaf pine and mature beech-magnolia forests. Changes in the bird community and vegetation structure were dramatic. Only 11 of 43 bird species were encountered every year of the study. Most finches and brush nesting species no longer occur on the study area while several species associated with mesic conditions have increased in abundance.
4161988|A distinct new form of Cranioleuca from the Cordillera Vilcabamba, Dpto. Cuzco, Peru, is described as a subspecies (weskei) of Cranioleuca marcapatae. Natural history notes concerning weskei and its close relative C. a. albiceps are presented, including a description of the first known nest of the latter. Relationships among the members of the C. albiceps superspecies are discussed, as are the patterns of geographic variation that this group exhibits in color and body size. Samples of C. a. albiceps taken approximately 50 years apart show strong differences in crown color frequencies that can be interpreted tentatively as a case of rapid evolution in a phenotypic character.
4161989|Developmental changes in color, weight, body size, and the appearance of body contour feathers, are described for wild nestling Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in Saskatchewan. Chicks hatched with relatively large bills, large legs, and a small body. The growth of some body components (e.g., the legs) was complete about halfway through the nestling period, whereas the mature size of the bill and flight feathers was not reached until after the birds left the nest. The maximum absolute weight gain per day (180 g, a conservative figure) of Bald Eagles appears to be the greatest of any North American bird, but this is to be expected of a temperate zone altricial species of its body size. Weight growth was not correlated with body feather development or the rate of eighth primary feather growth, but was significantly correlated with the timing of the emergence of the eighth primary. There was a great deal of variation in the age at which body feathers unsheathed, yet little variation in the growth of flight feathers. Body feather growth and primary feather growth were largely independent. Males differed from females in being smaller, having earlier inflection points to growth curves and growing flight feathers at a younger age, but were not different in rate of growth. When body size was accounted for, the relative growth of the sexes was equal. The emergence of second down and flight feathers was delayed for the second-hatched chick in the nest compared to its older sibling. The age at which eaglets became homeothermic was estimated to be about 15 days, at which time a sharp decline in the nest attentiveness behavior of the parents was observed. Caution must be exercised when attempting to determine the adaptive significance of patterns of growth, for growth itself may not have been the primary adaptation. Several analyses presented here showed that the timing of growth events, rather than the rate at which they proceed, was the more important consideration in assessing development.
4161990|We discuss several procedures suitable for the needs of modern systematic ornithology, with emphasis on electrophoresis and specimen preparation. Specifically, we describe: (a) methods for the sampling, preservation, and transport of tissue in liquid nitrogen; (b) available liquid nitrogen storage vessels; (c) regulations governing the transport of liquid nitrogen aboard commercial aircraft; (d) techniques useful in the preparation of whole-tissue extracts, gel/buffer combinations and stains, and the design of electrophoretic studies; and (e) methods for the preparation of "skin-skeletons," specimens that allow all routine skin and skeletal measurements and tissue to be taken from the same individual, thereby maximizing the informational content of every specimen.
4161991| The assumption that observer and annual (between-year) variation in winter bird population studies (WBPS) results is small relative to between-plot variation was examined. The implications of the results for the use of the WBPS for hypothesis testing in ecological surveys and environmental impact assessment are discussed. Data from a survey of winter avian assemblages in urban areas were used to test the hypothesis. Variables often used in avian community analysis were examined. Measures of community structure included several indices of diversity and evenness and overall abundance. Species composition was investigated using a multivariate rank test. Variation in estimating the abundance of six common species was also examined. Observer variation in estimating community structure, community composition, and species' abundances was found to be small relative to both sampling and between-plot variance. Thus, in the context of the present study, observer bias did not appear important except in estimating number of species per count and H. Annual variation in community structure, composition, and species' abundances was relatively large for many variables. Annual variance was seldom smaller than observer variance and only sometimes less than variance between plots. Thus, comparisons between plots surveyed in different years or between surveys conducted by different observers on the same plot in different years should be made cautiously. The generality of these results is unknown and will vary. This paper indicates a method for the evaluation of these and other sources of bias in the WBPS. 
4161992|Possible interactions between bird population fluctuations and rainfall patterns are discussed using data gathered over 9 years in the period 1973-1983 (no netting was done in 1977 or 1979) in a Puerto Rican dry forest. Bird populations were assayed using a 16-net line of mist nets operated from dawn to dark for 3 consecutive days in January or early February of each year. Total captures were divided by resident or winter resident status and the residents divided into four guilds based on foods and/or foraging behavior. The rainfall data used were an average of measurements from three weather stations within 10 km of the study site. Average monthly rainfall at these sites was added both for yearly totals and for a 6-month total covering the period January-June, a potentially critical value as April and May rains seem to be necessary to end the effects of the dry season at the start of the normal April-July bird breeding season. Spearman rank correlations were used to assess the relationships between bird population levels and precipitation variables. Total yearly rainfall varied widely throughout the study while 6-month rain totals were below normal for the period 1973-1978. Total bird populations peaked in 1973 and 1982 and were lowest in 1976. Virtually all the significant correlations that occurred were between bird population levels and measures of the 6-month rainfall. It is suggested that without ample totals from these rains, local birds cannot successfully rear young during their normal April-July breeding period. We further suggest that the resident birds do not delay their breeding season until the more predictable rains of August-November because of the relatively large influx of winter resident insectivores that appear at this time. Winter resident densities often exceed those of resident insectivores, a fact which must affect selection for resident insectivore breeding seasons and would affect frugivores to the extent that the latter feed insects to their young. Some further possible interactions between resident and non-resident birds are discussed. Some of the characteristics of longevity and site-fidelity of the resident species are described. Also documented is the invasion of the Caribbean Elaenia (Elaenia martinica), a species not recorded in Guanica Forest until 1980, whose numbers peaked in 1982, and now has apparently only a tenuous hold within the study area. The facts that no species was extirpated during the severe drought and neither E. martinica or any introduced species have successfully colonized the Guanica Forest community suggest it is at equilibrium.
4161993|Male and female contributions to feeding nestlings were investigated in an essentially monomorphic, monogamous passerine, the Nashville Warbler (Vermivora ruficapilla), for two summers in Algonquin Provincial Park, Ontario. The identity, size, and number of prey items per feeding trip did not differ between the sexes. In general, feeding rates were not significantly different between males and females and were not influenced by brood-size between broods of four or five young. Males and females made equal contributions to feeding nestlings, as predicted from mating system theory, at 9 of 11 nests. At the remaining two nests, one male contributed very little (14%), and the other male contributed no food at all. The number of feeding trips was not influenced by age of nestlings; however, the adults brought in larger prey items as the nestlings grew older to meet the increasing energetic demands of the maturing young. Time of day influenced feeding rates (the highest rates were in the early morning and evening), and the proportion of diurnal feedings within a sex differed between the sexes, probably reflecting a difference in diurnal behavior patterns between males (singing behavior) and females (brooding).
4161994|In the winter months of 1977-78 and 1979-80, I studied the behavior of the Northern (Mimus polyglottos) and the Bahama (M. gundlachii) mockingbirds on the island of Providenciales in the West Indies. This study was undertaken to help identify the factors that permit sympatry between these congeners. I conducted censuses in two study areas and collected data on territoriality, song, food requirements, habitat preference, and nidification. Song recordings were made for use in playback experiments and for capture and banding. Because of differences in habitat choice and use, co-occupancy of habitat by the two species occurs with minimal aggression. Interspecific aggression is rare when food is abundant but common when food is less abundant. Here, after initial aggression, food sites are shared. Interspecific territorial disputes were common and there is evidence that M. gundlachii uses song to avoid aggression. Territorial boundaries were estimated by plotting positions of color-banded individuals. As the breeding season approached, M. gundlachii gradually displaced M. polyglottos from the highest song perches, often by vigorous song. Generally the breeding season for both species was the same. However, peaks of breeding in the two species occurred at different times.
4161995|We evaluated the hypothesis that female-female pairings result from a shortage of breeding males by using museum specimens to test the hypothesis' following predictions: (1) females should outnumber males regardless of collection date in Ring-billed and California gulls, two species where supernormal clutches and presumably female-female pairings have occurred for many years; and (2) in Herring (Larus argentatus) and Western (L. occidentalis) gulls, the male/female ratio should have decreased since 1950, given the occurrence of female pairings only since then in these two species. The results showed that some, but not all, of these predictions were accurate. Based on museum collections, adult females significantly outnumbered males in Ring-billed Gulls (L. delawarensis) but not in California Gulls (L. californicus). In both Western and Herring gulls, the male/female ratio was lower among adults collected since 1950 than among those collected earlier, but the differences were not statistically significant in the latter species due to the small number of Herring Gulls collected since 1950.
4161996|Time budgets, habitat use, feeding methods, and social behavior of breeding Blue-winged (Anas discors) and Cinnamon (A. cyanoptera) teal were studied during the breeding seasons of 1975 and 1976 in eastern Washington. Time budgets were similar between the two species. Females fed and rested relatively more than males and spent less time in locomotion, alert postures, and social interactions. Blue-winged Teal were slightly, but consistently, more likely than Cinnamon Teal to feed in open water. Feeding methods overlapped substantially between the two species and varied greatly among habitat types and study ponds. Male Blue-winged Teal were more aggressive than male Cinnamon Teal in both intra- and interspecific social interactions.
4161997|The colonization of the Island of Hawaii by the Kalij Pheasant (Lophura leucomelana) is described. This Himalayan game bird, released in 1962 at Puu Waawaa, has spread at the rate of about 8 km/year and now occupies most of the major forest areas between 450 and 2150 m elev. This population constitutes a new wild breeding species of game bird for the Western Hemisphere. The bird is omnivorous and relies heavily on exotic plants and animals. Their main food item is banana poka (Passiflora mollissima) which provides fruit as well as seeds for grit. The Kalij may play a role in seed dissemination of pest plants. The Kalij is mainly monogamous and yearlings can breed. Laying begins in mid-March and hatching terminates by mid-July. Daily activity patterns including foraging, pair bonding, and alarm behavior are described. Due to the potential for dissemination of exotic pests and possible impact on endemic biota, caution is advised on the inter-island transplanting of this exotic game bird.
4161998|Population growth and distributional patterns of Red-whiskered (Pycnonotus jocosus) and Red-vented (P. cafer bengalensis) bulbuls were examined from their introductions to Oahu in the mid-1960s to the present. Population growth rates for the two species did not differ significantly (P > 0.05). The red-whiskered was observed only in the central Honolulu area, primarily in wet, exotic, residential habitats above 150 m elevation; whereas, the red-vented was observed in most habitats below 200 m island-wide. These observed differences in habitat preference were quantified and found to differ significantly (P < 0.05) using 12 monthly transect censuses in Manoa and Nuuanu valleys. Differences in the distributions of the two bulbuls can be explained as a result of differences in habitat preference. The wet, exotic, residential habitat preferred by the red-whiskered is of restricted size and occurs in disjunct patches, thus limiting the spread of the Red-whiskered Bulbul across Oahu. Lower elevation, drier habitats form a continuous belt around the perimeter of Oahu and through the center of the island and thus, have apparently served as a corridor for dispersal and range expansion of the Red-vented Bulbul on Oahu.
4161999|The behavior and vocalizations of the African Black Oystercatcher (Haematopus moquini) were studied at Marcus and Malgas Islands in the southwestern Cape Province, South Africa. The behavioral and vocal repertoires of this species are broadly similar to other congeners, suggesting that the Haematopodidae are an evolutionarily conservative group. The African Black Oystercatcher has close affinity with the European Oystercatcher (H. ostralegus), based on the similarity of their piping postures, most distraction displays, alarm calls, and flight calls. These two species can be distinguished by differences in the pre-copulatory display of the female, the distraction-lure display, and possibly in piping vocalizations and butterfly flight calls. Assessment of the systematic value of these similarities and differences will depend on a future phylogenetic analysis with outgroup comparisons to determine character state polarities, and this in turn should encourage workers to attempt broad surveys of the behavior and vocalizations of shorebirds.
4162033|The song activity of Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus) in southern Ontario was quantified using the variables of song rate, cadence, and time spent silent. Song activity changed substantially with context (six defined) and with season. Contexts were defined in terms of the proximity of the male to the female and to the nest. In the immediate proximity of females, males are silent or sing sporadically except when engaged in a song duel with another male or when near the nest. In close proximity to the nest, song tends to be continuous and has a short cadence. Song delivered on the nest has a long and regular cadence. Males appear to sing in bouts only when they are alone, away from the nest, and are patrolling their territories. In part, changes in song output with different stages of the breeding cycle were due to changes in activity patterns as the result of the context dependency of song rate and output. Gradual changes in song activity occurred during the breeding cycle. Changes in song activity were related to: establishing contact with a potential mate; integrating courtship behavior so that it occurs only in the vicinity of the nest; as a means for monitoring a bird's activity and location; and in coordinating movements of birds to and from the nest.
4162035|Five Eastern Phoebe (Sayornis phoebe) nestlings were collected at five to six days of age and reared in the laboratory. The three males and two females heard heterospecific but no conspecific song, yet each developed the two wild-type Eastern Phoebe song forms (fee-bee, Fig. 1; fee-b-be-bee, Fig. 2) and used the two song forms normally during early morning singing performances (Fig. 3, Table 1). These data are consistent with the hypothesis that vocal development among the suboscines requires no imitation of conspecifics. This is in sharp contrast to the oscines, the more "advanced" passerine suborder, where vocal learning is the rule.
4162036|The vocal repertoire of the Mountain Chickadee (Parus gambeli) is described with particular emphasis on the quantitative evaluation of variability patterns. The vocalizations were separated into four major categories: single element, close-range, contact calls (category I); multi-element, mid-range, contact calls (category II); threat calls consisting of rearrangeable, stereotyped phrases (category III); and whistled songs (category IV). The arrangement of elements in category II calls was tightly restricted by simple rules, but the number of potentially distinctive call forms was nevertheless large. The threat calls (category III) appeared to consist of a small number of stereotyped phrases, whose arrangement was also restricted by simple rules. A comparative review of vocal repertoire organization in all North American chickadees, except the Alaskan form of the Siberian Tit (P. cinctus), shows that each of the six species possesses categories I, II, and III. Three species lack the whistled song. All three element types of category II are possessed by the six species and are expressed according to a common syntax.
4162037|Although numerous investigators have examined variation in the songs of male passerines, there are few descriptions of such variation in the songs of females. In the present study I examined intra- and interindividual variation in the songs of female Black-headed Grosbeaks (Pheucticus melanocephalus). The songs of individual females consisted of a series of syllables of varied frequency lying between 1.5 and 5.0 kHz. The mean number of syllables per song was 4.5 and the mean song duration was 1.47 sec. The number of syllables in the repertoires of female grosbeaks ranged from 5-28. The songs of female grosbeaks differed from the songs of males in that females appeared unable to reproduce consistently specific syllable types as accurately as males and the songs of females were less complex than the songs of males. Such differences may be due to differences in the levels of testosterone found in males and females. Previous investigation suggests that this hormone affects the development and maintenance of areas in the brain that control singing behavior. Sharing of syllables among females was uncommon with 78.6% of all syllables limited to the repertoire of one female. Such distinctiveness generally indicates that individual recognition may be important. Young grosbeaks appear to recognize parental songs and use this ability to maintain contact with their parents after fledging.
4162038|A total of 36 roost sites of the Snail Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) were studied in southern Florida, of which four (11%) were used regularly for 6 or more years. Major roosts were also used as nesting sites. All roosts were in flooded marshes and 33 (91.6%) were in stands of coastal-plain willow. Population increase and the number of roosts were strongly correlated. The number of kites arriving at roosts before sunset was smaller than arriving after sunset (37.8:62.2%), and gray birds (adult and subadult males) generally went to roost earlier than brown birds (all females and immature males). Kites tended to go to roost earlier on cloudy days. Morning departure from roosts was over a much shorter time than arrivals in the afternoon. Ninety-two percent of the kite roosts were also used by other species of birds for roosting, 81% of which were eight species of herons.
4162039|Yearling male Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were inactive during the day and were usually in or near vegetative cover; overt activity increased at dusk. Adult males displaced yearling intruders from their territories. However, some yearling males appeared to initiate agonistic interactions with territorial males. Other yearlings localized near unoccupied territorial sites but did not behave territorially. Yearlings displayed to, and courted, females away from territories of adult males but did not show the full range of courtship behaviors given by territorial males, and made no attempt to copulate. Results partially support predictions on behavior of yearling males derived from the sexual bimaturism hypothesis to explain why first-year males of most promiscuous species of grouse delay breeding.
4162040|Brood chronology and nesting success of the Common Raven (Corvus corax) were studied during 1976 and 1977 nesting seasons on Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Oregon. Nest construction or reconstruction began in late February and early March. Egglaying began during the second week of March and continued through early May. Peak egglaying occurred the first week of April. In 1976 the mean clutch-size was 5.8 eggs/clutch (N = 19) and in 1977 was 6.1 eggs/clutch (N = 26). The incubation period was about 21 days. Hatching success was 4.0 eggs/clutch in 1976 (N = 25) and 4.4 eggs/clutch in 1977 (N = 26). Productivity was 2.2 young/nest in 1976 (N = 25) and 2.5 young/nest in 1977 (N = 28). Predation on and starvation of nestlings were the primary reasons for the low productivity/clutch-size ratio. Renesting after egg destruction was observed on seven occasions with renesting after predation of hatchlings observed four times in the study. Productivity and renesting after hatchling destruction have not been reported previously in natural populations of Common Ravens.
4162041|The effect of foliage height diversity and atmospheric moisture on avian community structure and composition was studied on 20 0.8-ha plots of mature deciduous forest in northeastern Ohio. Foliage height diversity was not significantly correlated with avian community structure, while relative humidity showed significant positive correlation with species richness. Food resources for leaf-litter foragers and woodpeckers that forage extensively into dead tree trunks and branches may be intimately tied to atmospheric moisture. Such a relationship would indicate that the correlation with species richness is directly with food supply and only indirectly with relative humidity. Atmospheric moisture may be a useful indicator of avian community composition within geographically and structurally similar deciduous woodlands.
4162067| During the winter of 1979-80, microclimatic variables were measured in four Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) communal roosts located in the forests around the Klamath Basin of northern California and southern Oregon. An energetics model for roosting Bald Eagles was developed from microclimatic variables to compare the different roosts. All roosts were relatively protected from high winds in comparison to feeding areas (represented by Kingsley weather station, which was located on the basin floor in nearby Klamath Falls, Oregon) and showed a temperature advantage during midwinter. Higher temperature, lower radiation loss, and lower winds in the Bear Valley roost contributed to a significantly lower (P  0.01) nightly energy demand on Bald Eagles than in any other roost. Bear Valley had a 4 and 7% savings in energy demand compared with the most stressful roost, and a 10 and 6% savings compared with Kingsley weather station during midwinter and late winter, respectively. Differential use of the four roosts by Bald Eagles for communal roosting was not related to differences in energy demand between the roosts. Savings in energy due to use of communal roosts during night were not great enough to explain flight of Bald Eagles to roosts in the Klamath Basin. 
4162068|Data from a tape recorder simulation reproducing what is heard on singing bird surveys in June in the northeastern United States were used to estimate the frequency of three types of recording errors. On average, 20 experienced surveyors missed about 30% of 20 birds present on the recordings and made up an average of 1.8 birds/3-min listening period. About one-third of the birds made up were due to mis-identifications; the rest were due to over-counting (e.g., recording three birds when only two were present). An investigation of the variation in recording errors among surveyors indicated that they tended to discriminate among species, recording some at higher or lower rates than expected on the basis of the species' difficulty and the surveyor's ability. This tendency was referred to as discrimination because the number of individuals recorded was affected by factors other than the species' difficulty and the surveyor's overall ability. Both negative discrimination (recording fewer individuals than expected) and positive discrimination (recording more individuals than expected) were common. Two hypotheses were investigated to explain discrimination: that the surveyors are species specialists having particularly high ability with some species; and that surveyors show favoritism, tending to record certain species preferentially when there is uncertainty about the true identity of a bird. Analysis of the tape recorder data clearly supported the favoritism hypothesis. The concept of window species, which has been shown in other studies to apply to inexperienced surveyors, had little explanatory power in this study, which used experienced surveyors. The process in which two surveyors record together, but independently determine which fraction of the birds present each is detecting, over-estimates the proportion of birds correctly identified. Simultaneous recording is effective, however, in revealing birds that were made up, especially if surveyors compare their records immediately after each listening period.
4162069|This study examines population dynamics of secondary species associated with roosts composed primarily of European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and Common Grackles (Quiscalus quiscula). Our goal was to determine patterns of association for secondary species and to evaluate the role of interspecific relationships in roosting flocks. We estimated sizes of roosting populations over 2 seasons for all roosts within a large census area. From June to November roosts were active 3-20 weeks and varied in size from 2000 to over 100,000 individuals. We found 17 secondary species; numbers ranged from fewer than 10 individuals (Green-backed Heron, Butorides striatus) to over 20,000 (American Robin, Turdus migratorius). They were in nearly every roost, irrespective of season or roost size. Although each species had a unique pattern of association, their presence together resulted in considerable species heterogeneity. For those roosting species with distinct foraging requirements, interspecific exchange of foraging information is an unlikely reason to form mixed species roosting flocks. Also, species that form large (>100) roosting flocks apparently do not join mixed species flocks only for added predator protection, as these benefits are likely asymptotic at relatively small flock sizes. There are many factors that make roost sites attractive. By selecting occupied roosts, individuals can lower the risk of choosing poor sites, and be assured that, at least, minimum requirements will be met. This concept provides an explanation for why very large roosting flocks develop, and why they are often composed of species with little apparent basis of commonality.
4162070|The study was conducted to determine if predator-induced vocalizations of breeding American Robins (Turdus migratorius) were related to predator identity (Blue Jay [Cyanocitta cristata] or snake), later defense strategy (attack or not attack model), and intensity of future defense. Robins used two types of vocalizations in their response to the nest predators: "chirps" and "chucks." Nesting robins were significantly more likely to utter "chirps" than "chucks" in tests with a stuffed Blue Jay. All birds that later attacked the jay included "chirps" in their repertoire; all those that did not attack included "chucks" in their repertoire. In experiments with a snake model, both types of vocalizations were equally likely to be given. The number of vocalizations/30 sec and the number of "chirps"/30 sec were consistently related to predator type, future defense strategy, and intensity of future defense.
4162071| The abundance of Cory's Shearwaters (Calonectris diomedea) in the South Atlantic Bight in July and Oct. 1983 was correlated significantly with environmental changes associated with Gulf Stream surface thermal fronts. Density of the species within 4 km of the front was 14.9-37.7
4162072|The population status, reproductive success, and levels of environmental contaminants in Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) in Texas were studied from 1975 through 1981. Breeding populations increased from 18 pairs in 1975 to 57 pairs in 1981. All unhatched eggs salvaged for analyses of contaminant residues contained DDT metabolites. Mean DDE levels varied from 0.9 to 2.4 ppm and about 7% of the samples had residues that approached critical levels that could affect reproductive success. DDE levels did not decline from 1975 to 1981 and residues leveled off at higher values than those in South Carolina and Louisiana pelican populations. PCB residues also remained stable. Endrin was detected only in 1975, and paralleled peak levels in Louisiana pelican eggs and coincided with the 1975 endrin-caused die-off of White and Brown pelicans in Louisiana. Residues of mercury, arsenic, selenium, and zinc were low and probably had little effect on pelican reproduction and survival. Mean eggshell thickness was 4-14% thinner than normal, but we found no evidence that shell thinning adversely affected reproduction. Observations of color-marked young indicated that not all one- and two-year-old pelicans returned to Texas nesting areas. Sub-adult survival through the third and fourth year was similar to survival rates of South Carolina and California Brown Pelicans. Overall reproductive success improved and the population is increasing.
4162100| The St. Andrew Vireo (Vireo caribaeus) endemic to San Andrs Island, Colombia, was studied in April 1972 and June 1983. Territories were as small as 0.5 ha in area and were located in mangrove swamp and open-scrub and pastureland habitats. Gleaning of arthropods from leaves and twigs was the predominant foraging tactic used by V. caribaeus. Most foraging was no higher than 5 m in broad-leaved trees and shrubs. Song consisted of three basic types (one, two, and three or more syllable types per song) which closely resembled those of other "white-eyed" vireos. Only three kinds of call notes were heard: single contact notes, chee-chee agitation calls, and a high-intensity "buzz" associated with nest defense. The nest of the St. Andrew Vireo, described for the first time, is of standard vireonid construction. The two eggs of the first described clutch were a glossy-white with brownish spots ringing the wide end, typical of scrub-dwelling vireos. A second nest contained the first observed nestlings, which closely resembled those of other vireos. Both sexes sat on the eggs during the day, and both adults brooded and fed the nestlings. Collectively behavioral traits of V. caribaeus suggest that it is closely allied to other species in the subgenus Vireo occurring in the West Indies. 
4162101|We report observations made in November and December 1983 on the display of the Pin-tailed Manakin (Ilicura militaris), a southeast Brazilian endemic genus. Groups of 2-3 adult males held contiguous display territories, each of which contained a special mating perch. Most displays were performed on or around the mating perch, which was kept clear of encroaching and epiphytic vegetation by regular "gardening." Males advertised their presence in their territories by repeated songs, given at short intervals throughout the day. A repertoire of stereotyped displays served to attract females to the mating perch, mating itself being preceded by ritualized jumps over the female and back. Elements of the courtship displays of the Pin-tailed Manakin resemble those of other manakins, but its relationships within the family are obscure.
4162102|Cloacal lavages (washes) were taken from 300 wood-warblers representing 29 species. Birds were captured at Galveston, Texas, and Foley, Missouri, in the course of spring banding studies. Phase-contrast microscopy was used to determine occurrence and numbers of spermatozoa on the lavage slides. Cloacal release of sperm at Foley occurred in four species of warblers that were within their geographic nesting ranges (Ovenbird, Seiurus aurocapillus; Kentucky Warbler, Oporornis formosus; Common Yellowthroat, Geothlypis trichas; and Yellow-breasted Chat, Icteria virens) and in four species that were still far south (>640 to 1490 km) of their nesting ranges (Tennessee, Vermivora peregrina; Nashville, V. ruficapilla; Palm, Dendroica palmarum; and Blackpoll, D. striata; warblers). None of the midlatitudenesting species had cloacal sperm while passing through Galveston as spring migrants. The four highlatitude-nesting species with cloacal sperm at Foley spend less time on their northern breeding range than do Yellow-rumped Warblers (D. coronata), the most abundant non-sperm-releasing migrant warbler at Foley. Precocious sperm release during spring migration in some highlatitude-nesting species is probably an adaptation for more rapid onset of reproduction in areas with short summers and associated ecological limitations.
4162103|Over 30,000 large Canada geese (Branta canadensis) pass Cape Churchill and the McConnell River delta on northward molt migration. Birds passing the McConnell are B. c. moffitti (sensu Palmer 1976) and interior, mainly from the Eastern Prairie Population, with somewhat fewer from the Mississippi Valley Population. Geese following the coastline generally fly above 150 m, while those heading inland fly at lower altitudes. The two streams are probably going to the central Thelon River and more to the east. Birds passing Churchill migrate later and apparently pass the McConnell Delta offshore. The time of molt migration is regular--with peak numbers in late June--but variable in volume. Breeding success the previous year probably affects numbers markedly, as most birds on molt migration are immatures.
4162104|An accepted practice in radio telemetry studies is to limit transmitter size to 5% of body mass irrespective of bird size. This approach is unsatisfactory because it (1) ignores aerodynamic relationships indicating that small birds can carry loads equaling a larger proportion of their body mass than large birds, and (2) fails to provide an estimate of energetic costs of transporting the transmitter. We developed a method to select transmitter mass based on estimates of power requirements for flight and total power available for flight. We provide a general method based only on body mass, but we also show how estimates can be improved for individual species by taking several simple measurements. A minimum value for body mass is selected considering factors affecting weight such as annual cycle. This is the base mass and is used to calculate the maximum sustainable rate of flight power (power available). Next, power requirements for flight are calculated. As power requirements vary with flight velocity, a single velocity must be selected: we use the most efficient velocity. To assure conservative estimates of a bird's ability to carry a transmitter, base mass is adjusted upwards by a percentage approximating the normal range in body mass. Adjusted mass is used to estimate the power required to fly at the most efficient velocity. The difference between power available for flight and the power required to fly at the most efficient velocity is surplus power. Adding a transmitter increases power requirements. We evaluate a bird's ability to carry a transmitter by calculating the reduction in surplus power caused by transmitters of various sizes. Power surplus is proportionately greater for small birds than large birds, so basing transmitter size on a fixed percentage of body mass results in conservative loadings for small birds and liberal loadings for large birds. Our method allows an investigator to select transmitter size according to the reduction in power surplus that is considered appropriate for the experimental conditions, and at the same time it provides an estimate of the energetic cost of transporting the added mass of the transmitter.
4162105|We studied nest site use by 6 species of cavity nesters in southcentral British Columbia. Discriminant function analysis was performed using nest site characteristics that differed significantly among 4 species (European Starlings, Sturnus vulgaris; Tree Swallows, Tachycineta bicolor; Northern Flickers, Colaptes auratus; and Buffleheads, Bucephala albeola). Cavity volume and, to a lesser extent, entrance area were the most important variables characterizing nest sites. Habitat variables were relatively unimportant except for canopy height, which also explained a significant amount of the variance. The analysis correctly classified only 62% of the cases, reflecting the high overlap in cavity use, especially between Buffleheads and starlings. We tested the prediction of Erskine and McLaren (1976) that competition for nest sites would increase in this community following its invasion by starlings 30 years ago by comparing nest site characteristics found in this study with similar data collected in 1959. Swallows now use significantly smaller cavities, bluebirds tend to use smaller but deeper cavities, and all species use cavities with a smaller entrance area. It is not clear, however, if these changes resulted from an intensification of competition or from a change in the resource available.
4162106|This 25-year study on a 51,830 acre (20,732 ha) area in central Wisconsin is based on 231 banded breeding harriers (Circus cyaneus hudsonius), 330 nests, and 726 fledged young of which 647 were banded. Harriers were most commonly monogamous but polygyny (including both bigamy and trigamy) accounted for 24% of the nests and 19% of young fledged. Polygynous males sired more young than monogamous males. The reverse was true of harem females. The number of harrier nests closely mirrored the course of the vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) population cycle, except during a period (1965-1968) of heavy aerial spraying of DDT. Vole abundance, not an excess of females or shortage of breeders, also triggered increased polygyny. Subadult females commonly bred and were involved in polygyny when voles were abundant. Subadult males bred less commonly than subadult females, and were never polygynists; they, too, bred more often during periods of vole abundance but to a lesser degree than subadult females. The data fit the polygyny threshold model with vole abundance a key factor. In short, the abundance of the prey--voles--governed not only the abundance of the predator, but also its mating systems.
4162107|Habitat use by the Louisiana (Seiurus motacilla) and Northern (S. noveboracensis) waterthrushes was studied at Boston Hollow in northeastern Connecticut. Territories of Northern Waterthrushes had significantly greater shrub and tree density, more evergreen cover by moss, shrubs, and trees, and more swamp related features such as hummocks, ferns, and alders, but less fast-moving water than those of Louisiana Waterthrushes. Despite statistical differences, however, both species occupied a wide range of habitats and overlapped considerably in habitat use. The habitats at Boston Hollow seemed representative of the range of habitats used throughout Connecticut, but were more similar to those used at higher elevations. Both species coexisted without aggression even though they overlapped in habitat use and in territorial boundaries. Observed patterns of habitat use appear best explained in terms of independently evolved ecological requirements of each species.
4162138|Using starch gel electrophoresis, we assessed genetic distances among samples of the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), the Yellow-green Vireo (V. flavoviridis), and the "Chivi" Vireo (V. "chivi"). Tissues from a Rufousbrowed Peppershrike (Cyclarhis gujanensis ochrocephala) provided an outgroup comparison. The three complexes of Vireo have been treated in the past either as a single species or as three separate species. Thirty-eight genetic loci were scored. The Red-eyed and "Chivi" vireos are very similar genetically (Nei's D = 0.014). In contrast, these two forms differ strikingly from the Yellow-green Vireo (Nei's D = 0.177 and 0.176, respectively). Several branching methods (UPGMA, WPGMA, Wagner Tree and F-M Tree) gave congruent results on relationships. These data support the position that the Red-eyed and "Chivi" vireos are conspecific. The Yellow-green Vireo, however, clearly deserves full species status. The genic data suggest that the clade leading to Vireo olivaceus-flavoviridis-"chivi" split from Cyclarhis at approximately 13 MYBP. Ensuing separation of V. flavoviridis from V. olivaceus-"chivi" occurred at about 4.6 MYBP. The division of North American V. olivaceus from its South American relatives in the "chivi" complex occurred approximately 370,000 years ago, during the Pleistocene. We speculate that "chivi" arose from wintering individuals of V. olivaceus that failed to return to North America.
4162139|Song repertoires of Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) populations in neighboring sapling, pole, and sawtimber stands in eastern Texas were tape recorded during the 1979 breeding season. Cardinals in each area used different syllable types and sang songs of varying duration and complexity. Cluster analysis and discriminant function analysis identified three distinct dialects, one for each of the three study areas. Cardinals in the sapling stand used a wider range of frequencies than did those in the sawtimber stand. Cardinals in the pole stand used a range of frequencies intermediate in size to that of either the sapling or sawtimber stands. For all three populations, the frequency with greatest amplitude was about 2100 Hz, a low frequency that carries better than high frequencies over long distances. In the stand that lacked a closed canopy, cardinals typically used syllables with considerable frequency modulation; however, in the two older stands cardinals seldom used extensive frequency modulation in their songs. Differential singing behavior of this nature probably enhances long-distance communication by minimizing excessive reverberation from canopy foliage. We suggest that some of the differences in syllable structure noted between the three cardinal dialects may be the result of selective pressures exerted by the acoustics of the environment.
4162140|Time-budget data were collected for Blue-eyed Shags (Phalacrocorax atriceps bransfieldensis) in Antarctica and converted to energy budgets to measure proximate energy allocation to reproduction. Time budgets were similar for both sexes, and about 90% of the 24-h activities involved low energy expenditure behavior such as preening, resting, standing, incubating, brooding, and foraging. Birds were classified as foraging when away from the colony, and although the capture of food was energetically costly, most of this time was actually spent preening, standing, or resting on shore between foraging bouts. DEE/SMR ratios were similar for both sexes, indicating equal energy investment in reproduction. Male courtship behavior equalled or exceeded female energy investment in egg production. The additional energy cost of egg production was low because of altricial eggs that were small relative to the weight of females, a 2.59-day laying interval, and the high SMR of the Blue-eyed Shags. Both sexes, therefore, shared equally in the energetics of reproduction.
4162141|Temporal, spatial, and behavioral relationships between migrating American Coots (Fulica americana) and ducks were investigated in fall 1979-1981 in Oklahoma. Diets of coots, Gadwalls (Anas strepera), American Wigeons (A. americana), and Redheads (Aythya americana) were studied in fall 1980. Arrivals and departures of coots differed from those of waterfowl for all species, mainly because waterfowl migrated ahead of cold fronts and often diurnally, while coots migrated behind cold fronts and nocturnally. Significant positive correlations occurred between numbers of coots and numbers of Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata), Gadwalls, American Wigeons, and Redheads on at least some lakes in most years. Waterfowl occurred in mixed flocks with low frequency. Gadwalls and American Wigeons were most frequently recorded with coots. Most ducks did not interact with coots in mixed flocks. Cooperative feeding and food robbery were the most frequently recorded behavioral interactions, especially between coots and Gadwalls or American Wigeons. Foods of coots and ducks were similar in most lakes and consisted mostly of aquatic vegetation. Interspecific interactions between coots and ducks are minimal because of temporal and spatial segregation during migration, and behavioral interactions that are mostly neutral or beneficial to ducks.
4162142|Four years of observations of habitat use by breeding pairs and broods of Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and Blue-winged Teal (A. discors) were used to test the hypothesis that prairie-nesting ducks exhibit wetland preferences (i.e., select habitat). Mallard pairs did not select wetlands. Mallard broods selected large wetlands with interspersed vegetation when brood density was low. Pairs of Blue-winged Teal selected wetlands, but were inconsistent in their choices. Broods of Blue-winged Teal consistently selected open wetlands with vegetation of low stature, but patterns of wetland selection by broods of Blue-winged Teal bore no consistent relationship to brood density.
4162143| The time-activity budget of the Greater Golden-Plover (Pluvialis apricaria) was studied on a middle alpine breeding ground in southern Norway by means of visual focal-animal sampling, radio-tagging, and automatic incubation recorders. Body condition indices were obtained from shot and trapped birds. Territory defense is mainly a male task. Large territories are maintained through the incubation period, and a similar-sized area around the brood is defended, although the brood leaves the nesting territory. By sharing the incubation (12 h daytime sitting spells in males, 12 h nighttime sitting spells in females) the birds feed extensively and improve their physical condition. This enables them to put maximum effort into periods of high energetic demands like prelaying territorial guarding, egg laying, and early posthatching guarding of chicks. Besides, off-duty exoduses from the nest area greatly facilitate unobtrusiveness during the incubation period. Close parental cooperation ensured constant guarding of newly hatched chicks; the intensity of chick-guarding declined in the course of 1 weeks after hatching. It is suggested that biparental care in Greater Golden-Plovers is needed to cope with nest and chick predation. 
4162144|Colony-site use patterns were studied in Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) nesting on five islands in northeastern Lake Michigan to address the following questions: (1) do individual terns frequent more than one colony site during a single breeding season; and (2) what are the factors that influence intraseasonal colony site movement in this population? Intraseasonal movements of terns between colonies in northeastern Lake Michigan were common. Birds that were not nesting were observed significantly more often at two or more colonies than nesting terns, and intercolony movement was precipitated by lack of a mate or nest site and by reproductive failure (e.g., nest destruction by storms or predators and investigator disturbance). Intercolony movement during courtship and following reproductive failures probably is intensified during periods of flooding or high water in the Great Lakes.
4162145|The movement of 24 sparrow flocks on the Mojave Desert during two winters (1979-1980) was studied. The average flock had 19 birds of two species. Flocks moved nonrandomly with a definite preference for the forward direction. Left and right turns occurred with the same frequency, and reversals were rare. A comparison with Cody's data (1971) indicated that although our flocks were significantly smaller and contained fewer species, they were identical to his in all aspects of movement. We measured the paths of water courses (washes and arroyos) by methods similar to those used to measure flock movement. Water courses show a similar pattern of movement, i.e., most often forward, followed by right and left turns at equal frequency. Water courses did not reverse. Flocks we observed appeared to follow water courses. We conclude that flocks tend to follow water courses. We suggest that Mojave Desert sparrow flocks form in response to predator pressure and move in nonrandom paths because they follow local topography. We feel flocking may result in increased foraging efficiency, but that it is not necessary to invoke complex optimization models (Cody 1971, 1974) to explain their formation and behavior.
4162146|Survivorship among 258 Tufted Titmice (Parus bicolor) was studied by trapping, color banding, and weekly recording of sightings for 15 years at a feeder in Columbia, Missouri, from 1965 to 1979. Most birds avoided traps for a month after initial capture. Much local movement was indicated, as 80% of the December arrivals were absent in January and 67% of January arrivals were absent in February. Average residency was 18 weeks during the nonbreeding season. Individual birds were retrapped as often as 56 times, but 33% were never trapped again, even though 92% were seen after being banded. Many birds learned to avoid recapture although they fed within traps. Of birds seen in 3 or more years, 25% missed from 1 to 5 years before returning. The oldest bird lived for at least 10 years. Older birds arrived earlier in the fall and departed earlier in the spring. They also were recaptured with decreasing frequency. Birds had a mean life span of 2.1 years and a mean annual survival rate of 62% as shown by a life table. Recapture data gave much shorter estimates than did direct observations. Analysis of the records of the USFWS banding files showed no evidence of migration--less than 1% were recovered beyond the 10-min block where banded.
4162181|Otus petersoni, the Cinnamon Screech-Owl, is described and named in honor of Roger Tory Peterson. This small owl is now known from ten specimens and four localities in the cloud-forests of extreme northern Peru and southern Ecuador. Its plumage variation, reproductive information, habitat and ecology, voice, and systematic relationships are discussed. The closest living relative of the new form appears to be O. colombianus, the Colombian Screech-Owl, until now thought to be a subspecies of O. ingens but recognizable as a distinct species, primarily by its large size and proportionately long, bare tarsi. We suggest that petersoni and colombianus are sister taxa within a species-group of brown-eyed forms, including two other Andean taxa (ingens and marshalli) and a lowland, Amazonian species (watsonii). The names "aequatorialis" and "minimus" are synonyms of nominate ingens.
4162182|This six-year study describes the breeding of a partly resident, partly migrant population of Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) in California. Migrants arrived between 6 January and 27 April, with females preceding males. Migrant males did not pair as early as resident males, whereas resident and migrant females paired at about the same time. Early pairbonds often were with the same mate in two consecutive years. Egg laying occurred from 23 March to 13 July. Replacement clutches were initiated between 11 April and 11 July, typically seven days after loss of the preceding one, and usually with the same mate. Over the season, the time required for a pair to complete the three-egg clutch decreased from five days to four days. During egg laying, males spent more time in the nesting territory and on the incomplete clutch than did females. Incubation averaged 28.4 days early in the season, but only 26.9 days late in the season. During daytime, males averaged only 10.7% of the incubation time, but they appeared to be the main incubators at night. Over six years, 58.2% of 189 clutches hatched at least one chick. Females normally deserted hatched young within six days; males attended the young for 29 to 47 days. Fledging typically occurred at about 31 days of age. Over six years, 39% to 42% of 296 chicks fledged. After deserting broods, at least 22 of 60 females renested with new mates. At least 10 of 18 males fledging chicks before 1 July renested with new mates, and in at least 13 of 27 cases, males losing broods before 1 July renested, usually with new mates. Males appeared to outnumber females by 1.4:1. Sexual differences in survival rates are nearly sufficient to account for the difference in sex ratio. We suggest that the female's serial polyandry may be a facultative response to a skewed sex ratio.
4162183|Birds were mist-netted and banded in a second-growth woodland in central Panama to examine temporal dynamics of capture rates and to examine if these dynamics reflected presence or absence of transient birds. Capture rates of frugivores fluctuated much more than insectivores; nectarivores were intermediate in their fluctuations. Consequently, insectivores were recaptured more frequently than frugivores, indicating greater spatial stability. Species within a guild differed in their recapture frequencies, but unstable species with low recapture frequencies were most often frugivores; stable species with high recapture frequencies generally were insectivores. Migrants exhibited the same patterns as nonmigrants of the same guild. Examination of two common nonmigrant frugivore species showed that fluctuations in capture rates were due mostly to movements by transient immatures or females. Capture rates of nonmigrant frugivores declined markedly during late March. The decline may be due to movements in response to an influx of migrants during spring migration, habitat switching, or microclimatic conditions. This study provides evidence that some tropical birds are highly dynamic and that such dynamics reflect transience in addition to other population processes.
4162184|Structure, stability, and habitat relationships of avian communities associated with small even-aged stands were studied for three consecutive winters and breeding seasons in aspen (Populus spp.) and mixed-oak (Quercus spp.) cover type in an area managed for Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) habitat. Thirteen and 69 species were noted in six habitat types during winter and the breeding season, respectively. Trunk-bark foragers predominated in winter, particularly in uncut habitats; in contrast, the ground-shrub foraging guild predominated in the breeding season, especially in clearcut habitats. The six habitat types were segreated in two groups (uncut and clearcut) on the basis of the stability of the trunk-bark and ground-shrub foraging guilds in winter and the breeding season, respectively. Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) in winter and Rufous-sided Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) in the breeding season were the most abundant species. Habitat variables describing overstory trees and snags were among those important to trunk-bark and sallier-canopy foraging guilds; variables describing shrub and understory vegetation were associated with the ground-shrub foraging guild. The habitat fragmentation created by the current cutting cycle has had no discernible negative impact on the avifauna, and species adapted to early-successional habitats have benefited.
4162185|Late summer to early spring movements of radio-marked juvenile Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) were studied on Cold Spring Mountain, northwestern Colorado, from July to February 1981-82 and August to May 1982-83. Movements were analyzed from 118 locations (N = 8 grouse) during July-November 1981 and 213 locations (N = 10 grouse) during August--November 1982. Grouse steadily moved away from capture sites until November each year when they moved to winter-use sites. Movements to wintering areas in late November were related to snowfall and subsequent availability of sagebrush. Maximum one-way distance to wintering areas was 30.3 km (N = 4 radio-marked grouse). Sage Grouse generally followed topographic features and avoided areas without sagebrush cover, although they were capable of long-distance (23 km) movements over areas without shrub cover. During spring recruitment there appeared to be roving groups of males, probably yearlings, that spent much of the breeding season displaying near females away from traditional leks.
4162187|Although male and female Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) are almost identical in plumage and in most external body measurements, males have longer, deeper, and wider bills than do females. Two patterns in the size relationships between mates are demonstrated. First, males tend to have larger bills than their mates. This may be explained by random mating, given the sexual dimorphism observed. Second, Common Terns mate assortatively according to bill size. This pattern may result if there is either a year-to-year component or an age component of bill size variation and if first-breeding birds return to the colony after experienced breeders have already established pairbonds and most birds retain their mates from year to year.
4162188|In two successive years, eggs of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) disappeared or were found freshly perforated only from clutches initiated relatively early in the breeding season. Most of the losses were of single eggs from which an incubating adult was temporarily absent. Diurnal dreads of adult terns coincided with evidence of nocturnal predation by Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus). Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres) were observed breaking open and eating the contents of Common Tern eggs. We consider various explanations of the timing and pattern of egg loss. Circumstantial evidence supports the suggestion that nocturnal disturbance by owls at a time when Ruddy Turnstones are present at the colony may increase the risk of daytime predation by turnstones on tern eggs.
4162189|The size and frequency of prey delivered by nesting Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) were monitored throughout the nestling period at five nests on Lopez Island, Washington. Based on vocalizations during food exchange, we estimate that males captured 63% of the prey delivered to nests. Birds, primarily American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and California Quail (Callipepla californica), represented 85% of the prey captured by both males and females. The food niches of both sexes were similar as measured by maximum likelihood estimators of niche breadth and overlap. When the counts of prey delivered by males and females were adjusted for bias due to unequal observation time between years and differential hunting effort by the sexes, there were no significant differences between the sexes, nesting pairs, or prey size classes in the number of prey delivered to nests. These results and those of several other studies call into question the food-niche hypothesis as a comprehensive explanation for sexual size dimorphism found in many raptorial birds.
4162190|Hunting success varied widely among raptors studied throughout Missouri. Higher success rates occurred in raptors hunting relatively small, easily dispatched prey such as invertebrates, herpetofauna, and rodents. "Attacking" raptors, including accipiters and falcons, which concentrated hunting efforts on relatively large, agile prey (mainly birds) were significantly less successful on a per-attack basis. Young raptors were less successful hunters than were adults, and they may have compensated for relatively less developed hunting skills and flight coordination by pursing more invertebrate prey and less agile quarry than did conspecific adults. Intersexual hunting success comparisons in Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) and American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) indicated that males maintain slightly, but not significantly, higher capture rates than females. Females, however, captured larger prey items than their respective mates among 3 species compared (Cooper's Hawks [Accipiter cooperii], Northern Harriers, and Red-tailed Hawks [Buteo jamaicensis]). Raptors used the most successful hunting method most often, and there was a positive correlation between relative use and rate of success of each hunting strategy.
4162225|Captive Wilson's Storm-Petrels (Oceanites oceanicus) fed a diet of pure wax (hexadecyl oleate) or triacylglycerol (olive oil) increased in body mass or lost mass more slowly than birds given only water, depending upon the quantity of lipid they were fed. Lipids extracted from the feces of wax-fed birds contained fatty alcohol and fatty acid, the products of wax hydrolysis. The data indicate the ability to digest waxes in this species. Waxes are abundant constituents of many marine organisms and form the majority of total lipid ingested by some seabird species. The ability to digest wax represents an important adaptation for marine birds that encounter waxy prey, allowing a vast source of potential energy to be utilized.
4162226|Foraging patterns of males and females of nine arboreal passerine bird species that occur syntopically in a northern hardwoods forest in New Hampshire were compared intra- and interspecifically. Males and females of each species were similar in morphology but often differed in foraging heights, use of foraging maneuvers and substrates, tree species in which foraging occurred, and in positions within trees where they attacked prey. Overall, intraspecific intersexual differences were less than interspecific ones. Two exceptions were the Scarlet Tanager (Piranga olivacea) and Rose-breasted Grosbeak (Pheucticus ludovicianus), in which males of the two species were more similar to each other in methods of food exploitation than they were to conspecific females. This finding indicates the need to consider intraspecific (especially intersexual) variability, as well as interspecific differences, in studies of resource use and niche relations among forest birds. Although differences between the sexes result in some resource partitioning within species, they are best explained by the hypothesis that birds forage locally near their centers of activity, which for passerine birds in the breeding season differ for males and females. Male foraging heights were positively correlated with song perch heights, as were female foraging heights with nest heights. Foraging heights of males, however, were not always higher than those of females, nor were mean song perch heights always higher than nest sites. Environmental factors such as local variations in the vertical distribution of plant species, vegetation structure, food availability, and predation are discussed as factors that affect the height at which these activities, and thus foraging, take place.
4162227|We examined the abundance and use of habitat by birds during winter and summer in a mixed-conifer forest of the western Sierra Nevada. Of the species present during both seasons, four had significantly higher indices of abundance in winter, whereas none had higher summer indices. Bird species differed significantly in habitat use during summer as identified by discriminant function analysis (DFA). The spacing of large trees separated birds along the first DFA axis; the second axis was defined by the size of foraging trees. There was also a significant difference in habitat use among species during winter. The size of foraging trees and the diameter of small (11-30 cm dbh) trees defined the first function; the second function was defined by high canopy cover. In both seasons, however, an unbiased classification procedure separated all species poorly. There was a significant difference in the overall pattern of habitat use by permanent resident birds between winter and summer as identified by DFA. All species showed significant differences in habitat use vs habitat availability during both winter and summer. Overwintering birds used areas characterized by high, heavy canopy cover and heavy subcanopy cover relative to summer use. Our results suggest that forest managers should give increased attention to the structure and species composition of managed forests.
4162228|We analyzed interrelationships among nest sites of 13 open-nesting bird species of riparian communities in Iowa. Cluster analysis of a Euclidean distance matrix, based on the nesting substrate and mean values of nest-site measurements, identified three nesting assemblages comprising species nesting primarily in trees (six species), shrubs (four), or herbaceous cover (three). Discriminant canonical analyses were used to elucidate relationships among species within each nesting group. Two canonical axes separated most species nesting in trees along gradients of (I) nest and support-structure height and (II) support-limb diameter, distance to periphery of substrate, and nest height. Nest sites of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) were not different (P > 0.05) from those of Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) and Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura), which did differ from each other. Two canonical axes, representing (I) nest and support-structure height and (II) support-limb diameter and cover at the nest, separated all shrub-nesting species except Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) and Brown Thrashers (Toxostoma rufum). One significant (P < 0.05) canonical axis, representing nest and relative nest height and cover at the nest, separated Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) from Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) and Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia), which did not differ from each other. Species with similar nest sites tended to have different habitat use patterns. Nest-site analysis should be considered when investigating intra-community relationships among birds.
4162229| An isolated population of the Horned Screamer (Anhima cornuta) in the Cauca Valley, Colombia, was studied intensively during 1983-1984. Variation of head plumage allowed me to identify individuals. This group of approximately 25 adults is the only breeding population of the species in southwestern Colombia. Home ranges were fairly large areas on the shoreline of the lagoon (x = 10.7 ha). Defense of home ranges involved both vocal displays and physical fights. Most activity occurred from 10:00 to 18:00. Long sessions of preening occurred during the early morning. Screamers fed on nine species of aquatic plants and were observed digging into mud. Besides preening and standing, seven comfort movements were identified: wing-shake, head-shake, tail-wag, wing-and-leg-stretch, two-wing stretch, one-wing stretch, and jaw-stretch. Of these movements, only the head-shake was performed as a part of the courtship behavior. Reproduction took place from late November to early May. Courtship involved social preening and an elaborate display performed by the male. Nests were floating platforms located within emergent vegetation. The average clutch size was 4.5 eggs, which were incubated by both sexes throughout the 47-day incubation period. 
4162230|Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) reach the northern limits of their breeding range in eastern interior Alaska. Blackbird breeding phenology in Alaska is more synchronous, eggs are larger, nestlings grow more rapidly, and clutch-size and female reproductive success are higher than in populations farther south. The lack of a difference in the rate of tarsometatarsus increase in conjunction with the faster growth rate of nestlings suggests that the differences I found between this and more southerly populations are environmental responses to abundant food resources in the nestling period.
4162231|From 1976 to 1978, I studied the foraging performances of all age classes of the Bonaparte's Gull (Larus philadelphia), the Ring-billed Gull (L. delawarensis), and the Herring Gull (L. argentatus). In all species, immatures foraged less efficiently than did adults. There was improvement in performance with age, the adult level of efficiency being achieved in the spring of the final year of adolescence. A correlation was established between the extent of performance depression in the immatures and the length of the species-specific prereproductive period. Search, pursuit-capture, and handling improved at different rates and in different sequences in the three species. Implications for deferred breeding are discussed.
4162232|Baker's (1981) muscle biopsy technique has not been used widely for electrophoretic studies of free-living birds because of initial concern over its effect on bird behavior and survivorship. In this study, I report recapture rates, fat deposits, mass, and return rates between years for biopsied and control White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) wintering in North Carolina. Biopsied birds were recaptured significantly more than controls in one of the two seasons. I discuss the possible effect of slight initial differences in weight on recapture rates. Comparison of changes in fat deposits of biopsied and control sparrows revealed no significant differences in either year. Biopsied birds in 1984 lost significantly less body mass than controls (0.00 g vs 0.56 g). There was no significant difference in return rates between years for biopsied and control birds. Biopsies do not appear to affect survival or condition in this migratory songbird.
4162263|In northern Peru during 1983 we collected specimens of an undescribed taxon of antwren of the poorly known genus Herpsilochmus that is best described as a new species, which we call H. parkeri, the Ash-throated Antwren. The new species may replace H. axillaris ecologically at similar elevations in the eastern Andes of northern Peru. Based on plumage patterns, the genus Herpsilochmus can be divided into four or five groups: H. parkeri appears to belong to the group consisting of all of the taxa that have previously been considered conspecific with H. pileatus (nominate pileatus, atricapillus, and motacilloides). These taxa, including parkeri, have allopatric distributions except for the complete overlap of the range of nominate pileatus within the range of atricapillus. Habitat differences apparently exist among the taxa: parkeri and motacilloides inhabit humid upper tropical and subtropical forest in the Andes, pileatus inhabits caatinga, and atricapillus prefers dry forest in southern South America. Plumage differences between the taxa are as great as are those between other species pairs within the genus Herpsilochmus whose ranges apparently overlap with no evidence of interbreeding. Owing to the lack of evidence of intergradation between pileatus and atricapillus where their ranges overlap, these taxa should be considered separate species. Upon consideration of the differences in habitat, plumage, and vocalizations that exist between atricapillus, motacilloides, and parkeri, it seems best to treat each of these taxa as separate species until further data are available.
4162264| Predation was the major source of nest failure for hummingbirds studied in southwestern New Mexico and southeastern Arizona, accounting for nearly 80% of all failed nest attempts. Predation on eggs was responsible for just over 70% of all losses attributed to predation; predation on nestlings accounted for <30% of the losses. Nest failures resulting from abandonment, structural failure, and infertility were low and similar to that found in other studies dealing with altricial young. On an annual basis, nesting success ranged from 0% for Costa's Hummingbirds (Calypte costae) in 1976 and 1980, to 80% for Broad-billed Hummingbirds (Cynanthus latirostris) in 1977. Significant differences in egg and nestling survival between early and late nests were found for Black-chinned Hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri) in one of the three study areas. Average productivity (number of young fledged per female), based on data from all years and each study area, ranged from 0.16  0.27 [SD] young per female for Costa's Hummingbirds to 2.32  0.08 for Broad-billed Hummingbirds. Productivity for Black-chinned Hummingbirds, the most numerous of the five species studied, averaged 1.16  0.87, while that of Violet-crowned Hummingbirds (Amazilia violiceps) averaged 1.43  0.02. Productivity for Magnificent Hummingbirds (Eugenes fulgens), which nested only during 1976, was 1.16 young per female. Results of the present study are consistent with those of previous studies that have dealt with nesting female hummingbirds, and suggest that predation and productivity are more generalized than might be expected based on the range of habitats occupied. 
4162265|The largest segment of the North American Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) population traditionally nested in southern Florida, where its perceived population decrease over the last 50 years resulted in its addition to the Federal endangered species list. Previously published reports placed the southern Florida population at 30,000 to 100,000 storks. A complete search of published and unpublished records of Wood Storks nesting in southern Florida, however, failed to support such a long-term population decrease. We cannot demonstrate that the historical population was any larger than it was in 1967, when there were 9400 pairs. The Corkscrew-Big Cypress nesting group, not that of the Everglades, was historically the most numerically important population segment. The historic nesting location for southernmost Wood Storks was not inland in the Everglades but on Cape Sable, which has been subject to the effects of drainage canals. The population size of several decades ago is irrelevant to current conservation strategy because the southern Florida marshes have been irrevocably altered reducing their ability to support storks. We can document a population decrease of 75% from 1967 to 1981-82 in southern Florida, a time frame coincident with the operation of water management policies in the Everglades. Wood Storks recently have begun abandoning traditional colony sites in Everglades National Park in favor of sites in shallow reservoirs to the north. Drainage of the Big Cypress Swamp and maintenance of seasonally excessive water levels in the Everglades of Everglades National Park account for the stork's repeated nesting failure and population decrease. Water levels can be manipulated in the Everglades to enhance nesting success and assist in population stabilization.
4162266|No less than 20 hypotheses have been proposed to explain reversed sexual dimorphism (RSD) in raptorial birds. I have generated a prediction from each of these hypotheses and tested the prediction using the available information and nonparametric statistics. RSD correlates significantly only with female dominance in intraspecies interactions and with prey type. Unfortunately, the data on dominance interactions are limited, but the best working hypothesis appears to be that RSD has evolved primarily as a result of epigamic selection, with female dominance facilitating pair formation and maintenance. Prey specialization appears merely to influence the degree of, and does not cause, RSD. Most species of owls are specialists on either invertebrates or small mammals. Specialists on invertebrates show little RSD and specialists on small mammals show moderate to high RSD.
4162267| Winter population dynamics of Black-capped Chickadee (Parus atricapillus), Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata), and Red-headed Woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) were examined in the eastern half of North America using National Audubon Society Christmas Count data from count areas that have had the highest number of individuals for each species in at least one winter between 1947-48 and 1983-84. All three species store and consume mast. Red-headed Woodpecker populations were most variable and Blue Jay populations were more variable than those of Black-capped Chickadees. Year-to-year comparisons show that Red-headed Woodpeckers are relatively nomadic in winter; that Blue Jays make movements between New England and the Mid-Atlantic coast with some regularity; and that Black-capped Chickadees may make relatively short population movements between central and southern New England. Movements of the 3 species were independent of mean January temperatures at the count areas examined. Results presented here are consistent with the hypothesis that increased dependence on mast as a winter food source is correlated with increased variability in winter population dynamics. In particular, the nearly periodic nature of the east-west shift of Red-headed Woodpecker high counts among years is strikingly similar to the periodic pattern of boreal seed-eating birds discovered by Bock and Lepthien (1976a). 
4162268| Social organization, movements, and home ranges of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were investigated on Hardwicke Island, British Columbia from 1979 to 1982. Most broods disbanded by the end of September, and young grouse did not associate with their mothers or siblings in winter. The tendency to form flocks was lowest in fall. Grouping increased gradually until midwinter and then declined until spring. Approximately half of the grouse observed during winter were in groups that usually consisted of 2 or 3 birds (x = 2.9  0.1 [SE], N = 210). Daily movements were usually small during winter (median = 69 m) and home ranges averaged 16.8  2.3 ha (N = 21). Although Blue Grouse did not show the strong segregation of sexes found in some other tetraonines, birds most frequently associated with individuals of their own sex and age. The partial segregation of grouse by sex and age may have resulted because females wintered at lower elevations than males and juveniles migrated longer distances than adults. Segregation of sexes of other species of grouse may be explained by a similar mechanism. Flock formation is most frequent in species of grouse that winter in open areas and less frequent in species that winter in forests. 
4162269|The name Fuligula mariloides Vigors, presently used by many authors for a subspecies of the Greater Scaup, Aythya marila, was originally proposed for the Lesser Scaup, A. affinis, and may not be used in combination with the name marila. The name mariloides has been applied to a population of Greater Scaup in Kamchatka and the Commander Islands, supposedly distinguished by small size and dark dorsal color, or for that population and the one in North America, otherwise known as A. m. nearctica. Evidence for a subspecifically distinct population in eastern Asia is lacking, and A. marila is best considered to consist of only the Eurasian A. m. marila and the American A. m. nearctica. There is some interchange of the two subspecies in migration.
4162270|Food consumption, energy metabolism, and growth of 12 wild Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) chicks were compared with 4 captive chicks to evaluate the influence of food availability and sibling interaction on growth in wild nestlings. Captive female and male eaglets consumed and assimilated similar amounts of black-tailed jack rabbit (Lepus californicus). A linear relationship between age and maximum meal size was used in conjunction with field estimates of crop fullness to refine calculations of daily consumption. Growth of captive chicks was very similar to patterns exhibited by wild nestlings. Among wild nestlings, however, females had significantly heavier asymptotic body weights, but slower growth rates than males. Growth curve inflection points occurred 2.2 days later for females than for males, but the difference was not significant. The energy metabolized (ME) by captive and wild female eaglets showed similar increasing trends throughout the chickrearing period. ME values for captive and wild males, however, differed substantially. Wild male eaglets had reduced ME values during the sixth week of chick rearing, a time when captive males showed peak consumption rates. This difference may have been due to the presence of sibling competition, principally with females, for food.
4162302|We studied the ecology and behavior of the Pale-billed Sicklebill (Epimachus bruijnii) in northwestern Papua New Guinea. Vocal adult males defended small foraging territories. Boundary disputes involved counter-singing, chases, and displays by one male to the other. Movements of a focal male averaged 2 km/day. A 7-day range of this male covered 15 ha. We recorded the species consuming 7 species of food plants from at least 5 botanical families. Insect-foraging included use of the decurved bill for probing knotholes. Diet and mating behavior appeared to conform to that of typical polygynous birds of paradise. Evidence is presented indicating that this species inhabits the Sepik drainage, southeast of where the bird had been recorded previously.
4162303|We explored the potential for using the elemental composition of feathers as an indicator of intraspecific variation in postnatal development. Instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA) was used to determine the chemical profile of back and tail feathers of Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nestlings from Saskatchewan. Growth variables included parameters of Gompertz equations for weight, the rate of body feather development, the rate and timing of rectrix growth, and the age at which the nestlings made their first flight from the nest. There were significant correlation and multiple regression analyses involving growth parameters and the concentrations of sodium, chlorine, magnesium, manganese, calcium, and aluminum, but not bromine. Results often differed between the sexes and between the 2 types of feathers. Eaglets with rapid growth generally had higher concentrations of elements than birds with slower growth. Use of INAA may alleviate some of the problems associated with traditional means of collecting data on avian growth.
4162304|Cloacal lavages were taken from 166 individuals, representing 4 species of North American thrushes (Catharus fuscescens, C. ustulatus, C. minimus, Hylocichla mustelina) at 3 sites during spring migration and the beginning of the breeding season. Sperm morphology was similar in the 3 species showing sperm, and in second-year (SY) and after-hatching-year (AHY) males. Cloacal sperm were not evident in Wood Thrushes and Veeries south of their nesting ranges, but were found in Swainson's Thrushes at sites 800 and 230 km south of their nesting range. Sperm numbers in the lavages were not correlated with time-of-day, size of cloacal protuberance, wing chord length, or age class.
4162305|From 1980-1984, we characterized Sage Sparrow (Amphispiza belli) and Brewer's Sparrow (Spizella breweri) nestling growth and evaluated proximate factors potentially influencing growth in a southeastern Idaho shrubsteppe community. Increase in mass and tarsus length of both species was best explained by a logistic equation. For Sage Sparrows, all growth parameters we estimated varied significantly among years; 1983 seemed especially favorable for growth. Sage Sparrow mass growth rate and tarsus length at age 8 days declined significantly later in the breeding season, and tarsus growth rate varied inversely with brood size. In general, daily maximum temperature was negatively correlated with Sage Sparrow growth; weather seemed to have more effect early in the nestling period than later. Infestations of flesh fly larvae (Sarcophagidae) on Sage Sparrow nestlings were associated with reduced tarsus length near fledging. Little variation in Brewer's Sparrow nestling growth was explained by the variables we measured. Mass growth rate varied significantly among years and throughout the breeding season. Mass attained by age 7 days was greater in larger broods, but this effect was confounded by interactions among brood size, year, and seasonal effects.
4162306|In 1980 and 1981, I determined the outcome of 112 nesting attempts by 104 pairs of Long-eared Owls (Asio otus) in the Snake River Birds of Prey Area in southwestern Idaho. All nests were in trees in stick nests built by corvids. Owls used nests in clumps of trees and avoided nests in solitary trees and single rows of trees. Discriminant function analysis revealed that nests selected by owls tended to be wider than unused nests. Nesting success was 34% in 1980 and 51% in 1981. The minimum number of young fledged per successful nest was 3.4 in 1980 and 4.0 in 1981. Predators, probably raccoons (Procyon lotor), caused most nesting failures. Unsuccessful nests tended to be closer to water than were successful nests. Young owls left the nest about 2 weeks before they could fly and "branched" in the tree canopy surrounding the nest. "Branchers" had high survival, and branching may reduce nest predation. The number of nesting pairs in the study area declined 35% from 1980 to 1981. Nesting sites were more likely to have been reoccupied in 1981 if they had been successful in 1980.
4162307| We describe Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) nest sites in four habitats in Puerto Rico. Forty-nine nests were located in 21 species of trees. Red-tailed Hawks nested in trees that were taller than the mean canopy height of trees in surrounding plots and that allowed a view of at least 50% of their territory. Most nests were in the upper third of the tree on horizontal branches and secondary crotches. Vines and epiphytes commonly supported nests. Differences in nest-site parameters among different habitat types reflected major dissimilarities in vegetation, topography, climate, and land-use patterns. Nest plots in the dry lowlands were farther from water, had fewer species of trees, and shorter nest trees than nest plots in the other habitat types. Because they occurred mostly in grazed or recently abandoned pastures, nest plots in the dry lowlands also had less-developed shrub layers and greater ground cover. Like their continental North American counterparts, Red-tailed Hawks in Puerto Rico nested in sites that offered a wide view of the territory. /// Describimos los sitios de anidamiento del Guaraguao en cuatro hbitats en Puerto Rico. Cuarenta y nueve nidos fueron encontrados en 21 especies de rboles. Los Guaraguaos anidaron en rboles que eran mas altos que la altura promedio del dosel y esto les permiti tener una visibilidad desde el nido de mas del 50% de su territorio. La mayora de los nidos se encontraron en el parte superior del rbol sobre ramas horizontales y horquetas secundarias. Comunmente los nidos se encontraron apoyados sobre bejucos y plantas epfitas. Las diferencias observadas entre los sitios de anidamiento en los diferentes hbitats reflejaron las diferencias generales entre las zonas de estudio con respecto a vegetacin, topografa, clima y patrones del uso de la tierra. Los sitios de anidamiento en las zonas ridas a baja altitud se encontraron mas lejos del agua, tenan menos especies de rboles y tenan rboles de menor estatura que los sitios de anidamiento en los otros hbitats. Por su localizacin en pastizales y potreros abandonados los sitios de anidamiento en las zonas ridas tenan un estrato arbustivo menos desarrollado y una mayor cubierta vegetal del suelo que los sitios de anidamiento en los otros hbitats. Al igual que los Guaraguaos en Amrica del Norte los Guaraguaos en Puerto Rico anidaron en sitios que ofrecan una vista amplia del territorio. 
4162308|I compared the courtship behavior of King and Imperial Blue-eyed shags (Phalacrocorax albiventer and P. atriceps) for similarity and assessed their potential as a behavioral isolating mechanism between the two species. I could detect no differences in form or sequence of behavioral patterns, although there were some minor distinctions between forms. Observations were made near the end of the breeding season and may represent only the postbreeding behavior. I describe several new displays for King and Imperial shags, and contrast them with those known for the closely-related Antarctic Blue-eyed Shags (P. atriceps bransfieldensis). The courtship behavior of mixed-species pairs was nearly identical to conspecific pairs, and was difficult to distinguish. The observations do not support the existence of behavioral isolation between King and Imperial shags, but do support the contention that King Shags in Patagonia are color morphs of Imperial Blue-eyed Shags.
4162336|A new species of tanager, Tangara phillipsi sp. nov., from the Cerros del Sira, Peru is described. T. phillipsi belongs to a monophyletic "black-capped" species complex of the Andean forest of western South America.
4162337|Bird populations were monitored for 32 years in a 23-ha tract of hemlock-hardwood forest. Between 1953 and 1976 the total abundance of long-distance migrants declined significantly and four species disappeared, but after 1976 both the total abundance and the number of species increased. Multiple regression analysis shows that the abundance of long-distance migrants was negatively related to abundance of bird species characteristic of suburban habitats and positively related to the amount of forest within 2 km of the study area. The decline in long-distance migrants before 1976 occurred when suburban species were increasing and nearby forest was destroyed. The increase after 1976 is best explained by reforestation in the surrounding area because suburban birds were still increasing. A diversity of forest species, including many long-distance migrants, became established in the reforested areas. This pattern suggests that immigration from nearby forests is important in maintaining the abundance of long-distance migrants.
4162338|From October 1983 through September 1984, 19 two-day mist-net censuses were conducted in a tabonuco (Dacroydes excelsa) forest in Puerto Rico to examine the species richness and composition of the understory avifauna in small treefall gaps, a larger powerline opening, and forest understory. We captured 531 birds representing 17 species. Although numbers of species captured in the three habitats were similar, numbers of captures differed among habitats. Of the 12 species with adequate sample size, 6 were captured significantly more often in at least one habitat of a pair (gap-forest, gap-powerline, powerline-forest). Analysis of all nets by Bray-Curtis ordination indicates that although gap and forest assemblages are distinct, both overlap with the powerline opening assemblage. Treefall gaps were probably too small and rare to support gap specialist birds, and differences between gap and forest assemblages can be attributed to the presence of canopy series that follow the canopy into or out of gaps. We therefore suggest that individual treefall gaps contribute to the composition and richness of understory bird assemblages in Caribbean forests by attracting canopy dwellers rather than by attracting gap specialists.
4162339|Intraspecific aggression, behavioral dominance, and the influence of behavioral dominance on habitat use by the sexes was studied in free-ranging flocks of Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria), Redheads (A. americana), Ring-necked Ducks (A. collaris), and Lesser Scaup (A. affinis) that overwintered in coastal South Carolina. During three field seasons 4316 focal individuals were observed for 5 min each. In Canvasbacks, aggression was more frequent and was more intense than in the other three species. Males of each species dominated females in aggressive encounters that occurred primarily while foraging. In Canvasbacks there was a partial segregation of male and female foraging areas where food resources were distributed irregularly, with greater proportions of males inhabiting the higher quality food areas.
4162340|We studied the behavior and incubation constancy of breeding White-winged Scoters (Melanitta fusca deglandi) at Redberry Lake, Saskatchewan, during 1977-1980. Females spent 59.6% of their time feeding during the prelaying period, 61.2% during laying, 60.7% during incubation recesses, and 37% during brood rearing. Prelaying and laying females consistently spent more time feeding than did their mates. Incubation constancy declined from 89.3% of daylight hours during the first third of incubation to 69.3% during the last third. Near the end of incubation, females were off the nest most often between 11:00 and 17:00. White-winged Scoter females probably rely mainly on resources at the nesting area to meet the needs of reproduction.
4162341|Male American Robins (Turdus migratorius) behave in ways consistent with the protection of paternity hypothesis. During nest building and egg laying when females are fertilizable, males are with females significantly more often than they are during incubation when females are assumed to be nonfertilizable. Males are significantly closer to females and follow them significantly more often during fertilizable than nonfertilizable periods. Our data suggest that neither reduction in the risk of predation or other direct advantages to females select for the observed variation in the behavior of males. We therefore conclude that male behavior is a probable result of selective advantage gained through paternity assurance, though not necessarily through mate-guarding.
4162342|Body size and testis size are positively correlated among 1165 Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) from 48 localities. Body size accounts for 5-7% of the variation among individuals in testis size, and for about 30% of the variation in average testis size among populations. Testis size and latitude are negatively correlated, and latitude per se better predicts testis size than does a variety of direct measures of the climatic environments at the collecting sites. The testis sizes of males from polygynous populations average larger than those of males from monogamous populations. However, the differences between "polygynous" and "monogamous" males are slight, and males from Halifax and Sable Island, Nova Scotia, where the species is known to be polygynous, have smaller testes than predicted. There is no correlation between testis size and the amount or extent of yellow in the superciliary stripe-a measure of plumage brightness. The average testis volume of Savannah Sparrows resident in saltmarshes along the west coast of Mexico and southern California is greater than that from other populations.
4162376| Recent seabird surveys off the coast of the southeastern United States indicate that petrel distribution is most influenced by the Gulf Stream and other warm water masses between 10 and 40N latitude. Gulf Stream meandering and topographically induced current deflection affected petrel distribution at meso-scales (100-1000 km) between Florida and North Carolina. Locally (10-100 km), petrel distribution was influenced by the presence of upwelling associated with Gulf Stream eddies and the mesas, ridges, and hills on the Blake Plateau. Sea surface temperature and depth alone did not adequately characterize the petrel's marine habitat. Petrels used three modes of flight, and their flight behavior was strongly influenced by wind speed. During the day they were most active in early morning and late afternoon, when all observed feeding took place. Petrels also may have fed crepuscularly and at night. Most feeding occurred in mixed species flocks at either natural food sources (fish and invertebrate swarms) or on chum at fishing vessels. Petrels did not rely exclusively on olfaction for locating food sources. They fed on cephalopods, small fish, and fauna associated with the macro-alga Sargassum. 
4162377|Conventional karyotypic techniques were applied to five species of tyrant flycatchers (Empidonax) of the family Tyrannidae in order to determine the extent of chromosome differentiation within the group. The karyotypes of the Alder Flycatcher (E. alnorum), the Willow Flycatcher (E. traillii), and the Hammond's Flycatcher (E. hammondii) appeared identical. The Yellow-bellied Flycatcher (E. flaviventris) and the Least Flycatcher (E. minimus) possess one and three unique chromosomes, respectively. These data suggest an alternative hypothesis for relationships within the group.
4162378| Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus) defended multipurpose territories (x = 44 ha) including sizeable upland components. Most breeding pairs (90%) and broods (70%), however, were sighted in or near wetlands where they fed. Willets defended areas with greater densities and diversity of wetlands than generally available across the study area. As wetland availability was reduced by drought, Willet density declined. Willet pairs were most often observed in semipermanent wetlands. But based on use vs availability, Willets preferred ephemeral, temporary, seasonal, and alkali wetlands over semipermanent and permanent wetlands. Wetlands used by Willets had significantly greater proportions of more open cover types than those not used. Within used wetlands, Willets made disproportionately frequent use of lightly vegetated sites. Willets made little use of upland habitats, except for nesting. Little selection for upland land-use types was evident, but Willets avoided tilled land. Upland sites used by Willet pairs were dominated by short (< 15 cm), native grass cover. Broods used taller grass cover in uplands than did adults. Willet defense of large, multipurpose territories seems related to limited wetland foraging habitats and possible advantages gained by spacing nests to reduce predation. Continued destruction of wetland and prairie habitats likely will reduce Willet populations in the northern Great Plains. Preservation of wetland complexes and management of wetland and upland habitats with grazing, mowing, and prescribed burning treatments are suggested. 
4162379|Loss of the second (B) chick in broods of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) is common and has been attributed to starvation caused by sibling harassment. To examine this possibility in detail, we obtained weekly measurements of body weight and culmen length of individually marked A and B chicks from 80 nests sampled from seven subcolonies on three lakes in Manitoba, Canada, during the period when brood reduction normally occurs (first 2-3 weeks). Over half of the B chicks but none of the A chicks had bruises on the back or head. By the third measurement period, only 14% of the B chicks were alive, compared with 88% of the A chicks. Body size, weight, growth rates, and condition index (weight: culmen ratio) of the B chicks were all depressed relative to the A chicks. Evidence was obtained that B chicks succumbing within a given week weighed less and had smaller condition indices at the start of that week than did those that survived. Condition indices, which can be expected to reflect current food intake levels, exhibited greater within-brood disparity (A > B) for broods in which the B chick was about to die. Results are interpreted as supporting the hypothesis that socially induced food deprivation is causally linked to brood reduction in this species.
4162380|Habitat use and territory characteristics of six groups of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) were studied in central Florida at the southern margin of the species' range. Compared to more northerly habitats, pine stands were lower in density, younger, or of smaller size class. A suite of foraging patterns compensates for the resource-poor habitat. An analysis of population density and available habitat indicates that Red-cockaded Woodpeckers in central Florida require larger territories and are more sensitive to population pressure in poorer-quality habitat. These results indicate that minimal territory size may vary depending on the quality of the habitat. A regression model of stand size, territoriality, cavity tree location, and stand structure effects accounts for 93% of pine stand use. Sensitivity analyses of model components indicate that, after the effect of stand size, stand use is most sensitive to the effects of territoriality, followed by stand age, stand density, and cavity-tree location. Thus, stand use depends simultaneously on the distance of the stand from the cavity trees and territorial interaction sites and pine stand age and density.
4162381| I examined habitat use by winter and spring bird communities from 1981 to 1984 in 1-ha even-aged stands managed for Ruffed Grouse (Bonasus umbellus) in central Pennsylvania. Species richness was higher in edges than interiors of stands in both seasons. Edges of clearcut stands were avoided by winter birds but were used extensively by spring birds. In winter, the bird community seldom used the lower stratum near ground level (1 m), perhaps due to snow and ice cover. Both winter and spring avifauna foraged extensively on rough-barked overstory trees (e.g., Quercus and Pinus). Vertical strata use was more stereotypic in spring than in winter, whereas tree species use was more stereotypic in winter than in spring. Rough-barked overstory trees, snags, and slash should be retained in even-aged stands. 
4162382|Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) breeding at Dog Lake, Manitoba, were almost exclusively terrestrially based in their foraging efforts. Major food items in late May to early June were earthworms and grain that were obtained by foraging behind farm cultivating implements. Insects increased in importance as the season progressed, particularly for female gulls. Gulls obtained insects by foraging along lakeshore ridges (mayflies) or behind haying implements (grasshoppers). Males obtained birds and mice in the latter part of the season by foraging behind haying implements. Chick diet (from late June to late July) closely paralleled that of adults.
4162418|Two morphologically similar antpittas, Grallaria rufula and G. blakei, sp. nov., are sympatric on Cordillera Colan and Cordillera Carpish in the Peruvian Andes. These taxa appear to replace one another elevationally: G. rufula -- 2590 to 3450 m; G. blakei -- 2135 to 2470 m. G. blakei differs from Peruvian populations of G. rufula in having barring on the lower belly and much darker reddish-brown plumage. A unique specimen from the geographically isolated Cordillera Yanachaga may represent an undescribed subspecies of G. rufula or G. blakei, or an undescribed third species.
4162419|The recent colonization of the Sierra Nevada by the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), a brood parasite, may constitute a threat to some passerine populations. Because radio-telemetry studies have demonstrated that cowbirds commute up to 7 km between breeding sites in natural habitats and man-made feeding sites such as pack stations (horse corrals), it seemed possible to control cowbirds over a large area by removing them from a small number of man-made feeding sites. The feasibility of such a control program was tested by removing 125 cowbirds from a pack station in the western Sierra Nevada. Although cowbird numbers at the removal site declined markedly, there was only a moderate decline in male cowbirds, and at best only a slight decline in female cowbirds in the general area surrounding the removal site. The removal program had a limited impact because many cowbirds in the area, especially females and adult males, often fed in the vicinity of cattle grazing in meadows, unlike cowbirds in the area where the radio-telemetry study was done. Because free-ranging cattle are widespread in the Sierra, short-term removal programs at localized sites may have limited value, except in the few areas where there are no free-ranging cattle. Our results indicate that cowbirds are highly attracted to horses and make only limited use of corrals in the absence of livestock. Yearling males spent more time at a social feeding site than did adult males and females which, along with other evidence, indicates that cowbirds form afternoon social groups for purposes of feeding, rather than to partake in social behavior in a lek-like situation.
4162420|In the Allegheny mountains of Virginia, 39% of Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis) nests contained at least one Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) egg. Cowbirds laid an average of 1.7 eggs in each nest, and they removed an average of 1.2 junco eggs/nest. Removals primarily accounted for the reduction in mean number of junco young that were hatched and fledged in parasitized compared to nonparasitized broods. The majority of cowbird eggs were laid during the juncos' laying period, although some were laid slightly before or after the juncos' laying period. Most junco nestlings in nests with one cowbird nestling grew nearly as well as did those without cowbirds. Nest predation during incubation was higher in parasitized nests only in one of two years. Junco nests in relatively open areas appeared to have been more conspicuous both to cowbirds and predators. Brown-headed Cowbirds are recent invaders in this area, and possible antiparasite adaptations are discussed.
4162421|The rate at which White-winged Crossbills (Loxia leucoptera) and Red Crossbills (L. curvirostra) extract and consume seeds from conifer cones was measured in the laboratory. White-winged Crossbills were more efficient than Red Crossbills at handling small seeds, but the converse was found for large seeds. Time required to extract seeds (interseed interval) from conifer cones depended on the stage of cone ripeness and was usually greater than seed-husking time. Interseed intervals were greatest, and intake rates (mg kernel ingested/sec) lowest, when cones were closed or when they were open, but had shed most of their seed. White-winged Crossbills were more efficient than Red Crossbills when foraging on spruce (Picea spp.) cones and when cones were open and full of seeds. Red Crossbills were more efficient while foraging on pine (Pinus spp.) cones and when seeds were difficult to extract from between cone scales. The differences in foraging efficiency were related to morphological differences between the two species; White-winged Crossbills have more slender, shallower, and less powerful bills than do Red Crossbills. The differences in foraging efficiency are consistent with patterns of crossbill distribution and conifer use in the field. Differences in bill structure may be related to increasing foraging efficiency during periods of food limitation. Differences in foraging efficiency among individual crossbills were consistent with the hypothesis that variation between the efficiency of individuals should be less when birds forage on foods used during periods of greatest food limitation than when they forage on foods used during less stressful times.
4162422|Oscine songs, which are typically imitated from adult conspecifics, usually vary geographically, but here we document a surprising lack of geographic variation in the songs of the Prothonotary Warbler (Protonotaria citrea). A typical song of this species consists of 4 to 14 repeated syllables of one type. Using cluster analysis, we showed that the geographic origins of the similar songs within the state of Texas were closer together than were the locations of song pairs chosen at random. But this statistical demonstration of geographic patterning within Texas was overshadowed by the lack of broad geographic variation: a given Texas song was no more likely to be more similar to another Texas song than to a song from distant portions of eastern North America. How a songbird species can maintain such geographic uniformity in a presumably learned song raises questions about our understanding of the flexibility provided by imitation during song ontogeny.
4162423|This is an audiospectrographic study of the primary song of the White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus) based on 16,612 recorded songs of 379 birds from 20 states, Bermuda, and the Bahamas, and representing the five subspecies that occur in the United States. Information is given on song construction, song variation, individual repertoires, singing behavior, song and note type sharing by two or more birds, and geographic variation. The largest song-type repertoire was 17, and most birds had a repertoire of 10 to 14 song types. In most birds represented by a sizeable number of songs, even in well studied areas, a few of the individual's song types were unique (found in no other bird studied), and the rest were shared by other birds; this sharing was with more birds outside the area than in it, with one or more song types occurring in birds several hundred kilometers away. The 614 song types found were classified in five major groups; the incidence of the types in these groups, as well as the song length and the number of notes in the song, varied geographically.
4162424|We compared measurements at 212 Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity trees and 150 randomly selected mature pines in eastern Texas. Discriminant analyses indicated that cavity trees were significantly older and taller, with greater crown depths, volumes, and weights, and larger diameters at breast height than were randomly selected mature pines. Examination of growth increment cores indicated that cavity trees had undergone a period of suppressed growth after which they were released by some type of natural or man-caused thinning. Because shelterwood cutting imitates the suppression and release phenomenon we observed, we suggest that this harvest technique be used instead of clearcutting in areas around woodpecker colonies in order to provide an immediate and sustained supply of potential cavity trees.
4162425|Habitat relationships of breeding birds were examined in northwestern Colorado in pinyon-juniper (Pinus edulis-Juniperus osteosperma) woodland and in openings where most overstory trees had been knocked down by anchor chaining. Vegetation characteristics and physical habitat features were measured in 233 0.04-ha circular plots around singing males of 13 species of birds from 15 May to 15 July 1980. Thirteen-group discriminant function analysis ordinated bird species along three habitat dimensions described by (1) canopy height; (2) slope, shrub size, and shrub species diversity; and (3) percentage canopy cover, large tree density, distance from a habitat edge, litter cover, and green cover. Woodland, open-area, and intermediate edge species were clearly segregated along the first discriminant axis, and species' associations with shrubs, inclination, ground cover, and edges were revealed by the ordinations along the second and third discriminant axes. Two-group discriminant analyses comparing occupied and available plots identified additional and more specific habitat associations. For example, Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) were associated with mature forested habitats and forest interiors, Virginia's Warblers (Vermivora virginiae) favored steep, oak-covered draws, Rock Wrens (Salpinctes obsoletus) selected areas where percentage log cover and small tree density were high, and Dusky Flycatchers (Empidonax oberholseri) preferred shrubby slopes with scattered large trees near woodland edges.
4162426|Sora (Porzana carolina) and Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola) chicks were observed in the wild and in captivity. In both species the chicks are precocial in ground and aquatic locomotion, semiprecocial in feeding themselves, and altricial in feather development, flight, and possibly thermoregulation. Sora chicks had more conspicuous head coloration and begging display than did Virginia Rail chicks, and they were slightly slower in attaining feeding self-sufficiency.
4162427|Four pairs of Yellow Rails (Coturnicops noveboracensis) were radiotracked (1039 locations) in May-August 1980 at Seney National Wildlife Refuge, Michigan, to identify characteristics of breeding habitat and its use by Yellow Rails. Vegetation at nesting sites was dominated by Carex lasiocarpa (>90% of basal stems) in wet sedge meadows, which comprised nearly 90% of the 30-ha study area. Water depth in the meadows was 20-30 cm in spring, but standing water was absent by mid-July. Male activity areas overlapped and averaged 7.8 ha (range = 5.8-10.5) during preincubation and incubation; areas used by females averaged 1.2 ha (range = 1.0-1.7) during preincubation but declined to 0.3 ha during incubation.
4162428|Activities of postbreeding Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) were studied in the prairie-pothole region of southwestern Manitoba. Observations were divided among four time periods: (1) preflightless, (2) flightless, (3) postflightless, and (4) migratory. The only difference in activities between males and females occurred in the preflightless period: males spent more time in comfort activities and swimming and less time feeding than did females (P < 0.05). Time spent feeding was low during and after wing molt, and it increased markedly during fall migration. Scaup were most alert before molt and during fall migration. Time allocated to comfort activities was highest during the preflightless and flightless periods, and it declined through the postflightless and migratory periods, closely following molt intensity. Time budgets of postbreeding scaup were similar to those of postbreeding Redheads (Aythya americana), except for the greater time spent alert by scaup. Comparisons of other time-budget studies of Lesser Scaup in the same study area indicate that preflightless females in this study spent twice as much time feeding as did females with broods and that time devoted to feeding increased later in the preflightless period.
4162429|Mallards (Anas platyhynchos) and American Wigeon (A. americana) were studied in Alabama from November through February 1983-85. Resting was the major activity of Mallards (39-54%) and feeding was the major activity of American Wigeon (45-71%). Mallards increased feeding during the colder winter of 1983-84, but wigeon did not. Locomotion (8-21% and 5-26%) and comfort (4-22% and 4-13%) also were dominant behavioral activities of Mallards and American Wigeon, respectively. Total time spent in alert, courtship, and agonistic behavior was low for both species (<11%). Mallards and wigeon rested most on river sites, while managed impoundments were used most for feeding and social activity.
4162463| The displays and foraging behavior of the Golden-winged Manakin (Masius chrysopterus: Pipridae) were observed at two sites in western Ecuador from May to July 1985. Masius foraged both solitarily and with multispecies foraging flocks, and fed on fruits of 10 plant species from four botanical families. Male Masius occupied 30-40-m diameter display territories arranged in dispersed leks. Males defended territories through frequent advertisement calling, and performed displays on fallen logs and exposed buttress roots within each territory. Courtship display elements included a complex log-approach display, a chin-down display, and a side-to-side bowing display. Pairs of males performed coordinated log-approach and side-to-side bowing displays but the function of these coordinated behaviors was not determined. A phylogenetic analysis of display behaviors strongly indicates that Masius is the sister-group to the genus Corapipo and that Ilicura may be the sister-group to these two genera. These conclusions are partially corroborated by morphological and biochemical evidence. /// Los comportamientos de alimentacin y cortejo del saltarn ali-dorado (Masius chrysopterus: Pipridae) se observaron en dos lugares en Ecuador occidental en los meses de mayo a julio de 1985. Individuos de Masius buscaron comida solitariamente y en grupos multi-especficos, y se alimentaron en 12 especies de plantas de 4 familias. Los machos ocuparon territorios de 30-40 m de dimetro disputestos en "leks," o areas de despliegues colectivos, dispersos. Los despliegues de cortejo de los machos se ejecutaron sobre troncos cados y contrafuertes adentro de cada territorio. El repertorio de cortejo incluy un complejo despliegue de acercamiento al tronco, y despliegues de apuntar la barbilla hacia abajo e inclinarse de lado-a-lado. Parejas de machos ejecutaron despliegues coordinados, pero la funcin de estos comportamientos es desconocida. Un anlisis filogentico de los despliegues de cortejo indica robustamente que Masius es el grupo-hermano del gnero Corapipo, y que el gnero Ilicura estara emparentado ms cercamente a stos. Estas conclusiones sistemticas estn corroboradas en parte, por evidencia morfolgica y bioqumica. 
4162464|Large populations of 34 species of shorebirds migrate in late summer and fall to the wide muddy intertidal areas of the upper Bay of Fundy in preparation for the transoceanic flight to South American wintering grounds. Southward migration through Fundy extends from 1 July to 11 November, although the main passage usually occurs between 20 July and 20 September. Shorebirds are most numerous during August. The average length of stay for the Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla) is 15 days. Estimates of total numbers for the migratory period of the nine most common species range between 800,000 and 1,400,000 birds. The Semipalmated Sandpiper constitutes 95% of all shorebirds recorded. The populations of Semipalmated Sandpipers stopping in the Bay of Fundy during southward migration each year represent 42-74% of the world population of this species. The Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola) is the only species that migrates via the Bay of Fundy in spring in numbers comparable to those recorded in late summer and fall.
4162465|Nearctic-breeding shorebirds regularly migrate through the llanos of central Venezuela in the spring (March-May). At a single site, consisting of three feeding areas with a total of 3-5 ha, 10 species were recorded. Four migrating Least Sandpipers (Calidris minutilla) banded at this site were recaptured there in subsequent years. White-rumped Sandpipers (C. fusicollis) dyed and flagged in the Venezuelan llanos were observed a few weeks later, one in Texas and two in Kansas. Shorebird weights, numbers, passage times, and lengths of stay at the study site are given. Nearly all shorebirds had recently completed molt of remiges and rectrices, but none were in distinctive breeding plumages or colors.
4162466|Ninety-seven species of birds are recorded from Cat Island and immediately adjacent cays, 46 for the first time. No species or subspecies is endemic. Of the 47 probable breeding species, 23 are land birds (exclusive of hawks and the introduced Rock Dove [Columba livia]); 24 and 26 are predicted from island size and rainfall data, respectively. Nests, eggs, and young are reported for 27 species, 25 of them recorded breeding on Cat Island for the first time. Most of the indigenous breeding land birds are widespread in all terrestrial habitats; habitat preferences are pronounced in several. Most of the breeding species are widespread in the Bahamas generally, but the Bahama Yellowthroat (Geothlypis rostrata) and Red-legged Thrush (Turdus plumbeus) are not known to breed in the archipelago south of Cat Island. The resident race of the American Kestrel (Falco sparverius) is near the northern limits of its range there. The Bahama Mockingbird (Mimus gundlachii) is the most abundant land bird.
4162467|I describe the geographic distribution of song types in the Carolina Wren (Thryothorus ludovicianus) in continuous and discontinuous populations along the eastern shore of the Chesapeake Bay and adjacent islands. On average, individuals at the same site held 66% of their songs in common (range = 49.5-89.5%). At sites in continuous mainland populations, I found a negative linear correlation between the distance separating individuals and the percentage of songs shared. Wrens on isolated island sites shared less than 20% of their song types with individuals on the nearest mainland areas. Song sharing among males separated by 3 km of water was equivalent to that found in males separated by 145 km of continuous mainland habitat. Of the 309 song types in the total sample, 78% were restricted to one site. The percentage of songs shared among neighboring free-ranging wrens found in this study is compared to the percentage of undegraded songs learned by native young males in a laboratory experiment.
4162468|Previous studies have shown little response of territorial Alder (Empidonax alnorum) and Willow (E. traillii) flycatchers to heterospecific song playback within their range of breeding overlap, suggesting the absence of interspecific territoriality. However, the same species clearly exhibit interspecific breeding territories in shared habitats in southern Ontario. Such conflicting observations may have resulted from previous studies being conducted in habitats where only one of the species was present. In an attempt to reconcile these different observations, the responses of both species to heterospecific song playback in sympatric and allopatric populations were compared near Guelph, Ontario. I hypothesized that aggressive responses to heterospecific song should occur only in shared habitats. Both species took significantly less time to approach, moved closer, and spent more time near the sound source, and more frequently elicited aggressive vocalizations in response to heterospecific song in shared habitats. The virtual absence of response by either flycatcher in allopatric populations suggests that both species learn, through coexistence, to recognize the heterospecific song as that of a potential competitor. In addition, the responses of Willow Flycatchers to both con- and heterospecific song were more aggressive than that of the Alder. Recent range expansions of the Willow Flycatcher into areas historically occupied by the Alder Flycatcher may in part be due to interspecific dominance.
4162469|Intra- and interindividual variation in the "bounce" and "whinny" songs of Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) in central Kentucky were examined. Significant interindividual variation was noted in each character examined. Temporal characters generally were more variable than frequency characters in "whinny" songs, but the reverse was found to be true for "bounce" songs. Interindividual variation was also noted in the structure of notes used in "bounce" songs. The "bounce" songs of females were significantly longer in duration and higher in frequency than those of males. Our results suggest that there is sufficient variation in these songs to permit sexual and individual recognition.
4162470|Eurasian Tree Sparrow (Passer montanus) populations, established by introductions outside of the native range, provide a unique opportunity to assess the relationship of morphometric and genetic change in a new environment. No statistically significant morphometric-genetic relationships were found among six populations of P. montanus when we (1) correlated morphometric size with heterozygosity; and (2) estimated degree of population differentiation using morphometric and genetic distance measures. Factors influencing both genetic and morphometric differentiation include the founding events and the ecological changes associated with them.
4162471|Bird populations were monitored over 20 consecutive months in suburban Tempe, Arizona, to assess the value of this artificial habitat for native riparian bird species. Of 104 species detected, 60 were transient migrants, 25 were permanent or summer residents that probably bred locally, and 19 were winter residents. Total density varied from 1423 to 3237 birds/40 ha; four nonriparian residents (Rock Dove [Columba livia], Inca Dove [Columbina inca], European Starling [Sturnus vulgaris], House Sparrow [Passer domesticus]) comprised from 52% to 72% of the total each month. Compared with nearby native riparian habitats (cottonwood-willow and mesquite), the suburban plots appeared to support significantly higher total bird densities in every month. Ten native species occurred in significantly higher density on the suburban transects than in outlying riparian habitats in at least one season. Overall, 53% of the riparian breeding species, and 85% of the winter residents also occurred in suburban Tempe. Absence of other riparian species from the suburban sites may be attributed either to interference by abundant, urban-adapted species or an inability to exploit nonnative tree species. Other suburban sites containing native willows and cottonwoods support populations of several obligate riparian species not found in Tempe. We suggest that well-vegetated suburban habitats have much potential in mitigating against the rapid loss of native riparian vegetation in the Southwest.
4162472|Occurrence of second broods in Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) was studied during 1982-1986. Successful second nests comprised 7.6% (21 of 275) of all nesting attempts in which females were identified and 9.6% (21 of 219) of successful nestings. Length of the nesting season averaged 157 days. Average initiation dates of the first and second nests of double-brooded females were 14 February and 16 May, respectively. Mean interval between hatching of first nests and initiation of second nests was 47 days. Minimum age of females that produced two broods was 2.3 years. Mean egg mass, clutch size, clutch mass, and body mass of females were greater for first nests than for second nests. We compared first nests of double-brooded females with nests of single-brooded females that initiated nests during the same time period (20 January-4 March). There were no differences in mean egg mass, clutch size, clutch mass, body mass, and age between single-brooded and double-brooded females. Females producing one brood, however, lost a greater percentage of body mass during incubation than did double-brooded females.
4162473|To better understand the effects of egg mass and position in the laying sequence on reproductive success of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis), I determined the fate of eggs, marked embryos near hatching, and recaptured goslings near fledging. Hatching success did not correlate with egg mass and position in the laying sequence. The probability of recapturing marked goslings near fledging was not associated with relative egg mass or position in the laying sequence. These results suggest that egg mass and position in the laying sequence have no short-term implications for the fitness of the chick produced. A reduced survival rate of goslings in larger broods in one year suggests that brood size could be a factor limiting clutch size in Canada Geese.
4162474|We examined nest-site selection in 13 Mew Gull (Larus canus) colonies in south-central Alaska to compare characteristics used in wet versus dry-land colonies. We distinguished three types of colonies that experience different selection pressures: (1) dry-land colonies surrounded by dry land, (2) dry-land colonies surrounded by water, and (3) marsh colonies. The former probably experienced greater mammalian predation than the latter two. Nests in dry-land colonies on the mainland were in dense cover with low nest visibility from 1 and 5 m, except at colonies that were protected by fences or by being on a roof. All colonies were exposed to aerial predators, and in all but one colony cover over nests was significantly greater than for random sites. Dry-land colonies on islands and marsh colonies exposed to flooding had nests that were higher above water than were the random sites. Our results indicate that Mew Gulls' choice of nest sites reflects habitat constraints and predation pressures.
4162511| A wood-warbler collected in 1955 near New Haven, Connecticut, originally identified as Oporornis philadelphia, proves to be a hybrid O. philadelphia  Geothlypis trichas. The hybrid indicates the existence of substantial genetic compatibility between the parental species. Two different classifications of Oporornis and Geothlypis are consistent with the genetic similarity implied by the hybrid, but in the absence of phylogenetic evidence, the provisional continued recognition of Oporornis and Geothlypis is suggested on phenetic and nomenclatural grounds. Although the number of intergeneric paruline hybrids (10) is greater than the number of intrageneric hybrids (4, other than between species-pairs), the inference that hybridization is more common between phylogenetically distant species than between closer relatives is not warranted because several of the genera involved in the hybridizations are probably paraphyletic. 
4162512|Male Kentucky Warblers (Oporornis formosus) have a single, individually distinctive song type. The songs of 29 males breeding at a single location were placed into 6 categories based upon similarity of song types. Based upon these categories, song types were randomly distributed in the breeding population; there was no tendency for neighboring males to have more similar songs than nonneighbors. Song types remained unchanged between years in three males that returned to breed. The songs in our single population were nearly as variable as a sample of songs derived from throughout the breeding range, indicating that Kentucky Warblers do not exhibit song dialects.
4162513|Spring burning preempts settling by Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii) on tallgrass prairie in the Flint Hills Upland of Kansas. Territories were mapped on four unburned watersheds totaling 211 ha on the Konza Prairie Research Natural Area during the breeding seasons of 1985 and 1986. Vegetation was compared for areas sequestered within territories and those excluded from territories. Males establish territories in patches with greater coverage by standing dead vegetation, lesser coverage by woody vegetation, and taller live grasses. It is hypothesized that the primary ultimate cause for this proximate selection is the depressing effect of standing dead vegetation on aboveground grass productivity which results in a more open substrate for this ground-dwelling species.
4162514| The breeding biology of Wilson's Plovers (Charadrius wilsonia) was studied in Texas during 1979-81 and in Virginia in 1984. Nests were hundreds of meters apart on salt flats, roads, or unused runways. Ninety-eight percent of nests were within 30 cm of a clump of vegetation, but only 12% of the nests were near objects. Seven pairs renested after their first nest failed, and one pair laid a second clutch after its first brood was adopted. In Texas, egg laying occurred from mid-April to mid-June with two distinct peaks; in Virginia, egg laying was mainly in May. Clutches of 3 eggs were laid over 5-6 days, and about 8 days elapsed between the failure of a nest and a start of a renest. Mean egg size was 35.2  25.9 mm; length, breadth, and volume index
4162515|Breeding season displays and vocalizations are described for Wilson's Plovers (Charadrius wilsonia) from Texas and Virginia. Aerial displays appeared to be absent, but horizontal and upright territorial displays and Parallel Runs (with horizontal posture) occurred. The female approached the side of the male in the Scrape-ceremony. Precopulatory postures include a posture (Forward-tilt) and a behavior during Marking time (tail flicking) not reported for other plovers. Mounting lasted 15-66 sec (N = 4), was confined to the nesting territory, and included the male grabbing the nape of the female and toppling by the pair. Alarm and distraction displays included Head-up, Squatting, Mock-brooding, Crouch-run, and Broken-wing displays. The Broken-wing display was rare before hatching in Texas, but not in Virginia. Ten vocalizations are described, including nine with sonagrams, several of which have never been described for this species. The displays and vocalizations of this species are compared to those of several other plovers.
4162516|xThirty-seven colony sites were used by nine species of nesting wading birds (Ciconiiformes) in the Corkscrew Swamp area
4162517|Cuckoldry was studied in a New Jersey population of European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Biopsy of both blood and pectoral muscle was done on 550 wild birds, including both adults and all chicks at 95 nests between 1983-1985. Vertical thin-layer polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) was employed rather than starch gel electrophoresis because we found through using both that PAGE has greater resolution for the enzymes we examined. Thirty-three loci were screened, but only three were both resolvable and found to have bona fide polymorphism. Two unambiguous cases of cuckoldry were discovered, each involving two chicks. Another six cases may have been either cuckoldry or intraspecific brood parasitism; they involved only one chick each. If only the two unambiguous cases are counted, the frequency of cuckoldry was 2.1%. If the six ambiguous cases are included, the frequency was 8.4%. Low measured frequencies do not necessarily imply a low risk of cuckoldry because they may reflect the conservatism of electrophoresis and the effectiveness of anticuckoldry behaviors. Cuckoldry may be a serious, but contained, risk in our population.
4162518|We tested the hypothesis that clutch size is limited by the inability of female House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) to incubate more eggs than they typically lay in a clutch. We studied wrens that were breeding in nestboxes placed in a forest in central Illinois. We added two eggs to clutches of seven eggs early in the breeding season and two eggs to clutches of six eggs late in the breeding season in 1986. Incubation success was measured by counting the number of chicks present in the nest four days after the first egg of the clutch had hatched. In both early- and late-season nests, incubation success of experimentally enlarged clutches was significantly higher than that of control clutches. We conclude that clutch size of House Wrens is not likely limited by the female's inability to incubate additional eggs.
4162519|We studied 94 clutches of the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) in Newark, Delaware, to determine: (1) the frequency of apparent conspecific brood parasitism (CBP); (2) if the laying of eggs in a conspecific's nest is truly a parasitic interaction with the recipient; and (3) that indeterminate laying can predispose a species to CBP. Eight clutches yielded evidence of CBP; electrophoresis of egg albumin detected a genetically odd egg in 4 of 42 clutches, while 4 other clutches provided indirect evidence of CBP--visibly odd eggs in other than the ultimate position and two eggs laid in one day. An egg-removal experiment suggested that House Sparrows are indeterminate layers before the third egg is laid; thus a female can increase her fecundity by laying one or more parasitic eggs before completing her own clutch of normal size. A complementary egg-addition experiment showed that a recipient female may reduce her contribution to her own clutch by one egg if an egg is inserted before she lays her third one. Insertion after the third egg can result in an enlarged clutch to the potential detriment of both host and parasite.
4162520|We investigated the magnitude and cause of the decline in numbers of Florida's resident population of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius paulus) by contrasting the records of early oologists and present-day observations. Historical information was available for three different region-habitat type combinations. In areas formerly dominated by longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) flatwoods in north-central Florida (Alachua and Levy counties), kestrels have declined an estimated 82% since the early 1940s; nest-site availability has decreased significantly due to the clearing of isolated longleaf pine trees from agricultural fields. Along the central Florida ridge in Lake, Orange, and Seminole counties, kestrels declined with the conversion of the original longleaf pine-turkey oak (Quercus laevis) vegetation to citrus groves. Recent observations indicate a very small population now exists in this area. In Dade County, the kestrel apparently disappeared as a breeding species from the pine forests of the Miami Rocklands between 1935 and 1950. The cause of the kestrel's extirpation in this region is unclear.
4162521|Interactions between Merlins (Falco columbarius) and Dunlins (Calidris alpina) were studied at estuarine areas in western Washington during winter, 1979 to 1985. Twenty-five of 111 hunting flights by Merlins were successful (22.5%). Five of seven capture attempt techniques were used successfully with a success rate of 4.9%. The most common capture techniques were the stoop at a flock and the chase of an individual isolated from the flock. Most hunting flights (54%) lasted less than 1 min, but hunts of over 5 min were observed (10%). Hunting success rates varied little with the duration of the hunting flight or the size of the Dunlin flock initially targeted. Success rates for hunting flights by Merlins were much higher in Washington (22.5%) than reported from California (12.5%); these higher rates may be the result of a functional response by Merlins in Washington. Dunlins exhibited three distinct types of synchronized predator evasion flights. Dunlins isolated from flocks were often pursued and captured. The most common evasive measure used by isolated birds was a lateral dodge executed while in linear flight away from the flock.
4162558|A new species of parakeet, Pyrrhura orcesi sp. nov., from southwestern Ecuador is described and named the El Oro Parakeet. This species is most closely related to the Maroon-tailed Parakeet (P. melanura). Pyrrhura orcesi is restricted to a narrow band of forest, between ca 600 to 1100 m in elevation, along the western slope of the Ecuadorian Andes. Its range is only ca 100 km in length, and, given the current rate of deforestation in the area, it soon may be threatened with extinction.
4162559|I examined geographic variation in the sex ratio of Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) in wintering flocks from 22 different localities. The percentages of males in relatively large samples (N > 20) range from 45 to 70%; overall, 55% of wintering birds collected were male. There is no discernible geographic pattern to the interpopulational variation in sex ratio. I also examined patterns of size (PC1) and shape (PC2) variation among 542 wintering Savannah Sparrows. The largest Savannah Sparrows of both sexes tend to winter in the east and in the north; the east-west trend is more pronounced than the north-south one. In both sexes, individuals with relatively small bills and large wing bones tend to winter in the west. I suggest that the variability in bill size reflects geographic differences in the seeds available in winter, for it is only during that time that Savannah Sparrows are primarily granivorous. Variation in the relative size of the bones of the pectoral girdle may reflect variation in the distances migrated (which are probably longer on average in the west than in the east). For this data set a principal component analysis done on the raw data, using the matrix of correlations among variables, provides a more satisfactory result than an analysis using log-transformed data and the variance-covariance matrix. Canonical correlations analysis provides a clearer description between the relationships among morphometric and environmental variables than does stepwise multiple regression analysis. The latter technique, because it uses partial correlations, sometimes identifies variables as being significant that have low univariate correlations. For Savannah Sparrows, wing length is not a good measure of body size.
4162560|A study of the movements of two pairs of nesting Long-eared Owls (Asio otus) was conducted during the spring and summer of 1982. Activity patterns, movements, and home-range use of the owls changed during the nesting season. The female incubated and brooded the young, while the male did most of the foraging, particularly when the female was attending eggs or very small nestlings. Mates shared a common core home range immediately around the nest site, but foraged in different areas away from the nest. The home-range areas of adjacent nesting pairs overlapped. Although changes in temperature significantly affected the movements of one of the female owls, wind speed, precipitation, and cloud cover appeared to have little influence on movements of the birds. During their nocturnal period of activity, owls were least active from 20:00-22:00 and 05:00-06:00.
4162561| Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) wintering on the Alabama coast were studied from September--October through April 1984-85 and 1985-86. Time spent foraging dominated diurnal activities during all months (x = 76%) and was highest in December (90%). Tidal height was correlated negatively with foraging time and appeared to be the most important factor influencing activities. Time spent resting and preening was related inversely to foraging, and combined time spent in agonistic, territorial, alert, and locomoting activities was < 5% during all months. Piping Plovers arrived on the study area in mid-July, and several individuals remained into early April. Observations of color-marked plovers indicated that individuals were least mobile from late November through late January. Of the plovers marked in 1984-85, 63% returned during 1985-86 despite the occurrence of two major hurricanes during the fall of 1985. 
4162562|I studied the foraging ecology and host relations of a population of brood parasitic Giant Cowbirds (Scaphidura oryzivora) in the undisturbed Manu National Park of Amazonian Peru. Giant Cowbirds foraged mostly along rivers and lakes where they searched for arthropods, fruit, and nectar. Male cowbirds sometimes foraged on the backs of mammals on which they captured biting flies. The two potential host species, the Russet-backed Oropendola (Psarocolius angustifrons) and Yellow-rumped Cacique (Cacicus cela) defended their colonies against cowbird parasitism, regardless of colony location. Giant Cowbirds concentrated most of their visits on oropendola nests, which were sometimes left untended when the colony members were foraging together in a flock away from the colony. Yellow-rumped Caciques, however, seldom left their colonies untended and no cowbirds were known to fledge from cacique nests during the five years of the study. This situation differs markedly from that reported by Smith (1968, 1979, 1980) in Panama where Giant Cowbirds parasitized both oropendolas and caciques, and at least some hosts did not chase cowbirds away from their nests. I argue that the major difference between the two study areas is that in Peru, both caciques and oropendolas generally raise only a single young, which means that there can be no advantage to being parasitized as there is in Panama.
4162563|To assess the role of snags in cavity-nesting bird communities ornithologists need to identify the types of snags which foraging cavity-nesters select. Using data from a hardwood forest in central New York, this paper develops a logistic regression analysis of snags used for foraging by woodpeckers (Picidae) and compares these results to a companion study of snags used as nest-cavity sites. Snags used for foraging were in earlier stages of decay than snags used for nest cavities. Woodpeckers, however, exhibited less sensitivity to snag size and decay-stage when foraging than when excavating nest cavities. The importance of snags to cavity-nesters will depend both on the history of a particular forest and on the preferences which birds demonstrate for dead wood in various forms (such as snags, dead limbs, logs, etc.).
4162564| Breeding Bachman's Sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) were studied in central Arkansas from 1983-85. Although one case of polygyny was observed, Bachman's Sparrows were primarily double-brooded and monogamous, breeding from 17 April-26 August. All nests were built on the ground. Clutches (mode = 4) laid during the first half of the breeding season were significantly larger than those laid during the second half. Females incubated eggs for 13-14 days, and both synchronous and asynchronous hatching were observed. The average nestling and fledgling periods were 9.0  0.3 [SE] and 25.0  1.2 days, respectively. Both parents cared for nestlings and fledglings. Females started second broods 12.3  2.3 days after first-brood nestlings fledged, while males continued to care for first-brood fledglings. When nests failed, renesting attempts were made, and some pairs attempted 5 nests in one season. The average number of nests per season was 3.1  0.2, and the average time interval between failed nests and repeat layings was 9.7  1.6 days. The probability that an egg would produce a fledgling was 0.25. Predation was the major cause of nest failure. Nest success was not influenced by year, time of season, degree of nest concealment, habitat, or clutch size. On average, Bachman's Sparrow pairs produced 3.0 fledglings per year. 
4162565|In 1982-1983, I repeated ten breeding bird censuses made by B. Fawver in 1947-1948 in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee and North Carolina. Populations of neotropical migrants did not show significant changes. In contrast, during this period, many of the same species of neotropical migrants had declined in small woodlots and urban parks throughout the eastern United States. These findings support the hypothesis that declines in woodlots result from the fragmentation of breeding habitat and demonstrate the importance of large parks such as the Great Smoky Mountains National Park for the preservation of neotropical migrants. Among the permanent residents and short-distance migrants, the Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata), American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos), and Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis) showed substantial population increases during this period. All three species probably have benefited from human activity outside the park boundaries.
4162602|Mixed pairs of South Polar Skuas (Catharacta maccormicki) and Brown Skuas (C. lonnbergi) were banded and observed during a 9-year study within a narrow zone of sympatry near the Antarctic Peninsula. A history of their territorial, mate, and other preferences disclosed that mixed pairs usually, but not invariably, reside near penguin colonies; male maccormicki usually, but not invariably, pair with female lonnbergi; some mixed pairs remained faithful, whereas members of others readily remated with the same or different species; nesting success in mixed pairs paralleled nesting success in maccormicki, indicating a major role of the male in securing food for the female before egg laying. Although hybrids resulting from mixed matings resembled lonnbergi in appearance, their mating, feeding, and migratory behavior resembled those of maccormicki. At least some F
4162603|Data on body size, timing of breeding, clutch size, egg weight and patterns of nestling growth are reported for sympatrically breeding populations of Eastern and Western kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus and T. verticalis) and Scissor-tailed Flycatchers (T. forficatus) in eastern Kansas. Body size and breeding dates were similar for the three species, but all other traits showed significant variation. Eastern Kingbirds laid the smallest clutches, the largest eggs, and their young gained weight fastest. The rate of weight increase by Eastern Kingbirds varied inversely with brood size. Scissor-tailed Flycatchers produced the largest clutches, the smallest eggs, and their young gained weight significantly slower than the young of Eastern Kingbirds. Western Kingbirds were intermediate in most respects. Variation among species in egg and clutch size represent fixed, apparently genetic differences. It is less clear whether variation in the rate of growth reflects phenotypic responses to stress or intrinsic species differences. Comparisons of tarsus growth indicate little variation among species, but primary development was faster in Western Kingbirds and Scissor-tailed Flycatchers than in Eastern Kingbirds. I propose that egg and clutch size vary independently among species in response to climatic stresses within the respective geographic ranges of each species.
4162604|Seven species of ground-foraging birds bred syntopically in a northern hardwoods forest in New Hampshire. Spatial overlap was extensive, although some species were patchily distributed, apparently in response to local variations in habitat characteristics. Three groups of species were distinguished on the basis of their food-searching/foraging tactics: (1) those that hopped or walked slowly on the ground while searching and gleaning prey from the surface of the litter and nearby foliage (Ovenbird, Seiurus aurocapillus; Darkeyed Junco, Junco hyemalis), (2) those that pried into substrates and searched methodically for hidden or buried prey (Wood Thrush, Hylocichla mustelina; Winter Wren, Troglodytes troglodytes), and (3) those that searched near and far substrates (up to 3 m) both on the ground and in the sapling, subcanopy, and, occasionally, canopy layers (Veery, Catharus fuscescens; Hermit Thrush, C. guttatus; Swainson's Thrush, C. ustulatus). Species within each of these three searching modes differed in macrohabitat occupied, microhabitat used, in relative use of prey-attacking methods, and/or in diet. Each species appears to use a unique combination of habitat characteristics (e.g., vegetation density on vertical and horizontal axes, food resources). Thus, bird foraging tactics and morphology combined with habitat structure constrain which species will be present in a given location and hence influence bird community patterns.
4162605|We studied colony-site selection of Mew Gulls (Larus canus) in a small geographical area of south-central Alaska to: (1) determine if the plasticity in habitat selection in one region reflects the wide range of habitats used throughout their world-wide range, (2) ascertain the relative importance of physiognomic aspects of vegetation to nest-site selection in different colonies, and (3) quantify the communality of these characteristics among sites. We found colonies on grass, rock, sand, and earth, on rocky and sandy islands in lakes and rivers, on several types of marshes (floating vegetation, creek bog, muskeg and open grassy marsh), on a rock dike, on a roof, and in spruce trees. In all colonies, the gull's habitat preferences differed from random with respect to some characteristics, but not necessarily the same characteristics in every colony. By comparing habitat choices among colonies, we identified the factors that were required for nesting or were ignored. The overall choice of nest-sites indicates narrow selection for some characteristics within a diversity of major habitat types, and indicates plasticity in colony-site choices, but not nest-site choice. This analysis provides a general method for assessing the relative importance of social and physical factors in colony- and nest-site selection.
4162606|Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) add greenery to their nests prior to egg deposition, and new additions decrease as the nestlings mature and develop self-thermo-regulation at 1-2 weeks of age. With time, the accumulated nest greenery becomes coated with guano and matted down to conform to and line the inner surface of the nest. Wood Storks use many plant species to line their nests. We demonstrate that the greenery functions to insulate nest contents in a rather porous, twig structure. Nest greenery probably does not function to repel nest ectoparasites of Wood Storks.
4162607|We studied piracy among Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) at a New Jersey landfill. We determined rates of attack with respect to species, age, and size of food item and rates of success with respect to species, age, size of food item, number of birds pursuing in each chase, and duration of chase. Rates of attack were affected only by size of the food item; birds carrying larger items were attacked more frequently than birds with smaller items. Rates of success were affected by size of the food item and the number of birds pursuing in each chase. Birds carrying larger items were attacked by more pirates than birds carrying smaller items. The probability that the host would drop the item increased with increasing numbers of pirates. Consequently, larger items were lost more frequently.
4162608|I censused Herring, Ring-billed, and Laughing gulls (Larus argentatus, L. delawarensis, L. atricilla) at two landfills near Tampa Bay, Florida, from October 1981 to April 1984. Gulls were most abundant during mid-winter; Herring and Ring-billed gulls were nearly absent from landfills from May through October. At least 90,000 gulls foraged at seven bay-area landfills during January and February. Landfills appear to be an important food resource for all three gull species wintering on the west-central coast of Florida. Changing waste disposal practices from landfilling to incineration are likely to affect them greatly.
4162609|The reproductive ecology of the Ruddy Ground-Dove (Columbina talpacoti) was studied between January 1982 and February 1983 in the Cerrado of the Central Plateau of Brazil. A total of 218 nests were found in 19 plant species, at heights ranging from ground level to 7.5 m. Nest construction was observed in all months except October. Some pairs reared a second clutch in the same nest in the same year. There was no significant difference between the sexes in nest defense behavior. The median clutch size of 200 nests was two. Fledglings remained with their parents for 25 days. One reached sexual maturity three months after hatching. The average daily mortality rate of eggs based on the Mayfield (1961, 1975) method was lowest (2.8%) in April-May and highest (8%) in November-December. The mean rate of daily egg mortality rate in all nests over the year was 4.4%. The total daily mortality rate of nestlings was (3.8%), ranging from (1.0%) in August-September to (5%) in February-March. There was a significant difference in the rate of predation on eggs and on nestlings. The highest rate of predation occurred during the peak of fledgling production. The probability of a nestling remaining in the nest until fledging was 63.3% and the probability of the nestling surviving from laying to fledging was 36.7%. At the end of incubation, there was an average of 1.2 eggs per nest and a mean of 0.7 nestlings per nest fledged.
4162641|A new species of bristle-tyrant, Phylloscartes lanyoni, from the lower Cauca Valley of Colombia is described. P. lanyoni is morphologically similar to the small Andean bristle-tyrants formerly placed in the genus Pogonotriccus (venezuelanus, orbitalis, gualaquizae) and may be a trans-Andean allospecies of P. orbitalis.
4162642|The juvenal plumage of the Red-legged Shag (Phalacrocorax gaimardi) was found to be highly variable individually and geographically, based on examination of 16 specimens, 23 birds in photographs, and observations of 48 living birds. Juveniles from the Pacific coast of South America ranged from very dark to pale-plumaged, while juveniles from the Atlantic coast were very pale in plumage color. Gular pouch color, foot color, and extent of filoplumes of the neck patch varied as well among juveniles. This variation supports recognition of the race P. g. cirriger for the Atlantic population, and may facilitate parental recognition in the Pacific population. Fledged juvenile Red-legged Shags creche below nest cliffs where their parents locate them for feeding; this behavior may be correlated with obligate cliff-nesting in small colonies.
4162643|Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) were studied for three breeding seasons (1982-1984) at Lake of the Woods, Minnesota, to determine the effects of previous breeding success on nest-site tenacity and mate retention. The population consisted of approximately 47 adults that nested at four breeding localities within the study area. Nest-site tenacity was strong; 84% of all breeding birds nested within 200 m of their nest site of the previous year. No significant relationship was found between previous breeding success and nest-site tenacity. Moderate mate retention was observed; of all pairs for which both members returned to the study area the subsequent season, 45% reunited. No significant relationship was found between previous breeding success and mate retention. This study demonstrates the importance of protecting traditional breeding sites used by threatened and endangered populations of Piping Plovers.
4162644|Habitat use by breeding and migrating shorebirds was studied at three sites in southcentral Saskatchewan from May through August 1984, a year of extreme drought conditions. Habitat use among species was examined using ordination and classification analyses. At each site, analyses identified four major species groups in different zones of a terrestrial-aquatic habitat gradient. Patterns of habitat use differed between breeders and migrants at the one site with large numbers of nesting individuals; the average seasonal shift in habitat use was greater for breeders than for migrants. Overall, habitat use differed among taxonomic groups at two of three sites, but this pattern was reduced to only one site when seasonal patterns were examined. There was no significant difference among taxa in seasonal changes of habitat use. Interspecific differences in habitat use are discussed with regard to morphology, annual cycles, and migration chronology.
4162645|The breeding biology of Wilson's Phalarope (Phalaropus tricolor), a sex-role reversed shorebird, was studied from 1982-1987 at Last Mountain Lake National Wildlife Area in southcentral Saskatchewan, Canada. Female mating tactics involved direct competition for mates, rather than competition via territories. Unpaired, competing females ranged more widely than paired or laying females. By contrast, males were more restricted in their movements, particularly during incubation and brooding periods. Modal clutch size was four; and clutches weighed an average of 55% of the body weight of a nonlaying female. Females laid 0-4 clutches in a breeding season. Male reproductive patterns were characterized by nearly exclusive care of eggs and chicks. Weight of incubating males decreased during incubation. Nesting success varied significantly among years, primarily owing to the effects of predation. Approximately 25% of males that lost clutches during the nesting season renested. Among the three species of phalaropes, ecological factors favor higher incidences of polyandry in Wilson's Phalarope, but estimates may be complicated by wide-ranging movements of females during the breeding season.
4162646|The singing behavior of male Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) was examined to determine how singing is used in communication between individuals and, specifically, to determine if different song types convey different information. The mean number of songs per observation period, mean number of songs per bout, and mean number of notes per song were all highest during the pre-nesting and nest-building periods. The higher singing rates and longer songs observed during these periods may play a role in mate attraction/stimulation, and reduce trespassing by conspecific males. Both the mean number of songs per bout and the mean number of notes per song varied significantly among males, perhaps reflecting differences in male quality. During interactions with conspecific males, the mean number of songs per bout decreased while the mean number of notes per song increased. Males tended to utter songs with a greater number of different note types during interactions with conspecific males and females. Thus, variation in several song parameters apparently was used to convey information concerning motivation. Although some significant associations between song types and contexts were observed, all such associations were imperfect. Thus, some song types may be used in a graded form of communication, correlated with, but not restricted to, particular contexts. Most song types, however, appeared to be used randomly with respect to context.
4162647|We studied the vocalizations, food habits, and nesting biology of the Slender-billed Kite (Rostrhamus hamatus) in the llanos of Venezuela and made comparisons with its sympatric congener, the Snail Kite (R. sociabilis). Two types of structurally simple vocalizations were identified, and both occasionally were given as duets. Slender-billed Kites fed mostly on Pomacea doliodes snails (91.9%), captured by still-hunting, but they also ate aquatic crabs (Dilocarcinus dentatus). Although Slender-billed Kite diet composition was similar to that of the Snail Kite, Snail Kites fed on significantly larger snails. Slender-billed Kites extracted snails in the same manner as Snail Kites. Slender-billed Kite aerial displays, courtship feeding, and copulation sequences are described and resemble those of Snail Kites (R. sociabilis). Ten Slender-billed Kite nests were found and they usually were built in the crotches of slanting limbs in large trees in the flooded gallery forest. Nest height averaged 14 m above ground, and some sites were reused in subsequent years. Minimum distances between known active pairs ranged from 1.0-1.2 km. Both sexes incubated, brooded, and fed the young. Slender-billed Kites delivered food to nestlings at a significantly higher rate than did Snail Kites. No mate desertion was observed at a Slender-billed Kite nest of two young monitored for this behavior, although desertion occurred at one-third of the Snail Kite nests fledging two young. Slender-billed Kite nestlings stood by two weeks of age, swallowed whole snails by 17 days, fledged by 35 days, and were capable of sustained flight by 40 days. Nesting occurred in the wet season (July-October) and the duration of a nesting cycle was estimated to be 98-112 days. Only 37.5% of the nests found before hatching were successful, fledging 1 or 2 young. Differences between Slender-billed and Snail kite behavioral ecology are related to differences in habitat utilization and the potential effects of hydroperiod on snail size and abundance.
4162683| Photographs of 135 wintering Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) of known age were examined to document plumage changes. Criteria were established to age -year (Juvenal Plumage), 1-year (Basic I), 2-year (Basic II), and 3-year (Basic III) eagles; primarily from head plumage and iris, beak, and cere color. Body plumage varied among individuals and was not a reliable aging characteristic. Definitive plumage was observed on 4 of 17 4-year (Basic IV) and all 5-year (Basic V) eagles; however, individuals up to 8 years-of-age were observed with gray or brown flecking in the head plumage. Photographs of wintering eagles demonstrated that yearly body molt was not complete. 
4162684|Doves are unique among birds in producing crop milk and in having a determinate clutch size of 1-2 eggs. In North Dakota, 97.2% of 1203 Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) nests had 2 eggs. Clutches of 3 (N = 24) and 4 (N = 4) eggs probably were laid by more than one female per nest. Experimental additions of a second egg to incomplete clutches and removals of the second egg from recently completed clutches verified that Mourning Doves are determinate layers. To examine the role of crop-milk production as a factor that limits clutch size, a third nestling was added to nests of Mourning Doves during (early addition: 3-E) and after (late addition: 3-L) the period of complete dependence on crop milk. All three young fledged at 31% (3-E) and 42% (3-L) of these nests. Growth rates were significantly reduced for 3-E nestlings relative to normal broods of 2; growth rates of 3-L broods were intermediate. Crop-milk production is apparently an important reason why the clutch size of doves (Columbidae) is not more than two eggs.
4162685|Unaccented Ending Songs or their equivalent occurred nearly exclusively in the dawn and dusk singing of male Northern Parula (Parula americana), Magnolia (Dendroica magnolia), Yellow-rumped (D. coronata), Black-throated Green (D. virens), and Blackburnian (D. fusca) warblers. The proportion of Unaccented Ending Songs at dawn and dusk differed from those given at 06:00, 10:00, and 15:00 when the warblers often sang other songs as well. Total songs/time were low at dawn and dusk, birds were well spaced when singing, and females were not in evidence. I suggest that dawn and dusk songs play an important role in advertising the singer's presence to potential territorial intruders.
4162686|Golden-winged Warbler (Vermivora chrysoptera) males show distinct daily, seasonal, and social patterns in their use of two stereotyped song types. Type II song is used in an extended early morning bout, is sung at a rapid rate, and may be interspersed with flight song displays. Soon after sunrise, males switch to type I song, which is sung at a lower rate, often intermittently, throughout the morning. During actual or simulated agonistic encounters, long type I, short type I, and type II songs are used as a graded series. The amount of long type I singing, but not of short type I or type II singing, decreases upon attraction of a mate, and males were observed to sing only type I songs when consorting with females. These patterns of use support the view that song types in this species have special intrasexual (type II) and intersexual (type I) functions. The association of song types with specific singing behaviors suggests an organization of vocal behavior similar to that of parulines with much larger, more complex repertoires.
4162687|The breeding biology of Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) was studied in the center of their summer range along the Tennessee River in west central Tennessee in 1985 and 1987. Data were collected on clutch and brood sizes, numbers of young fledged, fledging weights, incidences of predation, cowbird parasitism, and nest abandonment for birds nesting in nest boxes. Warblers in this study had relatively high reproductive success compared to populations studied by Walkinshaw (1941) in Tennessee and Michigan. Prothonotary Warbler clutch sizes, brood sizes, and numbers fledged were significantly smaller in the second half of the season than in the first half. However, fledging success (number fledged/number eggs laid) was similar in both early and late nests. Prothonotary Warblers suffered 7.1% (of 831 eggs) hatching failure due to egg infertility or embryo death. Nestling mortality not due to predation or abandonment was low (2.6% of 700 nestlings), occurring mostly in broods where hatching was asynchronous. Frequency of predation was relatively low (20.9% of 191 nests) compared to Walkinshaw's (1938) results. However, although no cowbird parasitism was observed in 1987, parasitism in 1985 was much higher (20.3% of 128 nests) than that reported by Walkinshaw (1938).
4162688|The breeding biology of passerines was studied in a seasonally inundated savanna in the llanos of western Venezuela. A total of 412 nests of 36 species were located, and other evidence of breeding activity was observed for 13 additional species. Most species bred principally in the early half of the wet season, sometimes starting very late in the dry season. Other species bred throughout the wet season, although generally with a gradual decline in the latter half. A few species bred principally or entirely in the latter half of the wet season. Ground-nesting species bred principally, and often exclusively, at the beginning and end of the wet season, avoiding the main part of the rains. The Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) was a brood parasite on four species, with two important host species, the Pied Water-Tyrant (Fluvicola pica) and the White-headed Marsh-Tyrant (Arundinicola leucocephala). The first known nest of the River Tyrannulet (Serpophaga hypoleuca) and the first known breeding north of the Amazon River for the transequatorial migrant Yellow-browed Tyrant (Satrapa icterophrys) are described. Natural history information is presented for the little-known White-naped Xenopsaris (Xenopsaris albinucha), and for the Yellow-browed Sparrow (Ammodramus aurifrons) and the Grassland Sparrow (A. humeralis) in one of the few known areas of sympatry.
4162689|The effects of abrupt edges upon passerine richness and density in avian communities were investigated by censusing birds along transects perpendicular to two forest-estuarine river edges and two forest-powerline edges. Density and species richness were not consistently greater near the edges than in the forest interior. Richness within 30 m of powerlines was greater than richness from 60 to 90 m of them, perhaps because there were four species that used both forest and powerline habitats.
4162722|A Hawaiian finch that became extinct on the island of Lanai sometime after 1913 has been overlooked by ornithologists. Only one skin specimen of this bird was ever procured, and although it was described as the holotype of Dysmorodrepanis munroi Perkins, it soon fell into obscurity and was written off as a deformed example of Psittirostra psittacea. Our re-preparation and examination of the holotype indicates it is a valid genus and species. Dysmorodrepanis is probably most closely related to Psittirostra psittacea, and is distinguished by its unusual bill and associated modifications of the jaw apparatus, as well as by the plumage and external dimensions of the holotype. We speculate that the diastema between the bird's tomia may have allowed the bill tips to cat as pincers.
4162724|As a first step toward understanding the evolutionary and biogeographical relationships among species of Parus, we compared allozymes at 34 loci of nine North American and six Eurasian species representing six subgenera. The results of this electrophoretic survey provide the first broad summary of genetic relationships among species of the genus Parus. Distance Wagner and UPGMA analyses suggest that: (1) the crested North American titmice (subgenus Baeolophus) are only distantly related to the other parids examined; (2) the Bridled Titmouse (P. wollweberi) is closest to Baeolophus titmice and convergent in appearance to the Crested Tit (P. cristatus); (3) the Marsh Tit (P. palustris) and Willow Tit (P. montanus) probably are sister taxa, but the Carolina Chickadee (P. carolinensis) and Black-capped Chickadee (P. atricapillus) may not be; (6) the Black-capped Chickadee is genetically closer to the Mountain Chickadee (P. gambeli) and Mexican Chickadee (P. sclateri) than to the Carolina Chickadee and (7) the Boreal Chickadee (P. hudsonicus) and Chestnut-backed Chickadee (P. rufescens) are sister taxa related in turn to the atricapillus species group.
4162725|In this review the evidence for the existence of interspecific competition between members of the genus Parus is organized according to the time scale involved. Competition on an ecological time scale is amenable to experimental manipulation, whereas the effects of competition on an evolutionary time scale are not. Therefore the existence of competition has to be inferred mainly from comparisons between populations. Numerical effects of interspecific competition in coexisting populations on population parameters have been shown in several studies of Great and Blue tits (Parus major and P. caeruleus) during the breeding season and during winter, and they have been suggested for the Black-capped Chickadee (P. atricapillus) and the Tufted Titmouse (P. bicolor). It is argued that the doubly asymmetric two-way interspecific competition between Great and Blue tits would have a stabilizing effect promoting their coexistence. Functional effects on niche use have been experimentally shown by removal or cage experiments between Willow (P. montanus) and Marsh (P. palustris) tits, between Willow and Crested tits (P. cristatus) and Coal Tits (P. ater) and Goldcrests (Regulus regulus), and between Coal and Willow tits. Non-manipulative studies suggest the existence of interspecific competition leading to rapid niche shifts between Crested and Willow tits and between Great and Willow tits. Evolutionary responses that can be explained as adaptations to variations in the importance of interspecific competition are numerous. An experiment failed to show that Blue Tit populations, subjected to different levels of interspecific competition by Great Tits, underwent divergent micro-evolutionary changes for body size. It thus remains unclear what time scale is involved in the presumed adaptations to interspecific competition.
4162726| The main aim of this study was to test different graphical models showing possible patterns of seasonal and diurnal body weight cycles in passerines as proposed by Lehikoinen (1987). About 13,300 weight records of five different European tit species (Great Tit Parus major, Blue Tit P. caeruleus, Coal Tit P. ater, Marsh Tit P. palustris, Willow Tit P. montanus) were collected in the period from August 1987 to April 1988 at two study areas in central Norway (6140 and 6315N). To get sufficient weight data at desirable times of the day (in the early morning, at noon, and in the evening), an electronic balance was used as a bird table. The data collected allowed an analysis of the weight cycles for individual birds. Most birds, regardless of species, followed the "winter fattening strategy," i.e., both the morning weight, noon weight, and evening weight increased during autumn, reached a midwinter peak (usually in December), and then declined. One dominant Great Tit male deviated from this pattern and decreased in weight from September onwards, apparently for reasons other than starvation or competition with other birds. This trend may be related to its high-ranking status in the social hierarchy. It is argued that the weight variations in titmice are controlled by the photoperiod and air temperature, with photoperiod as the prime factor. 
4162727|During the course of 40 years of observations, we found that the mean date at which a population of Great Tits (Parus major) starts to lay varies from 10 April to 10 May. Clutch size is shown to decline with laying data and such an effect is apparent between as well as within seasons, with birds laying larger clutches in early seasons than they do in late ones. Clutch size also declines with increasing density of both Great Tits and Blue Tits (P. caeruleus). Breeding success decreases seasonally and the decline can be very marked in some years. The laying bird, therefore, has the "choice" of whether to lay more eggs, and suffer the reduced success of having them hatch later, or of stopping laying sooner and hence having a smaller brood but gaining the advantages of having them hatch earlier. The relative advantages of these two options are discussed, and it shown that the seasonal decline in nesting success is insufficient to explain why birds lay the smaller clutches observed; differences in individual bird quality are also involved.
4162728|Several Parus species live in small, coherent, winter flocks with a dominance hierarchy in which males usually dominate females and adults dominate juveniles. By allocating time to aggression, dominant adults secure the best resources, such as feeding sites and cover against predator, while subordinate juveniles are prevented from using preferred microhabitats. Juveniles, therefore, have higher predation risks than adults. Accordingly, winter survival of adults is higher than that of juveniles. Social dominance entails an increased metabolic rate during the daylight period, but not during night. Subordinates presumably accept their submissive roles while waiting for a chance to improve their social rank positions by replacing dead, high-ranking adults.
4162729|Most parids of temperate regions during the non-breeding season associate in small, generally non-kin, flocks. The typical pattern is discrete social units, often with stable composition and high coherence among the members. Exceptions are the Great Tit (Parus major) and the Blue Tit (P. caeruleus) with a more loosely organized system of "basic flocks" which may intermingle, and where space is divided into overlapping ranges rather than territories. This dichotomy in social organization may be linked to food hoarding where low tolerance toward conspecifics is associated with the value of protecting hoarded food. Discrete social units in territories are known only among hoarding species. The selective advantages for conspecific flocking are unclear. Benefits of flocking involving lower vigilance time have been verified, but predator protection can also be obtained from flocking with heterospecifics as well as conspecifics. Further, costs of being of low rank suggest that joining a flock with dominants may be a poor option for subordinates. Flocking in parids may be associated with steep gradients in quality of the habitat, causing a sharp reduction of options that are alternatives to settling as a low-ranking flock member. Habitat constraints should then be a main ecological factor affecting flocking among parids, and flock size may vary with habitat structure.
4162730|Food storing is widespread in the Paridae. Chickadees and tits store seeds, nuts, and invertebrate prey in a scattered distribution within their home range. They can establish hundreds to thousands of caches per day, and place only one, or a very few, food items at each cache site. Field experiments show that food is collected a few days after caching it, but there are also indications that stored food may remain available for longer periods. Behavioral and neurophysiological studies show that memory for the spatial locations of cache sites is the primary method used to retrieve stored food. The hippocampus plays an important role in the kinds of memory used to recover stored food, and is larger in size in families such as the Paridae in which food storing is common. The ecological and evolutionary relations between food storing and diet, body size, seasonality of the food supply, memory, and social organization are not well understood, but study of the Paridae can help to answer many of these questions.
4162731|Vocal organization in Parus species is similar within subgenera, but differs among them. The Crested Tit, P. cristatus, has a weakly differentiated repertoire based on a unit-pattern consisting of a string of high-frequency (HF), tonal notes followed by a string of low-frequency (LF), noisy notes. The American titmice (P. wollweberi, inornatus, and bicolor) are similar, but have well differentiated songs and chick-a-dee-like calls. The Blue Tit, P. caeruleus, and probably one close relative, have differentiated song, alarm calls, and conflict calls, each based on vocal patterns similar to the one of the Crested Tit. The Coal Tit, P. ater, and its Eurasian relatives have well differentiated song-repertoires, have all but lost the LF-notes from their repertoires including alarm calls, and use calls consisting of a high diversity of single notes. The Great Tit, P. major, and its Asian relatives have similar song-repertoires, but use diversified LF-notes for alarm "churring," and combine other notes freely to make unit-calls. American chickadees and their European counterparts have secondarily simplified song, plus well-developed combinatorial chick-a-dee calls and semicombinatorial, complex gargles. Other subgenera are too little studied for characterization, but the first spectrographic evidence is provided for a number of species. Communicative functions served by "monolithic song" in migratory, north-temperate oscines appear to be divided among two or more major complex vocalizations in almost all species of the nonmigratory, permanently mated Paridae. Parid "song," chick-a-dee calls, and gargles have functional equivalents among many parid species, but these are not necessarily phonological homologies. Parids have evolved information-laden vocal diversity both through phonological diversification and through combinatorial principles paralleling those of human language. These two kinds of diversity can be found in "song," chick-a-dee calls, and gargles (and their functional equivalents) in various species, making parid vocalization one of the most interesting and theoretically important communication systems known in the animal kingdom.
4162746|Hapalopsittaca amazonina velezi, a new subspecies of Rusty-faced Parrot, is described from the Central Cordillera of the Colombian Andes. H. a. velezi apparently occurs sympatrically with H. fuertesi, which is raised to species level along with H. pyrrhops of southern Ecuador and northern Peru.
4162747|Scattered information on the Austral Pygmy-Owl (Glaucidium nanum), published mostly in Argentine and Chilean journals and books of restricted circulation, is summarized and supplemented with field observations made by the authors. Information presented and discussed includes: taxonomy, morphometry, distribution, habitat, migration, abundance, conservation, reproduction, activity, vocalization, behavior, and diet. The first quantitative assessment of the Austral Pygmy-Owl's food habits is presented, based on 780 prey items from a single central Chilean locality. Their food is made up of insects (50% by number), mammals (32%), and birds (14%). The biomass contribution, however, is strongly skewed toward small mammals and secondarily toward birds.
4162748| Thirteen species of birds are recorded for the first time from Mexico's Yucatn Peninsula, and significant new distributional information within the peninsula is reported for 56 additional species. The distributional records reported here fall into three major categories: (1) northward extensions into semi-evergreen forest of species previously known to occur in more humid tropical forest, (2) mainland records of species normally restricted (or nearly so) to offshore islands, and (3) miscellaneous new records of uncommon species. 
4162749|Phylogenetic relationships and evidence for pectoral reduction in the extinct Auckland Islands Merganser (Mergus australis) were investigated using a plumage-based phylogenetic analysis of the six Recent species of merganser and morphometric comparisons of study skins and skeletal specimens. The hypothesized phylogeny indicates that M. australis diverged from the other Mergus immediately after the Hooded Merganser (Lophodytes cucullatus) and is a member of a basal grade of comparatively small, southern hemisphere mergansers; the Brazilian Merganser (M. octosetaceus) branched next and is the sister-group to the larger, more derived, northern hemisphere species of Mergus. M. australis was unique in its natal and adult plumage characters, including the sexually monochromatic plumage of adults. Morphometric analyses revealed that M. australis was the smallest member of its genus but possessed the longest bills and relatively short wings and tails. Based on regression estimates of body mass and wing area for M. australis, the species had estimated wingloadings which exceed those for other Mergini and approach the threshold of flightlessness hypothesized by Meunier (1951). Skeletal comparisons confirmed that M. australis had exceptionally long bills, and this also revealed that the species possessed relatively short wing elements and scapulae, as well as sterna characterized by shallow carinae and small caudal widths. These morphological characteristics, hypothesized phylogenetic relationships, and ecological information for M. australis are compared to the typical correlates of insularity in waterfowl listed by Weller (1980), and the evolutionary implications of these characteristics are considered.
4162751|Roseate spoonbills (Ajaia ajaja), Reddish Egrets (Egretta rufescens), and Great White Herons (Ardea herodias occidentalis) have unique subpopulations that are largely restricted to Florida Bay. All three species are believed to have had relatively large populations in Florida Bay, but the birds were virtually extirpated from the area between the late 1800s and the mid-1930s by human harvesting for food and feathers. After the birds were protected, they reestablished small populations that initially grew quickly. The Great White Heron population in Florida Bay increased from a low of about 20 individuals after the 1935 hurricane to a population of 800-900 resident adults in the early 1960s. As many as 400 additional birds (juveniles and possibly seasonal migrants) were present in winter censuses. The population remained at about that level through the 1960s, after recovering from a 20-40% decrease caused by a 1960 hurricane. After 1968, the population was surveyed only once, in 1984, when about the same number of birds were censused. The Reddish Egret recovered more slowly from total extirpation around 1935 to an estimated 200-250 adults in the late 1970s. Casual observations in the 1980s suggest the population has remained at about that level. Roseate Spoonbills showed an exponential recovery from just a few individuals up to a maximum of 2400 breeding birds by 1978-79. Subsequent censuses (1984-1986) revealed only about 800-900 nesting adults. The virtual absence of pre-1880s data precludes comparing present populations with those of the pristine environment. However, the most recently surveyed population of each of these species seems to be at a lower density than was historically present. The recent decline in the spoonbill population and low reproductive success of the Great White Heron population are causes for concern about the future of the populations. These findings point out the importance of continued monitoring and analysis of population trends.
4162784|Patterns of genetic variation at 42 presumptive genetic loci were analyzed in Heliodoxa (seven species), Polyplancta aurescens, Urosticte benjamini, and Schistes geoffroyi. Thirty-three loci were variable, either within or among taxa. Heterozygosity values for two representative taxa, H. leadbeateri (H = 0.017) and H. xanthogonys (H = 0.015) were low compared to other birds. Conversely, genetic distance values were high when compared to other birds. D(avg) for species in the genus Heliodoxa was 0.240. Phenetic and phylogenetic analyses of the genetic data resolve several clusters within Heliodoxa: (1) the phenotypically similar H. jacula and H. leadbeateri are genetically similar (D = 0.025) and form a sister-group to H. rubinoides, (2) the phenotypically similar H. branickii and H. gularis were sister taxa but were genetically distinct (D = 0.090), (3) H. xanthogonys was the most genetically distinct member of Heliodoxa, and (4) H. schreibersii was most closely related to P. aurescens. Our data suggest that Heliodoxa is paraphyletic, and we recommend that P. aurescens be moved to Heliodoxa. Urosticte benjamini and S. geoffroyi were genetically distinct from all other taxa. If our phylogeny is correct, throat color (pink, blue or both) evolved twice (in parallel) within Heliodoxa.
4162785|Eighty-four Kirtland's Warblers (Dendroica kirtlandii) were caught 122 times during 8809 net-h at five study areas on the breeding grounds in northern lower peninsular Michigan during the post-breeding seasons (16 August-30 September) from 1984-1987. This more than quadruples the known number of post-breeding season records for the species at the nesting colonies. Combined with older records within and south of the breeding grounds, this information indicates that a substantial number of breeding birds remain in Michigan through September, and a few individuals probably remain into early October. Mean capture rate per 100 net-h was 1.4 warblers at the principal study area for the postbreeding period. Males were captured more frequently than females. Most hatching year (HY) birds had completed Prebasic I Molt by the end of August whereas Basic Molt occurred throughout the 16 August-30 September study period in after hatching year (AHY) birds. Subcutaneous fat deposition was low for both sexes in the two age classes prior to migration. Migration apparently consists of two waves--an early departure (mid-August to early-September) of HY birds, and late departure (late September) of AHYs. These late-season birds may face some man-induced stresses after the traditional 1 May-15 August breeding area closure. An extension of the closure through mid-September is recommended.
4162786|The importance of nectar availability and habitat selection to the seasonal occurrence, abundance, and nesting of Black-chinned (Archilochus alexandri), Broad-billed (Cynanthus latirostris), Violet-crowned (Amazilia violiceps), and Costa's (Calypte costae) hummingbirds was investigated. Periods of seasonal and daily nectar abundance were interspersed with periods of limited availability. Areas that contained greater quantities and more predictable nectar supplies tended to have more nests. Habitats selected for nesting differed among species, but were most alike for Black-chinned and Violet-crowned hummingbirds and for Broad-billed and Costa's hummingbirds. Results support the hypothesis that guilds are not always at resource-defined equilibrium. Hummingbird populations appeared to be above sustainable long-term levels in 1976, nearer such levels in 1977, and below these levels in 1980.
4162787|The responses of incubating Lesser Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis dominica dominica) to a human observer and to avian nest predators were studied at Churchill, Manitoba. Golden-plovers typically left their nest when a human approached to within about 100 m. Usually, birds walked from their nests and vocalized loudly while in full view. As the intruder continued to approach, birds sometimes gave distraction displays, involving "tail down run," "rodent run," and "broken wing" behaviors. Only a few cases of "sitting tight" and "early surreptitious departure" were seen. Some birds flew or ran to a position between the intruder and the nest before performing a distraction display. Both sexes responded similarly toward human intruders. When the observer remained stationary 0.5 m from a nest, about 50% of the males, but none of the females, returned and approached the observer to within a few meters and then performed distraction displays. Reactions toward avian predators were cryptic. With Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) golden-plovers typically left their nests and stood quietly 100-200 m away; with Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Parasitic Jaegers (Stercorarius parasiticus) they assumed either an erect, alert position on the nest (predator at a distance) or squatted (predator nearby). Aggressive mobbing of avian predators by golden-plovers was not observed. Low abundance of corvids and humans, and presence of other birds that efficiently drive off avian predators, may account for the golden-plovers' apparent paradoxical combination of conspicuous responses to ground predators and cryptic responses to avian predators.
4162788|Nest habitat use of Rio Grande Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) was studied along the South Platte River in northeast Colorado in 1986-87. Thirtythree of 35 nests were in riparian habitats. Nests were either in western snowberry (Symphoricarpos occidentalis) (67%) or mixed forbs and grasses (33%). Early season nests were more likely to be in snowberry than late season nests. Nest sites were characterized by greater overstory canopy cover, more shrubs, fewer grasses, and greater understory cover and height than surrounding areas. These areas had more shrubs, fewer large trees, and greater understory cover and height than riparian habitats throughout the study area. Phenology of understory vegetation and the effect of such vegetation on nest predation may influence temporal patterns of nest habitat use.
4162789|We tested the hypothesis that female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) deposit their eggs randomly in nests of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) by analyzing the weekly distributions of numbers of eggs in the nests of potential hosts with Poisson distributions including and excluding the zero-class. The hypothesis that females laid randomly could not be rejected in any weekly period when either all nests were included or when only parasitized nests were used. However, when all data were pooled, a random hypothesis using all nests could be rejected because there were more nests without cowbird eggs than expected. Among parasitized nests, a random hypothesis could also be rejected because there were more nests with a single cowbird egg or with 3-5 cowbird eggs than expected. Our results illustrate the importance of examining distributions with respect to the opportunities actually available to laying cowbirds. Pooling data from entire seasons may give misleading results.
4162790|Collisions of birds with windows were studied by reviewing the literature, collecting data from museums and individuals, monitoring man-made structures, and conducting field experiments. Approximately 25% (225/917) of the avian species in the United States and Canada have been documented striking windows. Sex, age, or residency status have little influence on vulnerability to collision. There is no season, time of day, and almost no weather condition during which birds elude the window hazard. Collisions occur at windows of various sizes, heights, and orientations in urban, suburban, and rural environments. Analyses of experimental results and observations under a multitude of conditions suggest that birds hit windows because they fail to recognize clear or reflective glass panes as barriers. Avian, man-made structural, or environmental features that increase the density of birds near windows can account for strike rates at specific locations. A combination of interacting factors must be considered to explain strike frequency at any particular impact site.
4162820| We surveyed the breeding range of the Colima Warbler (Vermivora crissalis) in northeastern Mexico and western Texas between April and June 1983 and located 167 Colima Warblers within an area that included Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas, and Texas--states where they previously were known to occur. In addition, we observed 13 warblers in San Luis Potosi and Zacatecas. We found Colima Warblers at elevations between 1800 and 3000 m in oak-pine (Quercus spp. and Pinus spp.) habitat with bunchgrass (Muhlenbergia spp.) ground cover. Colima Warblers also were observed in their winter range in west-central Mexico during February 1983. We found eight Colima Warblers in Jalisco and Michoacan in oak-conifer habitat at 2400 to 3000 m elevation. These are the first published observations of Colima Warblers in western Mexico since 1963. Breeding habitat at 180 plots where Colima Warblers were sighted was compared with 24 unoccupied plots of oak-pine vegetation. Colima Warblers used sites where the trees were shorter (x = 8.1  4.0 [SD] m), the shrubs were taller (x = 2.30  0.80 m), and the ground vegetation was taller (x = 0.63  0.29 m) relative to unoccupied sites. The species used areas where the shrub cover was greater (x = 42  22%) and the ground vegetation (1 m tall) cover was greater (x = 51  22%) relative to unoccupied plots. Colima Warblers often foraged and perched in the dense, lower vegetation in both breeding and winter habitats. The tree, shrub, and ground vegetation strata were often contiguous. Colima Warblers were found in undisturbed sites and in areas of light-to-moderate grazing, selective logging, and burning. 
4162821|Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) excavate resin wells in the immediate vicinity of roost and nest cavity entrances. Resin wells are worked regularly, resulting in a copious and persistent resin flow that coats the tree trunk, especially below cavity entrances. Red-cockaded Woodpeckers also scale loose bark from cavity trees and closely adjacent trees. These two behaviors result in smooth, sticky surfaces surrounding cavity entrances. Climbing experiments on cavity, scaled, and control trees using rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) demonstrate that these behaviors produce a resinous barrier that is highly effective in preventing predatory snakes from gaining access to active Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavities.
4162822|Competition for roost and nest cavities was investigated in a Texas population of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) in longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) habitat. Twenty-two percent of all examined cavities were occupied by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers, and 46% were occupied by other species. Red-cockaded Woodpeckers did not roost in the open or in sub-optimum cavities due to the presence of other species, with one temporary exception. Southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) were a potential competitor. Similar to Red-cockaded Woodpeckers, flying squirrels preferred cavities with small entrance diameters, and their use of cavities was not hampered by the presence of a resin barrier or woodpecker cluster status (active vs inactive). Other potentially competing species were either rare or restricted to enlarged cavities no longer used by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers. These data suggest that competition for cavities is not an important factor in this particular population of Texas Red-cockaded Woodpeckers during the period prior to breeding.
4162823|Breeding Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) were studied in the Piedmont physiographic region of north-central South Carolina during the breeding seasons of 1986 and 1987. Sixty-three percent of shrike nests were in red cedar (Juniperus virginiana). Shrikes nesting in red cedar fledged one more young per nest than did shrikes nesting in other trees. First nests were significantly lower and somewhat closer to the trunk of the nest tree than were second nests, suggesting that climatic effects during the nesting season affected nest placement. Within 100 m of shrike nests, short-grass habitats (e.g., pasture, hay fields, and residential lawns) predominated, comprising, on average, more than 80% of the area. Short vegetation around nests may result in increased prey availability. The relatively high reproductive success of Loggerhead Shrikes in this study is similar to that reported by researchers elsewhere, and it does not explain the recent decline in shrike populations in the region.
4162824|The responses of three species of lapwings (Charadriidae: Vanellus spp.) to various potential predators and physically similar non-predators were recorded in the field in Kenya and Venezuela to determine how responses varied with stimulus and context of encounter. Responses observed included various alarm calls, distraction displays, aggressive displays, and fleeing. Responses varied with location of predator (terrestrial or aerial) more consistently than with class of predator (mammal, bird, or reptile), although one lapwing species differentiated reptiles from other predators. Responses varied greatly with predator species and lapwing reproductive state. The results suggest that lapwings discriminate the various kinds of predators and non-predators they encounter and that responses to each correspond to the type and degree of danger each represents. Discriminative abilities appear to be more sophisticated, and false alarms much less frequent, than in domestic fowl, a difference that may be related to the more open nature of the habitats used by lapwings. Lapwings induced appropriate anti-predatory behavior from their chicks through alarm vocalizations. Except for a distinct call given to reptiles by one species, alarm vocalizations appeared to form a graded series.
4162825| Nestling Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and Swainson's Hawks, (B. swainsoni), exposed daily to ambient temperatures of 5 and 16C, showed gradual thermoregulatory improvements that most closely correlated with nestling age, the log of nestling age, or the log of nestling mass. Although thermal stability improved with increasing body size, the near normal thermoregulatory development of runt nestlings indicates that endothermy is primarily attained through factors other than body size. When nestlings were exposed to a radiation load of 1
4162826|The numbers of White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) nesting on Drum Island in the Cooper River and on Pumpkinseed Island in Winyah Bay, the two largest wading bird colonies along the South Carolina coast, declined from over 12,000 pairs at each site in a very wet year (1984) to less than 2000 pairs at each site in 1985, one of the driest springs on record. The following year, when the area around Pumpkinseed Island received slightly above average rainfall, but the area around Drum Island received slightly below average rainfall, the number of pairs breeding at Pumpkinseed increased to 5132, while the number of pairs at Drum decreased to 388. On Drum Island, the percent of ibis eggs that resulted in fledgings declined from 39% in 1984 to 3% in 1985. Other more piscivorous wading birds breeding on Drum Island did not exhibit similar declines in numbers or in reproductive success in 1985. On Pumpkinseed Island a substantially lower proportion of ibises flew inland to feed on crayfishes in freshwater wetlands in 1985 and 1986 than in 1984. At both sites, nestling diets contained a lower proportion of crayfish in 1985 than in 1984, and many more nestlings starved or were abandoned by their parents in 1985, and to a lesser extent in 1986, than in 1984. We suggest that declines in both the numbers of nesting ibises and in reproductive success at the two sites resulted from the relative unavailability of crayfishes during dry periods. At Drum Island, mortality associated with food stress was exacerbated by Fish Crow (Corvus ossifragus) predation on eggs and young. Although alternative prey such as fiddler crabs are consumed by adult ibises, the osmotic concentration of these prey results in unacceptable salt loading in developing nestlings. White Ibises breeding in salt marshes along the South Carolina coast appear to depend heavily upon freshwater wetlands as a source of food for their nestlings.
4162827|Interspecific competition may shape species' niches such that relative niche positions remain consistent in niche space. However, during times when competition is relaxed, it has been hypothesized that significant rearrangement of species' niches occurs, both relative to each other and to available niche space. We compared microhabitat niche relationships among coexisting Horned Grebes (Podiceps auritus), Pied-billed Grebes (Podilymbus podiceps), and American Coots (Fulica americana) in aspen parkland near Minnedosa, Manitoba, from 1982 to 1984. Despite annual variation in the structure and abundance of microhabitats due to fluctuating water levels, niche relationships among grebes and coots remained relatively consistent. Coots generally occupied shallow sites with tall vegetation, and Horned Grebes used deep sites with little vegetation; both species used sites with little spatial complexity. Pied-billed Grebes occupied sites intermediate to those of the other species with respect to water depth and vegetation height, and used more spatially heterogeneous sites. In two low water years, overall niche separation was greatest along a depth-vegetation height dimension. In a high water year, niche separation was greatest along a spatial complexity dimension. Nevertheless, relative amounts of niche separation remained consistent; coots and Horned Grebes were always most different, and coots and Pied-billed Grebes were always most similar, in microhabitat use. These data support the idea that niche organization in this guild results from interspecific interactions rather than random processes.
4162828|Studies of the population density, habitat structure, foraging behavior, and activity budgets of the Poo-uli (Melamprosops phaeosoma) were conducted intermittently between 1973 and 1985 in a 50-ha study area in the upper Hanawi watershed, island of Maui, Hawaii. Poo-uli have apparently declined in density on this site by 80% from 1975 to 1981 and by 90% from 1975 to 1985. During this period, pig activity, as indexed by ground cover disturbance, increased 473%. Compared to values in the range of the Poo-uli, pig activity was 9-24 times greater in two adjacent out-of-range areas. Poo-uli most frequently foraged from 4-7 m height on ohia (Metrosideros polymorpha), olapa (Cheirodendron trigynum), ohelo (Vaccinium calycinum), and kanawao (Broussaisia arguta) in decreasing frequency; feeding on kanawao was significantly more frequent than random expectation. Chief food items were land snails and insects. Most prey were captured on branches from under moss, lichen, and bark by gleaning, probing, and pecking. Birds spent 48% of their daylight hours foraging and 30% quietly perching. Poo-uli frequently formed small mixed-species flocks, usually with Maui Creepers (Paroreomyza montana), that probably facilitated predator avoidance and foraging efficiency. The major limiting factors at present appear to be habitat modification from feral pigs (Sus scrofa), predation, avian disease, interspecific competition from the introduced garlic snail (Oxychilus alliarius), and possibly gene pool impoverishment. Control of pigs is recommended.
4162859| Analysis of vocalizations of the dwarf form of screech-owl from northwestern coastal Per establishes conspecificity with the Peruvian Screech-Owl (Otus roboratus) of the mid-Maraon Valley, a species previously considered to be monotypic. The small coastal form (O. r. pacificus) differs significantly from the nominate form in a series of characters of both size and color; some features do not overlap. Both subspecies of O. roboratus are polymorphic in color, with gray-brown and red phases represented. Alliance of O. r. roboratus with O. choliba and O. r. pacificus with O. guatemalae, as proposed by Hekstra, is not supported by either vocal features or plumage pattern. 
4162860|Morphometric studies of Rock Doves and feral pigeons (Columba livia) are enhanced by knowing that variation in size and shape has a well-studied genetic causation in domestic pigeons. Size distributions of skeletal elements of the sexes approximate normality; males are significantly larger than females. Size as measured by principal component I of feral females shows significant interlocality variation, and tends to increase with latitude in North America. Size of males shows no such geographic patterning. Relative limb lengths vary inversely with core size in feral pigeons. Large pigeons have proportionately shorter wings, heavier wing-loading, and are likely to fly faster than small ones. This may explain why homing pigeons tend to be larger than feral pigeons, which are more like wild Rock Doves than homers. Since feral colonies could be colonized by domestics of all sizes, the absence of very small and very large birds probably reflects results of interbreeding of colonizers with resident ferals, and ultimately natural selection for intermediate sizes.
4162861|We describe the physical characteristics and behavioral development of 17 hand-reared and more than 400 parent-reared nestling White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) hatched in 1985 through 1988 at Pumpkinseed Island, a large colony site in coastal South Carolina. Hatchling ibises are covered with a Pale Neutral Gray to Jet Black natal plumage. About 30% of the hatchlings possess a tuft of white feathers on their crown, and this pattern persists throughout the nestling period. Juvenal plumage, which is complete by 60 days, is mainly Vandyke Brown and Blackish Neutral Gray dorsally and creamy white ventrally. The bill, which is straight at hatching, begins to curve downward at about 14 days. Nestling White Ibises exhibit considerable individual variation in bill markings from approximately 10 days of age through fledging. Increasingly persistent begging vocalizations begin within hours of hatching. Nestlings walk on partially extended legs at eight days of age, pirate food from other nestlings and form creches at 21 days of age, and fledge and join all juvenile and mixed-age feeding flocks at 45-55 days of age. We suggest that the phenotypic variability in plumage, bill coloration, and begging calls we describe enables parental ibises to identify more easily their offspring at the colony site.
4162862|North American Breeding Bird Survey data for the period 1966-1987 indicate that Eastern Bluebird (Sialia sialis) populations declined during the 1970s, primarily in association with either severe winters or severe spring storms. In recent years, bluebird populations have increased to levels similar to those observed during the first year (1966) of the survey. Survey results suggest that climate has an important role in affecting short-term population declines in bluebirds.
4162863| Population size, habitat use, and habitat selection of wintering Common Loons (Gavia immer) were studied on the southeastern U.S. continental shelf. Winter population estimates ranged from 8700 to 20,000 individuals for the shelf between 29 and 35N latitude. Loons used shelf waters up to 100 m in depth and 100 km from land. Significant differences in habitat use and selection were found among four shelf habitats differentiated by water depth, distance from land, and water mass properties. Loons selected for waters 0-19 m deep but avoided highly turbid waters within 5-15 km of shore. Loon distribution shifted farther offshore during midwinter, as the areal extent of turbid water increased near shore due to seasonal peaks in river discharge. 
4162864|We conducted a long-term study of breeding-bird communities in a deciduous forest irrigated with chlorinated effluent (wastewater) and in a non-irrigated forest in central Pennsylvania. Birds were mist-netted in both forests (sites) each summer during a pre-irrigation era (1978-82) and an irrigation era (1983-87). Community structure and return rates of common species were compared between sites and between eras. Seventy-five species were netted during the ten years. During the pre-irrigation era, no species was significantly more abundant on the irrigated than the non-irrigated site, whereas five species were more abundant on the non-irrigated site. During the irrigation era, five species were more common on the irrigated sites, and four were more common on the non-irrigated site. Four species had lower return rates on the irrigated compared to the non-irrigated site, and two had higher rates on the irrigated site. Based on pairwise comparisons of percent similarity, changes in breeding-bird communities from pre-irrigation to irrigation eras were more dramatic on the irrigated than the non-irrigated site. In particular, bird species diversity and evenness declined on the irrigated site. Most avian responses to wastewater irrigation could be explained by irrigation-induced changes in vegetation. Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea), and Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) were benefited by forest irrigation, but Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) were negatively affected by irrigation.
4162865|We studied intraspecific brood parasitism in the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) in New Jersey. We used three criteria to detect brood parasitism. These were: (1) the appearance of more than one egg/day while the host was laying, (2) the appearance of extra eggs after the host completed its clutch, and (3) the mismatching of protein phenotypes between parent and putative offspring using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of blood and pectoral muscle tissue. Based on these methods of detection, one in every four early nests (i.e., clutches initiated in April) contained at least one parasitic egg. Later nests experienced little parasitism. Hosts from parasitized nests of the electrophoresis sample fledged fewer young than nonparasitized nests. Hosts exhibited behaviors that minimized the potential cost of brood parasitism. These behaviors included throwing out the first parasitic egg, initiating incubation midway through laying, laying synchronously, and laying one less egg than the apparent optimal clutch size. Parasites searched for unattended nests in which to lay their eggs. Those parasites laying eggs synchronously with the population fledged more young than those that did not. However, parasites probably laid only one egg to the hosts' four or five. Parasites were probably birds without nests and were therefore adopting a reproductive strategy that was better than total reproductive failure. Intraspecific brood parasitism may be an evolutionary force shaping the current reproductive strategies of our population of European Starlings.
4162866|Consumption of biologically relevant taste stimuli (NaCl, D-fructose, citric acid, tannic acid, L-alanine) by male and female European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were examined in one-bottle tests. Male starlings showed greater avidity for fructose than females, and both males and females exhibited greater avidity for fructose than male Red-winged Blackbirds. In addition, male starlings consumed more citric acid than either female starlings or male Red-winged Blackbirds. For both species, high consumption of NaCl (relative to consumption of other tastes) and low consumption of tannic acid were consistent with data reported for other birds. High consumption of L-alanine by both species (with highest consumption exhibited by male Starlings) suggests sensitivity to and preference for free amino acids. We speculate that one mechanism for inter- and intra-specific differences in food selection under field conditions may be differences in taste sensitivity.
4162867|Montezuma Quail (Cyrtonyx montezumae) were studied at the eastern edge of their range on the Edwards Plateau, Texas. Population densities were similar on a moderately grazed and an ungrazed ranch. Feeding habitat, revealed by holes dug for wood sorrels (Oxalis drummondii) and the discarded sorrel hulls, was compared to concurrently unused habitat containing the sorrels but no holes and hulls. Significantly different means and reduced variation in the chosen habitat features were considered criteria of habitat selection. The quail chose feeding sites primarily on the basis of tall-grass (hiding) cover but also chose deep, dry soils on slopes in relatively open Madrean evergreen woodland. Tall-grass cover predicted the location of feeding sites most often on the grazed ranch, where that cover-type was patchier. When grazing removes 40-50% of the tall grasses in an area, we believe the quail are extirpated (a nearby, formerly occupied, overgrazed site had only 25% tall-grass cover).
4162895|Stachyris latistriata, sp. nov., is described. It is known only from the mountains of Panay in the central Philippines, where it occurs commonly in montane forests above 1000 m. Notes on its behavior, breeding condition, nest and vocalizations are presented. It is a member of the superspecies Stachyris [striata] which contains three other Philippine endemics.
4162896|Specimen records and field observations of the Azure Gallinule (Porphyrula flavirostris) provide evidence that this species undergoes seasonal movements in portions of its range. Although present year-round in much of Amazonia, it is seasonal in the Guianas, southwestern Amazonia, and Paraguay. Data from single localities within these areas also indicate that this species is seasonal. The existence of five extralimital records supports the hypothesis that this species is migratory. Presence may be timed to correspond with wet or high-water seasons. Unfortunately, the absence of label data on gonad size and fat deposits for the vast majority of the 143 available specimens limits their use in unravelling the seasonal cycle of this species. The preferred habitat of the Azure Gallinule in western Amazonia is extensive areas of marsh grass (Paspalum). An overview of rail and gallinule distribution emphasizes that many species may occur at unpredictable times and places, as might be predicted from their dependence on ephemeral marsh habitats. The two congeners of the Azure Gallinule, Purple and Allen's gallinules (P. martinica and P. alleni), provide extreme examples of species capable of long-distance, extralimital occurrences. From these points, we conclude that the recent New York (USA) specimen of Azure Gallinule is best regarded as a record of a wild bird.
4162897|We conducted winter surveys of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) along the Atlantic Coast (December 1986-March 1987) and Gulf Coast (December 1987-March 1988) of the United States to identify specific wintering sites. A total of 222 Piping Plovers was observed on the Atlantic Coast (about 14% of the entire Atlantic Coast breeding population) and 1508 on the Gulf Coast (about 56% of the entire Great Lakes/Northern Great Plains breeding population). Highest Atlantic Coast estimates occurred in Georgia (N = 105; 47.5%), whereas the most plovers on the Gulf Coast occurred in Texas (N = 834; 55.3%). The survey included 1422 km of barrier beach on the Atlantic Coast (69% of the coast) and 1283 km on the Gulf Coast (50% of the coast). The greatest potential for locating more plovers in the United States is in South Carolina and Louisiana. However, a large percentage of the North American breeding population (particularly on the Atlantic Coast) probably winters outside the United States, thus future surveys should explore the Caribbean and Mexico.
4162898|Differences were found in habitat structure between nest sites of Emperor Geese (Chen canagicus) and Cackling Canada Geese (Branta canadensis minima) during a 5-year study (1982-1986) at Kokechik Bay, Alaska. Emperor Geese tended to select sites that afforded concealment from avian predators before incubation began. Cackling Canada Geese tended to select sites that enhanced avoidance of mammalian predators. Emperor Geese selected sites in areas away from open water, with tall dead vegetation adjacent to the nest site. Cackling Canada Geese selected sites close to shores of smaller ponds having more islands, and sometimes nested on islands, evidently enhancing avoidance of mammalian predators. During springs with heavy snow cover (>50% of surface covered on 25 May), both species selected sites appreciably different from sites selected during springs with light snow cover (<25% on 18 May). During heavy snow years, both species selected sites with more short, dead vegetation. Emperor Geese differed from Cackling Canada Geese by selecting sites with more shrubs and were farther from ponds. Cackling Canada Geese tended to nest closer together than Emperor Geese. Differences in structural habitat characteristics at nest sites of Cackling Canada Geese were not related to nesting success, but successful Emperor Geese selected nest sites with more and taller dead vegetation than unsuccessful pairs. Although it was possible to identify "typical" nest sites of Emperor Geese and Cackling Canada Geese, many sites were used by both species. Factors such as the amount and duration of snow cover, drainage patterns, presence or absence of islands, and type and abundance of egg predators play important roles in influencing nest-site selection and ultimately the distribution and abundance of Emperor Geese and Cackling Canada Geese.
4162899|Changes in a bird community associated with increased coverage of the exotic submergent hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata) were studied on a Texas reservoir. Hydrilla was the only major plant exhibiting a significant increase in areal coverage from 1986 to 1987. Bird species richness and total bird numbers in 1987 correspond to increased hydrilla coverage, as well as substantial increases in populations of birds shown to be closely associated with hydrilla, e.g., American Coots (Fulica americana), Pied-billed Grebes (Podilymbus podiceps), and several duck species. Observations of sample plots demonstrated a correlation between hydrilla coverage and bird use, especially for American Coots. Experimental removal of hydrilla from plots resulted in a decrease of bird use of plots lacking hydrilla. The addition of the submergent layer of hydrilla was beneficial to the bird community, presumably due to increased horizontal vegetative diversity and foraging opportunities.
4162900|We studied breeding pairs of Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) in Minnesota from 1986-1988 to identify possible causes of declines in midwestern shrike populations. Data on their reproduction and survival were used to construct a stochastic model of the dynamics of a hypothetical Loggerhead Shrike population based on productivity per pair, annual adult survival rate, and annual juvenile survival rate. The model predicted a 20% mean annual rate of decline for the population, which closely resembles an observed 29% decline in breeding pairs in Minnesota from 1986 to 1987. We conclude that declines in migratory midwestern shrike populations are probably caused by factors outside their breeding range.
4162901|Seventy species of birds are recorded from Rum Cay, 31 for the first time. Of the 38 probable breeding species, 17 are land birds. Most of the breeding species are widespread in the Bahamas generally, and no species or subspecies is endemic to Rum Cay. Nests, eggs, and young are reported for 21 species, all first breeding records for the island. The Pearly-eyed Thrasher (Margarops fuscatus) was the most common bird during the summer 1989 census.
4162902|Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) caught at their regular winter sites and then held outdoors fail to become restless or to fatten in the following autumn. Two alternative explanations for this failure to manifest the autumn physiological migratory state are (1) that the birds' perception of familiar characteristics of the migratory destination suppresses the autumnal state, or (2) that spring and summer daylengths in the winter range are too short to permit birds held there to complete the annual physiological cycle. We caught juncos in winter on their perennial winter home ranges, held them there during spring and summer, and then monitored their restlessness and fattening next autumn. We divided these winter-caught birds into three treatment groups. The first two were alike in being exposed indoors to long days simulating the photoregime of spring and summer on the breeding range. They differed in that we placed one of the two groups outdoors in view of the natural environment for ten days in late summer, just before monitoring began, whereas during those ten days the other group remained indoors and on the local photoregime until monitoring. The third group was held outdoors throughout spring and summer on the natural daylengths of their winter site. We compared these three site-faithful groups with each other and with juncos that we caught on the breeding range in late summer, displaced to the winter range, and monitored alongside the other groups. The summer-caught juncos fattened and became restless. The site-faithful group that remained indoors until monitoring exhibited a slight tendency to do so. The site-faithfuls that were placed outdoors after long days indoors and the site-faithfuls that spent spring-summer outdoors neither fattened nor became restless. Site-faithful groups exposed to artificially long days molted earlier than birds recently caught on the breeding range and also earlier than the site-faithfuls continuously held outdoors. Recently caught birds probably delayed molt because, although they had experienced long summer days, they had also reproduced. Our results indicate that the previously reported suppression of the autumnal migratory state in juncos held outdoors at the destination of the autumn migration is not attributable to the shorter daylengths the birds experience there during spring and summer. They are less helpful on the question of whether the suppression results from recognition of the winter site.
4162903|Characteristics of nest sites were studied to determine which attributes are related to repeated use of nests and nesting success of Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus). Nests in large trees with large support branches and surrounded by a dense understory were most likely to fledge at least one bird. Nests built in pin oaks (Quercus palustris) had a higher probability of not fledging any young than nests in other species of tree, although 50% of nests were placed in pin oaks. Nests in large trees with a greater number of support branches in an area with a closed canopy were more likely to be used in successive years than nests in other locations. Hawks using old nests may have a higher nesting success rate than those building new nests.
4162904|Neotropical passerine migrants were studied when they stopped on a barrier island along the coast of Mississippi following spring trans-Gulf migration. Peak numbers of migrants occurred from mid-April through early May 1987. Males of several species arrived earlier than females, suggesting that females initiated spring migration later. When migrants stopped on Horn Island they used Scrub/Shrub, Pine Forest, and Relic Dune habitats more than expected if they were distributed independently of habitat type. Scrub/Shrub habitat was characterized by the greatest number of species, the highest species diversity, and the largest number of individuals. Migrants foraged alone or in small flocks usually composed of a single species. Birds were preyed upon during stopover, suffered starvation when they stopped in an energetically stressed condition, and succumbed to adverse weather during migration. Stopover areas must be viewed as important links in species' annual cycle if the conservation of migratory passerines is to be successful.
4162905|Seaside Sparrows (Ammodramus maritimus) were observed during the breeding seasons of 1985 and 1986 in a 151 -ha salt marsh/tidal pond complex in Massachusetts near the northern range limit for the species. The study marsh is ditched and is dominated by salt meadow grasses (Spartina patens, Distichlis spicata, Juncus gerardi) and the high marsh form of Spartina alterniflora. Territories generally were isolated from one another; however, six relatively small territories were clustered into an area of the marsh rich in suitable nesting and foraging sites. The mean size of 17 territories measured in 1985 was 3953 m
4162930| A new species of antbird (Formicariidae), Clytoctantes atrogularis sp. nov., from eastern Rondnia, Brazil is described and given the English name, Rondonia Bushbird. It is known only from a single female specimen and two sight records of males in terra firme forest near the Rio Jiparan. The rapid rate of deforestation in Rondnia may present a serious threat to this species. /// Descrevemos uma nova espcie de Formicariidae, Clytoctantes atrogularis sp. nov., do leste de Rondnia, Brasil. A espcie  conhecida smente por um espcimen (fmea)  duas observaes (machos) em mata do terra firme, cerca do Rio Jiparan. O rpido desmatamento em Rondnia pousa ameaa de extino a espcie. 
4162931|During winter distribution surveys of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) on the Atlantic Coast (1986-1987) and Gulf Coast (1987-1988) of the United States we examined factors affecting habitat use and documented associations with other species of shorebirds. Stepwise and discriminant analyses generated models that correctly classified Piping Plover presence 75% of the time for the Atlantic Coast and 65% of the time along the Gulf Coast. The presence of large inlets and passes and mudflats on the Atlantic Coast and beach width, number of small inlets, and beach area on the Gulf Coast appeared as important habitat features affecting presence of Piping Plovers. Both models suggest that habitat heterogeneity (including key feeding sites) may be more important than specific habitat features in affecting winter use of a site by Piping Plovers, however, models only explained 22-28% of the variability in habitat use.
4162932|On Laysan Island, the endangered, endemic Laysan Finch (Telespiza cantans) nests almost exclusively in the native bunchgrass Eragrostis variabilis. Experimental nest boxes provided were never used for nesting. Marine debris was not used as nest substrate on Laysan Island. In contrast, the introduced Laysan Finch populations on four islands at Pearl and Hermes Reef used a wide variety of native and alien plants as nest substrates, as well as various kinds of human-made debris. However, nest boxes provided at Pearl and Hermes Reef were not used as nest substrates by finches. Eragrostis variabilis is uncommon on Pearl and Hermes Reef, except on Seal-Kittery Island, but is common on Laysan where it is the preferred nest substrate. Eragrostis is a dense bunchgrass which probably provides the nest with good protection from sun, rain, wind, disturbance, and predators. On Pearl and Hermes Reef, where Eragrostis variabilis is uncommon, other plants that provide dense cover are used as nest substrates, and human-made debris that provides some cover is also utilized. It is unclear why nest boxes were never used as nest substrates at either site. We suggest that the conservation of Laysan Finches on Laysan Island will require the maintenance of a native ecosystem where Eragrostis variabilis is a major vegetation component. Otherwise, changes in behavior, morphology, and energy expenditure associated with environmental differences are likely to occur, and may have already occurred in the introduced populations on Pearl and Hermes Reef.
4162933|Behavioral responses of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) to manipulated broods of two, five, and seven young were studied in southwestern Quebec during 1986 and 1987. Average territory size was inversely correlated with small mammal abundance which differed significantly between years, but was not influenced by brood size in either year. Parents of all three brood sizes devoted less time to searching for food, and more time to resting and maintenance behavior in 1987 than 1986. Interannual differences in hunting behavior were attributable to variations in the percent time spent perch-hunting. Hover-hunting times were similar between years and among brood sizes. Despite less time spent hunting, rates of prey capture and food delivery to the nest were significantly higher in 1987.
4162934| The breeding biology of cooperatively breeding American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) was studied on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, from 1983-1987. The study site consisted of habitats ranging from a remote barrier beach to populated suburban areas. Family groups ranged in size from two to 10 members, the latter including an adult pair with their one- to four-year-old offspring. Territories were defended year-round and the mean territory size was 42.1 ha. The mean distance between nests of bordering territories was 0.86 km. Most (88%) nests were built in pitch pine (Pinus rigida) trees. Mean nest depth was 24.1 cm, mean total diameter of the nests was 40.7 cm, and the mean diameter of the nest cups was 23.8 cm. Nest height averaged 9.7 m; mean tree height was 10.9 m. Incubation occurred between March and June over an average of 22.3 days. The mean number of days until fledging was 30.1. Reproductive success was measured through the mean number of surviving fledglings. The total mean was 2.0 (N = 46). There was a trend towards increased fledgling production in family groups with six or more members (N = 10, x = 2.6  1.7). 
4162935|We investigated the relationship between dominance rank and access to a winter feeding station in Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus). Although there was considerable inter-individual variation, dominance rank was not strongly related to number of visits to the feeder or length of visit. Because dominants were more likely than subordinates to approach a bird on the feeder, dominants tended to have access to the feeder at any time, while subordinates had to wait for the feeder to be unoccupied. Dominant individuals were involved in more agonistic encounters than subordinates. Interactions occurred between high-ranking individuals more often than expected by chance, while middle-ranking birds interacted less often than expected with individuals of all ranks. Birds also interacted more than expected with members of their own flock and less often with members of other flocks.
4162936|We examined the influence of forest edge on nest-site selection by Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) at nest-box grids in uniform habitats. Tree Swallows occupied nest sites at distances of 3-100 m from forest edge, while House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) and most Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) used boxes within 30 m of forest edge. Mean distance to forest edge for the distribution of nest boxes used by Tree Swallows was greater than those means for Eastern Bluebirds and House Wrens, but mean distances to forest edge for nest boxes occupied by the latter two species were not different. Partial correlation analysis showed that settlement dates at nest boxes by single Tree Swallows (often known to be males), and dates of pair formation, were correlated negatively with distance to forest edge (i.e., Tree Swallows settled first at nest boxes that were farthest from forest edge). Also, when a pair of Tree Swallows had a choice of more than one nest box in which to breed (i.e., their territory included more than one nest box), they selected most frequently the nest box farthest from forest edge. Whereas predation by raccoons (Procyon lotor) and black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) at Tree Swallow nest boxes occurred at distances from forest edge up to 80 m, House Wrens destroyed eggs and usurped nest boxes from Tree Swallows only within 20 m of forest edge. Further, although Eastern Bluebirds did not usurp nest boxes from Tree Swallows, both species are known to compete aggressively for boxes. Therefore, Tree Swallows may select nest sites farther from forest edge to avoid the costs of aggression or nest destruction that may be incurred during interactions with competitors, especially House Wrens.
4162937|We determined diurnal time-activity budgets of Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) at Catahoula Lake and at the Mississippi River Delta, Louisiana, from December 1987 to March 1988. Canvasback feeding, resting, locomotory, and comfort activities varied by month and location with a month-location interaction. Moreover, the percentage of time spent feeding varied by sex with a month-sex interaction. Study site differences in the time-activity budgets of wintering Canvasbacks may be related to characteristics of their foods, foraging mode, disturbance level, and physical features of habitats at the two study sites. Canvasbacks wintering in Louisiana generally spent less time feeding and more time resting during the day than they did in Mississippi or coastal South Carolina. Levels of agonistic behavior were lower than those observed in South Carolina. We found no evidence of male dominance of female Canvasbacks in Louisiana.
4162938|I studied organization of singing in Fox Sparrows (Passerella iliaca) breeding in northern Utah and southern Idaho during 1973 and 1974. Fox Sparrows possessed a variety of songs that, due to their uniformity in structure within and among individuals, could be categorized into five major types. Each song of an individual tended to be presented with equal frequency. Fox Sparrows presented their songs in particular sequences, singing each song once, until the entire repertoire was exhausted. The sequences in which individuals presented the songs in their repertoire did not change between successive utterances of a particular song, whether separated by singing sessions, days, or years. Markov chain analyses of the sequences of the songs accounted for the behavior of 53 of 56 birds by a first-order model, while the organization of singing of the remaining three birds was accounted for by a higher-order model. Neighboring territorial Fox Sparrows that shared similar song repertoires showed no preference for singing the same sequence of songs. Neighboring males which shared similar song-type repertoires showed no preference for sequencing their songs similarly. Matching of song-types among counter-singing neighbors did not occur and basically was precluded by each individual's rigid organization of singing. Functional and causal explanations for the style of singing in Fox Sparrows are discussed. The manner in which Fox Sparrows organize their singing suggests that the pattern of song presentation may simply crystallize at random during the first spring.
4162939|Behavior, body condition, and food habits of Buffleheads (Bucephala albeola) and Lesser Scaups (Aythya affinis) were studied in the Klamath Basin in northern California in spring 1986 and 1987. Peak Lesser Scaup and Bufflehead numbers were present in early February and mid-March, respectively. The first spring migrants of both species were mostly paired or courting adults. Buffleheads and Lesser Scaups spent 63-82% and 23-50% of their diurnal activities feeding, respectively. Both species consumed primarily (66-77% volume, 58-72% dry weight) invertebrates. Chironomidae larvae were the most important food consumed by both species. Body and carcass masses of both species were near mid-winter levels but below masses observed upon their arrival at northern breeding areas. Our data indicate that wetland habitats in the Klamath Basin provide important food and resting resources for migrating Buffleheads and Lesser Scaups.
4162940| Brood reduction theory suggests that parents may allocate less care to their youngest, or terminal offspring because it has a lower potential reproductive value. The possibility that American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos), which exhibit hatch asynchrony and a high probability of brood reduction, selectively neglect their terminal, or b-egg was examined by monitoring temperatures of artificial eggs. Before the onset of pipping, mean upper egg surface temperatures exceeded 37C, and individual readings rarely fell below 36.0C. After pipping of the a-egg, upper egg surface temperatures of the remaining (artificial) b-egg dropped significantly, and more individual readings fell below 36.0C. A temperature gradient between egg top and bottom was present before pipping, but not subsequently. These results, along with evidence from a separate study indicating that hatching of pelican embryos is significantly retarded by moderate chilling, suggest that there is a potential for biologically relevant neglect of the terminal egg after pipping of the first egg in this species. 
4162965|Birds introduced into new environments by humans provide opportunity to assess microevolutionary change in morphology. The skeletal morphologies of introduced North American and ancestral German populations of the Eurasian Tree Sparrow (Passer montanus) were compared to assess: (1) the extent of morphometric differentiation between the introduced and ancestral populations, and (2) whether the introduced populations, which exhibited a decrease in genetic variability relative to the German population, display any such differences in morphometric variability. Sexual dimorphism in certain skeletal characters in P. montanus is interpreted to be a result of intraspecific interactions among males and adverse climatic conditions on both sexes. The smaller body size of North American P. montanus is thought to result either from interspecific interactions and/or flight habits different from their ancestral counterparts. Significant differences in bill morphology are found between German and North American P. montanus, which we believe reflect differences in diet. The North American population shows no significant decrease in intrinsic morphometric variation corresponding to the decrease in genetic variation demonstrated in comparison to German birds.
4162966|The information center hypothesis, the most commonly cited explanation for communal roosting behavior, assumes a roost-centered foraging distribution. Nonetheless, European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), as well as several other communally roosting species, have a foraging distribution centered on a single diurnal activity center (DAC) which is central to the distribution of roosts they use. The "patch-sitting hypothesis" integrates DAC-based foraging behavior into an alternate explanation for communal roosting behavior. One prediction of this hypothesis is that foraging substrate quality should decline on DAC's as increasing proportions of the local roosting population become associated with large roosting congregations, i.e., when more individuals leave their DAC's to forage elsewhere. I examined this prediction by assessing foraging substrate quality on DAC's through measures of feeding success on the most commonly used DAC-based foraging substrate--lawns. My goals were to determine the importance of foraging substrate quality in DAC fidelity and to identify the factors contributing to the decline in use of lawns during late summer. I found a substantial seasonal decline in foraging success, suggesting lower foraging substrate quality on DAC's when (1) use of lawn habitats normally declines, and (2) starlings leave their DAC's to forage and roost at distant sites. These results agree with the prediction that foraging substrate quality declines when starlings leave their DAC's to forage elsewhere, and thereby provide new support for the patch-sitting hypothesis.
4162967|I examined timing of reproduction and productivity in box-nesting House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) inhabiting three riverbank woodlands subjected to different levels of flooding. In years when the North Platte River flooded its banks submerging ground foraging substrates, dates of nest initiation and egg laying in two wren populations were delayed and nonsynchronized. In contrast, timing of breeding was unrelated to annual variations in water levels or spring weather in wrens occupying a riparian area buffered from flooding. Rates of nest predation were unlikely to influence timing of laying because they did not vary among years or between early and late nests in any locality. Initial clutch size declined seasonally in all populations and was smaller in years when breeding was delayed by flooding. At all localities, variation in numbers fledged from successful nests was related to interactions between year and laying date. Generally, more nestlings fledged from early nests because clutches were larger. In addition, early clutches lost fewer young than late clutches of equal size in the population most impacted by flooding. Greater fledging success may select for early laying and may explain higher laying synchrony in early years.
4162968|We banded 6494 falcons, primarily (85%) in western Canada. Recovered falcons (235, 3.6%) included six Gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus), 96 Prairie Falcons (F. mexicanus), 86 Peregrine Falcons (F. peregrinus), 44 Merlins (F. columbarius) and three American Kestrels (F. sparverius). Some Gyrfalcons, Prairie Falcons, and Merlins were recovered in Canada in winter. The migrating falcons generally moved through the North American interior. Prairie Falcons used two separate migration routes, one west of the Rocky Mountains and one east within grassland habitat. Recoveries suggest that Prairie Falcons did not fly the shortest distance to their wintering grounds. "Canadian" Prairie Falcons overlapped in their winter distribution with falcons banded at least 650 km south in Wyoming. Although widely dispersed outside of the breeding season, Prairie Falcons inhabited grasslands during migration and winter. Peregrine Falcons moved long distances, passing rapidly through Canada and the United States, and spent approximately seven months of the year outside of Canada along the Central American coasts and in South America. Some Merlins did not migrate. Sexual differences in the recoveries of Prairie Falcons could be attributed to differential mortality and not necessarily differences in migration. F. p. tundrius flew farther south than F. p. anatum, an example of "leap-frog" migration. Leap-frog migration was also suggested by one Merlin banded in the Yukon and recovered in Costa Rica.
4162969|To test the hypothesis that heterochronic changes in color maturation act to integrate avian social groups, the relationship between social-group size and maturation rates of four morphological characters was analyzed in the blue-and-black jays (Cyanocorax spp., formerly Cissilopha). Contrary to patterns found in the New World jay assemblage as a whole and to theoretical predictions, sociality and maturation rates are uncorrelated within the blue-and-black jays. Such a relationship is also lacking in at least one of the other two New World jay lineages that exhibit delayed soft-part color maturation. These results suggest that maturation rates do not track sociality closely and that the occurrence of delayed maturation of soft-part coloration in some New World jay taxa may best be accounted for by phylogenetic inertia.
4162970|Grit use (frequency, amount, size, shape, and roundness) was characterized for 22 bird species that commonly use midwestern cornfields during the breeding season. The frequencies of occurrence and the median amounts of grit found in birds' gizzards differed greatly among the species, ranging 15-100% and 0-69, respectively. The grit-size distribution profiles of most species had definite peaks, with grit use declining abruptly on either side of the preferred grit size. In general, grit size increased linearly with the
4162971| We investigated variation in the diets of Common Ravens (Corvus corax) nesting near Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Oregon in the spring and summer of 1976 and 1977. We made microscopic examinations of 1413 regurgitated pellets and other nondigested remains collected near the nests. Mammals, primarily rodents and lagomorphs, made up 39.2% of the sample. Birds (including eggs) comprised 37.8% of the diet. Management of Common Ravens as potential nest plunderers requires a detailed analysis of diets, but the low mean numbers of egg remains (1.33  1.5) found at nests within sagebrush suggests that ravens selecting this type of nesting habitat are probably not nest plunderers. The wide variability in the frequency of eggs in the diets of ravens nesting in wetland habitats suggests that no general assumptions may be made concerning their roles as predators on waterfowl eggs. 
4163002|We analyzed population trends of 26 species of North American migratory landbirds using 53 years of spring migration count data collected in eastern Massachusetts from 1937 to 1989, inclusive. These data span twice the time period of most landbird monitoring data sets, allowing us to examine how accurately trends based on shorter-term investigations of population trends represent longer ones. We found that 18 species (64%) have declined significantly, three species (12%) have increased significantly, and five species (19%) have shown no trend over this time period. Using the most recent ten years of our data, the trend matched that of the full 53-year data set for 10 species (38%). Using the most recent 20 years of data, the number of matching trends increased to 18 (69%). Using a 30-year subset of data did not improve the percentage of matching trends and showed a greater number of non-significant trends than did analysis of the most recent 20-year subset of data. This pattern resulted because many species appeared to be at low population levels in the 1950s and early 1960s, before the time when most current avian censuses and surveys began. Our results indicate that many species are in fact declining, but that declines in the past 20 years might be partly a result of normal, shorter-term population fluctuations.
4163003| I observed activities of pre-laying, laying, and incubating female Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis). Foraging comprised 66.3% and 54.4% of diurnal activities during pre-laying and laying, respectively. Time spent resting increased from 11.0% during prelaying to 73.5% during incubation, primarily because of time spent on the nest. Female Ruddy Ducks took 7.4  3.2 incubation recesses during a 24-h period and recesses averaged 39  4 min (mean  SD). Foraging comprised 76.4% of recesses and accounted for 185.0 min of foraging/day. Female Ruddy Ducks meet most of their energy needs exogenously. Their pattern of energy acquisition for and allocation to reproduction supports the general hypothesis that smaller-bodied waterfowl can store less nutrient reserve than large-bodied waterfowl and must rely more on exogenous energy during reproduction. 
4163004|The first six cases of bona fide polygyny are described in American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla), along with associated male song behavior, nesting and parental care, and a case of female-female aggression. Typically, older (than yearling) males sought secondary reproductive opportunities by traveling 100-400 m through continuous forest to advertise new territories using "repeat-mode" song, typical of genuinely unmated males; and fed primary nestlings and fledglings more than secondary ones. Estimated frequencies of polygynous mating were 15.8%, 5.3%, and 8.0%, respectively, in 1988, 1989, and 1990 (N = 63 color-banded males under close observation), but additional cases of polyterritorial advertisement behavior were noted. Polygyny appears to be a facultative strategy by which males obtain extra reproductive opportunities deceptively, on secondary territories far removed from sites of primary territories and nests. However, we have not ruled out the possibility that secondary females could compensate for reduced parental care by mating with higher quality mates or on better territories than otherwise available. Polygyny may have been facilitated in our study population by a relatively low abundance of males and an unusual abundance of yearlings.
4163005| Species richness, density, and avian diversity were examined along a deciduous-coniferous forest gradient from a ridge crest to a stream bottomland. The study was conducted in Garrett County, Maryland, a region in the central Appalachian Mountains that is 71.2% forested. The 35-ha study area was within a 270-ha core of continuous forest. Bird species were located and habitat sampled using a 35  35-m grid that covered a 77-m elevational gradient from a small, second-order stream to a ridge top. Later, twenty-three, 30-m wide elevational bands of 1.26 ha each were defined to relate bird and habitat attributes. Principal components analysis reduced 23 habitat variables to three principal components and provided an ordination of the 23 elevational bands. Four vegetative zones were identified along the main deciduous-coniferous gradient of PC-I, the deciduous zone on the ridge crest, followed by a deciduous/sparse hemlock zone, a hemlock/deciduous zone further downslope, and a hemlock/rhododendron zone at the stream. Based on polynomial regression, the fewest numbers and species of birds were found in the deciduous zone on the ridge. More species occurred with the addition of hemlock at the deciduous-deciduous/sparse hemlock ecotone and markedly more with the addition of rhododendron at the hemlock/rhododendron-stream edge, where rhododendron and total short shrub cover were the highest and deciduous and total canopy cover and deciduous basal area were the lowest. Of 28 breeding bird species, 60.7% were neotropical migrants representing 82.5% of all birds recorded on the study area. Neotropical migrants concentrated near the forest-stream edge as many edge or mixed-habitat species do at forest-field edges. High numbers of cowbirds near the forest-stream edge likely posed a serious threat to these breeding neotropical migrants. These data suggest that conditions at certain forest-stream edges might be conducive to increased nest predation and cowbird parasitism within forested landscapes minimally fragmented by human activities. 
4163006|Coastal wetlands rank among the most productive and ecologically valuable natural ecosystems on Earth. Unfortunately, they are also some of the most disturbed. Because they are productive and can serve as transportation arteries, coastal wetlands have long attracted human settlement. More than half of the U.S. population currently lives within 80 km of its coasts, and one estimate places 70% of all humanity in the coastal zone. Human impacts to coastal wetlands include physical alteration of hydrological processes; the introduction of toxic materials, nutrients, heat, and exotic species; and the unsustainable harvest of native species. Between 1950 and 1970, coastal wetland losses in the U.S. averaged 8100 ha/year. In Central and South America, development pressures along the coastal zone rank among the most serious natural resource problems in the region. Here, we (1) briefly describe coastal wetland avifauna, (2) discuss the threat of global warming on coastal wetlands, (3) use several Western Hemisphere wetlands as site-specific examples of development pressures facing these habitats, and (4) provide synopses of non-governmental and governmental approaches to wetland conservation. Overall, we provide a socio-economic context for conservation of coastal wetlands in the Western Hemisphere. We suggest that efforts aimed at conserving sites of particular importance for their biological diversity should be pursued within a framework of wise use that addresses the broader issues of human population growth and economic development.
4163040| The Red-fronted Macaw (Ara rubrogenys), endemic to Bolivia with a restricted range and a small population, was observed regularly between late December 1981 and early March 1982. Individuals were found at elevations between 1300 and 2400 m in the arid intermontane valleys of south central Bolivia in southeastern Cochabamba and western Santa Cruz departments, where they had been reported previously, and in northwestern Chuquisaca and northeastern Potos departments. Seven nests were located in cavities in cliffs 15 to 50 m tall. Courtship and incubation activities took place during December and January. Nestlings were present during February and March. 
4163041|A little-known, distinctive subspecies of Monk Parakeet, Myiopsitta monachus luchsi, was observed during 13 days from December 1981 to March 1982 in the arid intermontane valleys in south central Bolivia. Twenty-seven flocks (2 to 22 parakeets per flock) were observed at elevations between 1300 and 3000 m. Seventeen active stick nests were located on cliffs. No nests were found in trees, where the other subspecies always build their nests. A museum search and literature review produced 35 specimens of this subspecies, 32 with specific localities. The known range includes the departments of Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, La Paz, and Santa Cruz.
4163042| The White-bellied Emerald (Amazilia candida), a sexually monomorphic, dull-plumaged hummingbird, forms singing assemblies that are assumed to function as leks. Within each lek, individuals use and defend specific display perches throughout the day. These perches are visually isolated from one another, and song is the principal form of display. Although some song is given throughout the day, peak activity occurs during the first hour of daylight; a second, more protracted period of display occurs during the 3 hours preceding sunset. The number of songs given by individuals is positively correlated with the number of birds present on the lek, and individuals that are consistently present throughout the day sing more songs when present than do birds that attend the lek only sporadically. /// Amazilia Pechiblanca, un colibr de plumaje apagado y sin diferenciacin sexual, se congrega en formaciones de canto que se asume tienen funciones reproductivas (asambleas reproductivas  "leks"). Dentro de cada una de estas asambleas reproductivas, los individuos utilizan y defienden perchas especficas a lo largo del da. Estas perchas estn aisladas visualmente las unas de las otras, y el canto es la forma principal de exhibicin. Aunque cantos aislados ocurren durante el da, la actividad mxima occure durante la primera hora de luz en la maana; un segundo perodo de actividad ocurre durante las 3 horas previas a la puesta del sol. El nmero de cantos que cada individuo exhibe est positivamente correlacionado con el nmero de aves presentes en cada una de estas asambleas reproductivas, y los individuos que estn presentes en estas asambleas reproductivas en forma constante cantan mas que los individuos que estn presentes solo en forma espordica. 
4163043|Cooperatively breeding birds characteristically defend territories in which they forage and roost all year. In contrast, the cooperatively breeding American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) is notorious for large feeding and roosting aggregations during the nonbreeding season. These observations suggest a pattern of fidelity to diurnal activity centers (DAC's) with daily movements to roosts and areas of superabundant food, much like the movements of communally roosting blackbirds and starlings. We radio tagged and color marked crows at a farm in central New Jersey to examine roost use and fidelity to territories during the winter. Birds exhibited two distinct movement patterns. Seven of 11 crows returned to the farm daily where they maintained stable territories in groups of 4-5. These "DAC-based" crows left the farm early in the afternoon and travelled to large communal roosts 14-18 km from the farm. The largest roost (>5000 crows) was 4.5 km from a landfill where thousands of crows fed daily. DAC-based birds sometimes stopped at landfills in transit to roosts. Although they were almost always together at the farm, crows from the same group usually did not travel together or make the same stops between the farm and the roost. In contrast to DAC-based crows, the other birds rarely returned to the farm and were difficult to find during the day. These "vagrant" crows were most often found at landfills and probably were not part of stable groups, although they used the same roosts as DAC-based birds. Vagrants disappeared during the middle of the winter, suggesting that they were not permanent residents in the study area.
4163044| Hickey color banded and monitored 2373 Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) from 1953 until 1976 at her bird-feeder in Madison, Wisconsin. The mean annual survival rate of Blue Jays calculated from reobservation and recapture data by the Jolly-Seber method was 0.54. The annual survival rates of juvenile and adult jays calculated from band returns by the life table approach were 0.45 and 0.53, respectively. Forty-three Blue Jays lived to be at least seven years old, and the oldest Blue Jay reported was a 14-year-old mated male. The abundance of Blue Jays fluctuated seasonally and annually. Peak numbers occurred during the breeding season (x = 99.0 individuals) after young fledged, and low numbers occurred during the non-breeding season (x = 21.3 individuals). The annual abundance of Blue Jays was not correlated with abundance of acorn mast. Blue Jay populations increased between 1953 and 1976, but changes in numbers were not correlated with local changes in survival rates, rates of reproduction, or changes in migratory behavior. The data are most consistent with the hypothesis that regional changes in survival rates occurred during this time period, and these changes were then reflected in a local increase in the abundance of Blue Jays. 
4163045|From 1987-1989, we conducted surveys throughout Florida Bay, Card and Barnes sounds, the southern portion of mainland Florida, and the mainline keys south to Long Key to determine the breeding distribution of White-crowned Pigeons (Columba leucocephala). We found pigeons nesting on 88 of 169 keys over a wide range in Florida Bay, Card and Barnes sounds, and in one location on the mainline Keys. Their nesting distribution appeared to be limited by the presence of raccoons (Procyon lotor). Of the 33 keys on which we found evidence of raccoons, only six had nesting White-crowned Pigeons. Other potential nest predators did not seem to influence nesting distribution. In Florida, White-crowned Pigeon breeding populations apparently are limited by the availability of nesting sites without raccoons.
4163046|Body ruffling displays of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) consist of extreme ruffling of the breast and back feathers and often are associated with wing extension and spread primaries. Body ruffling was observed throughout the non-breeding season but was more frequent in the fall. Birds of all ages and sexes exhibited the display, but juvenile males did so most frequently. Body ruffling was directed toward individuals of any age or sex and to familiar as well as to new birds in the area. Contrary to our prediction, the display was given less frequently, rather than more frequently, toward the eventual mate of the displayer. The seasonal frequency of the display paralleled the frequency of arrival of new birds at the feeders rather than the frequency of all aggressive behavior. The display appears to function in maintaining individual distance and gaining access to food, and it is not involved in pair formation as has been suggested for other parids.
4163047|Growth bars indicate 24-h periods of feather growth. Ptilochronology uses the width of growth bars on an induced feather to monitor avian nutritional condition, the wider the growth bars the better the condition. Because such an interpretation could be confounded if extraneous variables remained uncontrolled, we investigated whether seasonality, temperature, photoperiod, and a bird's age and sex influenced the daily growth of an induced feather. Width of growth bars, and the total length and mass of both an induced feather and the original feather grown from the same follicle during the preceding pre-basic molt varied significantly with the age and sex of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). These same characteristics of induced feathers also varied significantly with season. Despite strong collinearity between ambient temperature and photoperiod, the former appeared to be the more important predictor of feather growth. These results indicate that variation in feather growth due to age, sex, and season of the year must be accounted for in the design of experiments using ptilochronology to examine avian nutritional condition.
4163048|Loss of mature forest habitat was measured around Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity tree clusters (colonies) in three National Forests in eastern Texas. Forest removal results in a loss of foraging habitat and causes habitat fragmentation of the remaining mature forest. Habitat loss was negatively associated with woodpecker group size in small populations that had relatively isolated clusters but not in a larger, more dense population. Cutting patterns also may affect the amount of foraging habitat available to a family group if the group is forced to go through the territories of other groups to access suitable foraging habitat. Habitat loss may affect woodpecker group size by causing an insufficiency of foraging habitat and dispersal-demographic problems.
4163049|We aged over 1350 Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity trees and a comparable number of randomly selected trees. Resulting data strongly support the hypothesis that Red-cockaded Woodpeckers preferentially select older trees. Ages of recently initiated cavity trees in the Texas study areas generally were similar to those of cavity trees initiated during the last several decades. In effect, the birds are continuing to select the oldest trees from a pool of trees of increasing age. This suggests that the current average age of cavity trees on these sites (85-130 yrs) may not provide optimum cavity trees for this endangered species.
4163050|An index of total vegetation volume was strongly correlated with breeding bird density at 31 sites in four separate studies conducted in southwestern shrub and desert habitats between 1974 and 1987. Vegetation volume was not as strongly correlated with winter bird density in two of these studies. We suggest that these correlations indicate that breeding birds respond strongly to resources associated with vegetation and that such a resource-based response may explain such well-known patterns as the edge effect and the high avian breeding densities in southwest riparian habitats. The technique we describe for measuring total vegetation volume provides a quick and accurate method of estimating this simple aspect of vegetation structure and may be useful in describing plant communities quantitatively.
4163082|The two species of red-cotingas, Phoenicircus, are little-known birds with a patchy distribution in the rain forests of northern and central South America. We observed the foraging, displays, and vocalizations of the Guianan Red-Cotinga (P. carnifex) in Suriname and of the Black-necked Red-Cotinga (P. nigricollis) in northeastern Peru. Males of both species formed small, low-density leks. Almost all display occurred in the first hour after dawn, after which the birds dispersed and were rarely observed. Direct interactions between displaying males were infrequent, and male--male spacing at the lek appeared to be mediated through calling. Display consisted of repeated calling and horizontal flights between perches 5-15 m up in the understory. Display flights are often accompanied by mechanical whistling sounds. Although we observed female visits to the lek, no copulations or obvious pre-copulatory behaviors were seen. In courtship and vocalizations, as in morphology, red-cotingas exhibit characters of both manakins and cotingas.
4163083|Theories of clutch-size determination have focused primarily on first broods or on seasonal trends in clutch size. High repeatability between the sizes of first and second clutches could be expected because of individual genetic, vigor, and environmental differences. We examined the repeatability of clutch size in individual House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) both within and across years using data collected between 1926-1937 by Kendeigh, Baldwin, and others. Contrary to expectation, repeatability of clutch size in first and second clutches within a year was low
4163084| As was already evident in the first collections of the early 1800s, the Rufous-crowned Greenlet (Hylophilus poicilotis) of southeastern Brazil to Bolivia is sympatric in southern So Paulo with the Gray-eyed Greenlet (H. amaurocephalus) of eastern Brazil. The two differ in color of eye, beak, and head, and have different songs. Reports of intergradation were based on failure to detect the important differences, in part due to lack of time (=support) for taxonomy. 
4163085|We studied the vegetative structure at nest sites of Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in two different habitats and of Sharp-shinned Hawks (A. striatus) in one habitat in Missouri. Sixteen Sharp-shinned Hawk nests occurred in pine (Pinus spp.) habitat and one in mixed pine-hardwood habitat. Thirty-three Cooper's Hawk nests occurred in pine habitat and 10 in oak-hickory (Quercus-Carya) hardwood habitat. Sharp-shinned Hawks nested primarily in trees with normal growth form and placed nests in the tree canopy, whereas Cooper's Hawks used mostly deformed trees and tended to place nests below the tree canopy. Vegetative structure at nest sites in pine habitat was similar for both accipiters. Cooper's Hawk nest sites in pine and hardwood habitat were similar in vertical structure but differed in horizontal structure. Vertical structure is probably a more important factor in accipiter nest-site selection than horizontal structure.
4163086|Time budgets of polyandrous Northern Jacanas (Jacana spinosa) were studied at a 2.8-ha pond in Costa Rica from Jan.-Dec. 1974. Time budgets differed significantly depending on reproductive condition, sex, location, and time of day. Although similar prior to egg laying, male and female time budgets diverged greatly when eggs or chicks were present. At that time, males reduced foraging, other somatic behaviors, and time spent off-the-pond as they assumed major responsibility for parental care, which consumed much of the early morning and late afternoon. Females, which were never seen incubating and were rarely seen brooding, maintained a high proportion of time spent foraging throughout the day and year. Females spent more time in territories where chicks were present, resulting in increased interspecific aggression, resting, and walking as they provided direct and potential predator protection. After egg laying, females reduced time spent foraging and increased time spent resting. Females helped males by brooding and accompanying chicks at times when food availability was apparently low. Females did not reduce their total foraging time in territories containing chicks. These data best support the replacement clutch hypothesis and support neither the female energetic stress nor the uniparental care hypotheses for the adaptiveness of classical polyandry in the Northern Jacana. Insufficient data exist to conclude whether a single explanation for the evolution of classical polyandry is possible for all species exhibiting some form of this mating system.
4163087|We compared seasonal variations in the daylight activity budget of Semipalmated (Charadrius semipalmatus) and Wilson's plovers (C. wilsonia cinnamominus) in northeastern Venezuela. The former are Nearctic migrants which use the area as a migratory stop-over and wintering area; the latter are residents and breed in the region. Feeding, resting, and aggressive manifestations are the three main activity categories. The seasonal activity patterns of the species differ. In both species, the seasonal pattern of time spent resting is the inverse of that for feeding. From October to April, Semipalmated Plovers fed during most of their daylight time in spite of a decrease in feeding in January and February. In contrast, Wilson's Plovers devoted more time to resting than to feeding from November to April (the non-breeding period). In both species, the seasonal variations in the time spent feeding during daylight can be explained by variations in their energetic needs, e.g., for molting and building fat reserves. Time devoted to aggression was very low in both species but increased in March--April for Wilson's Plovers, just before the beginning of reproductive activities. Daily energy expenditure and energy intake were estimated for Wilson's Plovers, supposing that they were resting from dusk to dawn. From November to March, daylight feeding alone was insufficient to counterbalance energy expenditure, indicating that they foraged primarily during nighttime.
4163088|White-rumped Sandpipers (Calidris fuscicollis) migrate between Canadian Arctic breeding areas and "wintering" areas in Patagonia, one of the longest animal migrations in the Western Hemisphere. Migrant White-rumped Sandpipers employ both long-distance, nonstop, and short-distance multiple-stop flights. Southbound migrants fly over the Atlantic ocean from northeastern North America to South America. They then gradually move southeast along northeastern coasts before turning inland in trans-Amazonian travel requiring about one month. Northward migration routes from Patagonia evidently are similar, but are traversed in a rapid series of long nonstop flights. Staging zones are unknown in northern South America during north migration, in the Caribbean basin, or on the Atlantic coastal plain of the U.S. A major staging area is identified in the Great Plains, where birds evidently prepare for a last remaining flight to the Arctic. The migration system of this small sandpiper makes the species vulnerable to loss of strategic migration habitats.
4163089| Twenty species of shorebirds were recorded during 47 censuses along the margins of the Paraguay River at the Baha de Asuncin, Paraguay, from 1987-1989. The numbers of most Nearctic migrants (15 species) were higher during boreal fall than during spring, presumably due to flooding of the Paraguay River basin during spring and summer; numbers of Neotropical residents (five species) peaked during December--March. The abundance of most shorebirds, especially Neotropical species, was correlated negatively with water level, an inverse measure of habitat availability. Interannual variation in abundance appeared to be related to local hydrological conditions. Each species differentially exploited a given habitat, providing evidence of habitat partitioning. Intraspecific flock sizes of most species were correlated with abundance and, by inference, seasonality and habitat availability. The evolution of Nearctic shorebird migration in the interior of South America appears to have been influenced by seasonal cycles of precipitation and the effects on habitat availability. /// Se registraron 20 especies de playeros durante 47 censos a lo largo de los mrgenes del ro Paraguay en la baha de Asuncin, Paraguay, desde 1987 hasta 1989. La mayora de migrantes nerticos (15 especies) alcanzaron nmeros ms altos durante el otoo boreal que durante la primavera, presumiblemente a causa de las inundaciones de la cuenca del ro Paraguay durante la primavera y el verano; los residentes neotropicales (cinco especies) alcanzaron nmeros ms altos durante diciembre--marzo. La abundancia de la mayora de playeros, especialmente los neotropicales, fue correlacionada negativamente con el nivel de agua, una medida inversa de disponibilidad de hbitat. La variacin interanual en abundancia pareci estar relacionada con las condiciones hidrolgicas locales. Cada especie explot un cierto hbitat en una manera diferente, proveyendo evidencia de la particin de hbitat. Los tamaos de las bandadas intraespecficas de la mayora de las especies fueron correlacionados con abundancia y, por inferencia, estacionalidad y disponibilidad de hbitat. La evolucin de migracin por los playeros nerticos en el interior de Sudamrica parece haber afectado por ciclos estacionales de precipitacin y los afectos sobre la disponibilidad de hbitat. 
4163090|Specimens (a downy fledgling and a hatch-year juvenile) and nocturnal calling of the Band-rumped Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma castro) are evidence that this rare seabird breeds on the island of Hawaii. Nocturnal calling over land and sightings near the coast indicate that populations nest on the southwest rift and possibly the upper western slope of Mauna Loa.
4163112|We describe the relative abundance, foraging habitat, and feeding behavior of seven sympatric species of ibises (Threskiornithidae) in the Venezuelan llanos during the dry season of 1989. Scarlet (Eudocimus ruber), Glossy (Plegadis falcinellus), and Bare-faced (Phimosus infuscatus) ibises were the most common species. White (E. albus), Green (Mesembrinibis cayennensis), Sharp-tailed (Cercibis oxycerca), and Buff-necked (Theristicus caudatus) ibises together made up less than 8% of individuals surveyed. Multivariate analyses showed that differences in use of foraging habitat partitioned the foraging niche during the dry season, a time when little aquatic habitat is available to the birds. Foraging habitats used by the seven species were differentiated by decreasing distance to water, in the following order: Buff-necked (dry land), Sharp-tailed and Bare-faced (moist soil, occasionally in standing water), Green (water's edge), and Scarlet, White, and Glossy ibises (nearly always in standing water). Probing depth, prey size, and height of vegetation further partitioned the niche. Large differences in capture, probing, and stepping rates were found among all species. There were no differences in foraging behavior or in foraging habitat between congeneric White and Scarlet ibises. Considerable overlap in foraging habitat in space and time was seen among the three aquatic foragers (White, Scarlet, Glossy), and aggression and occasional food robbery occurred among these species. Scarlet Ibises were most aggressive and were most likely to attempt food robbery.
4163113|Through aerial surveys in 1988 and 1989, 111 Florida Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis pratensis) nests were found on a
4163114| New data are presented on the foraging ecology, behavior, vocalizations, body masses, and soft part colors of the endemic land birds of Henderson Island (12820W, 2420S), southeastern Polynesia. Population estimates of species range from 720-1820 for Stephen's Lorikeet (Vini stepheni), 3240  for Henderson Island Crake (Porzana atra), 3420  for Henderson Island Fruit-Dove (Ptilonopus insularis), to 10,800  for Henderson Island Reed-Warbler (Acrocephalus taiti). Conservation issues and translocation of species are discussed. 
4163115|Current status of Nightingale Reed-Warblers (Acrocephalus luscinia) in the Mariana Islands was examined by field surveys and responses to tape recordings of calls. Historic status was determined using the literature, museum specimens, and field notes of previous researchers. Reed-warblers, historically found on five of the Mariana Islands, currently are thought to be extinct on Guam, Aguijan, and Pagan. Substantial numbers still remain on Saipan and Alamagan. Reasons for extinctions may include loss of wetlands and understory vegetation by volcanic activity, land development, and feral ungulates; fires in wetlands; pesticides; and predation by brown tree snakes (Boiga irregularis).
4163116| A new species of swift (Cypseloides storeri) is described and given the English name White-fronted Swift. It apparently is most closely related to C. cryptus of Central America and northern South America. It is known from four specimens obtained in Michoacn and Guerrero in southwestern Mexico. /// Se describe una especie nueva de vencejo (Cypseloides storeri), a la cual se le da el nombre comn de Vencejo de Frente Blanca. Aparentemente, se encuentra muy cercanamente relacionado a C. cryptus de Centro y Sudamrica. Se conoce por cuatro especmenes recolectados en los estados de Michoacn y Guerrero en el suroeste de Mxico. 
4163117| We studied the breeding behavior of Green-rumped Parrotlets (Forpus passerinus) using nest boxes in the llanos of Venezuela. Aggressive and courtship displays, and nest prospecting behavior are described. Females occupied nest boxes for about 80% of daylight hours from shortly before egg laying through hatching (30-40 days), and did all incubating and brooding. Males spent nearly 80% of the time away from the nest, presumably foraging for their mates and chicks. Clutch sizes of females were correlated positively with the rate at which they were fed by males during egg laying. Clutches hatched asynchronously, and nestling growth and development was slow. Females stopped brooding when oldest chicks were one to two weeks of age to join their mates in feeding young, though the youngest chicks were at most a few days old. Food delivery rates by parents to young were related positively to brood size after all eggs had hatched. Most pairs (91%) remained mated throughout the breeding season. Mate replacement between years was more common (31%). More than half of the females that nested in the first part of the breeding season attempted second nests. Intervals between nesting attempts (x = 22 days) were correlated positively with the number of young fledging from first nests. Over three-quarters of the pairs that remained together and renested used the same nest box, even though intruders constantly attempted to obtain nest sites. Results are discussed in relation to the division of parental care and the high degree of pair cohesion exhibited by parrots. 
4163118|The low species richness in grassland bird communities has been hypothesized to result from competition in a simplistic, saturated habitat (Cody) or to result from the periodic occurrence of climatic extremes that prevent drought-susceptible species from perennial settlement (Wiens). Predictions based on these two hypotheses were evaluated using June population estimates on burned and unburned tallgrass prairie over the decade, 1981-1990, on the Konza Prairie Research Natural Area, Kansas. The results of these analyses support the notion that drought tolerance is the primary factor that determines membership in the tallgrass prairie community. When drought and fire are coincidental, however, the community does respond in a manner commensurate with the saturation hypothesis by a reduction in bird abundances but not a decrease in species richness.
4163119|Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) nests were studied in southwestern Oklahoma from 1985 through 1988. Pairing began in late February to early March, and completed nests were found from 13 March to 20 June. Nesting peaked in mid-April, with second nestings from late May to late June. Average length of the nesting season was 11 weeks. Almost one-third of all nests were built in Osage orange (Maclura pomifera) trees, but netleaf hackberry (Celtis reticulata), Chinese elm (Ulmus pumila), and eastern red cedar (Juniperus virginiana) were also used frequently. Mean nest height was 3 m, and average clutch size was 5.8. At least one egg hatched in 84% of clutches. A mean of 16.9 days was required for incubation and the average fledging period was 16.8 days. Probability of survival using Mayfield's (1961, 1975) method was 46%.
4163120|From 1983-1987, Common Ravens (Corvus corax) used thirteen communal roosts on a segment of electrical transmission line that runs 597 km from south-central Idaho to south-central Oregon. Up to 2103 ravens were counted at a single roost that spanned approximately six km of transmission line and 15 transmission towers. Most roosts were occupied between spring and autumn; one was occupied year-round. Peak numbers of ravens at most roosts and peak numbers of occupied roosts occurred during late summer and early autumn. Ravens concentrated on the highest portions of transmission towers, although more ravens roosted on the lower portions of towers when winds exceeded seven km/h. Ravens arrived at roosts earlier relative to sunset during summer than during spring or fall. Soon after fledging, juvenile and adult ravens left nesting areas and moved as far as 60 km to communal roosts. Some ravens used more than one communal roost during a year, moving between roosts up to 63 km apart.
4163121| Eighty-five percent of the world population of Black Turnstones (Arenaria melanocephala) nest on the central Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska, 65% concentrated in a narrow band of salt grass, graminoid, and dwarf shrub meadows within two km of the coast. An estimated 61,000 to 99,000 birds (95% CI), with a point estimate of 80,000 birds, breed on the central delta. About 15,000 others nest elsewhere in Alaska. Abundance varies among habitats and with distance from the coast. On the central delta, highest breeding densities occur in coastal salt grass meadows (1.11  0.16 birds  ha
4163147| We analyzed geographic variation in morphology and plumage coloration in male woodnymphs of the genus Thalurania in Middle America and northwestern South America. Morphometric characters distinguish the disjunct western Mexican populations from populations to the south. Three groups are distinguished by discrete plumage coloration characters. We propose that these groups be recognized as separate species: T. ridgwayi of western Mexico; T. colombica of Central America south to western Panama and disjunctly in interior northwestern South America; and T. fannyi of eastern Panama, western Colombia, and northern Ecuador. /// En este trabajo analizamos la variacin geogrfica en morfologa y en patrones de coloracin en el plumaje de los machos de las "ninfas de bosque" del gnero Thalurania de Mesoamrica y noroeste de Sudamrica. Los caracteres morfomtricos distinguen las poblaciones del oeste de Mxico de todas las poblaciones del sur. Con base en la coloracin del plumaje, caracteres discretos separan tres grupos. Proponemos que estos grupos sean reconocidos como especies distintas: T. ridgwayi del oeste de Mxico; T. colombica desde Centroamrica hacia el sur al oeste de Panam y continuando despus en el noroeste de Sudamrica; y T. fannyi del este de Panam, oeste de Colombia y extremo norte del Ecuador. 
4163148|One hundred and ten species of birds are recorded from Long Island and adjacent cays, 54 for the first time. No species or subspecies is endemic. Of the 48 probable breeding indigenous species, 23 are land birds, most of which are widely distributed in all terrestrial habitats. The Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) shows the strongest habitat preference, being nearly confined to mangroves. Nests, eggs, and young are reported for 31 species, 19 of them for the first time on Long Island. The White-winged Dove (Zenaida asiatica) and Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea) are new additions to the list of breeding land birds. The Bahama Mockingbird (Mimus gundlachii) was the most frequently encountered bird during summer 1990, followed closely by the Thick-billed Vireo (Vireo crassirostris).
4163149|Analyses of seven bill, leg, wing, and plumage characters measured from 267 museum specimens of adult Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) revealed significant morphological differences between sexes but not among three subspecies (antillarum, athalassos, and browni) currently recognized in North America. While individual morphometric characters sometimes did not overlap between a pair of subspecies, discriminant analysis employing criteria developed from the complete morphometric data set correctly classified > 90% of antillarum specimens but misclassified 39% and 51% of athalassos and browni specimens, respectively. Cluster analysis did not segregate specimens into groups consistent with current subspecific taxonomy. Electrophoretic variation in proteins encoded by 50 loci revealed no genetic distinctions between S. a antillarum and S. a. athalassos for 22 specimens from four breeding sites on the Texas coast, Rio Grande, and Texas panhandle rivers. These data illustrated continued difficulty in distinguishing endangered and nonendangered "forms" of the same species. Distinctions proposed in original descriptions of North American Least Tern subspecies are not sufficiently definitive; we recommend reassessment of subspecies within the entire species taxon.
4163150| Home ranges, habitat characteristics, and fidelity of White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) to wintering sites were studied in north-central Colorado. Winter home ranges of 17 hens averaged 1.62  0.72 km
4163151|Greater Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus cupido) lek visitation and stability were examined in 1986-1991 on a
4163152|Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) near the southern extreme of the species' range had a low fledging rate, high fledgling survivorship, and high level of breeder experience and adult survivorship compared to other populations. Breeding male and female survivorship was 10% and 23% higher, respectively, than northern populations. Tenure of helpers was higher than other populations, apparently as a result of high adult survivorship. The frequency of female helpers was higher (30%) than reported for other populations (5%). Group size ranged from two to five members and averaged 2.4 birds prior to nesting. Reproduction in central Florida was lower than other populations (1.0 vs 1.6 fledglings per group). Experienced pairs without a helper produced significantly more fledglings than experienced pairs with a helper (1.45 and 0.87 fledglings/group, respectively). Reproductive success was correlated with breeder experience, outside intrusion rate, and territory size.
4163153|Between 1974 and 1987, we studied summering birds of estuarine marshes along the Connecticut River in Connecticut in order to seek generalizations concerning the principal habitat features associated with species richness and species composition. Features of habitats investigated were (1) area, (2) environmental heterogeneity, (3) isolation, (4) water cover, (5) mudflat cover and, indirectly, (6) tidal and water salinity regimes. We also explored the value of large vs several small habitats in preserving marsh bird communities. Species inhabiting the marshes were divided into breeders (species that nested in marshes) and users (species that used marshes or associated creeks and flats primarily for feeding). Breeder species richness showed a significant positive relationship to marsh area and showed a negative relationship to water cover and environmental heterogeneity. User richness, in contrast, was positively related to proximity of additional marsh habitat (a measure of isolation), water cover, and environmental heterogeneity. Clustering pairwise comparisons of marshes showed that saline, strongly tidal marshes differed from freshwater, weakly tidal marshes. However, species composition was likely a consequence of the entire suite of differences which distinguish saline and freshwater marshes. Separately analyzing data on regularly occurring species, as opposed to all species recorded during the study period, produced similar results. Hence, the longer term view gained by considering all potentially occurring species yielded little additional information about habitat factors influencing species richness. In contrast, separately analyzing data on breeders and users demonstrated that these species groups had divergent principal habitat requirements. Series of small marshes proved to be equivalent or superior to a large marsh in supporting species richness. However, species occurring infrequently along the Connecticut River predominated at large marshes.
4163154|During autumn migration 1980-1988, 1042 owls of seven species were captured and banded at Cape May Point, New Jersey. Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) accounted for 61% of owls banded and Long-eared Owls (Asio otus) and Barn Owls (Tyto alba) together accounted for another 37%. The migration of barn owls commences in the last days of September, with 90% of captures occurring before 9 November. The seasonal migration of Saw-whet and Long-eared owls is nearly identical, with 90% of captures of these species occurring by 18 and 21 November, respectively. Substantial numbers of the birds migrating through Cape May were adults (after hatch year): 32.5% of Saw-whet, 19.5% of Barn, and 26.1% of Long-eared owls. Adult Saw-whet and Long-eared owls migrated slightly later in the autumn than immatures, whereas adult barn-owls migrated slightly earlier than immatures. Overlap in seasonal timing between age classes was great. More owls were captured during the four hours before sunrise than in the evening, reflecting low altitude flight of migrants seeking hunting or roosting sites after a night's migration. The large number of owls captured in this study demonstrates that the Cape May peninsula is part of a major migratory pathway and is an important stopover area for these animals.
4163180| The Cundinamarca Antpitta (Grallaria kaestneri sp. nov.) is described from a locality at upper subtropical elevations of the eastern slope of the Eastern Andes of Colombia. It is a terrestrial bird of the understory of primary and secondary cloud forest, known from elevations of ca 1800-2300 m at the type locality; its vocalizations, foraging behavior, and probable breeding season are described. The closest relative of the new form appears to be the Santa Marta Antpitta (G. bangsi) of the Santa Marta mountains; in fact, G. kaestneri may be the present-day representative of the ancestral population that gave rise to G. bangsi. The probable distribution, and possible conservation measures for G. kaestneri are discussed. /// Se describe Grallaria kaestneri sp. nov. de una localidad de la zona subtropical alta de la vertiente oriental de la Cordillera Oriental de los Andes de Colombia. Es un ave terrestre del sotobosque de selva nublada primaria y secundaria; en la localidad tpica ha sido registrado entre ca 1800 y 2300 m de elevacin. Se presentan datos sobre la poca de cra, las vocalizaciones, y el comportamiento de forrajeo de la nueva especie, cuya pariente mas cercano parece ser G. bangsi de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta; incluso, kaestneri bien podra ser el representante actual de la poblacin ancestral que dio origen a bangsi. Se discuten la distribucin probable de G. kaestneri, y posibles medidas para la conservacin de la especie. 
4163181|We studied the winter ecology of the Northern Waterthrush (Seiurus noveboracensis), Prothonotary Warbler (Protonotaria citrea), and American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) in tropical mangroves of northeastern Venezuela. Data were collected by mist netting, direct observation, and forced regurgitation. These allowed evaluation of the seasonal variations in bird abundance, site attachment, body mass, molt activity, and the foraging behavior and diet of each species. The migrant populations consisted of floaters and site-attached individuals throughout the winter, although their abundance showed different seasonal patterns. Most birds used mangroves during only a fraction of the wintering period. Prothonotary Warbler and Northern Waterthrush abundance differed considerably between the spring and fall migration periods, suggesting that different migratory routes are used during both seasons. The temporal and spatial distribution of Prothonotary Warblers and American Redstarts differed according to sex and/or age classes. The mean body mass of Northern Waterthrushes and Prothonotary Warblers varied significantly throughout the winter. Molt activity was limited mainly to body feathers. Foraging in the flooded mangrove habitat was accompanied by modifications of the feeding behavior of each species.
4163182| We studied the breeding productivity of populations of the Monk Parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus), at Arroyito and Jess Mara, Crdoba province, Argentina. In Arroyito, nests were in introduced eucalyptus trees, whereas in Jesus Mara nesting was entirely in native tree species. Egg laying started on around 1 November, although onset of breeding varied significantly among years within a three-week period. Start of egg laying within the populations was extended for nine weeks on average. The percentage of occupied nest chambers found with eggs was significantly higher at Arroyito (91%) than at J. Mara (overall mean 53%). At Arroyito, mean first clutch size was significantly higher (6 eggs) than at J. Mara (5.4 eggs). Replacement and second clutches were significantly smaller than the first clutches in both areas. Hatching success did not differ between areas (58%, both combined) but differed significantly among years at J. Mara. A higher percentage of nestlings reached fledging age at Arroyito (53%) than at J. Mara (42%). Mean number of young fledged per breeding pair was 2.2 at Arroyito and 1.4 (overall) at J. Mara (range: 0.5-2.3). The apparent preference exhibited by Monk Parakeets for nesting in eucalyptus trees against low native vegetation could be a result of the higher productivity of breeding pairs in the former habitat. The Monk Parakeet has a lower fledging and breeding success than other parrots. Due to its large clutch size, however, it has one of the largest productivities among psittacids. 
4163183|I studied a color-marked population of wintering Gray Vireos (Vireo vicinior) over two seasons (1985-1986 and 1986-1987) on study sites near Puerto Lobos, Sonora, Mexico. Some individuals had been banded as early as three years previously. Ten of 14 (71%) vireos banded in the winter of 1985-1986 returned to the same territories in the following winter. Territories were defended throughout the winter and averaged 0.9 ha in size. Territorial interactions occurred frequently along boundaries as neighbors trespassed to forage on each others' territories. Most birds appeared to defend individual territories, and both males and females probably held territories.
4163184|Response rates of Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) and Red-tailed Hawks (B. jamaicensis) to broadcast vocalizations in suitable/marginal Red-shouldered Hawk habitat indicated that the species was not completely isolated by habitat. Red-shouldered Hawk responses were not dependent on the time of day, but occurred more frequently near larger wetlands (< 10 ha). Sixteen active nests were found in a 7200-ha survey area representing the densest nesting population reported (0.22 nests/100 ha). Macrohabitats of 14 Red-shouldered Hawk nest sites were compared to 64 unused sites. Results revealed preferences for wetlands, stream bottomlands, small forest openings (owing to wetlands), and coniferous and mixed forest habitats but avoidance of suburban, open water, and deciduous forest habitats.
4163185|Sharp-shinned (Accipiter striatus), Cooper's (A. cooperii), and Red-tailed (Buteo jamaicensis) hawks, and the total species (19) occurring in the Marin Headlands, Marin County, California, were quantified in relation to seven weather variables. Peak counts of raptors occurred in mid- to late September, with counts largely composed of immature hawks. More adult hawks were counted in mid- to late October. Adult and immature Sharp-shinned and Cooper's hawk counts were correlated with days before and after cold fronts, increasing temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed, and decreasing fog cover. Numbers of adult and immature Red-tailed Hawks were correlated negatively with fog and days before cold fronts and positively with temperature and barometric pressure. Cold front presence or absence did not affect Red-tailed Hawk numbers in 1986-1988. Fewer accipiters and Red-tailed Hawks were counted with south winds (headwinds) blowing, and in 1988 more adult birds were counted with north winds (tailwinds). Increasing temperatures, decreasing fog, and an absence of headwinds were correlated the most with counts of all species in the Headlands; cold front presence or absence had no significant influence on numbers in 1986-1988. A decreasing number of days before and after cold fronts was also generally associated with counts.
4163186|From May 1985 through February 1987, we recorded the diurnal activity budgets of 26 radio-marked Common Ravens (Corvus corax) in southwestern Idaho. Resting (63% of observations) was the predominant diurnal activity, followed by feeding (13%), flying (13%), and moving along the ground (11%). Raven activity budgets differed significantly among seasons, times of day, and habitat types but not among age classes. Although seasonal times spent in locomotory activities were similar, during spring the proportion of time spent feeding nearly tripled and resting decreased. Ravens exhibited no distinct hourly pattern in feeding during winter; however, ravens fed primarily in the morning during spring and crepuscularly during summer and fall. Ravens mainly fed while in agricultural land and rested while in shrub- or grass-dominated rangeland. Our data suggest that seasonal activity budgets of ravens in southwestern Idaho are influenced by characteristics of the food supply and preparation for reproduction, and that daily patterns of activity are influenced by ambient temperature and food availability.
4163187|We studied diurnal time-activity budgets and habitat use of 36 individually marked, class II and III Ring-necked Duck (Aytha collaris) ducklings during 1983 and 1984 in northcentral Minnesota. Overall, ducklings spent 40.9% of their time foraging, 30.8% resting, 21.0% in comfort activities, 6.0% in locomotion, and 1.3% alert. Within broods, duckling activities were synchronized. When the duckling being sampled was foraging, resting, or engaged in comfort movements, 87%, 77%, and 56%, respectively, of the other brood members were engaged in the same behavior. Although male ducklings were larger than their female siblings, we detected no sex differences in activity budgets, dive rates, or the proportion of time spent in subsurface vs surface feeding. Only time spent in comfort and locomotor activities varied by time of day. Time spent in all activities, except comfort, differed between years. Five of six hens abandoned their broods before the ducklings could fly. Thereafter, ducklings spent more time foraging and less time resting and in comfort activities. Ducklings were never observed on shore. They spent 82.6% of their time in open water, although use of this habitat component was less than its availability (96.7%). While in open water, ducklings spent most of their time foraging (50.9%), resting (20.6%), and in comfort activities (19.2%). Exposed flats, consisting of islands of decayed organic debris, were used (16.0%) far in excess of their availability (0.3%), indicating ducklings actively selected this habitat component where they mostly rested (65.8%) and engaged in comfort activities (28.4%).
4163188|Patterns of bird distribution within riparian habitat of the Centennial Mountains, Idaho, were investigated during the summers of 1983-1984. Avian habitat use, vegetative structure, and saturated soil coverage were surveyed in 98, 0.25-ha plots. Avian abundance distributions and habitat relationships were plotted and compared with reciprocal averaging and canonical correlation analyses. Use of riparian habitats by avian species was non-random and indicated a correlation with vegetative structure, life form, and soil moisture. Canonical correlation analysis revealed that avian distributions paralleled a moisture gradient. Our results allow assessment of impacts on avian populations by environmental perturbations causing vegetative-structure and composition, or soil-moisture changes to riparian systems. These data indicate that subtle changes to riparian areas (e.g., from cattle grazing, timber harvest, drainage, etc.) may have severe impacts on the bird community.
4163189| This is the first colonial waterbird survey in the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve, the largest wetland ecosystem (ca 350,000 ha) in the Yucatn peninsula. We counted birds at breeding sites and feeding concentrations during aerial and boat surveys in seasons between 1982 and 1988. An annual mean of 1259 pairs of three species of Pelecaniformes and 3118 pairs of nine species of colonial Ciconiiformes were found breeding at 15 locations in the study area. Seasonal variations of the Ciconiiform populations were found to follow the changes in the water levels. For some of the breeding species, populations in the study area were found to be of regional and national importance to the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of Mexico. 
4163217|The White-tailed Kite (Elanus leucurus) of the Americas has been merged with the Black-shouldered (or Black-winged) Kite (E. caeruleus) of the Old World and the Australian Black-shouldered Kite (E. axillaris) by North American authorities (but not elsewhere), primarily because of similarity in plumage. However, American kites differ from Old World kites in greater size and weight, in proportions (relatively longer tail and smaller bill and feet), plumage pattern (particularly of juveniles), and in behavior. Here we argue that these characters are sufficiently distinctive to warrant recognition of E. leucurus at the species level.
4163218|The abundance, timing, and habitat distribution of woodland-associated migrants were examined at a migratory stopover site in the St. Croix River Valley, Washington County, Minnesota during spring and autumn migrations, 1984-1986. Five wooded habitats (1-3+ ha) were studied using mist nets. Migrants made up 92% of the species (N = 100) and 94.8% of the individuals (N = 17,019) captured. Of the 69 most common migrant species, 58 (84%) were Nearctic-Neotropic migrants. Analyses of median passage dates suggest that peak numbers, and thus resource demands, occurred in the days surrounding 14 May and 31 August. Eighteen migrant species (53% of those adequately covered by our study periods) showed a difference between median spring and autumn passage of 105 days or less, and thus spend less than 30% of their annual life cycles on their breeding grounds. Seasonal absences or higher capture rates in spring suggest that seven species in our region use migratory routes differing from the regional norm. The distributions of birds at our site changed between seasons, suggesting a spatial shift in habitat use by the entire avian community.
4163219|An analysis of 928 specimens of White-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta carolinensis) collected in eastern North America demonstrates that all nuthatches can be sexed in the hand, but determination of sex at a distance is subject to considerable error, especially in southeastern populations. All but three of the specimens examined can be sexed accurately using presence or absence of gray on the crown. At least 10% of the females in any population in eastern North America will appear to have dark crowns when viewed from a distance in the field; populations in the southeasternmost United States have a high frequency of females with dark crowns--83% in peninsular Florida and 40% in coastal plain populations in Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, and northern Florida. Wing and bill lengths show a clinal geographic pattern, with the largest birds in the north and the smallest in Florida. Although peninsular Florida populations are the most distinct of any geographic area, I can find no criteria to identify more than 60% of them unequivocally in the absence of collecting locality data. For this reason I recommend that all White-breasted Nuthatches east of the Great Plains be considered one subspecies: Sitta carolinensis carolinensis Latham.
4163220|We analyzed geographic variation in 12 (female) and 14 (male) morphometric characters of 428 (264 male and 164 female) Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) from North America. There is significant sexual dimorphism in the Eastern Kingbird: males have longer tails, wing-tips, and bills than females. This perhaps reflects the aerial courtship displays and aggressive territorial defense performed principally by males. There appears to be little difference in size between the sexes. There is no geographic variation in the degree of sexual dimorphism, indicating either that the extent of dimorphism is not influenced by interspecific competition (as predicted by the niche variation hypothesis) or that such competition is not significant for T. tyrannus. Although there is significant geographic variation in both sexes for all variables measured, the amount of this variation is slight and not clearly ordered in a geographic pattern. Eastern Kingbirds, for example, do not seem to show variation that conforms to Bergmann's Rule. In both sexes, there is a northwest-to-east trend of decreasing size for most characters measured, but a posteriori tests delimit few, and broadly overlapping, statistically homogeneous sets. There is no indication of character displacement in size in populations where T. tyrannus is sympatric with congeners even though their ecology and habits are similar.
4163221|Large numbers of bird blowfly (Protocalliphora) larvae in nests reportedly cause nestling morbidity and mortality in some host species, but other studies have failed to find significant effects. We conducted controlled blowfly removal and addition experiments to reveal the effects of blowfly infestations on nestling growth, development, and survival of Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) and Tree Swallows (Iridoprocne bicolor). Blowflies were found in about 70% of the nests of both species. Intensity of blowfly parasitism averaged 95 blowflies/infested nest. Mean parasite burdens in infested bluebird nests were significantly greater than in swallow nests. The number of nests parasitized and the intensity of blowfly infestations increased significantly during the breeding season. There were no significant differences in nestling survival or fledging age among blowfly removal, addition, and control treatments for either species. Average bluebird nestling mass on day 14 was significantly lower in control nests than in blowfly removal nests, but the difference was small; for swallows, differences in nestling mass among treatments were not significant. Regressions of average nestling mass against mass of blowflies/nestling were significant for bluebirds on day 10 and for swallows on day 14 but explained only 14.5% and 5.5%, respectively, of variation in nestling mass. The effects of blowfly parasitism on reproductive success were minor and apparently exerted little selection pressure for nest dispersion in the two study species.
4163222| Age-related changes in lipid, water, and non-lipid content and energy density of four major body parts (integument, viscera, leg and pectoral muscles, and carcass) of Cape Gannet chicks, juveniles, and adults were studied. The proportion of water was typically high for neonates and decreased during development to near adult levels at fledging. The percentage of lean dry matter remained almost constant for muscles and carcass but decreased in viscera and integument due to fat deposited during growth. Energy density was linearly related to age (kJ/g = 4.46 + 0.076 Age (days), r
4163223|Bird populations were sampled along road transects eight months after Hurricane Hugo struck St. Croix, at sites previously sampled on similar dates in 1987. Surveys revealed 33 species both before and after the hurricane, of which 30 species were detected during both samples. However, the average number of birds per stop was significantly lower after the storm's passage than before. No pattern was evident in the changes of aquatic species, but this may reflect limited sample sizes. Among terrestrial species, higher proportions of nectarivores and fruit/seedeaters declined than insectivores or raptors, suggesting that the storm's greatest stress occurred after its passage rather than during its impact. Populations of the Pearly-eyed Thrasher (Margarops fuscatus) declined on one transect and increased on another, a pattern consistent with inter-habitat migration. The fruit/seed diet, low population size, and restriction to remnant forest fragments of the Bridled Quail-Dove (Geotrygon mystacea) may explain the significant population decline of this species and its disappearance from traditional sites.
4163224|One hundred and twenty-five species of birds are recorded living in the Exumas, 50 for the first time; 11 others are known only as fossils. Records of 14 other species are considered questionable. Of 50 probable breeding species, 25 are land birds, including the introduced Rock Dove (Columba livia) and Common Peafowl (Pavo cristata). The Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber) and Red-legged Thrush (Turdus plumbeus) are former breeders, and the White-winged Dove (Zenaida asiatica) probably has colonized recently from the southern Bahamas. Nests, eggs, and young are reported for 33 species, 22 of them for the first time in the Exumas. The Bananaquit (Coereba flaveola) was the most frequently encountered species during summer 1991.
4163225|Between 1973 and 1987 we spent more than 36 months studying birds in the Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, on the Gulf coast of southern Veracruz, Mexico. This area contains the northernmost tropical rainforest in the western hemisphere, and has undergone relatively rapid deforestation in the past three decades. Its avifauna is diverse, consisting of both resident and migratory birds. We recorded 405 species, including 58 that have not been reported from the region before, as well as several that apparently have not been reported for Veracruz. Fully 350 species are documented by specimens; the remaining 55 consist of sight records only. We compare our results with past surveys of Los Tuxtlas and discuss 124 species whose status in the region is affected by our data. Of the 405 species we recorded in Los Tuxtlas, 96 (23.7%) appear on a list of bird species from the northern neotropics thought to be in danger due to tropical deforestation.
4163226|Breeding biology of Tristram's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma tristrami) was studied on Laysan Island in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands from 3 February to 14 June 1991. Adults arrived on Laysan from mid-October to November. Most egg laying occurred in December and January and hatching in February and March. The young fledged from late April to early June at 85-92 days of age. Their growth rate was best described by the logistic curve. Adults did not begin molt of remiges until after the breeding season. Eggs hatched at only nine of 27 nests (33%) found during incubation; five of these hatchlings fledged (56%). Abandonment rates were identical at nests where we handled adults and where we inspected eggs without handling adults. Because unattended eggs were destroyed quickly by Laysan Finches (Telespiza cantans), we suggest that Tristram's Storm-Petrels that co-occur with finches seldom neglect their eggs as is common among other species of storm-petrels. Modifications caused by reaching into a burrow (e.g., widening the entrance and dislodging soil from burrow walls) may be perceived by adult storm-petrels as a signal that the burrow may collapse.
4163245|Growing evidence suggests that an understanding of avian anti-predatory escape tactics is important in understanding the way in which predators influence avian ecological systems. Of key importance appears to be the way in which a bird's perception of predation risk reflects an interaction between its tactic of escape from attacks and the physical structure of its environment: a given habitat may be avoided as too risky if a bird's escape tactic does not match the physical structure (e.g., vegetational characteristics, aspects of local topography) of that habitat. However, escape tactics in North American birds are poorly characterized. Thus, this survey brings together many observations of predator-prey encounters scattered over a century's worth of ornithological literature in an effort to identify both the major tactics of escape from predatory attack and their respective ecological implications. Various escape tactics also appear to be consistently associated with certain life-history traits, and these associations are explored from both taxonomic and phylogenetic perspectives. The current state of knowledge regarding escape tactics is hindered by incomplete taxonomic coverage of the available observations and various biases in the reporting thereof. Nonetheless, this survey provides further insight into the way in which predators may influence avian ecological systems, even when actual predation in such systems is numerically insignificant.
4163246|We studied White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) to determine whether morph-specific variations in parental care are typical of this species and whether the influence of neighbors could account for the occurrence of such variations in some samples but not in others. White-striped males made fewer provisioning trips than did tan-striped females. The provisioning rates of tan-striped males and white-striped females were intermediate. Parental care was not affected by the number of neighbors, neighbor singing, local density, or territory size. White-striped male provisioning was positively correlated with the length of their shared territory boundary and their song rates. These effects are likely due to male condition rather than the influence of neighbors. Such variations in the provisioning behavior of white-striped males could account for the lack of morphic variation found in some samples.
4163247|We found male-biased site fidelity in Pacific Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis fulva) on breeding grounds in western Alaska. Males (8 of 8) returned to the same territories annually, while few females (1 of 4) were seen in subsequent seasons. Nest sites in successive years were usually within 100 m, and the same nest cup may be used in more than one year. First-year birds of both sexes mated with older birds and also with each other, but first-year females may breed less commonly than first-year males. The numbers of nesting birds on our study sites varied sharply both within and between seasons.
4163248|I studied foraging effort of male Merlins (Falco columbarius) during the breeding season. Males significantly increased percentage of time flying (when presumably foraging) as the breeding season progressed. Number of foraging trips made by males per hour increased from the incubation to nestling period and then declined during the fledging period. Females then started hunting and providing food for the fledglings. Duration of the foraging trips of males declined with an increase in the number of foraging trips per unit of time. In the incubation period males with high prey abundance in their ranges spent less time flying than males with low prey abundance in their ranges, and males with larger hunting ranges spent more time flying and made foraging trips of longer duration. During the nestling period males flew more in longer foraging trips, males with larger broods spent more time flying than those with smaller broods, and males made fewer foraging trips in areas where the number of active Merlin nests within 1-km radius of the nest was greater.
4163249| We examined relationships among Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) densities and forest habitat characteristics on 16 study areas in Missouri during 1985-1986. Pileated Woodpecker abundance ranged from 0.5 to 4.1 territories/100 ha. Regression analysis indicated a positive, linear relationship between Pileated Woodpecker abundance and percent of an area covered with bottomland forest, density of trees  30 cm dbh, and density of snags  54 cm dbh. Percent of area covered with pole timber (> 15 cm and < 25 cm dbh) was negatively related to Pileated Woodpecker abundance. Study areas with greater amounts of bottomland forest ( 4.5%, N = 7) had a higher density of snags  54 cm dbh (P = 0.005) and smaller amounts of pole timber cover (P = 0.04) than study areas with < 4.5% bottomland forest cover (N = 9). Our findings indicated that large trees and huge snags are important features in Pileated Woodpecker habitat, and these features were most often associated with bottomland forest. 
4163251|Breeding ecology of Dusky Flycatchers (Empidonax oberholseri) was studied in western Montana from May-August 1974. Dusky Flycatchers were monogamous and single-brooded although some pairs made renesting attempts after first nests failed. Length of the reproductive cycle for first nesting attempts, from arrival on the breeding grounds to fledging, was about 70 days. All nests were placed in shrubs, primarily ninebark (Physocarpus malvaceus) and Rocky Mountain maple (Acer glabrum), and were an average of 150 cm above the ground. Females incubated a clutch with an average of 4.0 eggs for 15-16 days, and the average nestling period was 17.5 days. Both sexes fed nestlings and fledglings, but only females brooded nestlings. Egg survival was 63.8%, hatching success was 95.4%, and nestling survival was 61.9% for an overall probability of 0.376 that an egg produced a fledgling. Predation was the major cause of nest failure. Dusky Flycatchers reared an average of 1.9 fledglings/pair.
4163252|We used starch-gel electrophoresis to analyze relationships among 13 species in the subfamily Cardinalinae. These results were compared to a morphometric analysis of 15 skeletal characters and to a previous morphometric analysis of the subfamily by Hellack and Schnell (1977). Our results supported the phenetic classification of Hellack and Schnell and were more consistent with the classification of Hellmayr (1938) than with that of Paynter (1970). Divergence in morphometrics of skeletal characters in the Cardinalinae has been primarily in size. Electrophoretic data suggest that the Yellow-shouldered Grosbeak (Caryothraustes humeralis) is not a member of the Cardinalinae. In addition, if the broad genus Saltator is to be retained, then the genus Pitylus should be merged into it, and the Dickcissel (Spiza americana) is the outgroup to all other Cardinalinae examined (excluding Caryothraustes humeralis).
4163253|The avifauna of a locality in the Chaco region of Bolivia was studied during expeditions in 1990. Six species were found for the first time in Bolivia: Black-hooded Parakeet (Nandayus nenday), Rufous-legged Owl (Strix rufipes), Scimitar-billed Woodcreeper (Drymornis bridgesii), Chaco Earthcreeper (Upucerthia certhioides), Little Thornbird (Phacellodomus sibilatrix), and Stripe-capped Sparrow (Aimophila strigiceps). Another species, Crowned Eagle (Harpyhaliaetus coronatus), previously was known for Bolivia only by a specimen from an uncertain locality. A number of species not known to breed in the Chaco were found, including some presumed austral migrants. The community composition of the Chaco avifauna varies dramatically among sites, reflecting gradients in moisture and vegetation structure.
4163254|Status and population trends of Hawaii's native waterbirds were examined from 1977 through 1987. Waterbird population fluctuations were analyzed in relation to rainfall and land use dynamics. Numbers of Hawaiian Duck (Koloa) (Anas wyvilliana) and Hawaiian Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus sandvicensis) appeared stable over time; however, surveys were limited. Increase in Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) abundance appeared linked to expansion of aquaculture, particularly on Oahu, and not to climatic events. Annual rainfall patterns help explain and predict population fluctuations and anomalous distribution patterns involving Hawaiian American Coots (Fulica americana alai), moorhens, and Hawaiian Black-necked Stilts (Himantopus mexicanus knudseni). Coot, stilt, and moorhen populations fluctuated with climatic events, and intra-island dispersal to ephemeral wetlands occurred. Stilts exhibited regular inter-island migratory behavior, but coots dispersed in relation to major rainfall events. Seasonal fluctuation recorded for coots by past observers is the result of survey techniques not accounting for seasonal dispersal patterns.
4163255|When sexual size dimorphism occurs among nestlings, individuals of the smaller sex are thought to develop locomotory skills and plumage more quickly than their larger, opposite-sexed siblings. It follows that certain aspects of the behavioral development of nestlings should be sex-specific. I tested the prediction that female Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) nestlings develop behaviors associated with muscle development and self-maintenance prior to males. Videotaped observations from 14 nests suggest that female nestlings engaged in higher levels of preening, and possibly scratching and wing-flapping, near the end of the nestling period than did males of the same age. There was little difference in the frequency of stretching for either sex, although there was evidence that males engaged in more leg stretching and females in more wing-leg stretching at certain ages.
4163256|The Socorro Mockingbird (Mimodes graysoni), and endangered endemic species, was the most widely distributed bird on Isla Socorro until 1978 when it was found to be declining. Predation by feral cats, introduced in the island about 1957, was thought to be the principal cause related to its decline. Although the Socorro Mockingbird was considered on the verge of extinction, in 1988-1990 we found a larger and more widely distributed population of the species in the island. We estimated that 50-60 pairs were present.
4163257|We tested the hypothesis that depredation on artificial ground nests did not differ with plot age, nest location, or time period in an area under intensive Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) management in central Pennsylvania after a third cutting cycle from May-August 1991. We also compared depredation of nests in the third cycle to that observed in the second cycle on the management area. Sixty-eight (22%) of the nests were disturbed during five trials after the third cutting cycle. Nest fate was independent of age of plot, nest location, and time period (P > 0.10). Depredation on artificial nests declined (P < 0.05) in most plots from the second to third cutting cycles. We attributed lower rates of depredation after the third cutting cycle to lower relative abundance of corvids compared to the era between the second and third cycles. We concur with other investigators that effects of localized fragmentation on avian nesting success must consider the dynamics of predator abundance to better understand impacts of predators.
4163258|In male Northern Shrikes, impaling sites as a resource did not limit territory size as did hunting perches. After all posts and wire had been removed, the shrikes expanded their territories to pre-manipulated dimensions. The implications of this study for the family Laniidae are discussed.
4163282|The Greater Antillean Pewee (Contopus caribaeus) has mutually exclusive dawn songs in Hispaniola, Jamaica, Cuba, and the Bahamas. In Hispaniola, dawn songs are fast, emphatic, and loud, with one single and three paired syllables rising in pitch from ca 1.9-3.0 kHz. In Jamaica, dawn songs are weaker, having two and three syllable phrases, usually given alternately, and ranging from ca 2-4 kHz. In Cuba and the Bahamas, dawn songs are high-pitched, squeaky whistles, ascending and descending, and ranging from ca 3.0-5.5 kHz. These differences readily are discerned by ear and in sonograms. None of the vocalizations in the Bahama-Cuba region, Jamaica, or Hispaniola was duplicated in either of the other two populations. Most plumage differences among these populations are subtle, but birds in Cuba and the Bahamas have a striking, white, crescent-shaped "post-ocular spot" not found on pewees in Jamaica or Hispaniola. Pewees in Jamaica have smaller masses, and shorter tails, tarsi, wings, and exposed culmen than birds in Cuba. Dawn songs and measurements indicate that these populations of the Greater Antillean Pewee are sufficiently different to be recognized as separate species.
4163283|Population declines of Neotropical migrant songbirds breeding in the eastern deciduous forest have been attributed, in part, to low reproductive success resulting from high rates of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) nest records from the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology were used to test whether rates of parasitism and the number of cowbird eggs or young per parasitized nest varied regionally with distance from the historic range of the cowbird. Rates of parasitism differed significantly (P < 0.001) among the Midwest (42.1%), Mid-Atlantic (26.5%), and Northeast (14.7%). Mean number of cowbird eggs or young per parasitized nest differed significantly (P < 0.001) among regions and displayed similar regional trends with means of 2.09, 1.64, and 1.21, respectively. Rates of parasitism were correlated positively (r = 0.64, P = 0.002) with relative abundance of cowbirds and negatively correlated (r = -0.70, P = 0.001) with relative abundance of Wood Thrush. In the Midwest, relative abundance of cowbirds was significantly higher and Wood Thrushes significantly lower than in the other two regions. Because of the high abundance of cowbirds, high percentage of nests parasitized, and high number of cowbird eggs per parasitized nest, the effects of cowbird parasitism are particularly severe in the Midwest.
4163284|I examined the effects of even-aged clear-cutting (third cutting cycle) on wintering and breeding bird communities at the Barrens Grouse Habitat Management Area (HMA) in central Pennsylvania, 1987-1989. I tested the hypotheses that community structure and population abundance of wintering and breeding birds did not differ (1) among areas of the Barrens Grouse HMA that varied in extent of clear-cutting (0%, 50%, and 75% areas) or (2) among habitats of different age since clear-cutting on the treated sector (50% and 75% areas). These findings were compared to those obtained subsequent to a second cutting cycle. Abundance of 11 species of wintering birds did not vary (P > 0.05) among the three areas. Species richness of all species combined and of ground-shrub foragers was high in the 50% and 75% areas after the third cycle, largely because of additional brushy vegetation. Abundances of all species combined and of ground-shrub foragers were greater than expected in the 75% area but lower than expected in the 0% and 50% areas; abundance of sallier-canopy foragers was greater than expected in the 0% area and less in the 75% area. Two Neotropical migrants, Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus) and Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), were more sensitive than other area-dependent species to increased fragmentation via forest clear-cutting resulting from the third cycle. I conclude that the creation of a mosaic of small (1 ha), even-aged stands for management of Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) habitat does not have a detrimental long-term effect on most species of breeding and wintering forest birds on a localized basis.
4163285|The abundance and diversity of avifauna within 27 aspen (Populus tremuloides) groves in Saskatchewan parklands were correlated significantly with grove size. Species richness of both edge and forest dwelling species were each correlated significantly with area. Species richness of insectivores was correlated strongly with area, whereas for omnivores it was not. Migratory strategy was correlated with size of grove; species richness of permanent residents had the weakest correlation whereas long-distance migrants had the strongest. The densities of 15 bird species were correlated positively with area, densities of four species were correlated with isolation, three of those negatively and one positively, and the density of one species was correlated with both. Aspen groves as small as 1.2 ha may be essential for some species breeding in Saskatchewan parklands.
4163286|We captured 16,527 birds in five habitats at Sandrock Cliff, Saint Croix National Riverway, during spring and fall of 1985, 1986, and 1987. Nearctic-Neotropic migrants comprised 66% of the 118 species captured. They comprised the majority of individuals taken in spring (82.5%), autumn (68.9%), and overall (72.7%). Nearctic-Neotropic migrants averaged 15 weeks between median capture dates, arriving later in spring and departing earlier in fall than temperate zone migrants. The latter spend about 20 weeks elsewhere between median capture dates. Differences in spring and fall capture rates in five habitats suggests birds shift habitat use seasonally.
4163287| I studied the nesting biology of Yellow-throated Euphonias (Thraupinae: Euphonia hirundinacea) in Monteverde, Costa Rica, in 1987-1990. Most nesting occurred from April to July (N = 69 nests) in covered nests in road banks. Modal clutch size was five eggs (x = 4.4), an unusually large number for a tropical passerine. Only females incubated eggs, but both parents fed nestlings. Parents regurgitated food for nestlings, and examination of nestling fecal samples indicated that fruit made up most of the diet starting from the day of hatching. Morphological specializations of the digestive tract may enable, or even require, them to use fruit in the nestling diet more extensively than other birds. Parents visited the nest infrequently, arrived at the nest together, and accompanied one another to the nest entrance in what may be a distraction display to confuse potential nest predators. The covered nests, the infrequent visits to the nest, and the behavior at the nest may all contribute to reducing nest predation in this species. The combination of large clutch size, extreme nestling frugivory, and coordinated parental behavior is unique, and the inclusion of euphonias in comparative studies addressing the evolution of these traits should prove valuable. 
4163288|Evolutionary relationships among obligate ant-following birds in the genus Gymnopithys were addressed using phenetic and phylogenetic analyses of allozyme characters. Genetic variation at 37 gene loci was analyzed across all four species in the genus and within two species (Bicolored Antbird [G. leucaspis], and White-throated Antbird [G. salvini]). Interspecific genetic distances were high, and comparable to other studies of Neotropical birds, which exceed those in many temperate zone species. Within the genus, Lunulated Antbird (G. lunulata) and G. salvini were sister taxa. There was only weak support for a sister-taxon relationship between G. leucaspis and the Rufous-throated Antbird (G. rufigula). Within G. leucaspis and G. salvini, high F
4163289|This paper reports the presence of scopate tomia, here defined as brushlike ridges on the cutting edges of the mandibles, in some 30 families of birds, including the Ciconiidae (Anastomus) in which tomial brushes were first described by Kahl (1971). The functional significance and biological role of scopate tomia are understood poorly. Tomial brushes probably enhance the holding ability of the bill by increasing its coefficient of friction. Most birds possessing brushes are at least partly insectivorous and have in common a preference for hard-shelled dietary items such as large insects or, as in the case of Anastomus, large snails.
4163290|During the summer after the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989, we surveyed Yellow-billed Loons (Gavia adamsii) on lakes in the Colville River delta in northern Alaska. A study in 1983-1984 documenting nesting activity in the same area provided a baseline for comparisons of possible effects of the spill on nesting activity. Density of adult loons in 1989 was similar to densities in 1983-1984. We located 26 pairs of Yellow-billed Loons in 29 nesting territories. However, only 42% of the loon pairs nested in 1989, compared to 76% nesting pairs in 1983 and 79% in 1984.
4163291|Disturbance can reduce productivity by disrupting nesting behavior. We examined responses of nesting Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) and Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) to frequent overhead flights by Herring (L. argentatus) and Great Black-backed (L. marinus) gulls to determine if such flyovers may have contributed to declines in productivity. Common Terns and Laughing Gulls ignored most flyovers (97.9 and 99.4%, respectively) and selectively responded to large gulls that exhibited behaviors associated with predation. Common Terns mobbed large gulls more often than did Laughing Gulls (G = 18.31, P < 0.001), but numbers of birds per mobbing were similar between species (Z = 1.206, df = 11, 6, P = 0.2388). We suggest that when conditions favor habituation, the presence of large gulls has minimal impact on productivity.
4163292|I determined the fatty acid composition of subcutaneous, abdominal, visceral, and leg saddle depots in adult female Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) wintering in north-central Missouri during October 1984-March 1985. Mean levels of C14:0, C16:0, C16:1, C18:0, C18:1, C18:2, and C18:3 generally were highest in the subcutaneous and abdominal depots. The ratio of saturated to unsaturated fats was highest in the leg saddle depot and lowest in the abdominal depot. I also assessed the differences among sexes, seasons, and years in fatty acid composition of abdominal fat depots in adult geese collected during October-March, 1985-1987. Adult females had consistently higher levels of C14:0 in abdominal depots than males. Fatty acid composition of the abdominal depot differed among years but not by season. In the abdominal depot, C14:0, C16:0, C16:1, and C18:1 were higher in 1986-1987 compared with the previous two years, whereas C18:3 was highest in 1984-1985. Differences among years reflected changes in winter diet. Fatty acids of wintering geese were similar to those previously found in breeding Canada Geese.
4163314| We quantitatively assessed the green to blue dorsal color change uniquely demonstrated by populations of the Green Jay (Cyanocorax yncas longirostris) inhabiting seasonally dry deciduous woodland in the mid-Maraon Valley of Peru. Other subspecies in South America occupy humid habitats and are dorsally green all year. After a complete molt which ends in concert with the termination of the rainy season in March, Maraon jays have bright yellow-green backs. During the interval until the next annual molt, the dorsal plumage gradually turns to greenish-blue or blue. Starting in August and September, in the latter part of the dry season, the population breeds in this phenotype. Microscopic study revealed that fresh dorsal feathers contained a yellow pigment or pigments near the surfaces of rachi, barbs, and barbules. Older, blue feathers had many broken barbs and barbules and lacked yellow pigment. However, because the keratinous surfaces of rachi, barbs, and barbules of such feathers appeared unworn, abrasion seemed unrelated to the loss of yellow pigment. Instead, autoxidation and accompanying bleaching from exposure to sunlight are implicated in this striking color change. 
4163315|We studied restriction site variation in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of 55 Chipping Sparrows (Spizella passerina) taken from widely dispersed points in their breeding range. A total of 21 haplotypes was observed, and on average, individuals differed little in percent haplotype divergence (0.12%). There was no detectable geographic variation in haplotypes, despite the sampling of three named subspecies. Single-generation dispersal distance was estimated from the mtDNA data at 5.4 km. One phylogenetic hypothesis for six species in the genus (excluding Timberline Sparrow [S. taverneri] and Worthen's Sparrow [S. wortheni]) suggested that Black-chinned Sparrow (S. atrogularis) and Field Sparrow (S. pusilla) were sister taxa, followed in sequence by Chipping, Brewer's and Clay-colored sparrows (S. pallida), with the American Tree Sparrow (S. arborea) most distant. Another hypothesis grouped Chipping and Brewer's sparrows.
4163316| The laying interval for Lesser Snow Geese (Chen c. caerulescens) at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, calculated using two separate approaches, was approximately 33  3 h. This value conflicts with the estimate of a 24 h interval suggested by Cooch (1958). The contradiction is probably due to methods of data collection. Neither egg size nor female age affected laying interval. There was no correlation between weather conditions and laying interval. Significant but small differences in mean laying interval between years were found, with a mean lying between 31 and 35 h. 
4163317|We describe the fifth verified nest and first verified egg of the Akiapolaau (Hemignathus munroi), an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper. We dispute the validity of Bryan's (1905a) description of three eggs and two nests of the Akiapolaau. Eggs that he attributed to this species were much smaller than ours, and his nest descriptions did not match the only nest apparently belonging to the Akiapolaau in the B. P. Bishop Museum in Honolulu, where Bryan worked. Twigs and bark were distinctively combined in the nest that we examined. We compare eggs and nests of the Akiapolaau with those of other Hawaiian honeycreepers.
4163318|We studied the nesting behavior of the Common Amakihi (Hemignathus virens) from 1970-1981 on the island of Hawaii to determine if the species alters nest placement over a protracted 9-month breeding season. Birds preferentially chose the southwest quadrant of trees in which to build nests during all phases of the breeding season. It appeared that ambient temperature (Ta) was a contributing factor to differential nest placement between early and late phases of the annual breeding cycle. When Ta is low during the early (December-March) breeding period, Common Amakihi selected exposed nesting locations that benefitted them with maximum solar insolation. However, in the later phase of the breeding period (April-July) when Ta was much higher, renesting birds selected nest sites deeper in the canopy in significantly taller trees. This is one of the few documented examples in which a species changes location of nest during a breeding season, thus allowing exploitation of temporally differing microclimatic conditions.
4163319|I manipulated brood size in a population of box-nesting House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) to determine if fledging success was limited by the ability of parents to provision nestlings. Enlarged broods produced significantly more fledged young than did control or reduced broods, but fledglings from enlarged broods weighed 6-7% less than fledglings from other broods. Fledging success was unrelated to original clutch size, but parents that laid large clutches fledged heavier offspring. These results do not support the brood-provisioning hypothesis. Brood size in House Wrens may be limited by post-fledging survival or interseasonal costs of reproduction, but I was unable to assess these factors in this study.
4163320|We documented solitary and aggregative spacing patterns in Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) near Churchill, Manitoba. Pairs nesting on gravel directly on the coast nested in larger aggregations and closer to other pairs than inland pairs. Coastal areas were similar to inland areas in (1) density of birds, (2) available gravel nesting habitat, and (3) climatic conditions. The number of pairs per gravel area deviated significantly from that expected from a Poisson distribution. Inland nests were significantly uniform in distribution, whereas coastal nests were distributed randomly among four sites. In 1988, pairs nesting on the coast also nested later and had heavier eggs and chicks than pairs nesting inland. Reproductive success in two years of study was higher at coastal nests than at inland nests. We suggest that the differences in spacing between the two sites may be due to different predator populations at the two sites.
4163321|We studied the reproductive success of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) nesting in nest boxes attached to the backs of highway signs along Interstate 35 (I-35) in central Iowa, 1988-1992. Nest box occupancy averaged 45.1%. All nest boxes faced either north or south, and there was no significant association between nest box occupancy and nest box orientation. European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) built nests in almost every nest box not occupied by kestrels. Apparent nesting success, the percentage of nests fledging at least one young, averaged 68.9%. There was no significant association between apparent nesting success and nest box orientation. Using the Mayfield method, we detected a significantly lower probability of survival during the incubation stage than during the brood-rearing stage. Clutch size averaged 4.8 over the five years of the study, and mean hatching success was 62.5%. Mean brood size was 3.1, and mean number of young in a brood to fledge was 2.9 (90.9% fledging success). The kestrels in this study had reproductive success similar to that of kestrels nesting in nest boxes in other areas of North America.
4163322|The breeding biology of Eurasian Nuthatches (Sitta europaea asiatica) was studied in 1986-1990 in two habitats, riparian and upland forests, in the Magadan region, northeastern Siberia. Clutch sizes and breeding success averaged 6.49 eggs and 57.5%, respectively, and varied among years. Habitat influenced clutch size but not numbers of young fledged from successful nests. Within seasons, date of first egg was correlated negatively with clutch size, while in years in which breeding started later, nuthatches laid significantly larger clutches. Female age had a significant effect on the timing of the start of breeding, whereas neither female nor male age influenced clutch size or number of fledglings. Mass of young at the time of fledging was independent of brood size. The yearly mean brood size correlated positively and significantly with mean yearly nestling growth rate and mean body mass of nestlings at 18 days of age.
4163323|We examined duetting behavior of male and female Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) and used removal experiments in an attempt to clarify function. Screech-owls uttered an average of 6.4 bounce songs during duetting bouts, and the songs of participating males and females sometimes overlapped. Male screech-owls initiated significantly more duets than did females. Five of six focal males and five of seven focal females engaged in duets, and significantly more duets occurred after replacement of temporarily-removed mates than prior to removal. The bounce songs given by screech-owls during duets exhibit significant individual and sexual variation and may be used to advertise the presence and identity of a mated pair, confirm the identity of a mate, or determine the sex of a prospective mate.
4163324|Short-eared Owl diet at Monomoy National Wildlife Refuge, Chatham, Massachusetts, was studied from 1982-1987. Pellet and carcass data yielded 3654 prey items; 2948 from the breeding season and 706 from the non-breeding season. Thirty-two prey species from four taxonomic classes were recorded. Approximately 83.0% of the breeding season diet was small mammals. Of these, 93.8% were meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus). Mammals represented 95.0% of the non-breeding season diet, with meadow voles accounting for 97.9%. Prey per pellet averaged 1.2 and 1.0 for the breeding and non-breeding seasons, respectively.
4163325| The trophic niche of Short-eared Owls (Asio flammeus) was analyzed using nine Nearctic studies reporting > 500 prey items each. Of 20,416 prey items, 4136 were from the breeding and 16,280 from the non-breeding seasons. The owls preyed upon at least 62 species from four classes of animals. Mammals constituted > 95% of prey from all but two sites. Food-niche breadth ranged from 1.23 to 5.20 (x = 1.87), for combined studies, 1.31 to 1.87 (x = 1.50) for breeding, and 1.23 to 5.20 (x = 2.00) for non-breeding seasons. Dietary evenness values ranged from 0.315 to 0.703 (x = 0.435), for combined studies, 0.331 to 0.404 (x = 0.365) for the breeding season, and 0.315 to 0.703 (x = 0.458) for the non-breeding season. Estimated prey masses ranged between 28 and 325 g. Most prey, however, weighed between 28 and 100 g. Short-eared Owls from coastal areas preyed more on birds than those at inland sites. 
4163326|Previous studies show that House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) are repelled from feeding sites by monofilament lines spaced 30 or 60 cm apart. We examined House Sparrow response at nest boxes using monofilament lines placed around the boxes about 37 cm apart. During 1990, we installed 73 control and 73 line-treated boxes (lines held by wire prongs) and in 1991, 60 control, 60 prong + line treated, and 60 hoop + line treated (lines held by wire half-hoops). During 1990, the lines delayed initial acceptance of nest boxes, which reduced time for renesting attempts and subsequently reduced the number of fledglings produced per nest box. Breeding success, however, did not differ. Over winter House Sparrows used both control and treated boxes for night roosting. During the 1991 nesting season, House Sparrows used more control boxes for egg laying than hoop + line treatments, but otherwise, control and treatment results were similar. House Sparrows nesting in line-treated boxes were repelled by lines placed over nearby feeding sites, a situation-specific response. Lines may repel House Sparrows from feeding sites because of predation risk and need for rapid escape but not from nest sites, which are selected in secure locations.
4163348|The southeastern population of the Gray-cheeked Thrush (Catharus minimus), found in southern Quebec, the Maritime Provinces, and in the higher areas of parts of the New England States, has been considered to be a subspecies (C. m. bicknelli) since its description in 1882. Recent information and analyses show that Bicknell's Thrush is different from the Gray-cheeked Thrush as follows (1) it has well marked morphological differences when compared to adjacent populations of the Gray-cheeked Thrush, particularly in size and coloration, (2) its breeding and wintering ranges do not overlap with the ranges of the other populations of C. minimus, (3) it has a different song from that of C. minimus, (4) it does not respond to playbacks of songs of C. m. minimus or C. m. aliciae songs presented during the breeding season in its territories, (5) it uses different habitats, particularly mixed second-growth stands in coastal and higher parts of southern Quebec and in the Maritime Provinces, (6) there is no known intergradation or hybridization between it and Gray-cheeked Thrush populations, like C. m. minimus and C. m. aliciae, and (7) it has a high level of sequence divergence in the number of its fixed fragment patterns as revealed by biochemical analyses. It is considered to be a relict taxon from a past refugium, probably located in the Sable Island area and adjacent banks. It may have diverged from an ancestral population shortly after the beginning of the Pleistocene. This hypothesis is supported by the biochemical information as well as the glacial and ecological evolution theories of northeastern North America. It is recommended that (1) the bicknelli population be treated as a full species, Catharus bicknelli (Ridgway), [1882. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 4:377, Hylocichla aliciae bicknelli], with Bicknell's Thrush as its English name, and "Grive de Bicknell" as its French name, and (2) the other populations of the Gray-cheeked Thrush retain their current status within Catharus minimus (Lafresnaye) [1848, Rev. Zool., 11 (1):5, Turdus minimus].
4163349| During 1986, we studied the habitat, prey type, and prey size used by six species of egrets and herons in the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve (Yucatn, Mxico). The availability of different habitat types, which varies from salt to freshwater and from open to forested wetland, allows the herons to segregate into two groups (1) Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias)--Great Egret (Casmerodius albus)--Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), that use mainly freshwater habitats, and (2) Reddish Egret (E. rufescens)--Tricolored Heron (E. tricolor), that use marine habitats. We have no data for Boat-billed Herons (Cochlearius cochlearius), because this species is strictly nocturnal, and censuses were conducted at day-light. Prey type and prey size greatly differ among Great Blue Herons, Great Egrets, and Snowy Egrets but overlap considerably between the Reddish Egrets and Boat-billed Herons. We found a positive correlation between size of heron and size of prey, but in our study area prey size is not important in niche segregation, since four of these species eat prey of similar sizes. 
4163350|Strong site tenacity might prevent Palila (Loxioides bailleui), an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper, from repopulating favorable habitats in their former range. We used radio telemetry during the nonbreeding and breeding seasons to study movements and dispersal rates of 57 Palila. All Palila remained in the study area, and home range sizes and movement distances were small relative to the potential mobility of the species. Banding and nesting studies revealed that Palila show strong site tenacity. An inverse correlation between movements and elevation was related to an elevational gradient in food supply. Translocations of Palila into presently unoccupied areas in their range might speed the recovery of this endangered species.
4163351|We recorded variation in body size and ventral plumage coloration in a population of individually marked Eastern Phoebes (Sayornis phoebe). The venter of Eastern Phoebes is mostly gray with gray mottling on the breast. Most birds have a white bib which, although usually small, may cover much of the breast and abdomen. We found no significant difference in percentage gray area between males and females, but after-second-year (ASY) birds had significantly less gray on their breasts than second-year (SY) birds. Males had significantly longer mean wing lengths, tarsal lengths, and vent--tail lengths than females. There was considerable overlap of wing, tarsal, and vent--tail lengths between the sexes, but the size differences held both overall and separately in SY and ASY birds. We generated a discriminant function which correctly classified 79% (39/49) of females and 95% (22/23) of males. Despite their similar appearance, male Eastern Phoebes are larger than females, at least in the parameters we measured.
4163352| In a series of feeding trials, Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) preferred blueberries (Vaccinium spp.) having a mean diameter of 7.5 mm when the diameter of alternative berries exceeded 12 mm. Waxwings did not exhibit clear preferences among blueberries that differed by 3.5 mm mean diameter. For 7.5 mm fruit, observed handling times averaged 2.8 sec and increased exponentially as berry diameter increased. Because the frequency of dropped fruit also increased with fruit size, the birds' rate of sugar ingestion was maximized by feeding on the 7.5 mm berries. The rate of sugar ingestion decreased linearly as blueberry size increased. Thus, within the range of sizes tested, Cedar Waxwings preferentially selected blueberries that were more efficiently handled and that produced the highest rate of sugar intake. 
4163353|I conducted 167 unlimited-distance point counts in central Texas in February 1987 and January and February 1988 to determine how count duration, time of day, site type (woodland perimeter, woodland interior), winter date (before or after 14 February), and year were related to the winter detection probabilities of 13 species. Within a species, differences in detection probability among the levels of a factor helped identify the environmental (e.g., site type) or methodological (e.g., count duration) conditions under which one could maximize both detectability and point-count sample size. Among the levels of time of day, the detectabilities of each of several species were comparable. Thus, instead of restricting censuses to the morning hours as is common in breeding-season studies, researchers could sample and obtain comparable rates of detection for one of these species throughout the day. An important benefit would be larger point-count sample sizes, which would generally improve the statistical power of subsequent analyses. Similarly, detection probabilities did not differ among 5-, 10-, and 15-min counts for several species; one could capitalize on this similarity by using 5-min counts to maximize the number of counts during a fixed time interval. Comparisons of detection probabilities among the levels of significant interaction effects demonstrated that a variety of levels, involving combinations of main-effect levels, yielded like detection probabilities. Such combinations could be scheduled to maximize simultaneously both point-count sample size and detection probabilities. Because additional point counts and improved detectability would tend to yield data that are more accurate, these strategies are likely to increase the accuracy of ecological inferences based on winter point-count data.
4163354|As part of a project to determine optimal methods for censusing winter birds with unlimited-distance point counts, we studied the influence of wearing a hunter-orange vest on richness estimates and species' detection probabilities. We did not find a significant difference in the number of species detected between apparel conditions (vest worn, vest not worn). However, separate detection probabilities for three species were associated with whether or not an orange vest was worn (Carolina Chickadee [Parus carolinensis, P = 0.075]; Tufted Titmouse [P. bicolor, P = 0.009]; American Goldfinch [Carduelis tristis, P = 0.002]). For all three species, detection probabilities were lower when a vest was worn, suggesting that these species were repelled by the orange vest. Movement toward or away from a color, respectively, may generate inaccurate assessments of behavior, habitat use, and abundance. Knowledge about chromotropic responses to observer apparel will enable investigators to design more valid research. A clear benefit of improved designs will be more accurate inferences, which are crucial for conservation efforts and for advancing ornithological science.
4163355|Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) sing a two-note tonal song that has stereotyped frequency parameters (glissando and frequency interval). We hand-reared and tutored pairs of nestlings in acoustic isolation to determine the extent that learning is involved in the production of these parameters. Each pair of birds was tutored with a high frequency fee-bee song, a low frequency fee-bee song, or a low frequency fee only. Song gradually developed from a warbling subsong to sustained, whistled notes. Individuals did not match the absolute frequency of their tutor songs and sang over as wide a range of frequencies as adult males do in the wild. Five of the 10 males incorporated some normal frequency parameters of the tutor songs into their own songs. None of the birds tutored with only fee sang with a normal frequency interval, even though they did sing songs with more than one note. Males tutored with each of the other two songs did learn to sing with the correct interval. Our results suggest that the structure of Black-capped Chickadee song is open to environmental influences and that chickadees may learn the relative frequency parameters of their song.
4163356| We measured rates of oxygen consumption and evaporative water loss (EWL) of Mexican Spotted (Strix occidentalis lucida) and Great Horned (Bubo virginianus) owls in Arizona. Basal metabolic rate averaged 0.84
4163357|Embryonic oxygen consumption and organ growth were measured in the Laysan Albatross (Diomedea immutabilis). The logarithms of oxygen consumption and organ mass increased linearly with the logarithm of whole-embryo wet mass. The rate of growth of skeletal muscle and the gastro-intestinal tract exceeded that of the embryo as a whole, while the heart, lungs, brain, and eyes grew more slowly. The absence of a discernible effect of pipping of the egg on oxygen consumption and organ growth in the embryonic albatross, in contrast to a previous report for the Wedge-tailed Shearwater (Puffinus pacificus), was attributed to a different sequence of events during pipping in the two species.
4163358| Non-breeding adult Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis), termed helpers, participate in many aspects of the nesting cycle, including feeding nestlings. Typically, groups that include helpers exhibit a higher nesting success and fledge more young than groups lacking helpers. We studied Red-cockaded Woodpeckers in the Ouachita National Forest in Arkansas in 1991 and 1992. In 1992, at the peak of the woodpecker nestling stage, eight of 10 unexpected deaths of nestlings older than six days posthatch occurred during 15 consecutive days of abnormally low temperatures (as low as 9C) and elevated rainfall that reduced potential adult woodpecker foraging time by 26%. Altogether, during the abnormal weather of 1992, eight of nine nestlings survived in groups with helpers, whereas only seven of 14 survived in groups lacking helpers. In both years, woodpecker groups with helpers suffered fewer losses and fledged more young per nesting attempt (P = <0.001). 
4163359|This paper describes a dynamic spatial pattern of Red-naped Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus nuchalis) cavity excavation in aspen groves and evaluates the possible importance of heartwood decay distribution, a prerequisite for nest excavation, in producing it. Sapsuckers typically situate the first cavity excavation in a tree relatively close to the ground and then make progressively higher excavations in subsequent years. Heartwood decay is reported to infect aspen via the roots or broken branch stubs, mostly at the base of the trees. Coring revealed that all nest trees were rotted at the base. The pattern of sapsucker cavity excavation can be explained as the outcome of an interaction between the distribution over height within trees of both heart rot and predation risk.
4163380|The Noronha Vireo (Vireo gracilirostris) is endemic to the small oceanic island of Fernando de Noronha off the easternmost tip of Brazil. Although derived from the Red-eyed Vireo (V. olivaceus) complex, the Noronha Vireo is differentiated strongly in coloration, plumage pattern, and morphology and fully merits recognition as a distinct species. It is a smaller bird with a much more rounded wing, longer, more slender bill and a more elongated tail and tarsus. These appear to be specializations for gleaning small insects from foliage, particularly the undersides of leaves. The birds are abundant where appropriate habitat is maintained. The few available data on reproductive and molt cycles, nesting, and vocalizations in V. gracilirostris are summarized.
4163381|Two pieces of amber containing portions of feathers were obtained from the Dominican Republic. Only one feather was preserved in such a way that it showed diagnostic characters. By comparing the plumulaceous barbules of the fossil with several species of non-passerines, the fossil was identified as a member of the family Picidae. Further comparisons indicate that the fossil was related closely to the Antillean Piculet (Nesoctites micromegas). This confirms a long presence of birds similar to Nesoctites on Hispaniola and documents the earliest New World fossil of Picidae.
4163382| South Polar Skuas (Catharacta maccormicki) take eggs and young of Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) by scavenging and predation. We collected carcasses of penguins near Davis, East Antarctica, and examined them for damage and tissue removal by skuas. Progression of tissue destruction and removal was used to indicate successive areas of feeding. Organs and tissues from undamaged, fresh corpses were weighed to determine potential food quantities. Areas of initial attack were around the head. Subsequent damage was concentrated in the thoracic-abdominal regions, and around pelvic limb musculature. Such areas provided 19% (abdominal) and 12% (pelvic muscles) of the body mass. Because seabird eggs and chicks provide as much, if not more, energy as alternative foods (krill, fish) which require extended foraging, it is adaptive for skuas nesting near penguin colonies to forage there. 
4163383|Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii), formerly abundant throughout Illinois, now are rare and local in occurrence there. Analyses of distribution and abundance patterns within a representative sample of grassland fragments showed that habitat area is the most important factor influencing Henslow's Sparrows in Illinois. Henslow's Sparrows rarely were encountered on grassland fragments less than 100 ha. However, in large fragments habitat structure also significantly influenced distribution and abundance patterns. Henslow's Sparrows preferred areas having tall, dense vegetation with a high proportion of residual standing dead plant material. Prescribed burning and mowing removed the tall, dense vegetation this species prefers and significantly reduced bird densities within parts of grasslands that had been recently managed.
4163384|In June-July 1991-1992, we replicated the mist-netting methods of Robinson (1988, 1992), who captured birds in forest fragments adjacent to Lake Shelbyville in east-central Illinois in 1985-1986. Of all forest-interior Neotropical migrants that were captured, a much high proportion were hatching year (HY) birds in 1991-1992 (29%) than in 1985-1986 (8%), indicating higher reproductive success. The numbers of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and the frequency of their parasitism were significantly lower in 1991-1992 than in 1985-1986. However, despite these improvements, reproductive success for Neotropical migrants was still low, presumably because of high levels of nest predation. A significantly lower percentage of adult birds captured in 1991-1992 were forest-interior Neotropical migrants than in 1985-1986 (35% vs 48%).
4163385|Audio recordings of nocturnal flight calls of migrating birds along the east-central Florida coast in May have documented calls that sound similar to those from Gray-cheeked Thrushes (Catharus minimus). Spectrographic comparison of these "Florida gray-cheeked" calls with Gray-cheeked Thrush calls recorded from Minnesota, southern Alabama, and west-central New York State shows that the Florida calls have distinctive acoustic features. Speculation that the "Florida gray-cheeked" calls are from the Gray-cheeked subspecies (C. m. bicknelli), now proposed as a separate species, Bicknell's Thrush (C. bicknelli), is supported by spectrographic comparison with a diurnal Bicknell's Thrush call and the coincidence of time and location of the "Florida gray-cheeked" recordings with the known timing and migration route of Bicknell's Thrush.
4163386|Each spring more than 300,000 Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis) roost communally at night in river channels in the Platte River Valley of Nebraska and disperse at dawn to forage in agricultural fields. Cranes with central roosts had activity ranges double the size of those with peripheral roosts; 42% of the birds changed activity ranges prior to the onset of migration. Minimum daily flight distance generally increased during the staging period. Cranes used native grassland and planted hayland more often than expected, relative to their percentage of occurrence, and fed longest there; cornfields were under-utilized. These differences probably reflect, in part, (1) limited distribution of grasslands and haylands resulting in a greater energy expenditure to acquire protein in the form of macroinvertebrates and (2) wider distribution of cornfields with adequate energy-rich foods but limited protein. Cranes probably forage more efficiently and conserve energy by following conspecifics from communal roosts to local feeding grounds, by settling in fields where foraging flocks are already present, and by establishing diurnal activity centers. Alert behavior varied with flock size but not as predicted from group size, presumably because predation of staging adult cranes is inconsequential.
4163387|Using measurements and observations of marked birds we verified the elliptical migration route of some Semipalmated Sandpipers. Bill lengths of spring migrants in Saskatchewan averaged longer than those of fall migrants, suggesting a mix of short-billed western and longer-billed central Arctic breeders in the spring, and a greater proportion of western breeders in the fall. A number of birds captured during spring migration in Saskatchewan (presumably central Arctic breeders) were found staging in eastern Canada in the fall. In contrast, no birds captured during fall migration in Saskatchewan were seen north of Maryland on the east coast in the fall. Other Saskatchewan spring migrants (presumably western breeders) returned south through the prairies. These findings emphasize the inter-relatedness of major migratory staging areas during spring and fall migration for this species.
4163388|We examined the responses of migrating shorebirds to habitat dynamics in a wetland complex on the Great Plains during 1989-1992. Availability of habitat was variable within and between seasons, but fluctuations in habitat were dampened when wetlands were considered as a complex rather than individually. Shorebirds exhibited an ability to colonize available habitat opportunistically, to occupy wet mud/shallow water habitats that became available during their residency period regardless of wetland history, and to use wet mud/shallow water habitat almost immediately upon its appearance. We found a significant relation between number of shorebirds and the area of wet med/shallow water habitat, regardless of dramatic changes in habitat. Management for continental stopover sites for shorebirds requires the maintenance of complexes of potential habitat to assure resource alternatives for birds as local conditions vacillate.
4163389| We studied nesting behavior of the Brown Cacholote (Pseudoseisura lophotes) in Crdoba, Argentina from April 1989 to March 1993. Brown Cacholotes build many elaborate stick nests throughout the year and use each of them during the breeding period or for a short time in the non-breeding period. Nest building requires 15 to 37 days. Nests were usually built with thorny twigs, but the nature of the materials depends on availability. Usually each pair had several nests or part of them in their territory (range = 1-10). Nest building requires much of the birds' time and energy, but Brown Cacholotes generally use the material of old nests to minimize energy expenditure in nest construction. Both sexes shared all nesting activities. The birds copulate inside the nest, which is apparently unknown among birds. Egg laying occurred from last September to late February. Mean clutch size was 2.6 eggs (range = 2-4). The incubation period lasted 18-20 days and the nestling period 18-23 days. Nesting success was 59.3%, and an average of 1.5 nestlings were reared per clutch. Parental breeding experience, rather than age, would be more important influence on clutch-size and nesting success. Juveniles remained in the parental territories for 4-13 months. They contributed to nest building and defense of their territory, but their help was minimal. 
4163390|This glossary provides standard definitions for many of the terms used in avian conservation biology. We compiled these definitions to assist communication among researchers, managers, and others involved in the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Program, also known as Partners in Flight. We used existing glossaries and recent literature to prepare this glossary. The cited sources were not necessarily the first ones to use the terms. Many definitions were taken verbatim from the cited source material. Others were modified slightly to clarify the meaning. Definitions that were modified to a greater extent are indicated as being adapted from the originals. Terms that have been used in more than one way by different authors are listed with numbered alternative definitions if the definitions differ substantially.
4163414| A hybrid White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis)  Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis) was captured in Oct. 1991 in Potomac, Maryland, and studied in captivity unitl July 1992. The hybrid sang a mixed song composed of a junco trill followed by sparrow "peabody" notes. Another song included 30 notes, with only two recognizable as sparrow and six as junco notes. The hybrid responded most actively to playbacks of its own song, similarly to songs of a junco and a sparrow, and least to a Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) song. When the hybrid was presented with same-sex, sparrow-junco pairs, the hybrid showed no difference in behavior toward the males, but spent significantly more time, and flew, hopped, called, and preened more on the side with the female sparrows than with the female juncos. Based on mitochondrial DNA analysis, the hybrid's mother was a White-throated Sparrow. 
4163415|We analyzed vegetation structure at potential and actual nest sites of secondary cavity-nesting birds in south-central Oklahoma. Habitats consisted of old fields with remnants of tallgrass prairie and patches of post oak-blackjack oak (Quercus stellata, Q. marilandica) woodland. During the 1989 and 1990 breeding seasons, 194 sites with nest boxes were analyzed, including those occupied by Bewick's Wrens (Thryomanes bewickii), Carolina Chickadees (Parus carolinensis), Tufted Titmice (P. bicolor), Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis), House Sparrows (Passer domesticus), and some not used by birds. Principal-components analysis was employed to describe general vegetational gradients and stepwise discriminant analysis to delineate differences in nest-site habitats among species. Through use of appropriate indices and Monte Carlo simulations, niche breadth and overlap were assessed relative to a habitat gradient (principal component I) extending from open areas to woodlands. Chance expectations were established assuming that the nest boxes represented a limited resource, albeit one that was not fully utilized during the course of the study. Eastern Bluebirds and House Sparrows chose nest boxes in open areas with few trees, Bewick's Wrens selected boxes in wooded areas with junipers and few deciduous trees other than oaks, Carolina Chickadees most often were found in areas with junipers and oaks, and nest boxes used by Tufted Titmice were broadly distributed, not showing association with any particular habitat type. Niche overlap for Eastern Bluebirds and House Sparrows was more pronounced than expected by chance. These two species showed less overlap with Bewick's Wrens, Carolina Chickadees, and Tufted Titmice than expected given simulation results. For the House Sparrow and Eastern Bluebird, which were restricted to open habitats, niche breadth was significantly less than expected by chance. Likewise, niche breadth for the Bewick's Wren, with the majority of its nests being in semiopen areas, was less than predicted. For Carolina Chickadees and Tufted Titmice, nest-box use relative to the habitat gradient represented by principal component I was not different from random expectations. Our findings indicate that the introduced House Sparrow potentially can negatively influence nesting success of Eastern Bluebirds given that preferences for nest sites of the two species correspond so closely. Direct observations of House Sparrow and Eastern Bluebird interactions indicate that in some cases bluebirds are detrimentally affected.
4163416|I studied the nesting behavior of 40 pairs of Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus), 42 pairs of Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus), and 23 pairs of Red-headed Woodpeckers (M. erythrocephalus) during three breeding seasons, 1990-1992, in east-central Ohio. European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and Red-bellied Woodpeckers initiated nesting at the same time in early April, whereas flickers began nest excavation in late April and Red-headed Woodpeckers in early May. Red-bellied Woodpeckers incurred the brunt of starling competition for freshly excavated nest cavities and lost 39% of their cavities to starlings. Flickers and Red-headed Woodpeckers were significantly more aggressive than Red-bellied Woodpeckers when defending their nest cavities. Fourteen percent of flicker cavities and 15% of Red-headed Woodpecker cavities were usurped by starlings. Numbers of starling interactions with both Red-bellied and Red-headed woodpeckers decreased significantly (P < 0.05) over the breeding season. Woodpecker pairs unable to avoid starling competition may not have suffered reductions in fecundity since at least some of these pairs were able to renest successfully later in the season.
4163417|We studied woodpecker foraging behavior, snag quality, and surrounding habitat in a bottomland hardwood forest in the Stephen F. Austin Experimental Forest from December 1984 through November 1986. The amount and location of woodpecker foraging excavations indicated that woodpeckers excavated mainly at the well-decayed tops and bases of snags. Woodpeckers preferred to forage on oaks (Quercus spp.) (snags and live trees) whereas blue beech (Carpinus caroliniana) and red maple (Acer rubrum) were used less than expected. Snags used for foraging excavations were generally 3-10 m in height, mainly located in older stands, and lacked bark at excavated foraging sites. In the bottomland habitat, Downy Woodpeckers (Picoides pubescens) foraged on smaller diameter substrates and used more tree species than other woodpecker species. Pileated Woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) foraged either near the ground or in the upper zones of trees. Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus) used a restricted range of tree diameters and locations in trees. Red-headed Woodpeckers (M. erythrocephalus) used the greatest diversity of foraging methods and foraged on the largest range of tree diameters.
4163418|Mean clutch size of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) in the sandhills of southcentral North Carolina was 3.3 eggs, mean brood size was 2.3 nestlings, and the mean number of young fledged per successful nest was 1.9 fledglings. Many groups (9-25%, depending on year) did not nest at all. We estimated the total mortality rate of young for the entire nesting period to be 43% (range 31.8-49.5%). Total mortality was significantly higher for second nesting attempts than for first attempts. Also, nests initiated early in the nesting season had significantly lower mortality rates than those begun later in the season. Rates of whole brood loss were typical for temperate cavity-excavators, but partial brood loss was high. Whole brood loss usually occurred during incubation or soon after hatching. Of first nesting attempts, 21.6% failed to produce fledglings. Renesting was attempted by 13-61% of groups which failed, depending on year, and 0-50% of these attempts failed. Whole brood mortality rates increased significantly during 1980-1985. Whole brood loss appeared to be caused more often by other cavity-using species than by predators. Partial brood losses resulted from the loss of nestlings and the production of eggs that failed to hatch (at least 7.1%), including runt eggs (1.1% of all eggs). Losses of nestlings typically occurred between hatching and when young were 6 days of age, suggesting brood reduction. Mortality rates were significantly higher at this stage than for the preceding (incubation) and following (late nestling and early fledging) periods. Few nestlings were lost between banding (usually at age 5-10 days) and fledging checks (usually at ages 27-50 days, 1-14 days after fledging). Partial brood loss due to parasites appeared negligible, despite continuous use of individual cavities for as long as the duration of the study.
4163419|Cackling Geese (Branta canadensis minima) were preyed on heavily in northeastern California by Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) and less commonly by Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in 1985-1990. Eagle predation on Cackling Geese was minimal in other wintering locations in California. In the Klamath Basin, eagles killed Cackling Geese most frequently soon (< 10 days) after the geese arrived in the fall. Eagles killed fewer Cackling Geese in the Klamath Basin when Cackling Geese were less common than Ross' Geese (Chen rossii) and Lesser Snow Geese (C. caerulescens caerulescens). We also examined spatial and temporal (daily, seasonal, and annual) variation in eagle predation on geese at a smaller scale in Big Valley, California. Most eagle-caused flushes of geese occurred during mid-day when the geese were using traditional day-roost sites. Roosting on water with most other Cackling and Ross' Geese in Big Valley reduced the frequency of eagle attacks relative to other sites. In Big Valley, the larger Great Basin Canada Goose (Branta canadensis moffitti) was attacked by Golden Eagles only once during 88 observation days, while the smaller Cackling and Ross' geese were attacked by Golden Eagles a total of 27 times. Moreover, Cackling Geese in Big Valley were attacked and killed at least twice as often as Ross' Geese because Cackling Geese often grazed in pasture where Golden Eagle attacks were more frequent. When feeding on pasture, geese did not increase time spent vigilant or flock size compared to habitats with less eagle predation. The antipredator behavior of Cackling Geese includes maintaining high levels of vigilance, occurring in large, dense flocks, and roosting on water during nonfeeding periods. When attacked by eagles, Cackling Geese used socially-coordinated and speed-based escape tactics.
4163420|We studied Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) in an Alaskan colony where movement of young among nests was possible because of moderate terrain and close nest spacing. Thirty-three percent of chicks in a focal group departed their nests prior to fledging, and seven of the vagrant chicks (58%) were adopted by foster parents. The overall frequency of adoption in three years was 8% of 88 chicks from 57 focal nests. Premature nest-departure occurred at different stages among first- and second-hatched chicks. Departing second-hatched chicks were usually expelled by their nest mates within a few days after hatching. First-hatched chicks left at all stages and usually were the sole nest occupant when they departed. The evidence for parent-offspring recognition was equivocal. Adults accepted alien chicks that appeared in the nest and also occasionally attacked their own young outside the nest. However, asymmetry in the response of parents and nonparents to vagrant chicks seeking access to a nest suggested that adults were often able to discriminate appropriately. Vagrant chicks appeared to have little control over their fate-most entered nests where they were smaller than the resident young and suffered nest-mate aggression. Reproductive error seems the likely explanation for the acceptance and foster caregiving observed in adult kittiwakes.
4163421|We quantify the temporal variation in day and night habitat use by Wilson's Plovers (Charadrius wilsonia cinnamominus) in the Chacopata lagoon complex, in north-eastern Venezuela, during the non-breeding season. The overall (day + night) time spent by plovers on foraging habitats did not vary seasonally. However, the duration of their presence on foraging sites during daylight was very short from November to January, but was compensated by an increase during nighttime. The day and night distribution of plovers over the lagoon complex differed substantially. Wilson's Plovers were gregarious and roosted most of the time during daylight. After dusk, they left their diurnal roosts and repositioned themselves solitarily throughout the lagoon mudflats, or flew to their nocturnal individual roosts close to mangroves. They foraged during low tides, but never during the entire lowtide periods, neither during daytime nor during nighttime. The plovers spent more time on foraging sites during the first part of the night than thereafter, and on moonlit nights, although they often occurred on feeding habitats during moonless nights. This appears to be correlated with the observation that Uca cumulanta, their main prey, is active during this portion of the night and on moonlit nights. The main reason why Wilson's Plovers are largely nocturnal appears to be the avoidance of diurnal predators.
4163422|We studied the breeding biology of the White-rumped Shama (Copsychus malabaricus) on Oahu, Hawaii, during 1986-1987. This species is sexually dichromatic and sexually dimorphic, with males being larger. It forms monogamous pair bonds that may last two breeding seasons. The breeding season was from March through August, and territories of nesting pairs that were provided nest boxes averaged 0.09 ha in size. Only three- and four-egg clutches were observed, with four eggs being the modal clutch size. The incubation period averaged 13.6 days and the nestling period averaged 12.4 days. Both adults fed young but only the female incubated and brooded. Shamas can raise two broods in one breeding season, and reproductive success for double-brooded pairs was higher (91%) than that for single-brooded pairs (62%).
4163423|We examined size differences in four morphometric characters of 52 male Sharp-tailed Grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) occupying central and peripheral territories on six leks near Fort Albany in northeastern Ontario. Univariate and multivariate analyses showed that central males, which were all adults, were significantly larger than peripheral individuals, some of which were juveniles. Central males were disproportionately heavier for their body size than peripheral males. Differences in body condition may permit central males to attend the lek for longer periods of time and display more than their peripheral neighbors. Body size as well as body condition may be important in male-male interactions involving territory acquisition and maintenance on the lek.
4163424| We measured metabolic rate of captive-reared American Woodcock (Scolopax minor) by indirect calorimetry. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) averaged 1.22  0.18 ml
4163425| A specimen and two photographs of Yellow-legged Gulls (Larus cachinnans) are evidence of the occurrence of this species in North America. A description of a gull of definitive plumage, collected in the Madeleine Islands, Quebec, Canada, on 16 August 1973, previously has been published as that of a possible hybrid Herring Gull (L. argentatus)  Lesser Black-backed Gull (L. fuscus). Following detailed comparison to its suggested parent species and to L. c. atlantis, reassignment to this latter taxon is recommended, chiefly on the basis of the specimen's restricted but dense head-streaking and advanced primary molt in late summer, neither compatible with the other two species. A second occurrence in the winter of 1985 in St. Johns, Newfoundland, and a third in the winters of 1990-1993 in Washington, D.C., refer to two birds in definitive alternate plumage as early as January. Both had the large heads, sloped forecrowns, long, rather heavy bills, medium gray mantles, extensively black wing-tips, and bare-part colors characteristic of one of the two western subspecies (atlantis and michahellis) of L. cachinnans. Both photographic records have been reviewed by European consultants, the latter extensively so. 
4163426|Behavior of Horned Guans (Oreophasis derbianus) in the El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve, Chiapas, Mexico, from February to May in 1982 and 1983, including preening, dustbathing and foraging behavior during the breeding season, is described. Horned Guans devote most of their daytime activity to preening and comfort behavior. To dustbathe, they use treefall gaps and only bathe once a day. Dustbathing seems to be an important factor during courtship. Horned Guans are mainly arboreal and consume mostly fruits and green leaves.
4163427|In October-November 1988 and from middle February 1989 through July 1990 we used mist nets to examine the composition and seasonal occurrence of the avifauna in a dry thorn forest community of the north central portion of the Tamaulipan Biotic Province in Texas. Fifty-nine species and 1269 individuals were captured. Many species usually considered to reside permanently in the area were not present from November to March; species considered to be winter residents were caught only in low numbers. During the study, rainfall was 55% and 47% of the annual average. We suggest that the drought conditions were associated with reduction of food resources, forcing birds to abandon the area during the winter of 1989-1990 and to return to breed in low numbers in the spring of 1990. Lack of shrub foliage in spring 1990 may have caused a lower rate of capture for most species in that year because it resulted in the reduction of food resources and shelter.
4163428|Southeast Asian peat swamp forests support fewer birds than dipterocarp forest. Habitat preferences appear to exist; seven species were captured significantly more often in the dipterocarp forest, and two species were represented by significantly more captures in the peat swamp forest. An increase in number of frugivorous birds in the peat swamp forest in June was correlated with a large fruit crop of Callocarpa sp. The difference in abundance of understory birds between the peat swamp forest and the dipterocarp forest resulted largely from three insectivorous guilds. Rare species constituted a large portion of captures, and a single family of insectivores (Timaliidae) were particularly rich in number of individuals and number of species. Peat swamp forests, although they may support a reduced understory avifauna relative to lowland dipterocarp forest, appear important in the ecology of Southeast Asian avian communities because they support specialized species and attract frugivores at sporadic intervals.
4163442|Methods for identifying the sex and age of the Akiapolaau (Hemignathus munroi), an endangered honeycreeper found only on the island of Hawaii, were developed by examination and measurement of 73 museum specimens and 24 live birds captured in mist nests. Akiapolaau probably undergo a single annual molt, with most birds molting between February and July. The mottled juvenal plumage is replaced by a first basic plumage characterized by yellowish-gray or yellowish-green underparts and often by retained wing-bars. Male Akiapolaau may not attain adult plumage until their third molt. In adult females, only the throat and upper breast become yellow, whereas in adult males the superciliaries, cheeks, and entire underparts are yellow. Adult males have greater exposed culmen, gonys, wing chord, tail, and tarsus lengths than do females. Akiapolaau in first prebasic molt or older can be identified as to sex by culmen length, that of males being >23.4 mm.
4163443|Analysis of data from the Maritimes Shorebird Survey, involving counts of shorebirds made during fall migration in the Atlantic Provinces of Canada, indicated declines in a number of shorebird populations during the period 1974-1991. Significant declines were recorded most consistently for Least Sandpiper (Calidris minutilla), Semipalmated Sandpiper (C. pusilla), and Short-billed Dowitcher (Limnodromus griseus), and decreases for Red Knot (C. canutus) and Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola) approached statistical significance in some analyses. Population trends were not constant but varied consistently across species during different phases of the study period. Declines occurred in most of the 13 species analyzed during the latter part of the 1970s, followed by increases during the first half of the 1980s, with a less marked tendency towards declines in recent years. A series of cold summers on the breeding grounds during the 1970s may have led to the observed population declines at that time. Statistical power analysis indicated that population changes of 2-5% should be detected at 80% power for the number of sites and years of coverage for which data were available.
4163444|In this paper we show that nestling mass hierarchies in the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) are due to asynchronous hatching. The parents may, by starting to incubate the day the penultimate egg is laid, or earlier, affect the degree of hatching asynchrony and thereby the nestling weight hierarchy. Intra-clutch variation in egg size had no effect on nestling weight hierarchies, explaining only 0.4% of the variation in nestling mass at two days of age. Nestlings kept their relative size to siblings throughout a substantial part of the nestling period. Furthermore, the degree of variation in mass at two days of age affected the variation in mass at least until nine days. This relationship was stronger in larger broods.
4163445|We examined composition of predator communities, relative importance of individual nest predators, and temporal patterns of nest predation in marsh, old field, scrubland, and forest habitats. To record predation, we photographed animals manipulating Japanese Quail (Coturnix coturnix) eggs in artificial dry grass nests. A total of 848 photos of nest visitors was obtained in all habitats by means of automatic cameras. The number of different species of egg predators/destructors was low in the marsh (4 species), intermediate in the old field (6 species), and higher in the scrubland and forest (9 species). However, in each of the four habitats there were only one or two major predators. The temporal patterns of predation differed between habitats and were mostly determined by the relative importance of mammalian (mostly nocturnal) and avian (exclusively diurnal) predators.
4163446| Lack of estimates of nesting success and annual survival of North American rails limits our ability to monitor rail populations, regulate harvest levels, and institute recovery programs. We here present Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola) and Sora (Porzana carolina) population trends from Breeding Bird Surveys (BBS) throughout North America, estimates of nesting success from the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology's Nest Record Program, and estimates of survival from radio-marked and banded birds in Arizona, 1985-1987. Virginia Rail populations declined 2.2% annually from 1982-1991, and Sora populations declined 3.3% annually from 1966-1991. Annual survival probability of radiomarked and banded Virginia Rails in Arizona was 0.526  0.195 and 0.532  0.128, respectively. Non-breeding survival probability did not differ between radio-marked Virginia Rails (0.545  0.191) and Soras (0.308  0.256) in Arizona. All documented mortality occurred between October and March for both Virginia Rails and Soras. Virginia Rail and Sora nesting success was 53%. Despite reproductive success and survival rates adequate for population maintenance, rail populations appear to have declined proportionately with continental wetland loss. 
4163447|Natural hybrid zones can be centers of insect abundance and species richness. We investigated the possibility that this pattern may extend to other trophic levels. We found more bird nests in a cottonwood hybrid zone than in pure stands of Populus fremontii or P. angustifolia. Furthermore, within the hybrid zone, there were more nests in hybrid trees than in trees of either parental type. Differences in architecture between hybrids and the two parental species may account for these differences in nest distribution. Breeding bird surveys in each of the three zones showed no differences in overall abundance or diversity; however, there were significant differences among zones in the abundances of the most common species. Management of riparian areas should not overlook the importance of hybrid plants.
4163448|Radio transmitters were attached to American Woodcock (Scolopax minor) at three Atlantic coastal sites to monitor winter movements and spring departure dates from Georgia (1982-1984, 1989-1991), South Carolina (1988-1989), and Virginia (1991-1992). There was no evidence of temperature, sex, or age-dependent migration dates. Migration was coincident with the full moon in February and the passage of weather fronts close to this time.
4163449|We studied effects of sex, age, and date on body mass and composition of Ring-necked Ducks (Aythya collaris, hereafter Ring-necks) in southern Florida in winter 1979-1980. We conducted this analysis to assess the potential influence of dominance relations among sex-age classes on nutrient acquisition and to elucidate factors influencing patterns of change in body mass and composition of diving ducks in winter. Size-adjusted body mass (ADJMASS) was greater in adult than in immature Ring-necks, but ADJMASS of all birds increased during winter. Body fat (FAT) also increased through the winter but, unlike ADJMASS, was not affected by age. Size-adjusted protein (ADJPROT) varied by age and by sex and date. ADJPROT was greater in adults than in immatures. ADJPROT remained unchanged in females and increased (14%) in males, but sex-related differences averaged less than 2% for the entire winter period. Size-adjusted leg mass (ADJLEG, an index of feeding activity) increased through winter in immatures only and was equivalent in adults and immatures by late winter. Changes in ADJLEG and FAT were positively related, suggesting that Ring-necks gained fat through increased feeding. This relation (our measure of feeding efficiency) was not affected by sex or date, but the relation between ADJLEG and FAT was influenced by age. We found limited evidence that dominance relations influenced nutrient acquisition by Ring-necks in Florida during the year of study. Patterns of change in winter body mass and composition of Ring-necks and other diving ducks vary geographically. We argue that local environmental conditions, especially ambient temperature and food availability, are proximately responsible for observed variation. We further suggest that geographic differences are ultimately related to waterfowl mating systems.
4163450|Black-necked Stilts (Himantopus mexicanus) in Fraternidad Lagoon, Puerto Rico, foraged in a section of the lagoon that had consistently "deep" water (>9 cm) and the greatest abundance of prey. As wind speed increased, the foraging stilts changed their behavior from a pecking to a sweeping tactic due to the reduced visibility in the water column.
4163451| Using the Jolly-Seber method of capture and reobservation, we estimated monthly winter (1989-1990, 1990-1991) survival rates of 321 color-marked Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) and compared survival rates among three habitat types in central Pennsylvania: suburban habitat, forest habitat with supplemental food, and forest habitat without supplemental food. Chickadee survival rates differed (P = 0.018) among habitats. Monthly winter survival rates (x  SE) for chickadees in the forest habitat without supplemental food (0.81  0.05) differed from both the forest habitat with supplemental food (0.93  0.02) and the suburban habitat with supplemental food (0.94  0.02). Survival rates of chickadees did not differ (P > 0.25) between the two habitat types where supplemental food was available. The difference in survival rates between chickadees with and without access to supplemental food was greatest in October and March, months when dispersal of chickadees may occur, suggesting that feeders were influencing movements of chickadees (survival on the study site) rather than actual survival. 
4163452|We made observations of a nest of a Raggiana Bird of Paradise (Paradisaea raggiana) for 22 days. The single nestling was attended only by the female and was fed only arthropods until day 5, and thereafter a mix of arthropods and fruit. Evidence from regurgitation of seeds at the nest indicates that the parent subsisted largely on fruit. This dietary dichotomy conforms to that of other polygynous birds of paradise and accords with socioecological predictions concerning single-parent nestling care.
4163453|Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) droppings were sampled at four sites on Magdalen Islands beaches, Quebec, in order to assess diet during the breeding season. Fragments of organisms found in feces were used to identify the various prey consumed. Staphylinidae (43.8%), Curculionidae (31.5%), and Diptera (31.5%) were the most commonly found invertebrates in the feces. The Piping Plover's consumption of different prey items appears to reflect their availability in the habitat.
4163454| The breeding biology of the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) in northern lower Michigan was monitored during the summers of 1986-1991 and the results compared to those obtained in other North American studies. Individuals are multi-brooded with most females laying two or three clutches per year. Overall mean clutch size for the periods of observation was 4.96, and declined as the season progressed. Hatching was asynchronous and indicated that incubation began between the laying of the antepenultimate and penultimate eggs. A strong, positive correlation of mean clutch size with latitude was noted. Incubation period, nestling period, hatching success, fledging success and overall nesting success in Michigan were similar to those found in other North American studies. No latitudinal trends were detected in any of these reproductive characteristics. In a comparison of the timing of the initiation of first and second clutches in North America, however, a strong latitudinal trend was observed, suggesting a retardation of approximately two days in the timing of breeding for each 1 of latitude poleward. 
4163478|In Bolivia in 1992 I tape-recorded and observed several individuals of an undescribed tapaculo of the systematically complex genus Scytalopus in humid-temperate forest near the city of La Paz. During March 1993, Bolivian colleagues and I collected a series of the undescribed taxon from two geographically distinct regions of Depto. La Paz, and confirmed its presence as far south as Prov. Chapare, Depto. Cochabamba. The new species, the Diademed Tapaculo (Scytalopus schulenbergi), is described and its distribution and vocalizations are compared with some other members of the genus, mostly in Bolivia. I reexamine systematics of the magellanicus group and, based primarily upon striking and consistent vocal differences across the North Peruvian Low in northwestern Peru, I recommend its division into two superspecies with the names magellanicus (southern populations) and griseicollis (northern populations).
4163479| We studied populations of the endangered Akepa (Loxops coccineus coccineus) and Hawaii Creeper (Oreomystis mana) at four sites on the island of Hawaii. Mean monthly density (SE) of Akepa was 5.74  0.87, 1.35  0.41, 0.96  0.13, and 0.76  0.12 Akepa/ha at Kau Forest, Hamakua, Keauhou Ranch, and Kilauea Forest study areas, respectively. Hawaii Creepers were found at densities of 1.68  0.53, 1.79  0.42, 0.48  0.06, and 0.54  0.08 birds/ha, respectively, at the four study areas. Highest capture rates and numbers of birds counted from stations occurred from August through November and February through March. Hatching-year birds were captured from May through December for Akepa and April through December for Hawaii Creeper. Annual survival for adults at Keauhou Ranch was 0.70  0.27 SE for 61 Akepa and 0.73  0.12 SE for 49 Hawaii Creepers. Lowest rates of mortality and emigration occurred between May and August. Both species appeared to defend Type-B territories typical of cardueline finches, retained mates for more than one year, and showed strong philopatry. Home ranges for Hawaii Creepers (x = 7.48 ha) were larger than those for Akepa (x = 3.94 ha). No difference was found between home range sizes of males and females for either species. 
4163480|Thirteen Mottled Owl (Ciccaba virgata) nests are described from Tikal National Park, Peten, Guatemala. These were cavities in live trees at a mean height of 12.9 m. Mean clutch size was 2.2 (range 2-3). Nine nests fledged 16 young. Young left the nest at 27-33 days of age. Mean home range size was 20.8 ha (85% harmonic mean) for six radiotagged breeding males, and density was seven breeding adults per km
4163481|Chaco Chachalacas (Ortalis canicollis) in the semi-arid Chaco forest region of northern Argentina fed mainly on herbaceous leaves (37% of the dry mass of its diet) and fleshy fruits (25%). Leaves and fruit were consumed year round. The rest of the diet consisted of caterpillars and flowers. The Chaco Chachalaca consumed all the fruit species available to it during this study period. Fruits most frequently eaten were: (1) fruit thickly bunched on the plant with long availability, even though of lower quality and (2) fruit of good quality (judged by pulp and total solids content). Low quality fruits not clumped together were less used in spite of their abundance in the forest.
4163482| We studied the distribution and ecology of the Patagonian Tyrant (Colorhamphus parvirostris), a migratory insectivorous passerine, using data from museum specimens, literature references, and personal observations. Our analyses indicated that C. parvirostris is associated primarily with southern beech (Nothofagus spp.) forest, and breeds along the western and eastern slopes of the Andes from Tierra del Fuego north to the Coronel/Pichinahuel area of Chile. The species winters mainly in central Chile, as far north as El Palomo and Ovalle, but small numbers winter between Concepcin and Chilo, within the species' breeding range. In winter, C. parvirostris occupies Nothofagus forest in the southern part of its range, but is found in riparian forest and woodland in central Chile. Several controversial nesting records for the species are considered and accepted, but the assertion that C. parvirostris occurs in eastern Argentina is shown to be in error. /// La distribucin y ecologa del pequeo tirnido migratorio la Viudita (Colorhamphus parvirostris) fueron estudiadas usando informacin obtenida de especimenes de museo, literatura y observaciones personales. Nuestro anlisis indica que la distribucin de C. parvirostris est asociada primariamente con la distribucin del bosque de Nothofagus spp. La especie nidifica en ambos lados de la Cordillera andina, desde Tierra del Fuego hasta la zona de Coronel/Pichinahuel en Chile. La gran mayoria de indivduos pasan el invierno en Chile central, llegando como limite norte hasta El Palomo y Ovalle, pero algunos indivduos permanecen durante el invierno entre Concepcin y Chilo, que est dentro de su rea de nidificacin. Durante el invierno C. parvirostris ocupa el bosque de Nothofagus en la parte sur de su distribucin, pero en Chile central se encuentra en bosques y arboladas en quebradas hmedas. Varios registros de nidificacin para la especie que han sido considerados polmicos, fueron revisados y aceptados. Se demuestra que la aseveracin que C. parvirostris occurre al este de Argentina es un error. 
4163483|Ten Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus) nests were observed for 97 h to determine age-related changes in parental care and to identify possible trade-offs and constraints on feeding, brooding, and vigilant behavior. Feeding rate (trips/h) was related positively to nestling age and brood size, but related negatively to amount of time spent vigilant. Per capita nestling feeding rates (trips/nestling/h) were affected most strongly and negatively by brood size, precipitation, and time spent vigilant. Time spent brooding declined as nestlings aged and as air temperature rose, whereas the amount of time spent shading nestlings varied only (inversely) with cloud cover. Vigilance time averaged about 20% of each hour, was independent of age and brood size, but was related negatively to amount of time spent in nestling maintenance (brooding plus shading), the number of feeding trips made to nests, and nest visibility. Weather had major influences on feeding and brooding behaviors, but regardless of other factors, kingbirds appear to reserve time for vigilance. Parental behavior thus reflects the action of a large number of factors that require compromises in the apportionment of time to the feeding, maintenance, and protection of young.
4163484|I quantified ovarian rapid follicle growth (RFG) and regression of postovulatory follicles of Northern Pintails (Anas acuta), American Wigeon (A. americana), and Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) by a method that accounted for within-day variation in follicle size. Objective methods for identifying onset of RFG also are presented; this is crucial for accurate classification of breeding status. Duration of RFG was estimated as 4.2, 5.1, and 5.0 days for pintails, wigeon, and scaup, respectively; these are shorter than previously reported. Diameters of follicles at the beginning of RFG were estimated to be 8.2, 6.9, and 7.9 mm for pintails, wigeon, and scaup, respectively. For all species, RFG was linear, using follicle diameters, and exponential, using dry masses. Models of RFG and postovulatory follicle regression have practical value for calculating nest initiation dates, number of developing follicles, clutch size, renesting intervals, and daily energy and nutrient commitment to reproduction of collected breeding females.
4163485|We evaluated the influence of surface texture and shape on grit selection by House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) and Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus). Captive birds were given a mixture of two grit types (angular/oblong and rounded/spherical) for seven or 14 days. At the end of this period, most birds (24 of 30 House Sparrows and 21 of 26 Northern Bobwhite) had more angular/oblong and less rounded/spherical grit (P < 0.01) in their gizzards than predicted on the basis of availability. An improved understanding of avian responses to surface texture, shape, and other grit characteristics may be useful in reformulating granular pesticides to reduce their attractiveness to birds.
4163486|While conducting fieldwork on the breeding ecology of grassland birds at Kennebunk, Maine, we documented the existence of extended flight-songs of Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus). In general, we observed this behavior very infrequently, usually less than three times per breeding season. Extended flight-songs were about three times as long as primary songs and contained elements not typically found in primary songs. Extended flight-songs occurred more frequently late in the breeding season. Within the subfamily Emberizinae, extended flight-songs have now been documented for at least 10 species but their behavioral function remains unclear.
4163487|Migrant warblers mist netted on Appledore Island, Maine, during spring and fall migration in 1990 and 1991 allowed analysis of seasonal differences in stopover patterns, including recapture rates, stopover lengths, and changes in mass and fat during stopover. Northern Waterthrushes (Seiurus noveboracensis) and American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) had higher recapture rates in the fall than in the spring on Appledore Island. The Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus) and the Canada Warbler (Wilsonia canadensis) had significantly longer stopovers in the fall than in the spring. During fall migration, young Northern Waterthrushes were more likely to be recaptured than adults, and young American Redstarts had longer stopovers than adults. During spring migration, female Magnolia Warblers (Dendroica magnolia) were more likely to be recaptured than males. Higher numbers of both male and female American Redstarts were recaptured in the fall than in the spring. American Redstarts, Northern Waterthrushes, and Ovenbirds showed no significant increase in fat class in the spring, while exhibiting significant increases in fat class in the fall. These three species also exhibited significant increases in mass during fall migration, while only the Ovenbird significantly increased mass in the spring. These data suggest that migrants show species, age, and sex specific seasonal differences in stopover pattern as well as differences in mass and fat accumulation. Such differences are likely affected by hormone titer, risk of predation, seasonal/temporal changes in weather patterns, and/or differences in food availability. Moreover, stopover sites may be used differently as a result of seasonal differences in relation to ecological barriers as well as distances to either breeding or wintering grounds.
4163488|We surveyed the Lake Okeechobee littoral zone by helicopter between 1977 and 1988 to determine wading bird abundance relative to lake water levels. More birds foraged when nesting season (January-July) water levels were below 4.4 m (mean sea level) compared to higher lake levels. Wading birds were also more abundant when nesting season water levels declined by at least 30 cm over the previous two-month period in comparison to more gradual declines or increases in lake levels. Lake levels and change in lake levels over the previous two-month period explained 60% of variation in wading bird abundance. Nesting effort did not appear to be affected by changes in water levels. However, fewer nesting attempts were observed when lake levels were above 4.9 m or below 3.9 m. Peak numbers of nesting wading birds occurred in April and May when lake levels were between 3.9 m and 4.4 m. In general, nesting effort declined during the survey period from over 6000 nests in 1977 and 1978 to between 725 and 1812 nests during the last five years of the study. One possible explanation for this decline is the impact of higher water levels due to increased rainfall and a change in the Lake Okeechobee regulation schedule. Higher water levels reduced the foraging area available to nesting birds and may have contributed to the deterioration of nesting sites comprised of willows.
4163508|A new species of pygmy-owl (Glaucidium parkeri sp. nov.) from the eastern slope of the eastern Andes of Ecuador and Peru is described. This subcanopy dwelling species appears to be uncommon in subtropical forest on outlying ridges of the main Andean chain between 1450 and 1975 m elevation. Plumage and vocalizations indicate that it is allied to the Least Pygmy-Owl (G. minutissimum) complex.
4163509|The Least Pygmy-Owl (Glaucidium minutissimum) complex comprises 10 described taxa that inhabit tropical and subtropical forests. Consistent song differences among taxa in this complex, supported by morphometric, plumage, and habitat data, indicate that, in addition to the recently described G. hardyi and G. parkeri, four species can be recognized in the Least Pygmy-Owl complex: G. palmarum of western Mexico (includes the described subspecies palmarum, oberholseri, and griscomi); G. sanchezi of northeastern Mexico; G. griseiceps of southeastern Mexico, Central America, and the Pacific slope of northern South America (includes the described subspecies griseiceps, rarum, and occultum); and G. minutissimum of southeastern Brazil and adjacent Paraguay.
4163510| The distribution of autumn migrants among Neotropical wooded habitats was examined using mist nets in a rainforest region of southern Mxico. Capture distributions and local movements from north and south (as reflected by net captures) were examined in 17 species. All species showed significant nonrandom distributions. Captures from the north were not more frequent than expected by chance. Local diurnal movements, therefore, do not reflect the known latitudinal movements occurring in these species, which makes it unlikely that local habitat use is simply the result of directional wandering. Although 65% of captured individuals were first-year birds having no previous experience with tropical rainforest, capture distributions suggested species--specific selectivity to a rather high degree. Also, in the 10 species with adequate sample sizes, distributions between early-- and later-day captures tended to be remarkably constant. Habitat selection in these species may be largely endogenous. 
4163511|We hypothesized that similar bird assemblages will occur in like-structured habitat that results from both clearcutting and high-intensity wildfire followed by salvage logging. To test this, we compared bird communities of sand pine scrub in mature forest and three disturbance treatments (1) high-intensity wildfire, salvage logged, and naturally regenerated, (2) clearcut, roller chopped, and broadcast seeded, and (3) clearcut and brackeseeded. We analyzed communities based on residency status and nesting guilds. Migratory breeding birds were nearly restricted to mature forest. Bird communities of mature forest were significantly more species rich and diverse than those of disturbance treatments in spring. However, species richness and diversity of migratory winter residents did not differ among treatments, indicating that they are habitat-structure generalists on their wintering grounds. Canopy- and cavity-nesters and canopy- and bark-foraging species were virtually restricted to mature forest. Most species recorded in mature sand pine forest or disturbance treatments were either habitat-structure generalists or also occurred in other similarly structured vegetation types. However, the threatened and endemic Florida Scrub Jay (Aphelocoma c. coerulescens) occurred only in disturbance treatments (no differences). Silvicultural disturbance appears to mimic the natural high-intensity disturbance regime by creating habitat structural features required by open scrub species and may be an important habitat management tool where the use of wildfire is impractical. However, long-term effects, unsalvaged burns, and landscape patterns created by clearcutting were not addressed and may also be important in structuring bird communities of sand pine scrub.
4163512| We examined the use of wetland habitats by female Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos from March 1990 through July 1992 in the St. Lawrence River Valley, a focus area under the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. Female Mallards spent most of their time breeding in forested-live wetlands (40%) and postbreeding in forested-dead wetlands (35%). According to wetland availability data, breeding and postbreeding females indicated selectivity for emergent and scrub-shrub wetlands. During postbreeding, they used fewer (x = 2.6,  0.2 [SE]) individual wetlands of larger size (x = 192 ha  30 ha) compared to the breeding season (x numbers = 4.1  = 0.2, P = 0.003; x size = 101 ha  = 15 ha, P = 0.001). Moreover, females typically spent the postbreeding season in the vicinity of, or within, their breeding wetlands, hence conservation must simultaneously address breeding and postbreeding requirements. Protection of wetland complexes that contain a diversity of habitat types of differing sizes is recommended. 
4163513|I examined feeding behavior and diet of Cinnamon Teal (Anas cyanoptera) breeding on high-elevation (> 1950 m) wetlands in northern Arizona to determine the dietary strategies this species uses to meet energy and nutrient demands from spring arrival through laying. Females spent more diurnal time feeding (P < 0.001) and contained more total food and a greater proportion (dry mass basis) of animal food (P < 0.10) than their mates. Invertebrate proportion of female diets varied (P = 0.029) among three reproductive categories (64-76%) and among three locations (64-85%), whereas male diets did not (P = 0.179). Aquatic dipterans and gastropods comprised 36% and 15% of female diets and 32% and 8% of male diets, respectively. Dietary strategies of Cinnamon Teal nesting on high-elevation wetlands in Arizona are similar to those of other Anas species breeding on prairie habitats.
4163514| In coastal lagoons of northeastern Venezuela, resident Wilson's Plovers (Charadrius wilsonia cinnamominus) forage almost entirely on fiddler crabs (Uca cumulanta). During the non-breeding seasons, particularly from November to January, plovers are seldom on foraging sites during daylight but forage more during nighttime. Objectives of this study were to document the availability of Uca cumulanta and to determine if night foraging by Wilson's Plovers in tropical areas is tied to abundance or activity of fiddler crabs. We used a time-lapse video camera to monitor the number of crabs outside burrows, both during nighttime and daytime. Results show that crab activity was almost exclusively diurnal. Although some crabs were active after sunset, particularly from May to August, diurnal activity of crabs was always 3-10 higher than nocturnal activity. Therefore, Wilson's Plovers feeding patterns are not exclusively a function of the period when their main prey is most active or abundant. Results best support our previous interpretation that nocturnal foraging in Wilson's Plover is a strategy for avoiding diurnal predators. 
4163515|Over an 11--year period (1983-1993), we examined the southern pine beetle (Dendroctonus frontalis) infestation rate of single Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity trees on the Angelina National Forest in Texas. Southern pine beetles infested and killed 38 cavity trees during this period. Typically, within each cavity tree cluster, beetles infested only a single tree (usually the nest tree of the previous spring) during autumn and used the cavity tree as an over-wintering site for brood development. Seven (4 active and 3 inactive) cavity trees (out of 346 cavity tree years) died as a result of beetle infestation during the first five years of the study (1983-1987). In 1988, an intensive habitat management program was initiated on the forest to halt a severe population decline of the woodpecker. During the next six years (1988-1993), a much higher mortality rate was observed; 31 single cavity trees (out of 486 cavity tree years) were infested and killed (
4163516|The ceca, intestinal outpocketings of the gut, are described, classified by types, and their occurrence surveyed across the Order Aves. Correlation between cecal size and systematic position is weak except among closely related species. With many exceptions, herbivores and omnivores tend to have large ceca, insectivores and carnivores are variable, and piscivores and graminivores have small ceca. Although important progress has been made in recent years, especially through the use of wild birds under natural (or quasi-natural) conditions rather than studying domestic species in captivity, much remains to be learned about cecal functioning. Research on periodic changes in galliform and anseriform cecal size in response to dietary alterations is discussed. Studies demonstrating cellulose digestion and fermentation in ceca, and their utilization and absorption of water, nitrogenous compounds, and other nutrients are reviewed. We also note disease-causing organisms that may be found in ceca. The avian cecum is a multi-purpose organ, with the potential to act in many different ways--and depending on the species involved, its cecal morphology, and ecological conditions, cecal functioning can be efficient and vitally important to a bird's physiology, especially during periods of stress.
4163517|In 1990 and 1991, compilers for 137 Christmas Bird Count (CBC) sites recorded observations of home-based "feeder-watchers" separately from CBC totals. In 29 of 49 species, there were significant positive relationships between the proportion of CBC totals seen by feeder-watchers and an index of feeder-watching effort (feeder-h/party-h). The effect on CBC totals is usually small but can be substantial in some species at high levels of feeder-watching effort, inflating CBC totals to over 67% more than would be the case with no feeder-watching. In addition, 73% of species had higher proportions of CBC totals recorded at feeders at high latitudes (feeder-watching effort held constant). Large changes in feeder-watching effort over time could produce spurious trends in population indices, particularly in northern areas. Suggestions are given for exclusion or correction of CBC data with high feeder-watching effort, but the best long-term solution is to record birds seen by feeder-watchers separately from those reported by field parties in all CBC publications and data bases.
4163518|In 1991-1992, we tracked 150 marked Dunlins (Calidris alpina) from two central California coastal sites to ascertain if they made winter-time movements to inland areas and examined census data from these and other coastal sites to document the possible extent and frequency of these movements. Between December 1991 and January 1992, Dunlin numbers at four central California coastal sites decreased by 44-84% during periods of heavy rain. Subsequently, six or seven of the marked Dunlins from one of these sites were located inland, up to 140 km away. The sudden disappearance of more than 40% of the wintering Dunlins from this coastal area in 10 of 21 years suggests that such movements may be fairly frequent. Median (October-March) numbers of Dunlins at this site during the 21 years were negatively correlated with local rainfall, suggesting a relationship between winter storm activity and the level of use of coastal sites. It remains to be determined whether deteriorating conditions in coastal wetlands or the increased availability of inland habitats related to winter storms is responsible for reducing Dunlin winter-time use of coastal sites.
4163519| Infanticidal attacks on conspecific young can be a major cause of chick mortality in ground nesting colonial seabirds, and past studies have shown that investigator disturbance scatters chicks, subjecting them to attacks by neighbors. In 1991, we studied the effects of investigator disturbance on aggressive behavior and chick movement at a Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) colony near Port Colborne, Ontario. The frequency of charges, jabs, and wingpulls increased during the period of investigator activity in the colony, while the duration of wingpulls and beakpulls decreased. Few chicks (<5%) less than seven days of age strayed from their natal territories during disturbances; most chicks (85%) remained crouched on the natal territory. However, chick mobility increased with age, and older (>7days) chicks strayed off their natal territories and were attacked more frequently during disturbances than before disturbance. In contrast to Fetterolf (1983; Wilson Bull. 95:23-41) who found that investigator disturbance increased chick mortality and decreased fledging success, in our study, no chicks were fatally attacked during investigator disturbance and stray chicks returned to their natal territories quickly after disturbance. Furthermore, the mean ( 1 SD) fledging success of pairs disturbed during this study (1.5  0.8 chicks per pair) was not different from that recorded for undisturbed pairs (1.6  0.8). As our results vary somewhat from Fetterolf's, we contrast the two sets of data in the context of experimental procedures that yielded them. In this study, suitable hiding places and termination of investigator visits into the colony after the hatching period were attributed to preventing human-induced chick mortality. We show that awareness of and attention to the potential impacts of investigator activity can reduce and even eliminate the negative consequences associated with such activity. 
4163520|The Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) is one of only two North American birds in which females, and not males, have delayed plumage maturation. The hypothesis that plumage differences are the result of differences in competitive abilities among individuals is tested by comparing brown and blue Tree Swallow females in terms of foraging abilities, as determined by the growth of nestlings under their care without the help of the males, and in terms of body size and nutritional condition. Blue and brown females were not different when comparing the growth and fledging success of nestlings under their care. Blue females were larger and, even after accounting for body size differences, heavier and in better body condition than brown females. While brown plumage serves to reduce male aggression, blue plumage probably serves as a signal of dominant status in intrasexual confrontations. This signalling system is not open to cheating because of the larger size and better body condition of blue females.
4163538|In 1991, The Gutman Library of Harvard University received four handwritten arithmetic books dating from 1800-1803. Two of the books were decorated with stylized birds and a watercolor drawing of a bird was found in one of the books. We conclude that the drawing is of a juvenile Field Sparrow (Spizella pusilla), although other species are possible and are discussed. We further conclude that the artist was probably William Bartram. Notes found in the handwritten arithmetic books attribute the decorations to Alexander Wilson, but the evidence is circumstantial and open to alternative explanations. The decorations are mostly of stylized birds rendered in different colors of ink and completed before Wilson's decision to catalogue the birds of North America and his commitment to learn to paint birds under the guidance of William Bartram, an accomplished illustrator and naturalist. If Wilson's, the decorations indicate that he possessed considerable artistic ability and interest in birds prior to undertaking his remarkable "American Ornithology."
4163539|A cladistic analysis of the stiff-tailed ducks (Anatidae: Oxyurini) was conducted using 92 morphological characters. The analysis produced one minimum-length, completely dichotomous phylogenetic tree of high consistency (consistency index for informative characters, 0.74). Monophyly of the tribe was supported by 17 unambiguous synapomorphies. Within the tribe, Heteronetta (1 species) is the sister-group of other members; within the latter clade (supported by 21 unambiguous synapomorphies), Nomonyx (1 species) is the sister-group of Oxyura (6 species) + Biziura (1 species). The latter clade is supported by 10 unambiguous synapomorphies. Monophyly of Oxyura proper is supported by three unambiguous synapomorphies. All branches in the shortest tree except that uniting Oxyura, exclusive of jamaicensis, were conserved in a majority-rule consensus tree of 1000 boot-strapped replicates. Biziura and (to a lesser extent) Heteronetta were highly autapomorphic. Modest evolutionary patterns in body mass, reproductive parameters, and sexual dimorphism are evident, with the most marked, correlated changes occurring in Heteronetta and (especially) Biziura. The implications of these evolutionary trends for reproductive ecology and biogeographic patterns are discussed, and a phylogenetic classification of the tribe is presented.
4163540|We studied morphological and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) divergence among three populations of Brachyramphus Murrelets: Kittlitz's Murrelets (B. brevirostris), and tree-nesting and ground-nesting Marbled Murrelets (B. marmoratus). We found little morphological divergence in external and skeletal measurements among Marbled Murrelets, but both populations were easily distinguished from Kittlitz's Murrelets. Principal components analysis (PCA) of external measurements showed that Kittlitz's Murrelets occupied a distinct cloud in multivariate space separate from Marbled Murrelets. However, tree-nesting and ground-nesting Marbled Murrelets were indistinguishable. We obtained the same pattern from PCA of skeletal dimensions. Analysis of mtDNA revealed an estimate of sequence divergence of 4.4%-5.0% between Marbled Murrelets and Kittlitz's Murrelets, suggesting a divergence of about 2.2 MYBP. The difference between ground- and tree-nesting murrelets was 0.03%. This analysis suggests little divergence has occurred between tree- and ground-nesting populations of Marbled Murrelets.
4163541|We studied sheep carcass availability and use by Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in the Willamette Valley, Oregon, during winter 1990. We determined availability of sheep carcasses every 2-4 days along a 65-km transect. Bald Eagle numbers were counted weekly at five communal roosts. Counts ranged from 13 to 49; immatures consistently outnumbered adults. We calculated persistence rates of 137 sheep carcasses; those <200 m from a road or house were rarely used by eagles and persisted longer than carcasses farther away. Eagles were feeding on sheep carcasses in 83% of feeding observations along the transect, and 87% of 234 Bald Eagle castings contained wool. However, we found no evidence of eagle predation on sheep. Availability of sheep carcasses appears to be a primary factor influencing eagle use of the valley in winter. Our estimate of available sheep carrion/day was more than sufficient to meet the needs of the eagles wintering in the valley. However, if eagle numbers continue to increase or if carrion becomes less available, eagles may leave the valley. We recommend that ranchers make carcasses available to eagles away from sources of human disturbance, rather than burying them as is currently practiced.
4163542|Of 1814 foraging attempts, prey captures, or nest deliveries by Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in 14 Arizona breeding areas during 1983-1985, 1471 observations were identifiable to at least class: fish (76%), mammal (18%), bird (4%), and reptile/amphibian (2%). Forty-five species were recorded: catfish (Ictalurus punctatus, Pylodictis olivaris), suckers (Catostomus insignis, C. clarki), and carp (Cyprinus carpio) were most common. Mean population dietary heterogeneity was 2.03 (SD = 0.43). During 1983-1985, 22 successful sites had a wider dietary breadth than nine unsuccessful ones (3.73 vs 1.92). Fish and mammal classes varied by month (P < 0.001) and breeding area (P < 0.001) and were negatively correlated (R = -0.993, P = 0.001). Of 484 discrete foraging locations, only four (< 1%) were frequented in more than one year. Within-season shifts in foraging locations were typical within breeding areas to accommodate changing prey availability. Foraging activity varied hourly and among prey classes, peaking 08:00-10:00 and 16:00-19:00 h MST (P < 0.001). Perches east (NE-E-SE) of foraging sites were used more often before 13:00 h MST (59.3%, N = 118), while perches west (SW-W-NW) were used more often after 13:00 h (58.4%, N = 113; P = 0.013). Most foraging occurred near shore in shallow river waters. The mean straight-line distance between Verde River nest sites was 14.4 km (SD = 3.5) with a ratio of river: straight-line distance of 1.4:1. Opportunistic and breeding area-specific foraging was evident throughout the population.
4163543|I studied the breeding behavior of Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) in northern Utah from 1990-1993. Nests at Great Salt Lake were initiated over a 14-week period from mid-April to mid-July, and were more comparable to data from California than from Kansas. Breeding males were first resighted from late March through May, whereas females had a more prolonged arrival period from late March through mid-June (N = 256 color-banded adults). Renesting following nest loss was documented only twice, in part because birds often left the study sites. Most females departed immediately after nests hatched, while males exhibited uniparental care of broods. A similar mating system was described for coastal California, where sequential polyandry was documented regularly. During this study double-brooding and sequential polyandry were rarely observed, but both strategies were probably more common than I detected. Mayfield-method estimates of annual nest success ranged from 5.4% to 49.2%, with most nest failures apparently caused by mammalian predators. These results suggest that the breeding strategies of migratory plovers in Utah resemble those of resident and migratory birds nesting in California and Oregon, rather than migratory plovers nesting in the Great Plains.
4163544|In early March, just prior to the onset of the breeding season, responses by Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) to playbacks of the territorial song of conspecifics are more likely on sites with two nest boxes rather than one. One or two boxes were placed randomly at potential territorial sites during early winter; so responsiveness is not explained by territoriality of the previous season. Explanations for our observations include that bluebirds prefer potential territorial sites with two boxes because of increased habitat quality or that bluebirds locate two-box sites more readily than one-box sites. We infer from our result that potential territorial sites with two nesting boxes are more attractive to bluebirds than sites with only one nesting box.
4163545|We compared the daily plasma corticosterone (B) profiles in captive and free-living White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) and White-crowned Sparrows (Z. leucophrys) during their non-breeding period. Neither sparrow species exhibited significant diel rhythms in the levels of corticosterone in captivity or under natural conditions, although the variations were suggestive of a rhythm. In each species, secretory profiles differed significantly between captive and free-living birds with mean B levels being 2-3 times higher in captive birds than in free-living individuals, despite the fact that captives had been "acclimated" for 35 days prior to sampling. Furthermore, mean B levels were two to four times higher in White-throated Sparrows under captive and free-living conditions than in White-crowned Sparrows under the same conditions. Our results indicate the need to use caution when (1) extrapolating such data obtained from captive individuals to those under natural conditions and (2) extrapolating data regarding B from one species to another.
4163546|Measurement of total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) is a simple nondestructive method for estimating total body fat in live birds. Some published validations of the TOBEC technique have been promising, but other results, especially from species less than 100 g live mass, have indicated that TOBEC measurements add little to the accuracy of body fat estimates obtained with other nondestructive methods. We examined the accuracy of TOBEC body fat estimates for small birds by validating the technique on two passerine species, House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Lean mass explained only 57% of the variation in TOBEC for sparrows (average mass: 28.4 g) and 74% of the variation for starlings (average mass: 83.7 g). TOBEC measurements were not sufficiently precise to detect even large (i.e., 100%) changes in fat reserves of either sparrows or starlings. These results, when compared with validations for larger species, indicate that the precision of body composition estimates from TOBEC is very sensitive to subject size in relation to chamber size (coil diameter) of the TOBEC instrument; precision is greatest for subjects that nearly fill the chamber. We confirm that accuracy of TOBEC estimates of body composition in a variety of bird species depends on developing species-specific calibration curves; precision of estimates depends on use of a TOBEC chamber size appropriate to the study species.
4163547| Predation at seven colonies that varied in size from 10 to hundreds of breeding pairs of Adelie (Pygoscelis adeliae) and Gentoo (P. papua) penguins was observed from a blind at King George Island, Antarctic Peninsula, from 21 Dec. 1993 to 3 Feb. 1994. We observed the colonies for 96 h to record foraging by Brown Skuas (Catharacta lonnbergi), Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus), and Giant Petrels (Macronectes giganteus) during the early chick through creche phase of the penguin breeding cycle. Activity rates by predators varied little with time of day or time of season for skuas and petrels. Kelp Gulls, however, showed significant variation in rates with time of season. Total activity and search rates were significantly higher for each predator species at larger versus smaller colonies. In addition, attempted predation and predation by skuas on penguin chicks were significantly higher, and from 4.1-7.9 more frequent, at colony edges rather than the center. Larger colonies probably receive greater attention by predators because of the larger number of prey, and by their greater circumference and edge area. Low breeding success by penguins in small colonies appeared to be partially attributed to predation losses, although predation rates were low. Penguin reproductive success may be significantly influenced by colony size and by the number and kinds of predators attending them. 
4163548| We studied growth and development of chicks of the Magnificent Frigatebird (Fregata magnificens) in 1985, 1986, and 1988 at a colony on Isla Santa Margarita, Baja California Sur, Mxico. Hatching peaked at weeks 7, 12, 17.5, and 23.3 of the calendar year. Hatching frequencies around each peak were distributed normally. Growth was analyzed using Richards' model. Total length had the lowest growth rate and mass the highest. The asymptote for mass was reached before 150 days, as was the asymptote for culmen; the asymptotes for wing and wingspan were reached later. Chick mortality, recorded over a six-month period, was considered to be low (46%). During the same period there was 90% replacement and new occupation of nests, which resulted in temporal and spatial clustering of the clutches laid during the season. 
4163549| We studied molt intensity and chronology in male Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) from termination of reproductive activities until fall migration (May-October) in 1989-1990. During this period, male Canvasbacks underwent prebasic, down, and partial prealternate molts. Males arrived on molting habitat already undergoing light prebasic molt. Total molt intensity increased to moderate levels in late preflightless birds and remained at this intensity through the postflightless period. Contour plumage molt intensity was reduced in staging birds concurrent with declining ambient temperatures and fall migration. Prebasic body molt was most intense in late preflightless birds, while peak prealternate molt occurred during the postflightless period. Remigial molt occurred from late July through August near completion of prebasic body molt. Prealternate molt began concurrent with late remigial molt and was not completed in male Canvasbacks before fall migration from central Alberta. Synchrony in the timing of remigial and prealternate molts suggests that these molts were probably under photoperiodic regulation in male Canvasbacks. Down replacement occurred throughout the postreproductive period but reached peak intensity in late preflightless, flightless, and postflightless birds. Only light down molt still occurred in staging Canvasbacks. All male Canvasbacks examined underwent the normal progression of postreproductive molts regardless of age; however, yearling males initiated prebasic molt earlier than birds 2 years old. Male Canvasbacks extended postreproductive molts over a period of six months which minimized the daily nutritional requirements for plumage growth. 
4163565|The Gannet Islands contain the single most important seabird colony in Labrador, both in terms of numbers and species diversity. In 1992, we discovered arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) on these islands during the breeding season. Of five islands examined, two had resident foxes (in one case breeding), two had been visited by foxes earlier in the season, and one had no foxes and had not been visited. A comparison of these islands in 1992 and with our detailed studies from the early 1980s, revealed the effect that foxes had had on seabirds. On islands with foxes, Razorbills (Alca torda), Common Murres (Uria aalge), and Thick-billed Murres (U. lomvia) had ceased breeding. Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) continued to attempt to breed, but fox predation on adult birds and eggs was intense and breeding success low. On islands visited by foxes earlier in the season, the number of breeding Razorbills was reduced, and breeding by Common Murres was delayed by 2-3 weeks.
4163566|We banded, weighed, and measured 2147 Least Sandpipers (Calidris minutilla) migrating across the Fraser River delta in 1977-1987 and Sidney Island in 1990-1993. The adult migration from late June to early August overlapped the juvenile migration between late July and late September. The mean body mass of adult females on their northward migration was not significantly greater than on their southward migration. Samples sizes of northward migrating males were too small to draw similar comparisons. Adults were not significantly heavier than juveniles on the southward migration. Mean body masses were greatest in the third week of July among adults and in the third week of August among juveniles. The average length of stay during migration was estimated to be about five days in autumn.
4163567|We evaluated breeding success of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) on natural and man-made islands (navigational aids or cribs) in the upper St. Lawrence River, New York, to ascertain the importance of man-made habitats for conservation. Terns nesting on man-made sites had greater hatching and fledging success, 1.78 chicks per pair in 1984 and 2.00 chicks per pair in 1986, compared to those nesting at natural sites, 0.01 and 0.00 chicks per pair in 1984 and 1986, respectively. The difference in overall breeding success was attributed to higher avian predation at natural than at man-made sites. Natural sites appeared to be unsuitable habitat, whereas man-made islands appeared to be suitable. Between 1982 and 1990, the St. Lawrence River Common Tern population increased by 13%.
4163568|From 1989-1992 at Lake Okeechobee, Florida, I followed 356 adult Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus), 236 Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula), 82 Tricolored Herons (E. tricolor), and 286 White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) from several nesting colonies to foraging sites during chick-rearing periods. White Ibises departed in groups more often than the other species (64% of the birds followed), tended to travel in larger groups, rarely landed in areas devoid of other birds, and tended to join larger, more concentrated feeding flocks than other species. A majority of all species joined other birds at foraging sites. However, Great Egrets and Tricolored Herons often landed in areas devoid of other birds (29% and 43% of the birds, respectively) and more often landed near rather than in the immediate vicinity of other birds. A tendency toward group departures has been interpreted as support for the "information-exchange" hypothesis about the benefits of colonial nesting relative to food-finding. However, many of the birds in this study that departed in groups dispersed before landing, which is contrary to the expectations of the hypothesis. Many individuals did, however, choose foraging sites already occupied by other birds, which is indicative of reliance on "local enhancement" for identifying productive foraging grounds. Differences in degree of sociability among the species may, however, primarily reflect differences in foraging strategy. White Ibises are more social probably because foraging in groups enhances the effectiveness of the grope-foraging technique they employ, whereas Tricolored Herons and Great Egrets often employ foraging techniques more suited to solitary effort and are not as likely to benefit from foraging in aggregations. The evidence also suggested that Snowy Egrets, in particular, act as attractors for other species that rely on local enhancement to identify profitable foraging opportunities. This association may result from a combination of factors; i.e., white plumage serves as an attractor, but flocks of Snowy Egrets may also be particularly indicative of high-quality habitat and/or concentrations of universally attractive prey species.
4163569| From July 1986 to June 1988, I counted all raptors (Falconiformes and Strigiformes) seen or heard along 15 8-km routes in the three major life zones of Puerto Rico (moist, wet, and dry). Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) were the most abundant year-round residents. Red-tailed Hawks were more abundant in the moist zone than in the wet zone. American Kestrels did not differ significantly in the dry and moist zones. Red-tailed Hawks were more abundant than American Kestrels in the moist zone. The most abundant winter residents were Merlins (F. columbarius), Peregrine Falcons (F. peregrinus,) and Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus); all three species were frequently detected in the dry zone but were less abundant than American Kestrels. The abundances of Merlins, Peregrine Falcons, and Ospreys did not differ significantly. The abundances of raptors (pooled) peaked in autumn (September-November) and winter (December-February). Roadside counts were highly variable (coefficients of variation ranged from 85-243%). As a result, the within-year sample-sizes (8-km routes) needed to provide confidence limits of  10-50% (
4163570|We studied 14 stands of aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) and their associated bird and plant communities in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, in June 1993, to investigate the effects of habitat isolation on bird species richness. Selected aspen stands varied in their degree of isolation from other aspens, but were similar in area, elevation, and vegetation structure. The degree of isolation of aspen stands was expressed in four ways (1) distance to nearest neighboring aspen stand, (2) area-weighted distance to nearest neighboring aspen stand, (3) area-weighted distances of all aspen stands within 1500 m, and (4) total area of aspen stands within 1500 m. Isolation had no significant effect on the bird species richness of the 14 aspen stands studied. Regressions that incorporated isolation and vegetation parameters selected one-variable models, with percent shrub cover (0.5-2.0 m height) accounting for 58% of the variation in bird species richness (r = 0.76). Abundant understory vegetation in aspen stands may provide additional cover, food, and breeding habitat to support a larger number of bird species.
4163571|We studied the breeding biology of the Florida Prairie Warbler (Dendroica discolor paludicola) and the Cuban Yellow Warbler (D. petechia gundlachi) in black mangrove (Avicennia germinans) habitats in the Florida Keys. A total of 42 Prairie and 20 Yellow warbler nests was located during 1990-1993. The breeding season for both species extended from late April through early July. The two species used a similar range of nest heights and placed their nests in similar locations within the mangroves, but Yellow Warbler nests averaged higher (1.77 m) than Prairie Warbler nests (1.60 m) and were less likely to be placed against mangrove trunks. Incubation periods averaged 12 days for both warblers. Brooding periods averaged 11 days for Prairie Warblers and 12 days for Yellow Warblers. These periods are equivalent to or slightly longer than typical periods for other races of Prairie and Yellow Warblers that breed in North America, and similar to those for races of Yellow Warblers that breed in the West Indies. Mean clutch sizes for Prairie Warblers (2.50, N = 29) and for Yellow Warblers (2.50, N = 16) are smaller than those for temperate races of these warblers. Fledging success (number of young fledged/number of eggs laid) was higher for the Yellow Warbler (65.0%) than for the Prairie Warbler (45.8%), but the number of young fledged per nest did not differ significantly between the two species. Predation was the major cause of nest failure, accounting for approximately 64% of all egg losses.
4163572|Four nest cavities of the Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) were monitored with automatic cameras to determine the prey selected to feed nestlings. Twelve adults were photographed making nearly 3000 nest visits. Prey in 28 arthropod taxa were recognizable in 65% of the photographic slides. Wood roaches in the genus (Parcoblatta) made up 69.4% of the prey fed to nestlings. Other common prey items were wood borer larvae (Cerambycidae or Buprestidae, 5.4%), Lepidoptera larvae (4.5%), spiders (Araneae, 3.6%), and ants (Formicidae, 3.1%). Wood roaches were the only prey items consistently taken by all four groups of birds; they made up 63.3 to 81.6% of the prey observed. Other common prey generally were taken in large numbers only by a single group of woodpeckers. During the breeding season these woodpeckers utilize relatively few common arthropods to feed nestlings.
4163573|We describe the physical structure, use, and possible functions of 11 calls of breeding Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus), most of which were given by both sexes. Both sexes had visually and acoustically conspicuous territorial calls (flight song, rattle, "kohwa," and "aroo" (males only). "Koks," "ko-ko-ko," and "krrow" were given by both sexes as low intensity threat, territorial, or sexual situations, or to maintain contact with the mate or offspring. "Purr" and "moan" were given usually by females to communicate with chicks, and "hiss" and "scream" calls by both sexes in intense defence of offspring or mates. The sex of the caller was usually easily recognizable, as males had strong and rapid amplitude modulations in their calls, which females lacked. The most complex calls were flight songs which consisted of several calls in sequence. Unlike other nonpasserines, Willow Ptarmigan do not appear to have a repertoire of calls that are graded variants of one another. Calls of North American populations of Willow Ptarmigan appear similar to those of European populations.
4163574|We studied Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus) in Hyde Park, a residential community in Chicago, Illinois. In April 1992, 64 birds were counted at 26 nests in trees, on utility poles, and on an antenna tower. The population increased to 143 birds in July after nestlings fledged. The following spring, 95 birds were still present at the beginning of the breeding season. Both regionally and locally, the dispersion of nests was clumped. Nesting structures contained one to seven active chambers. The parakeets usually foraged in groups of two to 55 birds on plant buds, weeds, and fruits and berries of ornamental shrubs and tress. During the coldest months of the year, December to February, the birds fed almost exclusively on bird seed at backyard feeders. The generality of the Monk Parakeet's diet, their ability to adapt to a variety of habitats, and their apparent great potential for rapid population growth suggest that they will continue their range expansion and population increase in the United States.
4163575|We analyzed nesting behavior of five pairs of the endangered Puerto Rican Parrot (Amazona vittata) during eight successful nesting attempts. Each stage of the nesting cycle (egg laying, incubation, early chick rearing, and late chick rearing) was characterized by distinct trends or levels of behavior. During egg laying, female attentiveness to the nest increased, and male attentiveness decreased. Throughout incubation and the first several days of early chick rearing, females were highly attentive to their nests, whereas males rarely entered the nest cavities. Female attentiveness then began to decline. Male attentiveness to the nest was sporadic until chicks were 10-12 days old, when all males began to enter their nests at least once each day. During late chick rearing, both male and female attentiveness were erratic and highly variable. Biologists may be able to use these results to identify nest problems and the need for management intervention when patterns of nest attentiveness deviate from the limits described in this study.
4163576|In 1981-1986, we studied Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) nesting in a forest-woodland ecotone at the species' lower elevational limit. Most adults did not renest in the same tree cavity despite previous success. Clutch size was smaller, and eggs were less likely to produce fledglings than in a coniferous forest population studied concurrently by Reynolds and Linkhart (1987b). Additional features of life history and nesting density were similar to other populations, but nesting mass of females and productivity were lower, while density flux was higher. Our study population is marginal ecologically, perhaps limited by food shortage during courtship plus predation and maintained by immigration.
4163595|Neotropical migrant birds were censused in a variety of natural and human-altered habitats in Jamaica, West Indies. Although power analyses indicated that only differences in abundance >50% were likely to be detected with available sample sizes, we found that total migrant abundance was significantly greater in mangrove and coastal forests than in wet or dry limestone forests. There was no detectable decrease in the total number of Neotropical migrant birds within each forest type as plant biomass decreased with human activity. Species replacements, however, did occur. Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) increased and other species such as American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) decreased as vegetation decreased. These results indicate that as a group migrant birds wintering in Jamaica have a wide tolerance for habitat disturbance, but that individual species have specific habitat requirements. Thus, the relative availability of different habitats will affect the abundance of each species.
4163596|We used artificial nest experiments to study rates and patterns of egg predation in subtropical wet and lower montane wet forest on the island of Puerto Rico. Levels of depredation were higher for ground nests than for elevated nests, but we found no difference in rates of egg predation between forest edge (5-50 m) and forest interior (100-250 m) nests. We quantified 25 forest vegetation variables surrounding ground and elevated, forest interior nests, and correlated nest success with these vegetation parameters. Utilizing discriminant function analysis, nest success was correctly classified in 59% of cases (for ground nests) using two vegetation variables (shrub density and vegetation in the 2.5-3.0 m foliage height class), and in 71% of cases (for elevated nests) using six vegetation variables (canopy cover, vegetation in the 0-0.5, 0.5-1.0, 1.0-1.5, and 3.0-4.0 m foliage height classes, and Cecropia tree density). Our data suggest that the absence of an induced edge effect is the result of the creation of canopy openings and early successional vegetative associations in a matrix across the forest following hurricane disturbance in 1989. Comparative data suggest that the high rates of egg predation recorded here may be typical for insular forest habitats.
4163597|I investigated spatial characteristics of Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cluster sites in the Raven Ranger District of the Sam Houston National Forest, Texas. Active cluster sites were larger and closer to other active clusters than inactive ones and had larger gravity interaction values, Inactive sites were significantly more isolated than were active clusters, they were more likely to be surrounded by inimical land uses, and they were less likely to be connected by corridors of mature timber to active cluster sites. This research indicates that spatial landscape parameters influence Red-cockaded Woodpecker cluster status and they should be considered in management plans for the species.
4163598|Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus) are common in North America where they occupy a wide range of habitats, often sympatrically. The two species are similar in size and have been portrayed as ecological counterparts, eating the same prey by day and night. We tested the trophic similarity of the two species by comparing published dietary data from across the United States. Both species ate primarily mammals and birds, and mean proportions of those two prey types did not differ significantly between diets of the two raptors. Red-tailed Hawks ate significantly more reptiles, and Great Horned Owls significantly more invertebrates. Dietary diversity was not significantly different at the level of prey taxonomic class, and diet overlap between the two species averaged 91%. At the prey species level, dietary overlap averaged only 50%, and at that level Red-tailed Hawk dietary diversity was significantly greater than that of Great Horned Owls. Mean prey mass of Red-tailed Hawks was significantly greater than that of Great Horned Owls. Populations of the two species in the western United States differed trophically more than did eastern populations. We conclude that, although the two species are generalist predators, they take largely different prey species in the same localities resulting in distinctive trophic characteristics.
4163599|We studied the relationships between feeding behavior, prey selection and bill size for sympatric Pied (Haematopus longirostris) and Sooty (H. fuliginosus) Oystercatchers feeding at Australian intertidal mudflats. Foraging Sooty Oystercatchers used a rapid pecking behavior for a greater proportion of time and used a slow pecking behavior for a lesser proportion of time as compared to Pied Oystercatchers. Within each species males used a rapid pecking behavior for more time and used a slow pecking behavior for less time than females. As rapid pecking was used mainly for the capture of crabs, snails and bivalves while slow pecking was used mainly for the capture of polychaete worms, the diet of Sooty Oystercatchers contained significantly more hard-shelled prey and less soft-bodied prey than Pied Oystercatchers. For each species, males took more hard-shelled prey and fewer worms than females. Thus, species and sexual differences in foraging behavior and prey selection segregated the foraging roles of Pied and Sooty Oystercatchers, potentially reducing competition, facilitating their coexistence. A general pattern for oystercatchers is that longer bill length is associated with higher percentages of soft-prey in the diet for different species, and for sexes within species. A comparison of bill lengths indicated that in Tasmania Sooty Oystercatchers had longer bills than Pied Oystercatchers and within each species, females had longer bills than males. Thus, our results for species are counter to general expectations while results for sexes are consistent with general patterns.
4163600|We sequenced 433 bp of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) cytochrome b (cyt b) gene from four species in the Brown Towhee complex (Pipilo spp.) and six species in the genus Spizella. Phylogenies derived from sequence data were compared to those derived from mtDNA restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) data collected from the same individuals (Zink and Dittmann 1991, 1993), allozyme and sequence data were also combined. In Spizella, the sequence and RFLP data placed the American Tree Sparrow (S. arborea) basal and the Black-chinned and Field sparrows (S. atrogularis and S. pusilla) as sister taxa, but conflicted on the placement of Brewer's, Chipping, and Clay-colored sparrows (S. breweri, S. passerina, and S. pallida). Phylogenetic analysis of the combined sequence and RFLP data set for Spizella supports the two previously published hypotheses for the genus based on RFLP's alone (Zink and Dittmann 1993). Monophyly of Spizella including the American Tree Sparrow is supported. The Pipilo sequence tree was congruent with Zink and Dittmann's (1991) RFLP Dollo parsimony tree, suggesting that the White-throated Towhee (P. albicollis) is the basal member of the complex and not the sister-taxon to the Canyon Towhee (P. fuscus) as suggested by the RFLP Wagner parsimony tree and allozyme and morphometric data (Zink 1988). The Pipilo sequence and RFLP data agree in placing Abert's Towhee (P. aberti) as the nearest relative of the California Towhee (P. crissalis). Phylogenetic analysis of the combined data for Pipilo supports the basal position of the White-throated Towhee, but we still consider the position of this taxon unresolved. Overall, sequence and RFLP data produced significantly congruent phylogenetic trees in both genera, suggesting each type of data provides useful phylogenetic information.
4163602|We compared foraging behaviors of adult Mountain Chickadees (Parus gambeli) within and among breeding seasons. Foraging behaviors differed little between nestling and fledgling "feeding" periods of the breeding cycle with the exception of substrate use and foraging distance from the bole. During the nestling period birds spent the majority of foraging time searching for prey on the needles in the outer crown whereas during the fledgling period the birds spent significantly less time in the outer crown yet more time on new shoots. Among year variation was significant for the majority of foraging variables and data pooled for the entire breeding season masked within season trends. Our results indicate that within season comparisons of foraging behavior are important for revealing significant trends in behavior. They also suggest that Mountain Chickadees are opportunistic feeders and may time their breeding season with the growth of white fir so that older nestlings or fledglings are present when new shoots are expanded and thus contain a greater availability of prey to meet the demands of the older offspring.
4163603| Greater Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis tabida) nesting success at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Harney County, Oregon, was 44% for 456 nests during 1966-1974, and increased to 54% for 640 additional nests during 1976-1989. Predators destroyed 241 (38%) clutches in the 1976-1989 period, with Common Ravens (Corvus corax) taking 63, raccoons (Procyon lotor) 43, coyotes (Canis latrans) 28, and unknown predators 107. Most clutches lost to unknown predators were likely destroyed by coyotes. A total of 52 clutches was either abandoned, flooded, or infertile. The mean annual number of fledged young from 1970-1989 was 31, and mean annual young mortality from hatching to fledging was 84.4%. Of young fledged, a total of 438 broods contained one young and 91 had two (x = 1.14). The 6.7% mean annual recruitment at Malheur between 1970-1989 probably was responsible for a decline in breeding pairs, from 236 in 1975 to 168 in 1989. 
4163604|We studied the breeding performance of a Grey Eagle-Buzzard (Geranoaetus melanoleucus) population in a region of northern Argentinian Patagonia where two different habitats occur; the mountains near the Andean cordillera and the plains where shrub-steppes predominate. Mean eagle density was 1 pair/19 km
4163605|Nocturnal habitats used by American woodcock (Scolopax minor) were studied using radio telemetry at two coastal wintering sites in Georgia (1982-84) and Virginia (1991-92). In Georgia, use of forested habitats at night was extensive while use of fields at night varied between years but generally was low. We found no difference in the probability of moving to a field at night among the four age-sex classes (P = 0.23). A significant effect (P < 0.05) of age-sex class was noted between distances moved from diurnal to nocturnal locations in Georgia. Young females moved farther than any other age-sex class. In Virginia, no effect of age-sex class was found on the probability of being located during the night in either a field or a forest.
4163606|We investigated the abundance and distribution of passerines overwintering in natural levees, and tupelo (Nyssa aquatica) and cypress (Taxodium distichum) swamps along Roanoke River bottomland hardwood forests, North Carolina, in 1991-93. A total of 21 species, 10 resident and the remaining temperate migrants, was recorded during the study. The mean number of passerines was significantly higher (P < 0.05) in levee than in swamps. Resident species were significantly (P < 0.05) more abundant than temperate migrants within and between levees and swamps. Plant species richness and low vegetation components (e.g., horizontal cover, density of seedling/saplings) accounted for significant proportions of the variability in bird abundance within and across vegetation types. Canopy cover and density of overstory trees also predicted bird abundance, particularly for nuthatches in swamps.
4163607|Previous studies have shown that habitat provided by the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), a feature of the 1985 farm bill, is used by many birds. The present study quantitatively assesses the importance of the CRP by estimating changes in breedingbird populations of North Dakota projected if CRP land would revert to cultivation. Of 18 species that were common in CRP or crop fields or both, 12 were more abundant in CRP habitats. Six of these species had suffered significant population declines during 1967-1990, according to the North American Breeding Bird Survey. In contrast, none of the six species that were more common in cropland than in CRP fields had declined significantly. Termination of the Conservation Reserve Program and a return of enrolled land to cultivation is projected to cause population declines in North Dakota exceeding 17% for Sedge Wren (Cistothorus platensis), Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), Dickcissel (Spiza americana), and Lark Bunting (Calamospiza melanocorys).
4163634| The Chiribiquete Emerald (Chlorostilbon olivaresi sp. nov.) is described from the Sierra de Chiribiquete, an isolated range of table-top mountains rising from the flat Amazonian lowlands of the Departments of Guaviare and Caquet, SE Colombia. This hummingbird is a common inhabitant of the edaphic scrub and adjacent forests of the middle and upper levels of the Sierra, but evidently does not occur in the surrounding lowlands. In its morphology, the new species shows closer affinities with C. gibsoni of the Magdalena Valley than with the adjacent cis-Andean populations of C. mellisugus, but it is much larger than all related forms. The Chiribiquete Emerald probably originated through the dispersal of gibsoni-type birds to the Sierra during a dry period of the Pliocene or early Pleistocene, perhaps in conjunction with hybridization with the local form of mellisugus; large body size probably evolved subsequently in the population as a response to its peculiar, insular habitat. Variation in the Chlorostilbon mellisugus complex in NW South America is described and analyzed, and I conclude that the various forms are best treated as comprising a single superspecies; melanorhynchus (including pumilus) of western Colombia and western Ecuador is sufficiently distinct from the adjacent assimilis and gibsoni, as well as from the eastern forms of C. mellisugus to deserve (allo)species rank, and I suggest for it the English name of West Andean Emerald. I recommend recognition of the following allospecies (from north to south): auriceps, forficatus, canivetii, assimilis, melanorhynchus, gibsoni, olivaresi, and mellisugus. 
4163635| North American populations of Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) have declined 63% since 1966. Using radiotelemetry, we monitored plover nesting and brood rearing during the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons in Weld County, Colorado. Our objectives were to extend preliminary breeding studies of 1992 (Miller and Knopf 1993) and to determine the minimum area required for successful reproduction by this species. Plovers began arriving on the breeding grounds in mid-March. Due to a high incidence of predation, eggs hatched in only nine of 34 (26%) nests in 1993 and in 20 of 54 (37%) nests in 1994. Daily survival rates of chicks were 0.957 (442 telemetry days, 44 chicks) and 0.951 (610 telemetry days, 42 chicks) each year, respectively. Plover broods moved an average 337  46.5 m/day (N = 30) and 298  41.9 m/day (N = 14) in 1993 and 1994 (t = 1.10, P = 0.27), respectively. Plovers that raised chicks to fledging used between 28 and 91 ha, averaging 56.6  21.5 ha. Daily movement rates (t = 0.7, P = 0.48) and total area used (t = 1.4, P = 0.17) were similar between broods where  one chick fledged and broods from which no chicks fledged. Success of plovers in raising chicks appeared related either to overall fox activity in the area or to how effectively the adult detected and distracted foxes. Most plovers left the breeding grounds in mid-to-late July, four months after arrival. Population declines of Mountain Plovers appear independent of any recent landscape fragmentation within this breeding stronghold of the species. 
4163636|Birds, and in particular European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), avoid consumption of fluid and food treated with the natural plant products, methyl anthranilate and o-aminoacetophenone. Avoidance is an unlearned response most likely mediated via chemically sensitive fibers of the trigeminal nerve. The trigeminal nerve codes for chemical irritation and pain. Starlings are not repelled by the odor of the compounds, nor is olfaction important in the avoidance response. Moreover, starlings fail to learn to avoid the odor of the repellents, even after direct oral contact with liquid repellent. While trigeminal irritants can be powerful repellents, the absence of associative learning for these repellents will influence the application strategy for formulation and use. More broadly, the difference in learning abilities associated with trigeminal repellents and those commonly responsible for conditioned avoidance learning have implications for the structure of chemical defenses of fruits and the prevention of untimely frugivory.
4163637| We measured habitat features at 45 nests of Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) and 45 non-use sites in bottomland hardwood habitats in the coastal plain of South Carolina during the breeding seasons 1993-1994 to determine features that affect nesting success. Hooded Warblers nested in switchcane (Arundinaria gigantea) and hardwood saplings or shrubs that averaged 1.76  0.10 m (SE) in height. Nests were more concealed from above (P = 0.001) and from the side (P = 0.002) than surrogate nests placed at non-use sites but were less concealed from below (P = 0.002). Nest sites also had a greater number of potential substrates (P = 0.014) in the nest patch (5-m radius) and greater measures of vegetation density (P < 0.05) in the nest patch than non-use sites. Successful nests differed from unsuccessful nests only in the amount of fern cover in the nest patch (greater for successful nests, P = 0.012). Fern cover may influence nesting success through an effect on behavioral defense strategies. Nesting success of Hooded Warblers may largely be unrelated to fine-scale differences in vegetative characteristics of the nest site. 
4163638|We measured body mass of female Common Goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula) during nesting on fish bearing lakes in northcentral Minnesota, in 1982-1985. Median body mass during egg laying was 775 g. Female mass during incubation varied among lakes and possibly years. Mass at the start of incubation (698-715 g) was 10.7-11.0% greater than that at hatching. Females regained most of the mass lost during incubation by the time they abandoned their class IIC or class III ducklings. Goldeneyes in Minnesota weighed less at the start of nesting than those studied on predominately fishless Ontario lakes; proportional mass loss during incubation was also substantially less than that reported in Ontario (approximately 20%). Differences in body mass dynamics may be related to the relative ease of food acquisition during nesting; foods might be acquired more easily in more productive wetlands despite the presence of fish.
4163639|We compared the vocal repertoires of Jackass (Spheniscus demersus), Humboldt (S. humboldti), and Magellanic (S. magellanicus) penguins. Discriminant and cluster analyses of the bray call indicate that Jackass and Magellanic penguins are more similar to each other than either is to the Humboldt penguin, and all three are distinct from the Rock-hopper penguin (Eudyptes chrysocome). The congruence of the vocal analyses with phylogenies based on allozyme data suggests that differences in vocalizations reflect gradual divergence over time, not character displacement.
4163640|We studied the breeding biology of the Willow Tit (Parus montanus) during 1987-1990 in the Magadan region of northeastern Siberia. Clutch size and number of fledglings averaged 7.5 and 6.5, respectively, and both were correlated negatively with the date of the first egg. Nestling growth rate was correlated positively with the date of the first egg, but was not related to brood size. Body mass at fledging was related negatively to brood size. Males fed nestlings significantly more often than did females, while females spent more time attending nestlings. The number of parental visits per young did not change significantly with brood size. During the first 13 days of the nestling period, female feeding rate per young was positively related to brood size while for males this relationship was negative. The nestling diet consisted mostly of Lepidoptera larvae, Arachnoidea, and Diptera.
4163641|Census methods developed for breeding populations of Nearctic-Neotropic migrant passerines are largely ineffective for determining the distribution and abundance of Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsonii) on its wintering grounds in the Caribbean basin. Using playback of tape-recorded call notes interspersed with advertising songs, I found the warbler to be widespread and relatively common in montane forests of the Blue Mountains of Jamaica. Detection rates with playback varied from 17.8 to 29.2 warblers/10 h along five census transects. Census efficiency was increased by an estimated factor of five to 10 times with the use of tape playback.
4163642| We searched 638 quarter sections (0.8  0.8 km) for Common Grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) nesting sites in Benson County, North Dakota, in 1989 and 1990. We found 3596 active nests in 202 colonies on 177 quarter sections. Colonies in shelterbelts next to inhabited farmsteads were found at greater than expected frequencies (P  0.05), whereas colonies in vegetation associated with potholes and miscellaneous habitats (woods, ravines, railroad easements, and lakesides) occurred below expected frequencies. Nest sites in stands of vegetation >100 m from farmstead residences occurred less frequently than expected (P  0.05). Within colonies, nest sites in blue spruce (Picea pungens), Siberian elm (Ulmus pumila) and black poplar (Populus nigra) were found at greater than expected frequencies (P  0.05) according to these species' availabilities, while green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica), American elm (Ulmus americana), and Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) were used below expected frequencies. The Common Grackle's preference for shelterbelts near inhabited farmsteads affected the physical and vegetative characteristics of colony sites and nest sites; with the exception of hawthorn (Crataegus rotundifolia), colonized stands had species compositions typically found in multi-rowed farmstead shelterbelts in North Dakota. 
4163643|Sedge Wrens (Cistothorus platensis) are very rare breeders in the central plains states but show a pattern of mid-summer arrival dates. I examined their status in central Nebraska in August 1994 by conducting six Breeding Bird Survey routes and by searching suitable habitat. I recorded Sedge Wrens on three of the six survey routes. Most wrens occurred on sub-irrigated native meadows, but a variety of grassland types were used. Most clutches were initiated by the second week of August. Observers should be aware of the potential for late-summer breeding in other portions of their range.
4163644|One hundred ninety-four prey from 31 Northern Pygmy-Owls (Glaucidium gnoma) and 388 prey from 23 Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) were compared. Thirty-six percent of the pygmy-owl's prey was birds, whereas, 98.0% of the saw-whet owl's prey was small mammals, particularly voles. Food niche breadth and dietary evenness was 10.6 and 0.69 for pygmy-owls vs 3.3 and 0.89 for saw-whet Owls. Body mass of prey killed by both species was about 38 g. Dietary overlap between these two owl species was 37.0%, indicating that they fed on different prey assemblages.
4163645| We examined depredation of artificial ground nests containing three egg types (brown chicken, white chicken, or Northern Bobwhite [Colinus virginianus]) in relation to plot age (clearcut vs uncut) and time period (trials 1-5) at the Barrens Grouse Habitat Management Area, Centre County, Pennsylvania, from May-July 1993. One hundred thirteen (38%) of the total nests were disturbed. Fewer nests were disturbed in clearcut (32%) than in uncut plots (43%) (P  0.05). Clearcut plots had higher densities of brushy vegetation near ground level which better concealed nests and reduced foraging efficiency of predators. Rates of nest disturbance varied with time period (P  0.005); in general, rates were greater in trials 1-3 than in trials 4-5, partially because of gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) defoliation during trials 1-3. Nest fate also differed significantly (P  0.001) with egg type. Rates of disturbance were lower with nests containing brown chicken eggs (24%) compared to nests containing white chicken eggs (46%) or Northern Bobwhite (43%) eggs. Nests with brown chicken eggs were better camoflaged and, hence, less likely to be disturbed. Based on our findings, we recommend that brown chicken eggs be used as an alternative to Japanese Quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) eggs when simulating nests of Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) or Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) in artificial ground nest studies. 
4163646| Expansion of the breeding distribution of the Fulvous whistling-duck (Dendrocygna bicolor) into the southeastern United States after the mid-1800s coincided with the establishment of rice (Oryza sativa) cultures in Texas, Louisiana, and Florida. In southern Louisiana, where approximately 80% of rice is aerially seeded in water, Fulvous whistling-ducks are suspected of feeding extensively on planted rice and are considered a nuisance. To determine the extent of rice utilization by ducks nesting in southwestern Louisiana, we estimated food availability in ricefields and assessed feeding preferences. We also examined effects of sex and stage of reproduction on food selection. Feeding sites in Louisiana ricefields that were tilled and flooded in preparation for spring planting, contained abundant foods (mean  SE = 109.0  18.0 g/m
4163678|Few studies have quantified geographic variation in widely distributed Andean birds despite the fact that the linearity of their distributions provides unique opportunity to assess latitudinal geographic variation. We examined geographic variation of morphometric and plumage characters in populations currently treated as a single species, the Sepia-brown Wren (Cinnycerthia peruana), that inhabits humid montane forests from northern Colombia to central Bolivia. Our analysis supports the recognition of three biological species (olivascens, peruana, and fulva) based on discrete morphometric differences as well as marked plumage differences. Size variation within populations is inconsistent with the predictions of Bergmann's Rule, whereas variation across species runs counter to the predictions, with the smallest species occurring farthest from the Equator.
4163679|With few exceptions, nest building, incubation, and care of young are the responsibilities of the female in hummingbirds (Trochilidae). The time females spent on these tasks (collectively defined as attentiveness) was determined for three species of hummingbirds nesting in southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico, i.e., the Broad-billed (Cynanthus latirostris), Violet-crowned (Amazilia violiceps), and Black-chinned (Archilochus alexandri) hummingbirds. In addition to elucidating attentiveness, the data from my study also provide insights into the allocation of time for maintenance and other activities. This information, combined with that from other studies, shows a remarkable uniformity in attentiveness in the Trochilidae regardless of the taxa or geographic areas involved.
4163680|I replicated quarterly population surveys of landbirds on Saipan, Mariana Islands at two environmental scales: habitat specific and island-wide. I determined population densities and the degree of seasonal fluctuation in counts to compare densities in native vs disturbed habitat and to observe whether populations exhibited characteristics of those at either saturation or below saturation densities. I also gathered new data on the natural history of largely unknown species. For seven of the nine forest birds examined, inter-seasonal census variation was greater than intra-seasonal variation, suggesting that most of the species undergo seasonal shifts in population or breeding status (the latter case was indicated for four forest species). The principal difference uncovered between the two census scales was that the Micronesian Honeyeater (Myzomela rubrata) was relatively uncommon in native forest but regular on island-wide counts. Otherwise, forest species showed numerous similarities in count trends at both scales. However, habitat-specific data showed that for many species, counts and computed densities were greater in native forest than in disturbed habitat. Independent density assessment (based on a new procedure) for the Bridled White-eye (Zosterops conspicillatus) was of the same order of magnitude as that obtained through censusing. The densities reported here, particularly for the Rufous Fantail (Rhipidura rufifrons), Bridled White-eye, and Golden White-eye (Cleptornis marchei), are among the highest ever reported for birds (>1900/km
4163681| I studied Tamarugo Conebill (Conirostrum tamarugense) populations at the Pampa del Tamarugal National Reserve in northern Chile between October 1993 and July 1994. The estimated population of conebills was 35,107 individuals in 10,787 ha of tamarugo forests. A strong relationship was found between forest foliage volume per hectare and breeding conebill density. The Tamarugo Conebill breeds in the tamarugal September-December and then probably migrates to the highlands of southern Per. Although the species' breeding locality presently is protected, it faces some important threats including the pumping of the subterranean aquifers upon which the tamarugal vegetation depends, attempts to control the butterfly upon whose larvae the species forages, and human disturbance on the wintering grounds. 
4163682|We surveyed bird populations along headwater streams of old-growth, mature, and young coniferous forests of the Oregon Cascade Mountains during summer and winter. Brown Creepers (Certhia americana), Chestnut-backed Chickadees (Parus rufescens), Golden-crowned Kinglets (Regulus satrapa), Evening Grosbeaks (Hesperiphona vespertinus), and Winter Wrens (Troglodytes troglodytes) were common in all stand types. During the summer, abundances of Brown Creepers, Hammond's Flycatchers (Empidonax hammondii), Hermit/Townsend's warblers (Dendroica occidentalis), and Chestnut-backed Chickadees were significantly higher in old-growth and mature forests compared to young forests. Species richness and densities generally were not significantly different among the stand types during winter. However, numbers of Chestnut-backed Chickadees, Evening Grosbeaks, Golden-crowned Kinglets, Hairy Woodpeckers (Picoides villosus), and Winter Wrens were much higher in the winter than in summer. Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) and Rufous Hummingbirds (Selasphorus rufus) were more abundant in riparian areas in this study compared to other studies in upland forests and may be riparian associates along these headwater streams.
4163683|We studied habitat changes and success of artificial ground nests on an expansive alkaline flat at Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), Oklahoma, in 1993 and 1994. Aerial photographs of the refuge taken during 1941-1942, 1966, and 1989 were digitized to evaluate changes of the alkaline flat, herbaceous rangeland, and shrub rangeland that was dominated by saltcedar (Tamarix spp.). Vegetation cover increased by about 600 ha between 1941 and 1989, and alkaline flat decreased by >240 ha. Field experiments were conducted to determine predator and flooding impacts on artificial nests that simulated Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) and Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus) nests. Experimental nest plots were placed on the alkaline flat adjacent to, 500 m from, and 1000 m from herbaceous rangeland, shrub rangeland, and stream habitat that was not associated with vegetation. Plot comparisons were made by calculating the probability of nest success with a modified Mayfield Method. Nests near vegetation had significantly higher losses to mammalian predators (P < 0.05) but significantly lower losses to flooding (P < 0.05) than nests at 500 or 1000 m from vegetation. Encroaching vegetation will likely continue to reduce habitat for ground-nesting birds and simultaneously increase predation rates on nests.
4163684| We examined nest-site selection and nesting success of the Scissor-tailed Flycatcher (Tyrannus forficatus) on the Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge, San Patricio County, Texas in 1992-1993. Mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) comprised 22% of available shrubs; however, Scissor-tailed Flycatchers used shrubs out of proportion to their availability, placing 91% of their nests in mesquite. Scissor-tailed Flycatcher nests were placed in taller shrubs with less vertical cover and patchiness, with less total horizontal cover, and with greater heterogeneity than in random sites. The majority of nests were oriented to the northwest (18%), north (17%), and northeast (23%). Successful nests were in shrubs with less vertical patchiness and horizontal cover and with greater vertical cover (1 m) and horizontal heterogeneity than unsuccessful nests. Nest-site selection appeared to be a tradeoff between orienting nests to provide protection from abiotic factors while minimizing horizontal cover to allow sufficient visibility for nest defense. 
4163685|We observed Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus pileatus) breeding phenology and population trends on Tern Island, French Frigate Shoals, Hawaii, from 1982 to 1992. Peaks of laying ranged from the first week in January to the first week in November; however, most laying occurred between March and September each year. Incubation length was 34.8 days (N = 19, SD = 0.6, range = 29-37 days). There were no differences in breeding pairs between the measurements of the first egg laid and successive eggs laid within a season. The proportion of light- and dark-colored chicks was 26% and 74%, respectively (N = 221) and differed from other Brown Noddy colonies studied in Atlantic and Pacific oceans. The length of time between clutches depended on whether the previous outcome was a failed clutch or a successfully fledged chick. Hatching, fledging, and reproductive success were significantly different between years. The subspecies (A. s. pileatus) differs in many aspects of its breeding biology from other colonies in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, in regard to year-round occurrence at the colony, frequent renesting attempts, large egg size, proportion of light and dark colored chicks, and low reproductive success caused by inclement weather and predation by Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor).
4163686|Distinctly different territorial (Type A) song forms characterize western and eastern populations within the breeding range of the Northern Parula (Parula americana). We conducted playback experiments to determine if territorial males respond differentially to the two song forms. Male response is stronger to Type A songs of their own population than to the songs of the other population (two-tailed Wilcoxon test, P < 0.001). The possible basis for this discrimination is discussed.
4163687|We studied the post-fledging dispersal movements and habitat use of juvenile Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) (SNEG) and Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) (BCNH) in coastal Virginia using a dye (picric acid) and radiotelemetry. Results from monitoring radiomarked birds revealed significant differences both years between species, with SNEGs dispersing more widely than BCNHs. BCNH juveniles usually remained south of Delaware, but SNEGs often moved into Delaware and southern New Jersey. The maximum dispersal distance found for a SNEG was ca 340 km north of the natal colony. Temporal patterns of movement followed logistic relationships, with rapid initial movements, but relatively few movements after about 2-3 weeks for most birds. Cumulative distances moved by juvenile SNEGs during August-September differed from 1992 to 1993. No such year difference was found for BCNHs. Compared to SNEGs, BCNHs used manmade impoundments relatively more often than natural wetlands; however no quantitative assessment of habitat preferences could be made.
4163688|We compared nest-site macro- and microhabitat selection of Red-shouldered (Buteo lineatus) and Red-tailed hawks (B. jamaicensis) and examined potential relationships between habitat selection and nest success in a managed forest in central Georgia. We located 12 Red-shouldered and 10 Red-tailed hawk nests during the 1994 breeding season. Circular plots (1 km
4163710|We here describe Acrobatornis fonsecai, a new genus and species in the Furnariidae, from the Atlantic Forest of southeastern Bahia, Brazil. Among the outstanding features of this small, arboreal form are: black-and-gray definitive plumage lacking any rufous; juvenal plumage markedly different from adult; stout, bright-pink legs and feet; and its acrobatic foraging behavior involving almost constant inverted hangs on foliage and scansorial creeping along the undersides of canopy limbs. Analysis of morphology, vocalizations, and behavior suggest to us a phylogenetic position close to Asthenes and Cranioleuca; in some respects, it appears close to the equally obscure Xenerpestes and Metopothrix. New data on the morphology, vocalizations, and behavior of several furnariids possibly related to Acrobatornis are presented in the context of intrafamilial relationships. We theorize that Acrobatornis could have colonized its current range during an ancient period of continental semiaridity that promoted the expansion of stick-nesting prototypes from a southern, Chaco-Patagonian/Pantanal center, and today represents a relict that survived by adapting to build its stick-nest in the relatively dry, open, canopy of leguminaceous trees of the contemporary humid forest in southeastern Bahia. Another theory of origin places emphasis on the fact that the closest relatives of practically all (if not all) other birds syntopic with Acrobatornis are of primarily Amazonian distribution. Acrobatornis fonsecai has a most unusual distribution in a restricted region in which lowland Atlantic Forest has been converted virtually entirely to cocoa plantations. Until very recently a lucrative and vitally important source of income for Bahia, the economic base for cocoa production has suffered catastrophic, apparently irrecoverable, decline owing to "witch's broom" disease, which has proven resistant to all forms of control. The predictable wave to cut and sell the tall trees shading failing cocoa plantations has already begun in earnest with the consequence that the remnant forest canopies in this region, upon which Acrobatornis fonsecai is totally dependent, are being rapidly destroyed. This remarkable new furnariid and the secrets it holds for elucidation of phylogeny, evolutionary history, speciation patterns, and zoogeography, if not safeguarded immediately, when its habitat is still for sale, could disappear in the coming decade.
4163711|Descriptions of the nest and nesting ecology of Acrobatornis fonsecai (Pink-legged Graveteiro), a newly described genus and species in the Furnariidae, are presented. Nests, constructed of twigs and sticks, are single-chambered, well-lined with mosses and leaves (one examined in detail), and situated in the canopy of tall trees. In October 1995, we located 131 nests in 72 trees at 54 sites. The average number of nests/tree was 1.8 with a maximum of five nests in a single tree; apparently only one nest/tree is active. "Extra" nests were often smaller than active nests, and at least sometimes had no entrance or chamber. We postulate that these nest-like structures represent dummy or cock nests to confuse predators or parasites (it certainly worked on us), and may serve as resource stores (i.e., construction materials and nest foundations). Brief observations indicated that immatures (probably offspring) help adults in nest construction, and may help feed food-begging juveniles. Comparison with other, possibly related, furnariids, suggests that nest architecture of A. fonsecai is most similar to that of the "stick-nesting" group of Asthenes canasteros, for which nests are relatively well known, but is also similar to some Cranioleuca spinetails and perhaps to the Xenerpestes graytails and the Metopothrix plushcrown, which are poorly known. Our data supplement the discussion of morphological, vocal, and behavioral comparisons of the same groups presented by Pacheco et al. (1996). We postulate that stick-nesting in Furnariidae arose in a pre-Andean, Chaco-Patagonian/Pantanal center, and provide some theories on the evolution of this behavior.
4163712|We examined woodpecker excavation and use of artificial polystyrene snags in four forest types in eastern Texas for five years. Twenty-three of 47 artificial snags were used by Downy Woodpeckers (Picoides pubescens) for cavity excavation and subsequent nocturnal roosting; they did not use the artificial snags for nesting. Although six other species of woodpeckers were present in the area, only Downy Woodpeckers excavated cavities in the artificial cavity substrate. Entrances to cavities in artificial snags became enlarged within several months of excavation. Other wildlife species using abandoned cavities in artificial snags were Carolina Chickadees (Parus carolinensis), Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea), southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans), and red wasps (Polistes sp.). In one instance, Carolina Chickadees excavated their own cavity and nested within a polystyrene snag. Until an artificial cavity substrate acceptable for both woodpecker excavation and nesting can be found, the utility of artificial snags as a means to augment woodpecker nesting substrate remains inadequate.
4163713|In 1993 and 1994, I studied the breeding biology and nesting success of Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) at the margin of the species' breeding range on the upper Mississippi and Black rivers in west-central Wisconsin. During the severe flooding of 1993, nesting success was reduced to a third of the level recorded in 1994, a more typical year. The rate of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism was the highest (26.9%) yet reported. House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) were observed destroying only one nest, but they were suspected of having a larger role in nest failure as has been found in other studies (Walkinshaw 1938).
4163714|Using video cameras at nests, we measured rates, quantities, and types of food delivered by male and female Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) to nestlings of different ages and at different times of day and nesting season. Based on 89 1.5-2 h observation periods at 18 nests, all of which contained four young, we found that larval Lepidoptera comprised 60-87% of the estimated prey biomass brought to nestlings and that the female and male parents delivered approximately equal amounts of food over the nesting cycle. Food provisioning rates did not vary with time of day or with parental age, but did increase significantly with age of nestlings and decrease with time of season (early vs mid-summer). The lower rate and quantity of provisioning in mid-summer was reflected in significantly slower growth of nestlings in that part of the season, suggesting constraints on parental food provisioning, perhaps due to lower food availability.
4163715|The Bahama Swallow (Tachycineta cyaneoviridis) is an obligate secondary cavity-nester endemic to the pine forests of four islands in the northern Bahamas. The near-threatened status of this poorly known species stems from the limited extent of pine forest breeding habitat, a history of logging in that habitat, and potential competition from exotic secondary cavity-nesters. Natural nest sites of Bahama Swallows on Grand Bahama generally were abandoned woodpecker cavities and nests in all types of cavities were built from pine needles, Casuarina spp. twigs, and grass. Mean clutch size was 3.0 and the pure white eggs were slightly larger than those of Tree Swallows (T. bicolor). Both the mean incubation and nestling periods, 15.8 days and 22.7 days, respectively, were longer than those of Tree Swallows. Hatching success and nestling success were 87% and 81%, respectively, giving an overall success rate of 70%. One case of double-brooding was documented, and two other likely cases were noted. Weekly surveys of adults in pine forest habitat on Grand Bahama during breeding gave a linear density of 0.18-0.25
4163716|We surveyed riparian forest corridors of different widths along the lower Altamaha River in Georgia in 1993 and 1994 to investigate the relationship between forest corridor width and Neotropical breeding bird community diversity and abundance. Species richness and abundance of three of six focal species increased with increasing forest corridor width. We suggest if Neotropical breeding bird communities are a target group, that land managers should consider leaving a 100 m buffer strip along riparian zones.
4163717|It has been assumed that females are particularly fertile during the first hour after laying when the next egg to be laid is fertilized. In many passerine birds, egg laying occurs early in the morning. Hence, it may be particularly important for males to sing at dawn to attract the mate and other females and to repel potential cuckolders. I studied song activity of mated male American Robins (Turdus migratorius). Egg laying occurred close to noon. However, males had a peak song activity at dawn but sang little around noon. Hence, the idea that mated males sing primarily to deter other males just before the 'fertilization window' was not supported. Male song activity tended to increase when the mate visited the nest during the day but less so when she entered the nest to roost at night. Synchronous emergence of all females at dawn resulted in synchronous termination of the dawn chorus, whereas a more asynchronous pattern of nest visits by females during the day and in the evening resulted in asynchronous and scattered periods of song.
4163718|We studied the breeding biology of six nesting pairs of Crested Caracaras (Caracara plancus) from January to August 1989 in Austin and Colorado Counties, south Texas. Four of the pairs nested in Macartney rose (Rosa bracteata). All nests were built below the nest-support canopy. We found caracaras laying eggs between 17 January and 23 June. Eggs hatched from February to April, and in June for two second nesting efforts. Young from successful first nesting efforts fledged from April to June. By August we did not see young or adults in the natal area. Nest building and courtship averaged 21 days (N = 2 pairs). Incubation periods averaged 30 days (N = 4 pairs), nestling dependency periods averaged 56 days (N = 5 pairs), and post-fledgling dependency periods averaged 33 days (N = 4 pairs). We believe that two of the pairs each laid a second clutch in June, but the newly-hatched chicks were killed by red imported fire ants (Solenopsis invicta). Overall nesting success was 45.7%. Success for first nesting attempts was 72.6%.
4163719| I studied the breeding biology of the Jabiru (Jabiru mycteria) at Hato El Fro (state of Apure, Venezuela) during two breeding seasons. I located 22 nests during 1989-90 and 28 in 1990-91. Jabiru nests were 8-26 m from the ground in ten different species of trees, with Sterculia apetala the most commonly used (36.4% of the nests). Storks laid eggs between August and November. The greatest number of clutches were in September. Average clutch size was 3.4 eggs (range: 2-5; N = 17), with four eggs the most frequent clutch size. Fledglings left their nests in January or February at the age of 12-13 weeks but were still dependent of their parents for a period of up to two months. Nest success was 47.0% in 1989-90 and 47.6% in 1990-91; productivity (fledglings/active nest) was 0.94 and 1.00 respectively. In 1990-91, only 20% of eggs produced fledglings. Most nests (75%) failed during incubation. Main causes of nest failure were abandonment, nests falling, and predation by Crested Caracaras (Polyborus plancus). 
4163720| We compared predation by wild-trapped, caged white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) on eggs of Japanese Quail (Coturnix coturnix) and Zebra Finches (Poephila guttata) to test the effect of egg size. Nine male and nine female mice were weighed, acclimated to cages for 24 h, and presented with two wicker nests, one containing a Japanese Quail egg (33  23 mm) and the other a Zebra Finch egg (16  12 mm). Nests were checked at 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, and 24 h; after 24 h, no quail eggs were depredated, but 16 of 18 finch eggs were destroyed. Given their ability to consume small eggs and their ubiquity and abundance, white-footed mice are potentially significant nest predators. 
4163721| Quebec's POQ program compiles birders' "checklists," each of which reports numbers of birds seen on one day at one site. We analyzed POQ data from the migration season alone (1971-92), to see if these unstandardized counts might monitor trends in populations that nest farther north. Two sets of trends were computed for each of 58 species, from annual indices based either on abundance or on frequency of detection. Both spring POQ trends were significantly correlated with Breeding Bird Survey trends for Quebec, while only those based on abundance performed well in fall. There was a positive bias in magnitude of POQ trends, but negative POQ trends were reliable indicators of negative BBS trends. Analysis of sub-sets of the data showed that sample size had little qualitative effect. Checklist data should not be relied on for quantitative population monitoring, but they do contain useful information for detection or corroboration of negative trends. 
4163722|We temporarily removed the mates of four female Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) during the pre-nesting period in an attempt to clarify the functions of singing by females. Mate removal had no significant effect on singing rates, number of movements per hour, or distance moved per hour. The failure to increase singing rates after mate removal suggests that singing by female cardinals is not used to attract new mates and the absence of any change in movement patterns suggests that females may not actively seek new mates. When singing, female cardinals were usually accompanied by a singing male and, prior to and after mate removal, females often duetted with their mates. Female cardinals may sing and duet with mates to advertise the presence of a female and the mated status of a male. Duetting may also permit pairs to learn each other's songs. Such learning may represent a form of investment important in maintaining a pair bond and may also, later in the season, permit more efficient intrapair communication.
4163723| We used radio telemetry to record 198 h of feeding behavior of five Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) on the Indiana Harbor Canal in northwestern Indiana during January and February 1994. Lesser Scaup fed for short periods of time intermittently during each 24-h period. Lesser Scaup fed a total of 96 min during the day and 226 min during the night. They fed more between sunset and midnight (31.9% of the period, P = 0.003) than between sunrise and noon (11.6%) or noon and sunset (19.5%); time spent feeding between midnight and sunrise (26.3%) did not differ from other times of day. Mean dive duration (22.9  0.64 sec) did not vary by time of day (P = 0.186-0.744). These results are the first 24-h feeding activity reported for individually marked Lesser Scaup. 
4163724|We investigated body and organ mass and carcass composition of twentyseven migrant Oldsquaws (Clangula hyemalis) killed when they collided with power transmission lines in northeastern Ontario in October 1986. Comparison of the first principal component (PC1) from eight structural measurements indicated that adult male Oldsquaws were structurally larger than females; however, organ weights did not differ between sexes when PC1 was included as a covariate (ANCOVA, P > 0.05 in all cases). Carcass composition was similar to that reported for spring migrants. Ash-free lean dry weight (AFLDW) and ash were positively related to structural size, but did not differ between sexes when PC1 was included as a covariate. Lipids comprised 17.5% of whole body mass of females and 14.1% of males and were sufficient to fuel migration at least to the next likely staging area in the Great Lakes. Fall migrant Oldsquaws must have stored substantial lipid and protein reserves after breeding, suggesting that offshore feeding areas in James and Hudson Bay are critical.
4163725|We studied nesting success and nest-site selection of Common Ground-Doves (Columbina passerina), Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos), Brown Thrashers (Toxostoma rufum), and Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) in two Florida citrus groves in spring 1989. Predation resulted in the loss of more than half of all nests. Fish Crows (Corvus ossifragus) and rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) seemed to be the major predators. Nesting success differed between groves and may have resulted from differences in human activities, predator populations, or vegetation structure. Nesting success of Northern Cardinals and Brown Thrashers was lower than that reported in other studies and may have been below the replacement level. Northern Mockingbirds had the most open nest sites with the largest inter-canopy distances (spacing between tree canopies), whereas Brown Thrashers seemed to select areas of the groves with the greatest canopy closure. Northern Cardinals tended to select nest trees with full canopies, perhaps to increase nest concealment. Common Ground-Dove nests were supported by limbs with small angles (degrees deviation from horizontal) and the largest diameters.
4163743|The Poo-uli (Melamprosops phaeosoma), a Hawaiian honeycreeper discovered on the island of Maui in 1973 and now near extinction, is represented in museums by only two specimens. Based on the first observations of a nesting pair and re-examination of the two specimens, we describe the adult male and female, eggshells, nestling, and fledgling Poo-uli. Poo-uli are sexually monochromatic but males are brighter. The male is brown above, whitish below, and has an extensive black mask bordered with gray on the crown and a distinct white auricular patch. The female differs in having a similar facial pattern not as sharply demarked and in having a grayish wash below. The observed fledgling resembled the adults but was paler brown above and whitish below and had a much smaller black mask and pale mandible. We tentatively assigned both museum specimens to first basic plumage because they resembled the adult female but retained some pale juvenal coloration in the mandible. We also determined from dissection that the holotype was an immature male; we could not determine sex of the paratype. The nest was an open cup of twigs and bryophytes with a thin lining of fern rootlets. The nest contained eggshell fragments with brown-gray speckling against a whitish background. The nests, eggshells, and nestlings resemble those of other Hawaiian honeycreepers.
4163744|We describe two sequential nestings of a pair of Poo-uli (Melamprosops phaeosoma), a Hawaiian honeycreeper nearing extinction. Similarities to nesting of most other honeycreepers included: nest site in ohia lehua (Metrosideros polymorpha Gaud.) canopy; breeding in March through June; monogamous breeding system with the putative male helping build the nest, feeding the putative female throughout each nesting event, and feeding the chicks, but not incubating or brooding; and complete nest sanitation. Notable differences were the paucity of songs and calls by the parents and inclusion of snails in the diet of nestlings. Clutch size was probably two eggs for both nests. High winds, rain, or both influenced parental behavior: the female stayed longer on the nest and took shorter recesses in poor weather. Weather did not affect rates at which the male fed the female on the nest; however, the feeding rate increased from the egg to the chick stage probably because food was passed on to the chicks. At nest #2, parents fed young chicks (<14 days old) more often in good than in poor weather; data were insufficient for old chicks. Weather is usually poor throughout the year in the relictual range of the Poo-uli and is likely to impact nesting success. The first nest failed in poor weather. The second fledged a single young 21 days old. Diet of nestlings appeared to consist of a higher proportion of insect larvae than that of older birds, which are reported to eat mostly snails.
4163745|We studied territorial and vocal behavior of Bicknell's Thrushes (Catharus bicknelli) on Mt. Mansfield, Vermont, during June to September 1992 and in June 1993 to 1995. Birds sang and called consistently throughout the day during early--mid June. Later in the season, songs were given infrequently, with vocalizations (mostly call notes) being concentrated at dawn and dusk. Spot-mapping of vocalizing males yielded breeding density estimates of 36-52 pairs/40 ha in 1992, 50-59 pairs/40 ha in 1993, 55-65 pairs/40 ha in 1994, and 45-53 pairs/40 ha in 1995. Other less labor-intensive techniques, including fixed-width point counts and fixed-width transects, generally resulted in lower density estimates. We recommend that future presence-absence surveys for Bicknell's Thrush in the north-eastern United States be concentrated from 1-20 June. Surveys from late June through mid-September should be attempted only if observers are able to be on-site before dawn or after sunset.
4163746| We conducted presence-absence surveys for Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) in Marine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, and Vermont during the 1992-1995 breeding seasons. The species was found at 234 sites, of which 225 (96%) were dominated by varying mixtures of balsam fir (Abies balsamea) and red spruce (Picea rubens). Ninety-one percent of the occupied sites were 915 m (3000 ft) in elevation. Size of occupied habitat patches was generally small; 73% of occupied areas delimited by the 915 m elevation contour were less than 1000 ha in extent. A logistic regression model using independent variables describing vegetation, elevation, land area 915 m located within 1 km of a site, and latitude successfully predicted thrush presence. There was no conclusive evidence of widespread population declines of Bicknell's Thrush in the United States; we found the species at 63 of 73 sites (86%) known to have been occupied prior to 1992. However, the restricted breeding distribution and narrow habitat requirements of Bicknell's Thrush in the United States suggest that it is vulnerable to habitat loss and degradation, and that continued efforts to document the species' status and ecology are warranted. 
4163747| We report the locations of 97 sightings of over 15,000 Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) color banded in Per, Panam, Mxico, British Columbia, and Alaska. Ninety-five sightings were made in states and provinces along the Pacific Coast of Central America and North America. One sandpiper banded in British Columbia and one from Per were seen east of the Rocky Mountains. We propose that most Western Sandpipers migrate from Central and South American winter quarters along the Pacific Coast of North America. We also propose that most post-breeding Western Sandpipers use a trans-Pacific route that bypasses southeast Alaska and makes landfall in southern British Columbia. Western Sandpipers that spend the winter on the Atlantic coast of the USA and in the Caribbean fly a trans-continental route beginning from the Pacific Coast of North America. 
4163748|Little is known about the breeding biology of the Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea), a species declining throughout much of its range. However, life history information can provide important insight into the vulnerability of a rare species to habitat disturbance. We studied the breeding behavior of Cerulean Warblers at three different sites in southeastern Ontario through the breeding season, from early May to late July 1995, and at one of the above sites in 1994. Twenty-seven nests, including three renests, were located within 27 territories. Average territory size was 1.04 ha (N = 18). Although both males and females displayed at potential nest sites, building was performed only by females and took five to six days. Nest trees were predominantly sugar maple (Acer saccharum) or oak (Ouercus spp.), with an average height of 17.7 m and an average diameter at breast height (DBH) of 40.2 cm. Average nest height was 11.8 m. There were no incidents of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and nest loss due to predation was low (14%). Incubation, performed only by females, lasted 11 to 12 days. Clutch size ranged from two to five eggs, with a modal clutch size of 5 (N = 6). During the 10 to 11 day nestling period, both males and females fed the chicks equally. Reproductive success in this population was high in both years. Twenty of the 27 pairs successfully fledged young, with a mean of 3.2 fledglings per successful nest. Record increases, and the high reproductive success of Cerulean Warblers in the Frontenac Axis area of the Canadian Shield, may be the result of reforestation of agricultural lands abandoned at the turn of the century.
4163749|We investigated avian grit use by examining the gizzard contents of 1440 birds collected from 12 states. Grit was present in gizzards of 62 of 90 species and varied greatly in number and mean particle size. Gizzards of granivorous birds contained more grit particles than those of insectivores, omnivores, and frugivores. Grit particle characteristics (mean size, shape, and surface texture) did not differ among birds consuming different diets. Mean grit size increased linearly with the common logarithm of the bird body mass. Within avian species, grit-use patterns did not differ by gender. Grit use is widespread among birds, and diet strongly influences the amount of grit used by birds.
4163750|For several decades general opinion has suggested that southern flying squirels (Glaucomys volans) have a negative effect on Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) through competition for cavities and egg/nestling predation. Complete removal of hardwood trees from Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity tree clusters has occurred on some forests because southern flying squirrel abundance was presumed to be associated with the presence and abundance of hardwood vegetation. In some locations, southern flying squirrels have been captured and either moved or killed in the name of Red-cockaded Woodpecker management. We determined southern flying squirrel occupancy of Red-cockaded Wood-pecker cavities in loblolly (Pinus taeda)--shortleaf (P. echinata) pine habitat (with and without hardwood midstory vegetation) and longleaf pine (P. palustris) habitat (nearly devoid of hardwood vegetation) during spring, late summer, and winter during 1990 and 1991. Flying squirrel use of Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavities was variable and was not related to presence or abundance of hardwood vegetation. Woodpecker nest productivity was not correlated with flying squirrel use of woodpecker cavities within clusters. In addition, we observed six instances where Red-cockaded Woodpeckers successfully nested while flying squirrels occupied other cavities in the same tree. Our results suggest that complete removal of hardwoods from woodpecker cluster areas in loblolly and shortleaf pine habitat may not provide benefits to the woodpeckers through reduction of flying squirrel numbers. Reduction of hardwood midstory around cavity trees, however, is still essential because of the woodpecker's apparent innate intolerance of hardwood midstory foliage.
4163751|I propose a method to test extensions of models concerning the maintenance of cooperative breeding systems that examines patterns of habitat use relative to the distribution of habitat components among territories. I analyzed habitat use and behavioral time budget data for a Texas population of the Western Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma californica). As a non-cooperative population, one of two habitat-use patterns was expected: (1) specialist habitat-use patterns in an abundant, widespread habitat type, with little variation among territories in habitat composition or (2) generalist habitat-use patterns with the potential of significant variation in habitat composition among territories. These jays show a combination of habitat-use patterns supporting both predictions. The only resources that males utilize as a specialist, tall oak trees during sentinel behavior, are fairly widespread and would not be considered a limiting resource. In the remaining habitat categories, Texas populations of Western Scrub-Jays act as generalists, using the habitat in relation to its availability, even though variation in habitat composition among territories is considerable. Variation among individuals within a sex was observed but could not be explained using various demographic and ecological correlates. Additional detailed habitat use data when used in a comparative framework can aid determination of subtle ecological differences among populations of Western Scrub-Jays and allow closer examination of intrinsic and extrinsic ecological models concerning the evolution and maintenance of cooperative breeding systems in this group.
4163752| We measured metabolizable energy and digestibility of Whooping Crane (Grus americana) winter foods (blue crab [Callinectes sapidus]), common Rangia clam (Rangia cuneata), wolfberry fruit (Lycium carolinianum [wolfberry]), and live oak acorn (Ouercus virginiana [acron])] with feeding trials to captive-reared Whooping Cranes. Apparent metabolizable energy coefficients (expressed as %) were for crab (34.1), Rangia clam (75.0), wolfberry (44.8), and acorn (43.2). Digestion coefficients for protein were lower for plant foods (48.9 and 53.4) than for animal foods (69.4 and 75.2). Digestion coefficients for total lipid differed among foods: highest and lowest lipid digestibility was for acorn (87.2) and wolfberry (60.0), respectively. We also determined total energy and percent protein and lipid of the four foods and stout razor clam (Tagelus plebeius); gross energy was 2-5 higher for acorn and wolfberry on a dry-weight basis than for blue crab and stout razor clam. Crude protein was 2-3 higher for blue crab than for wolfberry and stout razor clam. Wolfberry ranked the highest of five foods for metabolic energy and total lipid nutrient availability per kg of food ingested, and blue crab ranked highest for crude protein availability. 
4163753|We describe caching and related behavior of Red-headed Woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) wintering in a beech grove during a mast year and relate territorial behavior and territory size to territory-specific mast abundance. We found no difference between territories of adults and juveniles in either territory size or abundance of mast. Rates of caching and social interaction decreased over the course of the winter.
4163754|We studied temporal variation in abundance of Nearctic-Neotropical migrants, particularly the Northern Waterthrush (Seiurus noveboracensis), Prothonotary Warbler (Protonotaria citrea), and American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) in two black mangrove sites of central Panama from September 1993 through May 1995. The two sites, on the Caribbean and the Pacific coasts, differ importantly in annual rainfall, tide amplitude, and seasonal invertebrate abundance. Most migrant species varied temporally in abundance with the opposite pattern at each site, suggesting mid-winter movements correlated with abundance of food resources. Because of their wide geographic distribution and their particular response to hydrographic factors, mangroves are likely to have a temporally complementary role in sustaining migrant populations throughout the Neotropics. However, variations in migrant numbers reported in other Neotropical habitats could also reflect largescale movements by migrants. Occurrence of mid-winter (facultative) migration has been documented mostly for the Palearctic-African migratory system, and needs to be investigated in the Nearctic-Neotropical realm for proper conservation of migratory species.
4163755|Introduced grass dominated Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) fields were monitored in summer 1992 in Gratiot County, Michigan, to determine the relationship between field age and avian relative abundance, diversity, and productivity. Younger CRP fields (1-2 years old), best described as a combination of forbs and bare ground, had the greatest diversity and relative abundance of avian species. Older CRP fields (3-5/6 years old) were a combination of grasses and deep litter cover and had the greatest avian productivity. We recommend that after 3-5 growing seasons CRP fields be manipulated to provide a variety of successional stages to maintain simultaneously high avian relative abundance, diversity, and productivity.
4163756|I captured five female Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) and 12 female Lazuli Buntings (P. amoena) from a hybridizing population in Wyoming and tested them in the laboratory for their sexual display responsiveness to male traits (live male and broadcast vocalizations) of the two species. The females responded with more copulation solicitation displays when exposed to conspecific male traits than when exposed to heterospecific male traits. Consistent preference of female buntings for conspecific male characteristics in these choice tests, together with previous results, suggests that hybrid pairs may form when females are faced with a choice of mating heterospecifically or not at all.
4163757|We conducted road surveys of Puerto Rican Screech-Owls (Otus nudipes) by playing conspecific vocalizations in secondary wet forest and fragmented secondary moist forest in rural areas of eastern Puerto Rico. Six paired surveys were conducted bi-weekly beginning in April. We recorded number of owl responses, cloud cover, wind speed, moon phase, and number of cars passing during 5-min stops at 60 locations. Owls responded in similar numbers (P > 0.05) in both habitat types. Also, we detected no correlation of the number of owls with cloud cover, wind speed, moon phase, or passing cars.
4163758|I studied temporal abundance patterns and use of cover types by shorebirds foraging in coastal croplands on the eastern shore of Virginia from March 1991 through February 1992. A total of 21,254 shorebirds of 21 species was observed foraging in agricultural croplands. Shorebird abundance reached a peak during spring migration and was lower during fall and winter. Shorebird species richness was highest in fall and lower in spring and winter. Some species appeared to use fields primarily as alternate foraging habitat when preferred intertidal habitats were covered by high tides, whereas other species foraged in fields regardless of tidal height. Most species showed highly significant positive associations with plowed fields (bare earth) and negative associations with herbaceous vegetation > 10 cm tall. Associations with vegetated cover of < 10 cm varied seasonally, tending to be positive in spring and negative (or with no association) in fall and winter for most species. Because most shorebirds foraged on the cover type providing the least cover from predators (plowed fields), the observed cover associations may reflect differences in predator detection or foraging efficiency among the cover types.
4163771|We counted breeding birds at four plots in central Saskatchewan and four in western Manitoba in 1990-1992 to examine changes in species composition and abundance since the plots were originally surveyed in 1972-1973. In Saskatchewan, more species of Neotropical migrants decreased (16) than increased (9; P > 0.05 < 0.1). Combined densities of Neotropical migrants declined (14-44%) on all of the Saskatchewan plots; Tennessee Warblers (Vermivora peregrina), Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus), and Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) declined on the most plots and by the greatest magnitude and Black-throated Green Warblers (Dendroica virens) and Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (Pheucticus ludovicianus) also decreased. Six of seven Neotropical migrants showed the same direction of change as in a province-wide Breeding Bird Survey. Successional changes did not account for decreased densities of these five species, but they may partly explain increases in some other species. Fluctuations in food supply (e.g., spruce budworm [Choristoneura fumiferana]) could not explain changes, because some species that should have responded numerically to budworm outbreaks that occurred in the 1990s had increased whereas others had decreased at the same site. The surrounding forest remained continuous over the 17-18 years, so changes in forest area cannot account for the declines. In Manitoba, more Neotropical migrants increased (19) than decreased (11) according to combined densities from four plots. Combined densities of Neotropical migrants also increased at three of the four plots (33-123%). Ten of 15 Neotropical migrant species showed different 'trends' than a province-wide analysis of BBS data. All changes in Manitoba could be attributed to vegetation succession on the plots and forest fragmentation in surrounding landscapes. Trends in Saskatchewan may be representative of general declines within continuously forested boreal landscapes, whereas those in Manitoba may reflect reduced opportunities for breeding in /// continuous forest as the landscape is increasingly fragmented by agriculture.
4163772| We located 155 nests in 82 territories occupied by Northern Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington. All nests were in trees. Of 116 nests that were measured, 105 were in cavities and 11 were in external platforms on tree limbs. Cavity nests were typically in large holes in the side of the trunk or in the broken top of the trunk. Aspect of cavity entrances was non-random, with the majority of cavities facing east-north-east. Location of nest trees did not differ from expected values for slope aspect or position on slope. Proportions of nest sites in different percent slope categories differed from availability, with more nests than expected in the higher percent slope categories. Nests usually were in stands with high overall canopy closure ( 70%), but canopy closure in the immediate vicinity of the nest varied from 35-90%. Most nests (87%) were in multilayered stands dominated by large trees. Nests in younger stands were typically in stands where remnant old trees were present. Owls changed nests between successive nesting events in 80% of all cases. Changes in pair members on a territory did not influence the frequency with which pairs switched to a new nest tree in the next nesting year. Based on observed rates of attrition, the expected life span of nests was 120 years. 
4163773| We evaluated quality of nesting habitat and nest-site selection of an insular population of California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis). We assessed habitat structure for successful and unsuccessful nests from 103 independent territories at three spatial scales, and habitat selection by comparing nest stand structure with identical variables from random points. Fledging success was unrelated to nest type, nest tree, nest stand characteristics, or habitat type. However, nest productivity was greatest in lower elevation oak/big-cone fir habitat (1.7 fledglings per successful nest). Nest stands were characterized by greater variation in tree size, higher canopy closure, and greater basal area of large trees compared with random points. We were able to differentiate consistently between nest and random points using discriminant function models (79% correct classification). Our results confirm previous observations that California Spotted Owls will use a variety of habitats, but these habitats are consistently characterized by greater structural complexity compared with available habitat. 
4163774|Differential timing of passage by age or sex classes at sites along migration routes is ambiguous with respect to whether these groups differ in onset or rate of migration and provides little insight into the dynamics of differential timing. Therefore, we compared age-specific differences in timing of autumn migration by five species of passerines at three sites in eastern North America. Two species showed consistent differential timing of migration at all sites, with adults preceding immatures in Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus) and immatures preceding adults in Magnolia Warblers (Dendroica magnolia). Age differences in timing of passage by Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus), American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla), and Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) varied with year and location. The degree of differential timing varied substantially among sites within species. For Swainson's Thrush and Magnolia Warbler, species which breed largely to the north of all three sites, there was little evidence for differential rate of migration between age classes. Only the Red-eyed Vireo and Magnolia Warbler showed evidence of differential onset of migration. Our results point to the need for further data on the dynamics of differential timing as a prerequisite for testing hypotheses on the causes of differential migration.
4163775|Declines in Neotropical migratory land birds have been associated, in part, with decreases in productivity attributed to predation. Since those predators that affect off-spring production may be visually dominant (i.e., avian), vegetative nest concealment was quantified for Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) for fifty nests in a Delaware forest fragment in 1992 and 1993. Nest concealment was tested against age of owners (i.e., ASY vs SY) and with fledgling production. Though past studies have found an age-specific difference in per nest fledgling production, no age-specific differences in concealment were found. However, there was a positive relationship between nest concealment and fledgling output, accounting for 38% of the variation for 1992 and 19% for both years. Results from 1993 were not descriptive, since predation events were fewer. These results are consistent with the logic that the variability of predator communities in different habitats offers no adaptive strategies in nest concealment per se. However, birds may be choosing other, more holistic habitat qualities within territories which may offer greater nest concealment as a benefit.
4163776|Female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were systematically removed from two adjacent Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina) breeding populations for 2-5 years. All female cowbirds detected using playbacks were removed. Although an average of only 17 female cowbirds were removed annually from each population, this reduced the frequency of parasitism to < 10% of nests in most years. The average percentage of nests parasitized (53%) in populations with no cowbird control (N = 3) was significantly higher than for populations where female cowbirds were being removed (9%, N = 7). Experimental reduction of parasitism, however, did not result in a significant increase in number of young fledged per nest. Predation of entire clutches and broods effectively swamped the gains achieved by controlling female cowbirds. The effectiveness of cowbird removals as a management tool will likely vary with cowbird abundance and host species, but this study suggests that beneficial effects for the host species can be minimal.
4163777| We compared summer movement patterns of female Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) in southeastern Idaho before (1987-1989) and after (1990-1992) a prescribed fire which removed vegetation cover, primarily Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata wyomingensis), from approximately 57% of a 5800 ha area. Grouse moved 1-69 km (x = 17.8  2.0 km [SE]; N = 81) from breeding and nesting areas to summer ranges, predominantly in northwest or southwest directions during the 6-year period. There was no difference in timing, distance, or direction moved between birds captured in burned and unburned habitats. The data provided further evidence of traditional migration routes for Sage Grouse breeding and nesting in the Big Desert. 
4163778|We analyzed variability in growth of Red Kite (Milvus milvus) chicks using biometrical measures and urea and alkaline phosphatase blood levels. We used variables estimating relative mass and tarsus length growth rates during the 5-7 days before every blood extraction (short-term growth) and deviations of size (mass and tarsus length) from population averages at the age of blood extraction (long-term growth). We found a significant relationship between blood levels of alkaline phosphatase and short-term tarsus growth rate but not with long-term tarsus growth. Urea levels were correlated with long-term mass growth but not with short-term growth. We found some chicks with relatively rapid mass growth, slow tarsus growth, and low levels of alkaline phosphatase after periods of fasting. Chicks of Imperial Eagles (Aquila adalberti) showed less variable nestling periods but higher and more variable blood urea levels. These differences agree with theoretical predictions about the evolution of growth regulation abilities in relation to feeding ecology: the species with a more variable growth and more resistence to food deprivation can experience a more irregular and unpredictable food supply.
4163779|We quantified and characterized the nesting habitat of Malabar Gray Hornbills (Tockus griseus) Dec. 1993-May 1994 in the Anaimalai Hills of southern Western Ghats, India. Twenty-six nest-site variables were recorded in each of 27 nest plots to evaluate variability of nest-site selection. Malabar Gray Hornbills selected nest trees of significantly larger diameter at breast height (DBH 60-89 cm), and greater height of the lowest limb than the associated values from randomly chosen trees. The number of trees of 60-74 cm DBH class was significantly higher in the nest site plots than in the random plots. Most nests were in tall live trees and were formed primarily by heart rot where a branch had broken. Comparison of relative abundance of potential nest cavities and availability of trees in different DBH classes in belt transects indicates that more cavities were formed in trees of larger diameter. Density of potential nest cavities was 10/ha. Malabar Gray Hornbills consistently chose smaller trees than sympatric Great Hornbills (Buceros bicornis). This study indicates the need of mature moist forest habitat for nesting by the Malabar Gray Hornbill.
4163780|We studied the reproductive behavior of Swallow-tailed Kites (Elanoides forficatus) in northern Guatemala. Modal clutch size was two (range 1-2), but no nests succeeded in fledging more than one young. Eggs were laid at intervals of three to four days and hatched at intervals of three to five days. Second eggs weighed significantly less than first eggs. Second chicks either received no food or obtained so little that they did not grow. First chicks vigorously attacked their nestmates, and all second chicks died within five days of hatching. Food stress was not found to be a proximate cause of this behavior. Siblicide appears to be innate in this population of Swallow-tailed Kites, even though the northern subspecies does not exhibit this behavior. Swallow-tailed Kites are, in certain aspects, an anomaly among species within the order Falconiformes that exhibit obligate siblicide.
4163781|Lewis' Woodpeckers (Melanerpes lewis) on the plains in the Arkansas River valley and in the foothills of the Wet Mountains in southeastern Colorado used large, dead or decaying broadleaf cottonwoods (Populus deltoides) for breeding and for winter mast storage. On the plains, they nested near fallow and mowed fields, but avoided anthropogenic structures and grazed fields. During the 1992-1993 winter, woodpeckers occupied sites near corn fields, and stayed on these sites into the 1993 breeding season. In the foothills, they avoided dense stands of trees at all times of year, nested near grazed fields, and wintered near oaks. Riparian habitats were particularly important to Lewis' Woodpeckers in southeastern Colorado, especially those with large mature cottonwoods.
4163782| Home range and habitat use of Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) were studied within a managed pine forest in the Georgia Piedmont during the breeding season of 1994. The average home-range size was 127.9  2.4 (SD) ha for four males and 97.0  12.1 (SD) ha for three females. Home-range size of three breeding pairs averaged 133.0  4.5 (SD) ha. Red-shouldered Hawks were located almost exclusively within forested habitats (96% of locations). The overall pattern of habitat use for both sexes was similar. Bottomland hardwoods were used more often than expected, and upland hardwoods were used in proportion to availability at two spatial scales. Pine and non-forested habitats were used less often than expected relative to availability. Male and female core areas averaged 37% of the mean home-range size. 
4163783|We measured feeding rates of nestlings during 143 h of observation on 23 pairs of the extremely dichromatic and socially monogamous Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis). Males fed at higher rates than did females, both when measured as rate per brood and as rate per nestling. Only males maintained their feeding rate per nestling with an increase in brood size and increased their feeding effort as nestlings aged. Feeding efforts by mates were correlated, even when controlling for the effects of brood size. These results provide support both for hypotheses predicting subsantial male parental effort in socially monogamous birds and for the assortative mating hypothesis, predicting that birds of similar quality mate with one another. We reject the deflection hypothesis predicting low paternal provisioning effort in strongly dichromatic species and conclude that any cost to male cardinal ornamentation is not simply related to male activity at the nest.
4163802| Abundance of the Puerto Rican Vireo (Vireo latimeri) in Gunica Forest, Puerto Rico, has declined gradually over the period 1973-1996 as determined by constant-effort mist netting. Concurrent studies of breeding vireos show low nesting success, primarily due to parasitism by Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis). This decline may reflect the rather recent entry of the cowbird into Gunica Forest during the breeding season, as other factors (vegetation change, rainfall) do not seem to explain the decline. As a single-island endemic, it is important that the cause of this decline be determined so that recovery efforts can begin while the species is still moderately abundant. 
4163803|Most Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) populations are in pine forests that have been harvested at least once and are relatively young compared to old-growth stands. We quantified foraging behavior, year-round home range, and woodpecker productivity for groups within and proximal to an old-growth longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) stand from late 1992 to late 1993 in southwestern Georgia. Average year-round home range size for seven woodpecker groups in and adjacent to the old-growth stand based on minimum 95% convex polygons was 47.1 ha. Year-round home range was negatively correlated with the percentage of the home-range located within old-growth forest. In the old-growth stand the size class distribution of trees selected by woodpeckers for foraging was different than the distribution of trees available in size classes >30 cm dbh. As in other studies, males and females differed in foraging height and parts of the trees used. Clutch size and fledging rates of the seven study groups were also higher than reported in other studies. Red-cockaded Woodpeckers preferentially forage on large (and presumably old) trees. The small year-round home range, high density, large group size, and high productivity indicate that this old-growth longleaf forest is high quality habitat. We suggest that forest management intended to provide an adequate number of replacement cavity trees and quality foraging habitat for the Red-cockaded Woodpecker should have old trees across the landscape.
4163804|Extruder-produced food morsels of different colors and flavors were offered to Harris' Sparrows (Zonotrichia querula) and American Tree Sparrows (Spizella arborea). The consumption of these morsels was measured to determine positive or negative selection by these two species of birds. Birds consumed more brown and yellow morsels than blue or orange morsels and more butter-/and nut-flavored morsels than lime-flavored morsels. In this study, color selection probably reflected avoidance of blue and orange morsels, rather than a preference for brown and yellow morsels. Color discrimination among our birds was stronger than flavor discrimination. Elucidation of color and flavor preferences and avoidance characteristics may prove useful in developing granular pesticide delivery systems that reduce potential hazards for birds.
4163805|Sex-biased natal dispersal is common among many bird species, with females usually dispersing farthest. The relative dispersal distances of male and female American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) are unknown. We examined natal dispersal in Southeastern American Kestrels (F. s. paulus) in north-central Florida, observing birds marked as nestlings with either color bands or patagial tags. Natal dispersal distances of 34 kestrels ranged from 0.0 to 38.8 km. Mean natal dispersal distance of females (8.6 km) did not differ significantly from that of males (8.3 km) (P = 0.43). We determined that no relationship existed for either sex between dispersal distance and subsequent reproductive success. However, the relationship between hatching date and dispersal distance was marginally significant (P = 0.071); fledglings from earlier nests were more likely to breed close to their natal area than were those from late-season nests. Our results suggest that natal dispersal and site fidelity in Southeastern American Kestrels are determined, at least in part, by inter- and intra-sexual competition for breeding sites.
4163806|We studied the nesting success of Kentucky Warblers (Oporornis formosus) and Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) in 15 bottomland hardwood forests on the Savannah River Site, South Carolina, during 1993-1994. The Mayfield success rate for Kentucky Warbler nests (N = 26) and Hooded Warblers nests (N = 33) was 34.7% and 28.7%, respectively. The daily survival rate for Kentucky Warbler nests (0.952, SE = 0.018) did not differ (P = 0.157) from that for Hooded Warbler nests (0.941, SE = 0.014). Successful Kentucky Warbler pairs fledged more (P < 0.001) young (3.7, SE = 0.2) than Hooded Warbler pairs (2.7, SE = 0.2). Hatch-year birds comprised a greater (P < 0.01) proportion of captured individuals for Kentucky Warblers (hatch-year:after-hatch-year = 2.2) than for Hooded Warblers (hatch-year:after-hatch-year = 0.4), possibly reflecting the greater number of young produced per successful nest for the former, and suggesting differences in post-fledging survival or in fledgling behavior between the species.
4163807|We compared numbers of forest bird territories between forest edge and forest interior areas to determine whether clearcuts affect bird abundance in adjacent forest. We then simulated the distribution of territories that would be expected if birds were neither attracted to nor repelled by clearcut borders by randomly locating 100 1-ha circular "simulated" territories on scale maps of the study plots, with the condition that simulated territories were located entirely within mature forest. Plots were divided into successive 50-m distance classes extending from clearcut borders 300 m into forest interior, and the distribution of territories of each species among 50-m distance classes was compared with the distribution of simulated territories. Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus) and Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) were less abundant in edge areas, but the distribution of these species did not differ from the distribution of randomly placed simulated territories. We conclude that lower abundance of forest birds in edge areas is not necessarily evidence of edge avoidance but may be merely the result of the absence of suitable habitat beyond clearcut borders.
4163808|We used hourly counts of Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) migrating at Hawk Mountain during the autumns of 1992, 1993, and 1994, to examine the possibility that the extent to which time of day and local weather parameters affected the numbers of birds seen at the site varied over the course of autumn migration. Data were analyzed separately for early-, mid-, and late-season periods of migration. High versus low winds, following versus opposing winds, low versus high relative humidity, and high versus low barometric pressure were associated with increased hourly passage rates of Red-tailed Hawks. Relative humidity had a greater effect during early-season migration. Wind speed and wind direction had greater effects during late-season migration. We suggest that shifts in the extent to which weather affects the numbers of Red-tailed Hawks seen at Hawk Mountain Sanctuary result from seasonal shifts in the species' dependence on thermal-versus slope-soaring.
4163809|We studied timing, abundance, subspecies composition, fat stores, stopover length, and habitat use of Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii) during spring and fall stopover along the Middle Rio Grande, New Mexico. Spring migration started in mid-May and lasted about a month. Fall migration started in early-August and also lasted about a month. The most abundant subspecies was the Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (E. t. extimus), followed by E. t. brewsteri, E. t. adastus, and E. t. traillii. Nearly half of the Willow Flycatchers captured had no observable fat. Spring flycatchers had more fat stores than fall flycatchers. Willow habitat had the highest capture rate among the habitats sampled. Willow Flycatchers caught in willow habitat had higher fat stores than those caught elsewhere. Recaptured Willow Flycatchers had an average body mass gain of 1.6%/day with a short stopover length. Most Willow Flycatchers were unable to reach their destinations in a single flight, making it necessary for them to replenish their energy stores elsewhere en route. We suggest that the riparian woodlands of the middle Rio Grande provide important refueling sites for stopover flycatchers as they migrate between their breeding and wintering grounds.
4163810|We exposed nesting Northern Cardinals (C. cardinalis) to models of three predators of cardinal eggs or nestlings (black rat snake [Elaphe obsoleta], Blue Jay [Cyanocitta cristata], and eastern chipmunk [Tamias striatus]). We attempted to determine relative contributions to nest defense by males and females during the mid-nestling stage of the nesting cycle. For all defense variables monitored, mean responses did not differ between the sexes, although females spent more time in attendance at the nest. Latency to response to the models was strongly correlated between mates, but responses by mates appeared to be independent at the nest. There was little evidence for stimulus-specific defense. Parent bird responses to the predator models and to a mounted Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura, a "non-threat") likewise did not differ. Active defense of nests may be of limited importance to reproductive success in this cardinal population.
4163811|We examined the social and behavioral context of male and female duet and solo songs in Red-shouldered Blackbirds (Agelaius assimilis), formerly known as the Cuban race of the Red-winged Blackbird (A. phoeniceus). Songs were most common during intersexual interactions before birds were on breeding territories. In contrast to Red-winged Blackbirds, Red-shouldered Blackbirds sang relatively little and aggressive interactions were rare when they were on breeding territories. Our results suggest that duet and solo songs are important in pair bond formation and maintaining contact between mates.
4163812| Nests of the Black Swift (Cypseloides niger) usually are associated with water. Clutch size is invariably one. Incubation is by both adults and lasts ca 24 days, and the nestling period lasts ca 48 days. Nestlings reach and surpass adult mass before fledging and adult size in linear measurements after fledging. The species is single-brooded, probably because of the long incubation and nestling periods that must be accomplished in a brief period of time. /// El Vencejo Negro construye sus nidos en lugares hmedos cerca de agua. Invariablemente la postura es de un huevo, que es incubado por ambos sexos por un perodo de ca 24 das. El perodo de crecimiento dura ca 48 das. Las medidas de crecimiento se refieren por un lado a las que adquieren el tamao de adulto antes de salir del nido y por otro lado las medidas lineares que adquieren el tamao de adulto fuera del nido. El hecho de que esta especie tenga una sola nidada es debido a la larga incubacin y al largo perodo de crecimiento, que debe ser completado en un tiempo restringido. Durante el crecimiento el polluelo acumula grasa por tres posibles razones: seguridad contra lo impredicible de la disponibilidad de alimento, ayuda para la termoregulacin en el fro ambiente de los nidos y energa para su vuelo migratorio que posiblemente comience al salir del nido. 
4163813|I collected eggshell evidence at nest sites of Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus), Snowy Plover (C. alexandrinus), and Killdeer (C. vociferus) in southeastern Colorado during 1994-1995, and determined nest fate independently. Successful nests of all three species generally contained eggshell fragments (ca 1-4 mm) in the scrape and eggshell membranes separated from the eggshell. In comparison, eggshell "tops" or "bottoms" were found only near successful nests of Piping Plovers and Snowy Plovers. I used discriminant function analysis to predict the probability of correctly classifying a nest's fate given different types of eggshell evidence. The use of eggshell fragment evidence resulted in the correct classification of the fate of Snowy Plover and Killdeer nests in 90% and 96% of the cases, respectively. Eggshell evidence can be used in future studies to determine nest fate of shorebirds and increase the precision of estimates of reproductive success.
4163835|Observations of territoriality, vocalizations, display behavior, and nesting of the Velvet Asity (Philepitta castanea: Eurylaimidae: Philepittinae) indicate that this species is polygynous. Males defend nonresource-based, display territories that are distributed in dispersed leks. Male display repertoires include six elaborate secondary sexual display elements which are performed in both intrasexual and intersexual contexts. Pairs of female-plumage birds construct the nest outside of male territories, and females perform post-fledging parental care. Occasional observations of adult males in association with female-plumaged birds at the nest indicate potential plasticity in breeding behavior within the species. The evolution of the breeding system, display behavior, plumage, delayed male plumage maturation, and molt of the asities is discussed in a phylogenetic context. Two displays of P. castanea originally evolved in the common ancestor of the asities. The distinctive appearance of P. castanea in the breeding season is a worn basic plumage which has evolved by acquisition of a sexually dichromatic basic plumage and the loss of the prealternate molt. Delayed plumage maturation originally evolved in the common ancestor of the genus Philepitta. An additional, distinctive, predefinitive plumage stage-class has evolved in Schlegel's Asity (P. schlegeli).
4163836|It has been hypothesized that foraging tactics and ability of Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) are influenced by age, phenotype, and prey availability. We studied the influence of eagle age class and prey availability of kokanee salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) on foraging behavior of Bald Eagles during autumns of 1983 and 1984 at Glacier National Park, Montana. The relative use of foraging tactics differed among four age classes of eagles during both years. Stooping was the most successful tactic and was most frequently used by older birds. The relative use of stooping increased with age and the use of ground piracy tended to decrease with age. The relative use of different foraging tactics also reflected changing prey availability. During 1983, when lower numbers of salmon precluded accumulation of carcasses, eagles rarely used ground tactics (i.e., scavenging and ground piracy). In 1984, when salmon carcasses accumulated in large numbers, all age classes used ground tactics, which became the predominant foraging method of younger eagles. Our results support the hypotheses that the ability to obtain food increases with age and that eagles forage by methods for which their age class is most suited based on morphology (e.g., size and wing loading) and experience.
4163837|We studied the nesting ecology of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) in Berks and Lehigh Counties, Pennsylvania, from 1987-1991. Kestrels used 99 (76%) of 130 nest boxes dispersed throughout a 1000-km
4163838|We examined the significance of arroyo-riparian habitat to birds in the Chihuahuan Desert of south-central New Mexico. Nests (N = 620) of 27 species were monitored during 1993-1995. Twenty-three species nested in arroyos and 20 species nested in uplands. Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos), Rock Wrens (Salpinctes obsoletus), and Verdins (Auriparus flaviceps) nested most frequently in arroyos. Black-throated Sparrows (Amphispiza bilineata), Northern Mockingbirds, and Scott's Orioles (Icterus parisorum) nested most frequently in uplands. Nest density in arroyos was more than twice that of uplands (0.64 nests/ha versus 0.27 nests/ha). Nest success and predation rates did not differ between arroyos and uplands for Black-throated Sparrows, Northern Mockingbirds, and Crissal Thrashers (Toxostoma crissale). Nest predation was the primary cause of mortality to eggs and nestlings in both habitats. Torrey yucca (Yucca torreyi), javelina bush (Condalia warnockii), and little-leaf sumac (Rhus microphylla) were the most frequently used nest substrates, even though these shrubs were among the lowest in density. Maintaining this habitat and protecting sparse shrub species used as nest substrates may have long term importance in managing Chihuahuan Desert bird communities.
4163839|We quantified predation on artificial nests in Iowa roadsides and examined the relationships between nest predation and characteristics of roadsides. Transects consisting of 10 nests (five in the foreslope and five the in backslope) were set up in 136 roadsides in six watersheds in south-central Iowa. Most roadsides had herbaceous vegetation with fences (67%); fewer were wooded (18%) or had herbaceous vegetation without fences (15%). Most roads were gravel (80%), and most roadsides were adjacent to row crops (63%). Average total nest predation per transect was 23% (SE = 2), ranging from 0 to 100%. Nest predation was categorized into one of three outcomes: disappearance of eggs without disturbance to the nest bowl (39%), disappearance of eggs with disturbance to the nest bowl (17%), and broken or crushed egg shell fragments in or near the nest bowl (44%). Wooded roadsides and herbaceous roadsides with fences had significantly greater nest predation than herbaceous roadsides without fences for disappearance of eggs without disturbance to the nest bowl. Backslopes had significantly greater nest predation than foreslopes for all outcome categories except the disappearance of eggs with disturbance to the nest bowl. Wooded roadsides and herbaceous roadsides with fences along the backslope may provide cover and travel corridors for mammalian predators or elevated perches for avian predators.
4163840|We examined how habitat features affected nesting success of Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica) on Bylot Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, under high (1993) vs low (1994) nesting success and colonial vs isolated nesting (1994 only). Because Snow Geese nested in association with Snowy Owls (Nyctea scandiaca) in 1993, we also examined the relationship between nesting success and distance from owl nests. Predation, especially by Arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus), was the main cause of nesting failure on Bylot Island. In 1993, goose nests near an owl nest had better success than those farther away, and they also tended to be initiated earlier. Few habitat features were related to nesting success, although nests located in pond habitat had lower success than those in wet meadows or moist tundra. In 1994, Snowy Owls were absent, and goose nesting success was much lower than in 1993 (23-42% vs 90%). Isolated nests located on hillsides had higher success than those located in lowlands. In contrast, colonial nests were more successful in lowland wet meadows, where tall willow bushes (Salix lanata) were present, than in either moist tundra or hillsides. In the latter habitat, nests associated with Cassiope tetragona, a plant that typically grows in depressions between hummocks, had higher success than those associated with other vegetation. We conclude that nesting in association with raptors, such as Snowy Owls, that maintain a predator-free area around their nest, was probably a dominant factor affecting Greater Snow Goose nesting success. In the absence of owls, isolated nests had higher success in hilly habitats than in lowlands, whereas colonial nests in tall willows were most successful.
4163841|Nest-site selection and nest-entrance orientation patterns in Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii), an endemic grassland passerine that builds a domed nest on the ground were measured at nest sites and randomly selected non-nest sites, and nest-entrance orientations were compared to random, circular distributions and dawn azimuths. Pipits showed a preference for sites in dense, grassy, and relatively tall vegetation with low forb density and little bare ground, presumably because such sites offer protection against predation and heat stress. There was no significant directionality in terms of nest-entrance orientation, implying that potential thermal benefits of an east-facing nest play a limited role during nest-site selection.
4163842|We investigated the use by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) of five forest edge types and the forest interior of Green Ridge State Forest in the ridge and valley physiographic province of Maryland. Habitats were sampled, and breeding birds counted at each site. Cowbirds were detected in all habitats except forest interior; occurring most frequently in forest-brush (50.0% of points), -stream (46.3%), and -powerline (33.3%) edges. Among edge types, snag BA was also significantly (P < 0.01) higher at forest-powerline, -brush, and -stream edges than at forest-open road and -closed road edges. These habitats had high total vegetation volume (TVV), with which bird and host species abundances were positively associated. However, high TVV was not always indicative of high snag BA. With all habitats combined, bird species abundance, total vegetation volume (TVV), and foliage height diversity (FHD) at a height of 1-2 m were significantly (P < 0.05) higher at points where cowbirds were detected than at those where they were not detected, however only bird species abundance remained significant (P = 0.059) when forest interior was removed from the analysis. We propose that cowbirds in western Maryland select breeding areas based on: (1) distinct visible edges formed by canopy openings in the forest landscape, (2) occurrence of both high snag BA and high TVV at the forest edge, and (3) presence of high bird species abundance.
4163843|We examined ways in which American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) foraging in an urban environment balance the conflicting demands of finding food and avoiding predators. As individual vigilance (i.e., scanning) decreased, time devoted to foraging increased. Significant predictors of vigilance varied with location and included time of day, temperature, food availability, distance to nearest source of disturbance, cover distance, and size of foraging group. Group size and, secondarily, distance from cover accounted for most of the variability in vigilance. Crows were more vigilant in areas of high human disturbance than in areas of low human disturbance.
4163844|We compared patterns of nesting behavior of four pairs of Puerto Rican Parrots (Amazona vittata) that experienced failed nesting attempts to behavior of four pairs of parrots that experienced no substantial nest problems and successfully fledged young without management intervention. Only changes in female parrots' behavior were clearly associated with nest failure. During incubation, decreases in nest attendance, increases in duration of recesses, and increases in frequency of nest entries by female parrots were associated with imminent abandonment of nests. During early chick rearing, similar behavior was associated with the loss of broods. Low nest attendance and long recesses by female parrots during incubation were also associated with successful hatching of eggs followed by death of young several days later. The behavior patterns and changes in Puerto Rican Parrot nesting behavior described in this paper may alert biologists to nest problems that might be mitigated by management intervention.
4163845|We monitored wetland habitat use and inter-wetland moves of 52 Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) broods near Yorkton, Saskatchewan. Brood-attending females were equipped with radio transmitters and their locations monitored daily. Duckling survival in the first two weeks after hatching was not related to distance traveled to the first wetland nor the total distance traveled overland in the 14-day period. Brood-rearing females were found on one to five wetlands in the first week after hatch (mode = 2), and most (17 of 32) remained on one wetland in the second week (range = 1-5). Broods were found most frequently (69-95% of days) on semi-permanent wetlands. Conductivity on most (>95%) of these wetlands was <2000 microsiemens/cm; such levels are well below those known to affect duckling growth or survival. For 12 broods for which we had data on food (chironomid) abundance, we were unable to detect a relationship between inter-wetland movements and brood use. Nor was there evidence that duckling survival was related to levels of chironomid abundance.
4163861| The systematics of the genus Spindalis of the Greater Antilles and Cozumel Island, off Yucatan, are herein analyzed. Meristic data, coloration, and weight of the eight described taxa are compared. A table with extremes and means of all measurements is provided. Vocalizations of most of the principal taxa are compared. Final analysis of these comparisons suggests that rather than representing a single polytypic species, this complex is a superspecies with four allospecies: zena, portoricensis, dominicensis, and nigricephala. Therefore the Jamaican population becomes an endemic species, Spindalis nigricephala, as does the Puerto Rican S. portoricensis. Hispaniola and Gonave Island are inhabited by S. dominicensis. The fourth allospecies, S. zena, is a polytypic species represented by five endemic subspecies: S. z. zena in some islands of the Northern and Central Bahamas; S. z. townsendi confined to Grand Bahama, the Abacos, and Green Turtle Cay; S. z. pretrei in Cuban territory; S. z. salvini confined to the island of Grand Cayman; and S. z. benedicti confined to Cozumel Island, east of the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. A zoogeographic comparison with other endemic West Indian genera is presented. /// El presente trabajo analiza la situatin sistemtica de los ocho txones del gnero Spindalis en las Antillas y en la isla de Cozumel, tomando en consideracin las diferencias morfolgicas (medidas, patrn, peso, diseo y coloracin) en ambos sexos, resumidas en una tabla con sus medias y extremos. Una comparacin de sus vocalizaciones es tambin expuesta, con sonogramas de algunos de los principales taxnes. El resultado de estas comparaciones sugiere que no estamos en presencia de una especie politpica, sino de una superespecie con cuatro aloespecies bien diferentes: zena, portoricensis, dominicensis y nigricephala, por lo tanto la poblacin de Jamaica est representada por una especie endmica, Spindalis nigricephala, al igual que Puerto Rico con Spindalis portoricensis y Spindalis dominicensis en Santo Domingo, incluyendo la Isla de Gonave. La cuarta aloespecie, Spindalis zena, es una especie politpica, representado por cinco subespecies endmicas: Spindalis zena zena, presente en algunas islas del norte y centro de las Bahamas; S. z. townsendi, confinada a las islas Abaco y Grand Bahama y a Green Turtle Cay, del norte de las Bahamas; S. z. pretrei, representada en el territorio cubano; S. z. salvini, confinada a la Isla de Gran Caymn, y S. z. benedicti, confinada a la isla de Cozumel, al este de la pennsula de Yucatn. Se especula sobre el presunto aislamiento geogrfico de estas poblaciones, as como se correlaciona el gnero Spindalis con otros gneros representados en las Antillas que pueden constituir presuntas de formas vicariantes. 
4163862|I examined the long-term dynamics of wintering and breeding bird communities at the Barrens Grouse Habitat Management Area (HAM) in central Pennsylvania. I compared community structure (species richness and population abundances) among three forested sectors that varied in extent of clearcutting and among forested plot types of different age since clearcutting from 1993-95 (termed period 2). These results, which were obtained six-eight years subsequent to a third cutting cycle, were then contrasted to those from a previous study (1988-90, termed period 1). The Barrens Grouse HMA consisted of three distinct sectors: a contiguous uncut stand, a series of uncut strip corridors, and a mosaic of small (1 ha) forest patches (plots). I observed 12 wintering bird species in period 2; most species (67%) were trunk-bark foragers. Uncut plots were used more often (P < 0.05) by wintering birds than clearcut plots, perhaps because uncut plots contained rough-barked trees as foraging substrate and more favorable microclimatic conditions. Of the 40 breeding bird species noted in period 2, most were ground-shrub foragers occurring principally in forested corridor and patch sectors. Abundances of six ground-shrub foraging species were higher (P < 0.05) in the forested patch than in other sectors in period 2; these species were found primarily in recent clearcut plots. Abundances of sallier-canopy foragers were higher (P < 0.05) than expected in contiguous forest and forested corridor sectors in period 2. Species richness, abundances of all wintering species combined, and abundances of two foraging guilds (trunk-bark and ground-shrub foragers) were similar among sectors in periods 1 and 2 in both winter and the breeding season. Abundances of three wintering species, however, were greater (P < 0.05) in period 2 than in period 1. In contrast to winter, abundances of all breeding species combined, sallier-canopy foragers, and five species increased (P < 0.05) between periods, whereas abundance of three species declined. Significant changes in abundances of wintering and breeding birds between periods at the Barrens Grouse HMA may be explained partially by plant succession or regional trends in population abundances.
4163863| Woodpeckers were censused in 60 fixed-radius (300 m) circular plots (divided into eight 45-arc pie-shaped sectors) in mature forests (60-80 years-old) of three forest types (20 plots per type) in eastern Texas: bottomland hardwood forest, longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) savannah, and mixed pine-hardwood forest. A total of 2242 individual woodpeckers of eight species was detected in 144 h of censusing. Vegetation characteristics in plot sectors with and without woodpeckers were compared. Woodpecker presence and abundance were primarily associated with the occurrence of large snags and logs. Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus) were the most abundant and widespread species, especially in areas containing more hardwoods than pines. Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) were the least abundant and most habitat-restricted woodpecker, occurring only in the longleaf pine savannah. Pileated Woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) were the most evenly distributed species among the forest types, but occurred primarily in mature forests with large snags and logs. Bottomland hardwood forests were important for Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus), Red-headed Woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus), and Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus varius) during the fall and winter, and for Downy Woodpeckers (Picoides pubescens) during the summer and winter. The Hairy Woodpecker (P. villosus) was most frequently encountered in areas of recent disturbance in the mixed pine-hardwood forests, especially in fall. Vocal imitation of a Barred Owl (Strix varia) increased the number of woodpecker detections by 71%. 
4163864| We studied non-breeding territorial behavior of Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla), and documented the proportion of individuals of Least (C. minutilla) and Western (C. mauri) sandpipers exhibiting territoriality during fall of 1994 and 1995 at the Cabo Rojo salt flats, Puerto Rico. Territoriality was exhibited by 8-19% of the population, with Least Sandpipers exhibiting the highest proportion of all three species. The prevalence and size of territories of Semipalmated Sandpipers was influenced by the availability of high prey density sites, bird density, and aggression levels. Individuals defended territories in areas of highest prey densities (0.16  0.009 /cm
4163865|To test the hypothesis that within-season dispersal and nest-site modification (e.g., changes in nest concealment) occur in Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) as a result of predation of the previous nest, we examined differences in nest height, vegetation density surrounding the nest, nest visibility, and distances between first and second nests. The average distance between successful nest sites and renesting sites was significantly greater than the average distance between unsuccessful nest sites and renesting sites. The concealment variables of renesting sites were not significantly different from either successful or unsuccessful first nest sites. The probability of success of a Hooded Warbler's renest after predation was the same as the probability of success of all first nests (approximately 50%). Our data suggest that predation does not play a role in the selection of renesting sites in Hooded Warblers. We propose that the greater dispersal of successful females was due to their avoidance of fledglings that remained near the nest with the male.
4163866| We studied the breeding biology of Royal (Sterna maxima) and Cayenne terns (S. eurygnatha) at Punta Len, Patagonia, during 1989-93. In all years, both species bred in a single colony with their nests intermingled. Colony size varied between 1,150 and 1,830 pairs. Colony formation occurred during the first or second week of October. Nesting densities were relatively high (9.8 to 11.1 nests/m
4163867|We here present the first detailed analysis and sonagrams of the vocalizations of the Rio Branco Antbird (Cercomacra carbonaria) and augment the scant literature concerning its abundance, habitat preferences, and behavior. Based on vocal similarities, we examine the possible relationships of the Rio Branco Antbird to other species in the genus.
4163868|Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) fitted with satellite transmitters (PTTs) on the outer coast of the Yukon-Kuskokwim (Y-K) Delta, Alaska, migrated eastward across the Y-K Delta in late September and stopped at wetlands on the west side of the Alaska Range during early October. After crossing the Alaska Range, swans stopped briefly on the Susitna Flats of Upper Cook Inlet. They then migrated eastward into the Yukon, Canada, and from there flew southward, paralleling the Wrangell Mountains through the interior of the Yukon to a staging area in northeastern British Columbia. They gradually migrated through central Alberta and southwest Saskatchewan and across Montana to a staging area in southeastern Idaho. They remained in southeastern Idaho from mid-November until early December when they migrated across Nevada to the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta of California. Spring migration routes were similar to those used in autumn. Band returns and observations of neck-banded swans corroborated the general autumn and spring migration routes of PTT-marked birds. Swans stopped only briefly (<3 days) at staging areas in Alaska and northern Canada but lingered at migration areas in Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Idaho.
4163869|We summarize Tundra Swan (Cygnus columbianus) and Trumpeter Swan (C. buccinator) observations from Mexico recorded by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service during January aerial waterfowl surveys, 1947-94, other winter surveys and observations, 1972-95, and band recoveries. Swans were not identified by species with certainty during aerial surveys, but were presumed to be Tundra Swans. A total of 121 swans, including five band recoveries was reported at 22 locations in seven Mexican states; 83 were in the Interior Highlands, 23 near the Gulf Coast, and 15 in Pacific Coast states. Most records were from Chihuahua (66), followed by Tamaulipas (23), Durango (13) and Sonora (11): eight were from three other states. The most commonly used winter area was Laguna de Santa Maria in northern Chihuahua where 29 swans were observed. Of 121 swans recorded, three were identified as Trumpeter Swans in Chihuahua (2) and Tamaulipas (1) and two others as possible Trumpeters in Durango. These data and information from other sources show that Tundra Swans and Trumpeter Swans are rare and irregular winter visitors, mainly to northern Mexico.
4163870|We documented Yellow Rail (Coturnicops noveboracensis) food habits through the use of tartar emetic, a non-destructive method to collect stomach contents. A total of 71 rails were forced to regurgitate during 9 Jun.-25 Aug. 1994 and 16 May-31 Jul. 1995, from which we obtained 105 emetic samples. Almost 95% (99/105) of samples contained food items. Overall, mean number of taxa within one sample was 4.7 (SD = 3.2; Range = 1-13; N = 99): 1.1 (SD = 1.6; Range = 0-7) for seeds and 3.6 (SD = 2.1; Range = 0-8) for invertebrates. Sand grit, feather fragments, and plant fragments were also identified in many samples. Totals of 1169 organisms from 52 taxa were identified and counted in the samples: 372 seeds from 18 taxa and 797 invertebrates from 34 taxa. Invertebrates and seeds had relative frequencies of 68.1% and 31.9%, respectively, and the mean number of individuals counted within samples was significantly higher (P < 0.001) for invertebrates (Mean = 8.1; SE = 0.8; Range = 0-44) than for seeds (Mean = 3.8; SE = 0.9; Range = 0-44). Among the first group, Coleoptera (beetles) were by far the most important food, representing almost two-thirds of invertebrates eaten and having a relative frequency of 42.5%. Araneae (spiders) were second, with a relative frequency of 13.3%, while other taxa ranked far lower. Of seeds identified, Cyperaceae (sedges) and Juncaceae (rushes), particularly genera such as Carex, Juncus, and Eleocharis, were the most important food items, with relative frequencies of 12.7%, 6.5%, and 3.1%, respectively. According to our results, during summer the Yellow Rail is mostly an arthropod-feeder that complements its diet with seeds. Effects of tartar emetic on birds were negligible and this technique appeared to be very successful, suggesting that it could be used as an alternative to sacrificing rails in future dietary studies.
4163871|Previous research on House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) in Europe indicated that males with larger bibs are more likely to obtain nest sites with multiple potential nests. To test this observation experimentally, I created nest sites containing either one or two nest boxes. I found no morphological differences, including bib size, between males at single-box nest sites (SBNS's) and those at double-box nest sites (DBNS's). Pairs in DBNS's were more likely to renest than pairs in SBNS's in 1992, leading to increased seasonal reproductive success for pairs at DBNS's. Although pairs at DBNS's fledged more young over the season, I could not detect a strong preference for DBNS's. Pairs in DBNS's did not begin reproducing prior to those in SBNS's, as might be expected if birds preferentially occupied DBNS's prior to SBNS's. More DBNS's than SBNS's were occupied in 1991, but this was not true in 1992 when sample sizes were larger.
4163872|Cape Sable Seaside Sparrows (Ammodramus maritimus mirabilis) breeding within eastern Everglades National Park were philopatric and moved only short distances between clutches. Incubation required 12 days, nestlings fledged at 9.2 days, and fledgling care ranged from eight to 20 days. The total nest cycle encompassed 34-44 days. Nestlings were fed spiders and insects, primarily Orthoptera, Lepidoptera, and Odonata. Diet varied between years and study sites. With the onset of summer rains, predation rate increased, and nest success decreased. Breeding activity diminished throughout June, coinciding with rising water in nest areas. Our results indicated that the lack of breeding habitat and the onset of summer flooding limit the breeding potential of Cape Sable Seaside Sparrows.
4163893|We observed, tape recorded, and photographed birds of the Alaka'i Plateau on Kaua'i, Hawai'i for one week during the summer of 1975. We observed all but one of the island's historically known species and compared the Alaka'i Plateau with the more accessible Koke'e area. Ours were the last studies before catastrophic changes in the Kaua'i avifauna and included many observations that cannot now be repeated. This retrospective report presents our findings in the light of subsequent events. Because our Alaka'i studies were seminal in the development of the current AOU classification of Hawaiian native passerines, we defend that classification against recent challenges and further refine it. The controversial genus Hemignathus is shown to be supported by a suite of synapomorphies of plumage, bill morphology, and vocalizations. We advocate removal of the 'Anianiau from Hemignathus and classify it as Magumma parva. Our studies of foraging behavior and vocalizations support the recent recognition of the Kaua'i 'Amakihi (H. kauaiensis) as a separate species and suggest that the 'Elepaio (Chasiempis) is best split into three species (sclateri, ibidis, and sandwichensis). Major hurricanes in 1983 and 1992 appear to have severely impacted Alaka'i bird populations with the subsequent extinction of the Kaua'i 'O'o (Moho braccatus) and possibly the Kama'o (Myadestes myadestinus), and the island population of 'O'u (Psittirostra psittacea). We report some of the last natural history observations on these species. Formerly adaptive strategies for storm survival, including taking refuge in valleys, are no longer effective because the lowlands are now infested with mosquito-borne avian diseases. The Puaiohi (M. palmeri), a ravine specialist, suffered less from the storms although its population remains perilously low. Other forest birds, especially the 'Akikiki (Oreomystis bairdi), show noticeable declines since 1975. We speculate that introduced organisms such as alien plants can have a deleterious effect on ecosystems by altering feeding methods of birds even in areas where the weeds do not occur. We caution against the overly conservative use of species-level taxa for setting conservation priorities on remote islands.
4163896| We compared avian community composition, species richness, and total bird abundance among three vegetation types (bayheads, willowheads and marshes), and between a reduced-hydroperiod and relatively unimpacted landscape in the central Everglades during July-August, 1996. Our results showed that the collective Everglades bird community contained a substantial number of forest birds as well as marsh species. Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), and White-eyed Vireos (Vireo griseus) accounted for 65% of total individual birds during the period of study. Wading birds accounted for a relatively small proportion of the total avian community. White-eyed Vireo was the most abundant bird species in bayheads and was closely associated with that habitat. Red-winged Blackbird and Common Yellowthroat were the most abundant species in both willowheads and marsh vegetation. We found no significant difference in bird abundance among vegetation types (P > 0.05) nor between landscapes (P > 0.05). We also found no difference in species richness between landscapes (P > 0.05). A significant (P = 0.02) interaction between vegetation and landscape indicated that species richness differed among vegetation types in the unimpacted landscape, but not in the reduced-hydroperiod landscape. In the unimpacted landscape we detected significantly more species in bayheads than the other two vegetation types (both tests, P  0.004). An ordination revealed that in the unimpacted landscape, bird communities were more specific to vegetation types than in the reduced-hydroperiod landscape. Our study demonstrates that two characteristics of a relatively unimpacted landscape in the central Everglades are higher avian species richness and a more distinct avian community in bayheads than in willowheads or marshes. The Everglades restoration process will promote the conservation of avian diversity by restoring the landscape matrix of both marsh and bayhead vegetation. 
4163897| We studied effects of mate removal on nesting and hatching success, incubation behavior, body mass, and post-hatch dispersal distance of female Ross' (Chen rossii) and Lesser Snow Geese (C. caerulescens caerulescens) at Karrak Lake, N.W.T., Canada. Male geese were removed during early incubation (days 1-8), and widowed and paired control females were monitored through post-hatch dispersal. Nesting and hatching success did not differ between species or treatments (widowed vs paired) and averaged 77.5  3.8% and 64.0  3.6% (SE), respectively. Paired females spent more time with their bills tucked (23.7  3.3% vs 9.1  4.0%) and less time alert (8.6  2.9% vs 22.9  3.5%) while on nests than did widowed females. Snow widowed females (31.1  4.7%) and Ross' widowed females (20.6  6.0%) generally spent more time each day in head-up alert than did Snow paired females (7.1  3.8%), Snow paired males (11.8  3.8%), Ross' paired females (9.4  3.6%), and Ross' paired males (7.9  3.6%). Body mass of paired and widowed female Ross' Geese did not differ at hatch or at time of post-hatch recapture; however, mean distance recaptured from the breeding colony was greater for paired (50.9  6.1 km) than for widowed females (27.3  6.6 km). Total mass gain (276  19 g) and rate of mass gain (8.4  0.5 g/day), from hatch until post-hatch recapture (33.1  1.2 days), were similar for widowed and paired female Ross' Geese. Male removal experiments in monogamous, precocial species generally have produced few effects on female nesting success or incubation behavior. We suggest that male parental care in arctic-nesting geese is more critical during laying and the post-hatch period than during incubation. 
4163898|This study provides evidence for hybridization between Roseate (Sterna dougallii) and Arctic (S. paradisaea) Terns. I observed a male Arctic and female Roseate Tern engaging in courtship, copulation, incubation and chick-feeding behavior on Country Island, Nova Scotia, Canada in 1996. The Roseate laid a single egg which hatched after 21 days. The chick, which I banded after hatch and weighed every other day, survived for 16 days before it was presumed depredated. The chick most resembled an Arctic Tern because its down lacked the spiny texture of Roseate chicks and it did not develop the dark, U-shaped dorsal markings characteristic of juvenile Roseates. The feeding rate for the mixed-species pair was below the mean, but within the range, of feeding rates for Roseate pairs at Country Island in 1996. The hybrid chick initially grew at the same rate as other Roseate chicks at this colony, but its growth slowed after 9 days such that it weighed less than all Roseate chicks under study. A skewed sex ratio, misimprinting on heterospecific vocalizations or parental inexperience may have led to this mating.
4163899|A nest of the White-rumped Pygmy Falcon, Polihierax insignis, was observed in Thailand for five days during the incubation period. The nest site in a woodpecker hole and the white eggs are described for the first time. Observations on diet, hunting and breeding behavior are also described. The systematic position of the species is discussed.
4163900| We studied Plumbeous Kites (Ictinia plumbea) in Tikal National Park, Petn, Guatemala, from 1991-1996. We documented productivity of 19 nesting attempts and studied behavior at six nests each during incubation and nestling periods. Nesting was highly synchronous among pairs, with eggs hatching late in the dry season and young fledging at the onset of the rainy season, a time of maximal prey abundance. Kites built stick nests high in exposed situations in living or dead trees, often reusing the same nest or a nearby alternate site in subsequent years. We observed only clutch sizes of one. Based on museum records, latitudinal variation in clutch size occurs, with single-egg clutches the norm except at the northern- and southernmost limits of the species' range, where two-egg clutches have been found. Fifty-eight percent of eggs hatched, and 64% of those resulted in fledged young, producing 0.37 fledglings per nesting attempt. Pair members shared incubation duties in a 60:40 ratio, and each adult caught its own food throughout the nesting cycle, differing from most raptors in these respects. We hypothesize that these patterns result from prey characteristics that make it inefficient for the male to provision the female at the nest. During incubation, one adult or the other was on the nest 97.8% of the time, and incubation shifts averaged 1.99 h. Two incubation periods were 32 and 33 days, and four nestlings fledged at an average age of 38.5 days. Similar to Mississippi Kites (Ictinia mississippiensis) in most regards, Plumbeous Kites laid a smaller clutch, and, unlike Mississippi Kites, held regularly-spaced breeding sites 0.5 km apart and exhibited intraspecific territorial behavior. 
4163901|The behavior of adults and nestlings at nine Eastern Screech-owl (Otus asio) nests in central Kentucky was monitored by videotaping the owls in specially-constructed nest boxes. Adult screech-owls delivered 1281 prey items during 164 h of taping. Nestlings fed first by adults started to beg significantly earlier, extended their beaks higher and closer to the adult, and called at higher rates and with greater volume than did siblings that were not fed first. In addition, nestlings fed first started begging earlier, stretched their beaks higher, positioned their beaks closer to the adult, and vocalized at a higher rate than when they were not fed first. In addition, after being returned to the nest, nestling screech-owls temporarily deprived of food begged with greater intensity and were fed more often than siblings. Such results provide further evidence for the positive relationship between hunger, begging intensity, and the chances of being fed. Our results also indicate, however, that nestling mass may be important in determining which nestlings will be fed when differences in the mass of siblings reach a certain level. We observed no siblicide or other aggression between siblings. Contributing to this absence of aggression may have been the large boxes used for videotaping and an abundant food supply. It is also possible, however, that aggression and siblicide occur infrequently in broods of screech-owls.
4163902|The availability of cavities can determine whether territories are occupied by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis). However, there is no information on whether the number of cavities can influence group size and population stability. We compared group size between 1993 and 1995 in 33 occupied cluster sites that were provisioned with artificial cavities. The number of groups with breeding pairs increased from 22 (67.7%) in 1993 to 28 (93.3%) in 1995. Most breeding males remained in the natural cavities that they had excavated and occupied prior to cavity provisioning in the cluster while breeding females and helpers used artificial cavities extensively. Active cluster sites provisioned with artificial cavities had larger social groups in 1995 (x = 2.70, SD = 1.42) than in (x = 2.00, SD = 0.94; Z = -2.97, P = 0.003). The number of suitable cavities per cluster was positively correlated with the number of birds per cluster (r
4163903|Southern pine beetle (Dendroctonus frontalis) infestation is the major cause of mortality for Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity trees in loblolly (Pinus taeda) and shortleaf (P. echinata) pines. Recent intensive management for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers includes the use of artificial cavity inserts. Between 1991 and 1996 we examined southern pine beetle infestation rates of pines with natural vs artificial cavities in loblolly and shortleaf pine habitat on the northern portion of the Angelina National Forest. No significant difference existed in the rate at which southern pine beetles infested and killed pines with natural cavities vs those with artificial cavity inserts (
4163904|We obtained data for 23 habitat characteristics from plots at foraging sites of five groups of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) and compared to randomly selected plots. Five groups occupied an average home range size of 24.82 ha. The birds foraged mainly in large pines having high crown volume and a long exposed bole. Foraging birds also favored stands with little understory and open spacing between foraging trees and neighboring ones. Shortleaf pine (Pinus echinata) was used in foraging 95% of the time over hardwoods. Woodpecker home range sizes in this shortleaf pine habitat were much smaller than in other types of forests. This may be due to the physical attributes of shortleaf pines combined with the ridged topography of the Ouachita Mountains. The vegetational requirements for foraging stressed the largest pines, open forest, and reduced hardwood understory, thus agreeing with other foraging studies of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers.
4163905| We document nesting of Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri), Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus), Green-tailed Towhee (Pipilo chlorurus), and Fox Sparrow (Passerella iliaca) in the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir of northern Baja California. These species are relatively widespread in the mountains of southern California. Additional species recently observed in the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir in summer remain as unconfirmed breeders in Baja California [Northern Saw-whet Owl (Aegolius acadicus) and Townsend's Solitaire (Myadestes townsendi)] or all of Mexico [Hermit Warbler (Dendroica occidentalis)]. 
4163906|I describe 23 observations of 4 Greater Prairie-chicken males displaying from a tree in eastern Kansas. This was observed on a lek located in predominantly native tallgrass prairie containing a few scattered trees.
4163907|I recorded the spatial distribution of Black Vultures (Corogyps atratus) and Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) roosting on electricity pylons in south Texas on 14 evenings. Both species clearly preferred to roost on the upper level of the pylons, and when there was little competition for space most vultures used the upper middle section. However, as densities of vultures increased, Black Vultures monopolized the upper level and Turkey Vultures became increasingly concentrated on the lower level. Although there were many potential roosting sites available on other pylons, Turkey Vultures chose to roost on the lower level of occupied pylons rather than move. Their decision to stay suggests that there is a potential cost to moving, perhaps an increased risk of predation.
4163908|Communal roosting is reported for the first time in Mariana Crows (Corvus kubaryi) on Guam, Mariana Islands. Counts of at least 66 and 25 birds were made at a roost over a 2-week period. The causes of this behavior are uncertain, but are perhaps related to encounters with brown tree snakes (Boigairregularis), which recently became established on the island.
4163909|Anting behavior is widespread among passerine species but its function is unknown. In typical anting episodes, a bird holds an ant or other object in the bill and rubs it in the plumage. In addition to ants, many other objects have been used for "anting." Here I describe the use of a caterpillar for anting by a tropical warbler, and evaluate four of the hypothesized functions of anting in light of this observation. I suggest that an experimental approach is likely to yield insight into the adaptive significance of anting.
4163910|Although interspecific brood adoption has been reported in several species of birds, the process by which it occurs has seldom been reported. We observed a pair of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) that adopted a brood of Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) and, gradually, over several days, took over the parental duties of the original parents. During the first five days of the nestling period, the brood was only attended by Yellow Warblers. In the following three days, however, a pair of Song Sparrows took over an increasingly larger proportion of the parental duties. This adoption probably resulted from misdirected parental care. Although the factors that led to the adoption are unknown, it is clear that the absence of the original parents was not prerequisite.
4163911|Unlike most birds, brood parasitic Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) must find host nests in which to lay their eggs. Female cowbirds have been reported using several methods to find nests. Here, I report on two observations of cowbirds near host nests that are consistent with two hypotheses, nesting-cue and "flush" method, regarding techniques cowbirds may use to find host nests. The nesting-cue hypothesis poses that cowbirds are directed to host nests by host's typically increasing aggressive behavior towards cowbirds as they approach the nest, whereas the flush method poses that cowbirds attempt to spot a concealed nest by rousing the host from it with intentionally noisy behavior near the nest. Unlike other reported observations of female cowbirds near potential host nests, male cowbirds were present during both observations.
4163912| We examined nests of the endangered Florida Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum floridanus) on the U.S. Air Force Avon Park Range, Highlands County, Florida. Nests (n = 20) were located on the ground in shallow (3.2 cm) excavations in the sand substrate. All were domed (>50% of the cup covered) and made of grass and grass-like monocots. Most (75%) were shielded by a low (<29.5 cm) growth of dwarf live oak (Quercus minima). Nest opening directions were randomly oriented (P > 0.05). Vegetation density was significantly lower in the nest opening quadrant than in other quadrants (P = 0.003). An exposed area at the nest opening would facilitate access and make predator distraction displays more visible. 
4163925| Two distinct forms of Masked Booby (Sula dactylatra) occur in the eastern Pacific: (1) a yellow-billed form that includes a population on Clipperton Island and islands off western Mexico (S. d. "californica"), and another, unnamed, population on Las Islas Desventuradas, Chile, and (2) an orange-billed form [S. (d.) granti] that nests almost exclusively on the islands of the Galpagos and on Malpelo Island, Colombia. Quantitative comparisons, including discriminant function analysis (DFA) of standard morphological characters indicated that yellow-billed populations are only marginally different from one another, and neither is consistently separable from S. d. personata, a yellow-billed form that ranges over most of the tropical Pacific. Further, we found no consistent differences in bare-part coloration or plumage among yellow-billed populations. In contrast, DFA indicated morphological differences between orange- and yellow-billed populations. The orange-billed bird is smaller with a significantly shorter, shallower bill, shorter tarsus, and longer wings and tail. It is also more sexually dimorphic and has distinct plumage characters. Biological observations also support the distinctness of orange-billed birds. They typically nest on cliffs and steep slopes, whereas yellow-billed forms nest mainly on low, flat areas. A difference in habitat preference at sea resulted in a parapatric distribution: orange-billed birds away from colonies concentrated in nearshore waters off the coast of the Americas, whereas the yellow-billed forms foraged much farther offshore. Most importantly, orange- and yellow-billed birds paired assortatively where they nested sympatrically. Thus, based on morphological and biological differences, including positive assortative mating, we recommend that Sula granti be recognized as a separate species, the Nazca Booby. 
4163926|We documented the seasonal abundance, distribution, and relative importance of outer beach habitats to shorebirds on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The Outer Banks span 228 km and attract millions of tourists every year, underscoring the need for baseline data for conservation. Twenty-one species were recorded during the study. The most abundant were Sanderling (Calidris alba), Red Knot (Calidris canutus), and Willet (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus). As an assemblage, shorebirds were most abundant in May and August. Peak numbers for each species were recorded between April-May and July-September. The greatest numbers were recorded on North Beach and the lowest on South Beach (1992) and Bodie Island (1993). Shorebird abundance was greater during fall (68 birds/km) than in spring (50 birds/km). Patterns of abundance of the eight most abundant species were examined in detail. Black-bellied Plovers (Pluvialis squatarola), Willets, Whimbrels (Numenius phaeopus), Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres) and Sanderlings were most abundant on North Beach. North Core Banks harbored the highest numbers of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus), American Oystercatchers (Haematopus palliatus), and Red Knots. American Oystercatchers and Whimbrels were significantly more abundant during spring than fall, whereas Willet and Sanderlings were more abundant during fall. The Outer Banks emerged as an important staging area for the Atlantic populations of Piping Plovers, Whimbrels, and Sanderlings when compared to 7 other areas along the eastern U.S. coast. The importance of the area to Sanderlings was reaffirmed by return rates of 58%, most (69-89%) returning to the beach stretch where they were banded. The area gains special significance because it also supports a nesting population of Piping Plovers. Our findings confirm that the Outer Banks of North Carolina provide a critical link in the migratory path of several shorebird species. Habitat loss or alteration could adversely affect the Atlantic Flyway population of several species (e.g., Sanderlings) as well as the threatened Piping Plover.
4163927|Knowledge of abiotic factors influencing the foraging ecology of nonbreeding shorebirds (Charadriiformes: Charadrii) is based on research conducted almost exclusively during the day. Consequently, we examined the relative contributions of environmental variables to diurnal and nocturnal foraging patterns (presence/absence) of nonbreeding shorebirds at Humboldt Bay, California, USA from January 1992 to January 1993. The influence of environmental variables on foraging patterns differed between day and night. Most notably, the diurnal presence of birds increased with: (1) shorter daylength [Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola), dowitchers (Limnodromus spp.), and small sandpipers (Calidris mauri and C. minutilla)]; and (2) shorter durations of mud flat exposure [American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana), Marbled Godwit (Limosa fedoa), and Dunlin (Calidris alpina)]. By contrast, the nocturnal presence of most species increased during the fall [Marbled Godwit, dowitchers, Black-bellied Plover, Semipalmated Plover (Charadrius semipalmatus), and Dunlin] and on nights with a visible moon [Marbled Godwit, Willet (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus), dowitchers, Semipalmated Plover, and Dunlin]. Our results suggest that interspecific variation in diurnal and nocturnal feeding patterns of shorebirds is associated mostly with variation in tidal, seasonal, and moonlight conditions. Furthermore, our findings suggest that nocturnal foraging by most shorebird species at a northern temperate, intertidal site did not increase during periods of short daylength.
4163928| Important reasons for evaluating researcher impact in nest studies include the possibility of increased abandonment, depredation, embryonic mortality, or bias of other parameters. From a 29-year data set of 1101 Greater Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) nests in Illinois, we assessed the performance of 115 nests that were visited by investigators during egg laying or incubation. The minimum return rate for 107 hens flushed up to 5 times was 88% and apparently decreased (G = 9.76, df = 4, P = 0.042) with increased frequency of flushing caused by investigators. The success of 105 nests from which hens were flushed (68%) was higher (G = 7.55, df = 1, P < 0.01) than that of 840 undisturbed nests (53%) whose fates were determined prior to discovery. No desertions could be attributed to investigators activities. Embryonic mortality in disturbed nests appeared 3.7  higher (Z = 4.59, P = 0.001) than in undisturbed nests, but some egg removal by predators prior to our inspections may have biased results. Neither embryonic loss nor nest success was related to number of flushes during incubation. Nearly half of embryonic deaths that we could age in disturbed nests occurred before hen flushes, and most other losses, including whole clutches, were not clearly caused by investigator disturbance. 
4163929|We used radio-telemetry to track movements of seven adult male Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) in southcentral Washington. Home range size was estimated for each male using minimum convex polygon, harmonic mean, adaptive kernel, and fixed kernel-based methods. Minimum convex polygon and harmonic mean home ranges were significantly larger than those previously reported for Ferruginous Hawks. Home ranges varied substantially among males (mean = 90.3 km
4163930|We monitored dispersal movements of 19 radiotagged juvenile Mexican Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) in northern Arizona during 1994 and 1995. All juveniles initiated dispersal movements in September or October during both years, with most dispersing during September. Initial dispersal movements were rapid and abrupt, but lacked a significant directional pattern. Distance from the nest to the last observed location and the most distant location reached ranged from 0.6-72.1 and 2.1-73.5 km for individual owls, respectively. These distances represent minimum estimates of dispersal capability because only one individual was tracked until it settled on a territory and paired. Owls used a variety of habitat types during dispersal, some of which differed markedly from typical nesting habitat for Mexican Spotted Owls. Four of five owls that were tracked past mid-November moved to lower elevation pinyon-juniper woodlands and at least one overwintered in pinyon-juniper woodland. Kaplan-Meier estimates of annual survival rate ranged from 20.5-28.7%, depending on whether we censored all owls with unknown fates or included suspected deaths as mortality events. Estimates differed significantly between years and confidence intervals were wide, suggesting that longer-term studies of large numbers of owls will be required to obtain accurate and precise estimates of juvenile survival.
4163931|I monitored 54 pairs of Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus), with artificial nest boxes placed near their nest cavities, during three breeding seasons in Ohio to determine whether such boxes would help reduce nest-site competition by European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Twenty-seven of 40 flicker pairs in the presence of starlings (68%) lost a total of 42 cavities to starlings in spite of the presence of a nearby flicker nest box, and nine of these pairs lost two or more cavities to starlings. Thus, the presence of nest boxes did not appear to help nesting flickers and in fact may have deterred them by attracting additional starlings. During initial nest attempts, flicker pairs without starlings produced larger clutches, more nestlings and more fledglings than flickers with starlings. Flicker pairs without starlings were not adversely affected by the presence of a nearby nest box and 64% of such pairs eventually fledged young from their excavated nest cavities. Conversely, no pairs without starlings and only one pair with starlings opted to nest in a nest box versus their excavated or renovated nest cavity. Only 3 of 40 starling pairs opted to nest in a box when excavated flicker cavities were available. However, starlings eventually fledged young in only 9 of the 42 flicker cavities they usurped (21%).
4163932| From 1993-1995, we located and monitored 601 Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens) nests in a large contiguous tract of bottomland hardwood forest on the White River National Wildlife Refuge, Arkansas. Annual reproductive success was significantly different among years; ranging from 10-25% (Mayfield estimate) over the three years of the study. There was no significant difference in nest success among study plots, with nesting success showing a trend of increasing late in the breeding season. Clutch size for nonparasitized nests averaged 2.9  0.02 (SE) eggs with a mode of 3. Rates of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrusater) parasitism were low (21%), accounting for 7% of all nest failures. However, parasitism by cowbirds resulted in a reduction of clutch size for nests initiated early (i.e., first nests and replacements) in the breeding season. Predation was the leading cause of nest failures, accounting for 75% of all failures. Snakes and avian predators were thought to be the leading cause of nest failures. Although additional factors must be investigated, preliminary results indicate that nest predation is a major influence on this population, despite the size of the forest tract. 
4163933|We compared the breeding biology of sympatric and contemporaneously breeding populations of Tree (Tachycineta bicolor), Barn (Hirundo rustica) and Cliff swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) in 1994 and 1995 in central New York to characterize their life histories under common environmental conditions. Laying dates did not vary among species, but average clutch sizes were largest in Tree Swallows (5.7 eggs), intermediate in Barn Swallows (4.7 eggs) and smallest in Cliff Swallows (3.5 eggs). Two broods were common in Barn Swallows, but Tree Swallows raised only one, and we suspect that Cliff Swallows raised only a single brood. Relative egg mass (egg mass/female mass) was higher in Barn than in Tree swallows. Most nests fledged young, and fledging success did not vary among species. Growth rates of four nestling traits were measured (mass, wing chord, tarsus and bill), and overall, Tree Swallows grew the fastest. Peak nestling mass was substantially higher in Cliff Swallows than the other species, probably because they gained the most fat. A literature survey of hirundinid growth rates also suggested that Tree Swallows grew faster than the other species. Per capita provisioning rates of parents (trips/nestling/h) increased seasonally and were highest in Barn Swallows. Slower growth despite high feeding rates suggests either lower feeding efficiency or more severe effects of ectoparasitism in Barn Swallows compared to the other species. Our results show that clutch size, number of broods/season and the pattern of nestling growth vary among species and probably represent differences that have evolved because of differences in (1) the availability of suitable nest sites (i.e., the limited breeding opportunities hypothesis), (2) food supply, or (3) demographic trade-offs.
4163934|Habitats of Kirtland's Warbler (Dendroica kirtlandii) on the wintering grounds in the Bahama Archipelago are presented based upon data from 29 specimens, two bandings, and 67 sightings of at least 61 individuals on 13 islands scattered through the region. We placed a major emphasis on a study site in central Eleuthera, with additional information from sites on Grand Turk, North Caicos, and Crooked Island. The warblers used upland habitats that have a low shrub/scrub component with a mosaic of small openings and openings within the vegetation at the ground level. Six broad habitats were used: natural shrub/scrub, secondary shrub/scrub, low coppice, pineland understory, saline/upland ecotone, and suburban; high coppice was not used. The structure and floristic composition of the habitats are described. Observations (n = 451) of a Kirtland's Warbler male (uniquely color banded) and female over three months indicated the birds generally stayed within 3 m of the ground (98% of observations), and used a territory of 8.3 ha. A crude estimate of potential winter habitat suggests that not only is there more than an adequate amount in the Bahama Archipelago for the current small population of warblers (733 singing males in 1997), but also enough for a considerably larger population. No serious future threat to the amount of that habitat is foreseen.
4163935| Very few studies have documented aspects of Baird's Sparrow (Ammodramus bairdii) nesting biology, apparently because of difficulty in locating their nests. Subsequently much of the information regarding the breeding biology of the Baird's Sparrow is based on small samples of nests and anecdotal information. We studied the nesting biology of the Baird's Sparrow in southwestern Manitoba, during 1991-1992. Baird's Sparrows arrived in the first two weeks of May and initiated clutches as early as 25 May. Clutch initiation peaked between 29 May and 4 June with a second smaller peak occurring in mid- to late July. Seventy-six nests were located with a mean clutch size of 4.6 eggs. The incubation period extended 11-12 days and young fledged between 8 and 11 days of age. Mayfield nest success was 37% with predation being the primary cause of nest loss. Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) parasitized 36% of the nests with 67% of these nests containing more than one cowbird egg (x = 2.0  0.2 S.E., range = 1-4). Hatching success of non-parasitized nests was significantly higher than that of parasitized nests. In addition, significantly fewer young fledged from successful parasitized nests than from successful non-parasitized nests resulting in an average cost of 1.1 Baird's Sparrow fledglings per parasitized nest. Egg removal by cowbirds was likely the primary cause of lowered productivity in parasitized nests. Baird's Sparrows appear to be a good quality host for cowbirds in southwestern Manitoba as 21% of cowbird eggs laid fledged young with 0.5 cowbirds fledging per parasitized nest. 
4163936| We quantified foraging behavior of 19 bird species in shade coffee plantations in the Dominican Republic to document and evaluate their use of food resources in the shade overstory relative to the coffee understory. All species were observed foraging in the Inga vera overstory, and 18 of the 19 species had median foraging heights significantly above the median maximum coffee height. Eight species (42%) foraged exclusively in the canopy or subcanopy and not in the coffee understory. No species foraged exclusively in the coffee, although the Narrow-billed Tody (Todus angustirostris) foraged mostly in coffee. A negative correlation was found between a species' median foraging height in our shade plantations and its abundance in nearby sun coffee plantations. Invertebrates and nectar were the most important food items in the Inga overstory where 95% of the species gleaned leaf surfaces, 63% probed flowers, 58% gleaned or probed wood, 47% used epiphytes (for invertebrates or fruits), and 26% gleaned or probed Inga fruit. In contrast, birds in coffee foraged primarily for invertebrate prey as 42% of all species gleaned leaf surfaces, 21% gleaned or probed wood, 21% gleaned or probed fruit, and 5% probed flowers. The Inga overstory was an important foraging site for most species suggesting that plantations without a shade overstory (i.e., sun coffee) will have a lower diversity and abundance of food and hence are less attractive to birds than traditional shade plantations. /// Cuantificamos el comportamiento alimenticio de 19 especies de aves en plantaciones de caf de sombra en la Repblica Dominicana para documentar y evaluar el uso de estas del recurso alimenticio en el dosel en relacin al sotobosque de cafetos. Todas las especies fueron observadas alimentndose en el dosel de Inga vera; y en 18 de las 19 especies la mediana de altura de forrajeo fuc significativamente mayor a la mediana de la altura mxima del caf. Ocho especies (42%) se alimentaban exclusivamente en el dosel y no en el sotobosque de caf. Ninguna especie se alimentaba exclusivamente en los cafetales, an cuando Todus angustirostris lo hacia primordialmente en el caf. Una correlacin negativa fue encontrada en la altura mediana de forrajeo y en su abundancia en nuestras plantaciones de caf a la sombra y las plantaciones de caf de sol cercanas. Los invertebrados y el nctar fueron las fuentes de comida ms importantes en el dosel de Inga donde el 95% de las especies se alimentaban picoteando ("gleaning") la superficie de las hojas, el 63% probaba las flores, el 58% probaba o picoteaba la madera, el 47% usaba las epfitas (para colectar invertebrados o frutas) y el 26% probaba o picoteaba en las frutas de Inga. Por el contrario, las aves en el caf primordialmente cazaban invertebrados, ya que el 42% picoteaban en las superficies de las hojas, el 21% picoteaban o proban las madera, el 21% picoteaban y probaban las frutas, y el 5% probaban las flores por su nctar. El dosel de Inga fue un importantsimo lugar de forrajeo para la mayora de las especies, suguiriendo que las plantaciones que carezcan de un dosel con sombra (tal como el caf de sol) tendrn una menor diversidad y abundancia de comida hacindolas as menos atractivas para las aves que las plantaciones tradicionales de sombra. 
4163937|Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) were observed breeding on a tributary of the northwestern arm of Hebron Fiord, Labrador. Peak population numbers were 11 males and 13 females on 17 June; females consistently outnumbered males. Breeding was confirmed by the presence of a nest with eggs and the presence of downy chicks.
4163938|We evaluated eye color, bill color, and head plumage characteristics in 836 known-age Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis) captured in Florida between 1974 and 1995. Eighty-three birds were recaptured 1-16 years later. There were noticeable variations in eye color and head plumage among individuals and between birds 20 months or less of age and those 21 months and older. These variations may be representative of the relatively high genetic diversity in Sandhill Cranes and be criteria for mate selection.
4163939|The first melanistic Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) for North America (second for the world) is described and shown. It was seen and photographed in southern Florida on 4 March 1997.
4163940|While examining Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity contents in eastern Texas, we observed cavity tree resin avoidance by southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans). The tree surface around an active Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity is coated with sticky resin which flows from resin wells created by the woodpecker. The southern flying squirrel is a competitor for Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavities and is known to be quite capable of entering active cavities in trees with a well developed resin coating. However, our observation indicates that in some circumstances the resin coating can offer some deterrence.
4163941|The arthropod-flushing behavior of above-ground swarming army ants (tribe Ecitonini) provides Neotropical birds with a unique food resource. The extent to which birds exploit this resource varies geographically, because of the variable swarming behavior of different army ant species and their distributions. During the winter, Neotropical-Nearctic migrant birds may have greater opportunity at higher latitude army ant swarms because of a lack of dominant, obligate ant-following resident birds. Here we report observations of migrant birds foraging at a northern high tropical latitude, high elevation army ant (Labidus praedator) swarm.
4163953|The Poouli (Melamprosops phaeosoma) is an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper found only on Maui, Hawaii. It was rare at the time of its discovery in 1973, but by 1997 was on the brink of extinction with fewer than six individuals left. Two specimens were collected for the description of the species, but both proved to be immature by comparison with a pair of adults at a nest. Until 1997 no Poouli had ever been captured alive, and consequently descriptions of adult Poouli were produced from field observations. In 1997, I captured an adult male Poouli which is described here for the first time. Detailed comparisons of the plumage of this adult with that of an immature specimen and previous descriptions of the species are discussed in this paper, as are differences in plumage between adult and immature males and females that may aid the sexing and ageing of birds in the field.
4163954| We examined pairing chronology and aggressive interactions of Green-winged Teal (Anas crecca) and Mallards (A. platyrhynchos) wintering in coastal Louisiana from October 1994 through March 1995. Many Mallards were apparently paired upon their arrival to coastal Louisiana in early November, as 11 of the first 20 females observed were paired. Most (90%) female Mallards were paired by mid-December. Green-winged Teal were first observed pairing in January and 81% of females observed during March were paired. For both Green-winged Teal (P < 0.01) and Mallards (P < 0.01) intraspecific aggressive conflicts were primarily won by individuals initiating encounters. Paired Green-winged Teal (P < 0.05) and paired Mallards (P < 0.05) typically won conflicts with unpaired conspecifics. In agonistic encounters between unpaired male and unpaired female Green-winged Teal, neither sex was dominant (P > 0.05). The frequency of aggressive interactions by paired and unpaired Green-winged Teal was similar (P > 0.05); in contrast, paired Mallards were less likely to participate in aggressive interactions than were unpaired Mallards (P < 0.01). Effects of pairing on aggressive interactions do not appear to be the same for Green-winged Teal and Mallards. 
4163955|Historical records of population numbers are almost entirely lacking for shorebirds and some species of waterfowl breeding in the Nearctic. In 1975 and 1976, ground surveys of breeding birds were undertaken in the Rasmussen Lowlands, Northwest Territories. We carried out similar censuses in the same area during the summers of 1994 and 1995. Weather conditions and methods were very similar during the two sets of surveys. For all years, we compared densities in different habitat types, as well as estimates for the entire region of total numbers of breeding Red Phalaropes (Phalaropus fulicaria), Pectoral Sandpipers, (Calidris melanotos), White-rumped Sandpipers (C. fuscicollis), Semipalmated Sandpipers (C. pusilla), Black-bellied Plovers (Pluvialis squatarola), American Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis dominica), Dunlin (C. alpina), Baird's Sandpipers (C. bairdii), and King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis). We found that breeding populations of Red Phalaropes, Black-bellied Plovers, American Golden-Plovers, and King Eiders in the 1990s had decreased substantially (76-87%) from their numbers in the 1970s. Numbers of other shorebird species did not decrease significantly (17-48%). Numbers of Black-bellied Plovers have apparently decreased at staging sites on the east coast of the United States and Canada. However, for American Golden-Plovers, there is no evidence of a decline on the east coast or in at least one other area in the eastern Nearctic. No other population information exists for Red Phalaropes breeding in the eastern Nearctic. Eider numbers appear to be decreasing throughout the Arctic. Possible reasons for declines are habitat changes in migratory staging sites and southern wintering areas. We need more consistent monitoring of arctic shorebirds in order to identify species with continual population declines. Further studies should emphasize Nearctic populations of species showing substantial declines in this study, examining consistency of decreases throughout the Nearctic, and reasons for such changes.
4163956|During spring 1996 and 1997, we conducted ground surveys at high tide to determine species composition, numbers, and timing of spring shorebird migration on the Yakutat Forelands, Alaska. Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) and Dunlins (C. alpina) were the most abundant shorebirds we observed in the Seal Creek-Ahrnklin River estuary; we also observed large aggregations of Marbled Godwits (Limosa fedoa beringiae). Using information on turnover rates of radio-tagged Western Sandpipers, we estimated that about 101,000 small calidridine sandpipers used the Seal Creek-Ahrnklin River estuary as a spring migration stopover annually in 1996 and 1997. From previous aerial survey data on shorebird distribution, we estimated that the entire Yakutat Forelands supports a spring population of more than 350,000 migrant shorebirds. Therefore, the forelands is an important stopover site to migratory shorebirds and should be included in the network of international stopover sites needed to conserve shorebirds migrating along the Pacific coast.
4163957|On 6-9 December 1993 and 14-18 February 1994 ground surveys of shorebirds were conducted in Ensenada Pabellones and Bahia Santa Maria, Sinaloa, Mexico. These were the first comprehensive ground surveys of shorebirds conducted in western Mexico. Twenty-nine species of shorebirds were recorded. The composition was characterized by those species spending their non-breeding period on the Pacific Coast of North America. Total numbers of shorebirds estimated were 340,063 birds (December) and 405,483 birds (February) in Ensenada Pabellones and 248,044 birds (December) and 389,841 birds (February) in Bahia Santa Maria. Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri) comprised 82% of shorebirds present in both bays. American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana; 6% average total), dowitchers (Limnodromus spp.; 6% average total), and Least Sandpiper (Calidris minutilla; 3% average total) were also abundant. These bays hold approximately 30% of the shorebirds wintering in Pacific coastal regions of North America. Using Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network criteria, both bays are of international importance for shorebirds. Ensenada Pabellones is of regional importance for American Avocets supporting nearly 10% of the total world population. Both bays would qualify as wetlands of international importance as defined by the Ramsar Convention on international wetlands.
4163958| We used radiotelemetry to determine habitat use by Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) during the breeding season on 452 ha of montane conifer forest in central Colorado in 1982-1983. Mean size and SD of home ranges was 11.1  1.9 ha (range = 8.5-12.5 ha, n = 4) in 1982 and 18.3  5.1 ha (range = 14.0-24.0 ha, n = 3) in 1983. Habitat use by nesting males was affected by distribution of old forests of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) mixed with Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), by topography, and by juxtaposition of home ranges of conspecifics. In spring, both new and returning owls settled into areas containing more old ponderosa pine/Douglas-fir than in other overstory types available in the study area. After settling, males foraged significantly more often in old ponderosa pine/Douglas-fir than in other overstory types available within home ranges. Eighty-one percent of foraging locations by males occurred in one to four intensive foraging areas within each home range. Mean size of intensive foraging areas was 0.5  0.4 ha (range = 0.1-1.4 ha). Eighty percent of intensive foraging areas consisted entirely of old ponderosa pine/Douglas-fir. Use of this overstory type by Flammulated Owls is probably related to its composition and structure, and prey availability. 
4163959| The calls of the Blue-fronted Amazon (Amazona aestiva) are described and their possible function within the social organization of the species during breeding and non-breeding seasons are discussed. We identified 9 vocalizations; six ("wak-wak", "wa-wawawa", transitions, "gu-gugu", guturals, "ka-kaka") were nonspecific and were given in several circumstances: alarm, contact, feeding, and flying. The remaining had specific contexts: "waahh" (agonistic), "grr-up" (contact in flight), and songs (reproduction-territorial). Vocalization rates increased in alarm contexts and during the non-breeding season, probably as a result of increasing interactions between individuals. The frequency containing the greatest amount of energy was a useful variable to characterize Blue-fronted Amazon calls, particularly at the species level. The most commonly used vocalization, "wak-wak", has structural features that promote directionality and short-range transmission, enhancing its usefulness for the aggregation of individuals. It is suggested that songs were derived from a process of repetition and increasing variability from gutural calls. The highly contextual variability of these calls may be due to an incompletely specialized repertoire or a vocal system based upon combinations of calls for conveying messages. 
4163960|We surveyed all known Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity trees (n = 514) in the Angelina National Forest in eastern Texas for Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) damage. We compared the frequency of Pileated Woodpecker damage to Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity trees in longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) habitat to damage in loblolly (P. taeda)-shortleaf (P. echinata) pine habitat. We also examined the effectiveness of restrictor plates in deterring Pileated Woodpecker enlargement of Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavities. Pileated Woodpecker damage was significantly greater in longleaf pine habitat than in the loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat in spite of census results showing similar abundance levels of Pileated Woodpeckers in the two forest types. We suggest that limited numbers of snags in the longleaf habitat may focus Pileated Woodpecker excavation on Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity trees, whereas a greater amount of midstory vegetation in the loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat may serve to reduce visibility, thereby lowering Pileated Woodpecker detection and destruction of Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavities. Restrictor plates were very effective in preventing Pileated Woodpecker enlargement of cavities. While restrictor plates are useful for protecting Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavities, they should be used only in small populations when cavities are in short supply. The Pileated Woodpecker plays an important role, especially in the longleaf ecosystem which is a relatively cavity-barren environment, by providing nesting sites for larger secondary cavity users, such as American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio), and fox squirrels (Sciurus niger).
4163961| I recorded and analyzed vocalizations of Synallaxis albescens from three populations in Venezuela, two continental and one island, to assess the extent of geographic variation for a species of the family Furnariidae. Previous work on geographic variation in suboscines has focused on species of the Tyrannidae. I also tested the sound environment hypothesis. From nine vocalization characters I created discriminant functions that best separated the three populations. I then used classification analyses to determine how well the discriminant function models assigned individuals to their home populations. Classification analyses using discriminant functions created from first songs of recorded individuals correctly assigned individuals to their home populations 74.1% of the time and 66.7% of the time for functions created from arbitrarily chosen sixth songs. The island population was significantly more variable than either of the continental populations for the first syllable length but not for the frequency-modulated portion of the second syllable. The results demonstrate that geographic variation exists among populations although a sufficient amount of similarity prevents unequivocal classification of  to 1/3 of individuals to their home populations. The results regarding vocalization variability provide weak support for the sound-environment hypothesis. 
4163962|We characterized nest sites and compared specific nest-site characteristics to nesting success for Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) nesting in southeastern Pennsylvania in 1991. We determined if nests were placed in areas that differed from randomly selected points within a given tract of forest and compared specific nest-site characteristics for successful nests (those that produced at least one fledgling) and nests that failed because of predation. Wood Thrushes selected nest sites non-randomly within a tract of forest, and female Wood Thrushes built nests in areas that had a higher density of trees, higher canopy, higher density of shrubs, and higher average shrub height than randomly selected points. Specific nest-site characteristics had little effect on the ultimate success or failure of nests. The only specific nest-site characteristic included in a stepwise logistic regression model comparing successful and failed nesting attempts was the concealment of the nest from above and below. The average concealment of successful nests was greater than unsuccessful nests, but the model that included nest concealment did not give good fit to the data. Rather, a landscape-level feature, size of forest tract, had the greatest influence on the success and failure of nests for Wood Thrushes in this region.
4163963| Documentation of the schedule and pattern of molt and their relation to reproduction and migration departure are important, but often neglected, areas of knowledge. We radio-tagged Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina), and monitored their movements and behavior on the U.S. Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia (38 40 N, 77 30 W) from May-Oct. of 1993-1995. The molt period in adults extended from late July to early October. Molt of flight feathers lasted an average of 38 days (n = 17 birds) and there was no significant difference in duration between sexes. In 21 observed and captured individuals, all the rectrices were lost simultaneously or nearly so, and some individuals dropped several primaries over a few days. Extensive molt in Wood Thrushes apparently impaired flight efficiency, and birds at this stage were remarkably cautious and difficult to capture and observe. All breeding individuals were observed molting 1-4 days after fledgling independence or last-clutch predation, except for one pair that began molt while still caring for fledglings. Our data indicate that energetics or flight efficiency constraints may dictate a separation of molt and migration. We did not observe Wood Thrushes leaving the Marine Base before completion of flight-feather molt. Departure of individuals with molt in body and head, however, was common. We caution against interpreting the lack of observations or captures of molting individuals on breeding sites as evidence that birds actually have left the area. We argue also that current reports on overlapping of molt and migration based on observations of molting individuals out of the breeding range could be misleading because some individuals may leave the breeding area to molt in other places before starting a true migration. 
4163964|I observed a pair of Slaty Flowerpiercers (Diglossa plumbea) in highland Costa Rica during 1996 and quantified their flower use in three distinct months. The total number of open flowers in the territory declined from dry to wet season, and the composition of flower species changed. The pair changed their flower use from dry to wet season, exploiting more abundant flower species in each season. Previous studies have shown that the change of flower abundance and composition affected hummingbird abundance in this area because they leave the area when their favorite flower species become scarcer. The Slaty Flowerpiercers, in contrast, maintained the same territory, shifting flower use in response to seasonal changes in flower abundance and composition. My observations suggest that the unique feeding method of flowerpiercers as "nectar thieves" allows them to use flowers more flexibly and to remain resident on the same territory throughout the year.
4163965|Observations of parental feeding roles were made at 19 Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens) nests during the 1994 breeding season in central Kentucky. Male and female chats fed nestlings at similar rates, and adult feeding rates were unaffected by brood size. The absence of any change in feeding rates with increased brood size suggests that food requirements per nestling decrease as brood size increases, perhaps because of differences in thermoregulatory costs. In contrast to the results of many other studies, provisioning rates and load sizes (number of prey delivered per visit) did not increase with nestling age. However, our observations at chat nests did not begin until nestlings were 3 or 4 days old. Studies of other species have revealed that 1-3 day old nestlings may be visited less frequently and provided with smaller loads than older nestlings, and observations of nestling chats during this early period might have revealed similar behavior.
4163966|We determined which vegetal features influenced the distribution and abundance of grassland birds at the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona. The density and distribution of mesquite (Prosopis velutina) exerted the strongest influence on the grassland bird community. Abundances of Pyrrhuloxia (Cardinalis sinuatus; r
4163967|Collisions between flying birds are a negligible problem for most species, but they may be a regular hazard for Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) in migration. This is a consequence of many aspects of the grebes' biology, including their massing at staging areas, early winter migrations, nocturnal movements, and poor agility in flight.
4163968|We studied the behavior of geese on exposed river ice during spring on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta. The predominant behavior while on the ice for both sexes was foraging; however, females foraged more than males. Visual inspection of the ice revealed no potential plant or animal food items. However, numerous small (<20 mm) clam shells (Macoma balthica) and pieces of shell were noted. It appeared that geese were foraging on empty clam shells. This potential source of calcium was available to breeding geese just prior to egg formation and geese likely stored this calcium in the form of medullary bone for use during egg formation.
4163969|Mariana Common Moorhens (Gallinula chloropus guami) rapidly colonized a human-made wetland on the Island of Rota in Micronesia. Although prehistoric evidence suggests that moorhens once occurred on Rota, the historic lack of wetland habitat prior to construction of an artificial wetland apparently precluded more recent occupation. This recolonization demonstrates that moorhens can rapidly exploit newly available habitat by dispersing significant distances (at least 77 km) over open ocean.
4163970|Based on pellets collected at the first known nest of this endemic species, data are presented on the diet of the Madagascar Red Owl (Tyto soumagnei). This owl feeds almost exclusively on small mammals, the vast majority of which are native to the island. There is evidence that this species hunts at the forest edge and uses open human-degraded habitats. There is virtually no overlap in the diet of the Madagascar Red Owl and the Barn Owl (T. alba).
4163971|Multiple Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) perished as a result of two group members getting stuck while attempting to exit a communal roost cavity simultaneously. Both birds died, as did other individual(s) trapped behind them. Although communal roosting may have many benefits, such mortality constitutes a risk of communal roosting that may help explain why Acorn Woodpeckers choose not to roost as communally as they could.
4163972|Anting behavior has been recorded in over 200 birds, yet its purpose remains unresolved. Here I report an observation of anting in an aquatic passerine, the American Dipper (Cinclus mexicanus). The dipper was seen preening ants onto its remiges in a process known as "active" anting. Numerous hypotheses exist for why birds ant, including controlling ectoparasites, inhibiting the growth of fungi or bacteria, soothing skin irritated during the molting period, and removing toxic formic acid prior to food consumption. Because of the timing and nature of the dipper's anting episode and the fact that dippers are not /// known to consume ants, my observation does not appear to lend support to either the molt-irritation or the food preparation hypotheses for this species.
4163973|Brood parasitic birds often remove an egg from host nests. At least one previous author interpreted single-egg removal from a nest as a sign of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) activity. Partial clutch reduction, however, cannot be taken as a clear indication of brood parasitic activity at natural or artificial nests because egg predators may also cause partial clutch reduction by pecking and removing some but not all eggs. Video-taping at an artificial nest baited with plastic eggs showed that the Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis), a known egg-predator, was responsible for a single-egg removal event, even though it also pecked other eggs in the nest. Thus, partial clutch reduction in general, and single-egg removal in particular, cannot be interpreted as clear signs of either brood parasitism or egg predation. In addition, the use of plastic eggs, however convenient and realistic they may seem, is inappropriate to distinguish between the activities of brood parasites and egg predators.
4163974|Since the early 1900s, the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) has expanded its range from northern South America through the West Indies. This spread has had detrimental effects on several species, especially endemics confined to islands. Here, I report the first record for Shiny Cowbirds in Mexico. The establishment of this species in the Yucatan Peninsula seems likely, and may pose a problem for the conservation of Yucatan endemics.
4163975|We document cases of Eastern Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) using mimicked alarm calls from three presumptive models [Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata), Brown Thrasher (Toxostoma rufum), and American Robin (Turdus migratorius)]. In four instances, male towhees employed heterospecific calls without substitution in their own call repertoires. Three birds (New Jersey, New York) used jay-like calls mixed with "Chewink" calls in the same bouts of calling. One bird (New York) increased the frequency of its mimicked call during intense reactions to disturbance (high rate of calling). A Texas towhee employed jay-like and Chewink calls separately in different contexts. In another case, sequences of robin-like alarm calls were used by a towhee to form unusual, distinctive song-types during bouts of singing. These observations suggest that some aspects of towhee alarm call repertoires may be influenced by auditory learning, and that mimicked alarm calls also can be incorporated into song repertoires.
4163976|Male aerial territorial displays of Sprague's Pipits (Anthus spragueii) are described in detail for the first time. Aerial displays were performed primarily in the morning, with four males' average display rates ranging from 11.8-34.8 min. One male displayed continuously for 3 hrs; no other passerine has been documented to have such prolonged aerial displays. Display flight energetics were estimated with implications explored.
4163977|We studied the effects of microsite selection on depredation of artificial ground nests in central Pennsylvania from May-July 1996. Our objectives were to compare depredation of artificial ground nests in relation to the type of structure (tree vs log) adjacent to a nest and the direction (north vs south) of a nest from the structure. Sixty nests were placed in each of five trials with 20 nests each placed in contiguous forest, forested patch, and forested corridor habitats. Eighty-eight (29%) of the 300 artificial nests were disturbed during five trials. The number of disturbed nests did not significantly vary (P > 0.05) with time period (trial). Nest fate differed significantly among the three habitats (P = 0.001), with 20%, 43%, and 25% of the nests disturbed in the contiguous forest, forested patch, and forested corridor habitats, respectively. These rates of nest predation corresponded to those reported in previous studies of artificial ground nests at the same study site in central Pennsylvania. Nest fate was not associated with the type of structure at the nest site (P > 0.05) or with the direction of the nest from the structure (P > 0.05). We conclude that neither the type of ground-level structure near which artificial ground nests are placed nor the direction of nests from these structures influences nest fate.
4163992|Thirty-two radiomarked Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri), tagged in California and Washington, were relocated at stopover and breeding sites north and west of the Copper River Delta, Alaska. At Cook Inlet, Alaska, seven of the nine relocated birds were at Redoubt and Kachemak bays. Only 1 of the 17 birds relocated on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta had been previously detected at Cook Inlet. Detections of birds in western Alaska provide evidence that the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta is the final breeding destination for many of the birds migrating through San Francisco and other Pacific Coast areas. The Mulchatna River area, 325 km southeast of the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, may support a breeding population of Western Sandpipers.
4163993|The Monk Parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus) is unique among parrots because it constructs stick nests rather than nesting in holes. This study provides a detailed description of the species' breeding biology and provides evidence that this species might breed cooperatively. Although many parakeet pairs were observed roosting in solitary nests, breeding occurred only in nests within colonies or chambers within compound nests housing other parakeets. The male was responsible for all or most of the nest construction and maintenance. He fed the female during the incubation and early nestling periods, but later in the nestling period both the male and female fed the nestlings. Most breeding attempts involved a male-female pair, but three separate breeding attempts were made by trios (two trios included a female and two males, and the third trio was composed of a male and two females). In the trios, one of the auxiliary bird contributed less to the breeding effort than the primary male and female. The observations of trios support the idea that Monk Parakeets are similar to cooperative breeders, but the lack of cooperation in nest building indicates that colonial nesting may be a result of other benefits of group living, such as improved predator detection.
4163994|This study was conducted to determine landscape and fine-scale vegetative variables associated with breeding Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) on Fort Riley Military Reservation, Kansas. Because Fort Riley is an Army training site, the influences of training disturbance to the vegetation, and range management practices on bird habitat patterns were also investigated. Breeding birds were surveyed in 1995 and 1996 using point counts. Survey plots were identified, a priori, at the landscape scale as either grassland, savannah, or woodland edge according to cover by woody vegetation. In 1996, fine-scale habitat at survey points and at bird use sites was measured and a principal components analysis used to characterize the fine-scale herbaceous vegetation structure. A military disturbance index was developed to quantify the severity of vehicle disturbance to the vegetation at survey and bird use sites. Shrikes were associated with savannah habitat at the landscape scale. Sites used by Loggerhead Shrikes were characterized at the fine-scale by tall, sparse, structurally heterogeneous herbaceous vegetation with high standing dead plant cover and low litter cover. At the fine-scale, tree and shrub density did not differ between sites used and not used by shrikes. Used sites did not differ from survey sites with respect to military training disturbance, hay harvest, or the number of years since a site was last burned. Our results in this study suggest that the shifting mosaic of vegetation on Fort Riley resulting from training and range management practices maintains adequate habitat for breeding shrikes.
4163995|Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) are typically associated with intertidal beaches where they search for food. In this study I examined the diet fed to nestling crows to determine the importance of intertidal beaches as a food source on Mitlenatch Island, B.C. The diet consisted of marine and terrestrial invertebrates and vertebrates, and fruit. Lepidoptera, Mollusca, Crustacea and Pisces were the most important taxa in terms of total dry weight fed to nestlings. During low tide, when crows have a choice of feeding intertidally or on land, 67% of the diet in terms of dry weight came from terrestrial sources.
4163996|In a South Carolina cattail marsh, female Boat-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus major) concentrated to nest on predator-safe islands patrolled by American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). I examined several hypotheses regarding colonial nesting behavior of Boat-tailed Grackles. (1) I reject the null hypothesis that colony-nesting and solitary females do not differ in reproductive success. Solitary-nesting females had lower reproductive success (37%) than colony females (63%), a difference perhaps attributable to males' defense of colonies from predatory birds. (2) I reject the hypothesis that the physical characteristics of sites used for colonies differ from those that are not used. Islands occupied by colonies were the same as unoccupied islands in measurements of water depth and vegetation structure. Colony site use is therefore not a result of habitat heterogeneity. (3) I reject the hypothesis that breeding success does not differ between contemporaneous colonies. In two of four years, I found significant variation among colonies in percentage of nests that produced young. Nesting success was independent of colony size. (4) I accept the hypothesis that the reproductive success of colonial females is related to extrinsic factors rather than to differences in female quality. Predation was the main cause of nest mortality, and varied between colony sites, but its intensity was not related to colony size. Although clutch size remained constant over the nesting period, number of fledglings per nest decreased, mainly as a result of the increased proportions of nests lost to predators. Starvation, the second most important cause of mortality, did not vary according to colony size nor to time of breeding. Early synchronized nesting of the whole population may reduce the effects of predation by both a "head-start" effect, and by predator satiation.
4163997|Human intrusion has become a widespread and chronic disturbance for birds in many wildlands. Because bird species often seek refuge, feed, and nest only in certain vegetation strata, intrusion-induced changes in vertical distributions could reduce access to such strata, increase interspecific competition, heighten energetic expenditures, and reduce nesting success. In Wyoming subalpine forests during the breeding seasons of 1989-1993, we studied the effects of intrusion on vertical distributions of Mountain Chickadees (Parus gambeli), Ruby-crowned Kinglets (Regulus calendula), Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata), and Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis). Intrusion by one person for 1-2 h/week, similar in intensity to intrusion from some wildland recreationists and ecotourists, did not appreciably affect distributions of any of the species in three vegetation strata above the ground: less than 0.5 m, 0.5-3.0 m, more than 3.0 m. Although human disturbance has caused an increase in the height at which bird species in various habitats nest and roost, we found little evidence that intrusion altered vertical distributions of four passerines that nest, forage, sing, and seek refuge in subalpine forest. The minimal effects we observed indicate that the species we studied were able to tolerate low levels of intrusion. Studies of intrusion levels that do and do not affect vertical distributions are necessary to define the range of intrusion intensity that is influential.
4163999| Despite its size, color, importance as a game species, and restricted geographic range (Yucatn Peninsula, northern Belize, and northern Guatemala), little is known about the ecology of the Ocellated Turkey (Meleagris ocellata). Habitat use, breeding behavior, and survival based on radiotelemetry of this species were studied in Tikal National Park, Guatemala 1988-1989 and 1993-1994. Ocellated Turkeys use tall forest cover to care for their poults and forest clearings and other vegetation types during courtship and nesting. Radiocollared females traveled up to 8 km (average of 2.4 km) from the point of capture in search of nesting sites. Nesting success of eight hens was 62% and poult survival rate was 15%. The largest home range recorded for a female with poults was 12.5 km
4164000|Recent field studies have revealed many species of birds new for El Salvador suggesting that the country's few protected areas may be especially important for conserving regional biodiversity. Seventeen percent of the landscape or 359,000 ha is covered with natural forest or scrub habitats, of which 38,000 ha are coastal mangrove forests. An additional 196,000 ha (9% of El Salvador) are coffee plantations, a forest-like habitat used by many birds. Of 508 bird species known to occur in the country, 310 are breeding residents; the others are migratory visitors, transients, or vagrants. Seventeen species occurring in El Salvador are endemic to the highlands of northern Central America and one species is endemic to the Pacific slope lowlands of northern Central America. About 270 species are habitat specialists with highly restricted ranges within El Salvador. In all, 254 species (>50% of the avifauna) are threatened by habitat loss, pollution, hunting, and exploitation for the pet trade. Of these, 117 are in danger of extinction at the national level and three are believed already extirpated. Much additional field work is needed to understand the status and abundance of El Salvador's birds. This report includes a complete list of reported species with classification of residency status, threatened status, and distribution. This list can serve as a resource for interpreting field observations produced by environmental impact studies or conservation projects in El Salvador. A second list includes 73 species that probably occur in El Salvador but have not been reported.
4164001|Patterns of distribution, diversity, and endemism in the birds of northern Central America were analyzed based on 541 avian species in 24 biotic regions. Many contrasts were apparent. For example, whereas species richness was concentrated in the Atlantic lowlands, with the Pacific lowlands, interior valleys, montane areas, and the Yucatan Peninsula less diverse; species endemic to the entire region were concentrated in the mountains and in the Yucatan Peninsula. Geographic patterns of endemism presented contrasts depending on the spatial scale of analysis. In contrast to overall patterns, species narrowly endemic to single geographic units were concentrated along the Pacific Coast of Chiapas and in southern Veracruz. Conservation implications of these results were explored using complementarity algorithms, producing ordered regional priority lists for the creation of optimal reserve systems. Finally, a plan of action for the study and conservation of avian diversity in northern Central America is outlined, including elements of basic inventory, systematics, and geographic analysis.
4164002|We review ornithology in Belize, formerly British Honduras, since Russell's 1964 monograph and summarize published and unpublished reports, banding records, and museum data. Unpublished reports (gray literature) are an important source of information within the country. Since 1960, there have been numerous studies by the British Forces ornithological societies and others on avian ecology and behavior, the effects of logging on birds, the distribution of overwintering Neotropical migrants (approximately 20% of Belize's avifauna), and comparisons of avian distribution in disturbed versus undisturbed habitat. We review recent distributional records and problematic species records requiring verification and identify distributional "knowledge gaps". Although 70% of the country is still dominated by natural vegetation and 20% falls under some form of protected status, certain bird species and families are at risk from human impacts such as habitat conversion, hunting, introduced species, and in some cases, tourism. Areas for future study are suggested.
4164004|Two attempts of kleptoparisitism of Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) by Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) were observed in Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming. Two herons vocalized and bill thrusted at Ospreys as they emerged from the water following dives for fish. Although both attempts were unsuccessful (the Ospreys failed to capture a fish), the intensity of the attacks suggest that Great Blue Herons may be capable of taking fish from Ospreys.
4164005|A nuisance owl complaint resulted in the discovery of a Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) /// nesting in a dormer of a house in Davie, Florida. Burrowing Owls have been reported nesting in artificial nest boxes, pipes, and culverts but this is the first published report of nesting in a building. One adult and one downy chick were observed on the first two visits. Two adult sized birds were observed on the last visit. It is believed that wet conditions and unsuitable soil types in the area provided the impetus for the shift from ground to structure nesting.
4164006|Inbreeding of closely related individuals can be referred to as incest, generally limited to parent-offspring or sibling pairs. Cases of incest in raptors are rarely reported because they require long term monitoring of marked individuals. We documented 3 cases of close inbreeding among 730 pairs of individually marked Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis) across all 3 subspecies during 14 years of study. The incestuous pairings we observed may be the result of shorter than normal dispersal distances and chance encounters. Although the level of incest appears to be low in Spotted Owls, the level of actual inbreeding remains unknown.
4164007|The Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) is a federally endangered cavity nesting species. Mesh snake traps are placed near the base of cavity trees to prevent tree climbing and potential nest predation by rat snakes. In 1997, we documented one live and four dead Red-cockaded Woodpeckers ensnared in mesh snake traps at the Bienville National Forest and Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge, Mississippi.
4164008|Two instances of helping behavior in Bridled Titmice (Baeolophus wollweberi) were observed. In each case, one auxiliary bird assisted in feeding chicks at a nest. Both helpers were male; one a hatching year bird and the other an after hatching year bird. It was possible to quantify the feeding efforts of all three birds at one nest, but not at the other. The importance of our findings lies in the rarity of helping behavior in the titmouse family (Paridae).
4164009|On 10 September 1993, I was tending the banding nets for the Rouge River Bird Observatory (RRBO) at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Wayne Co., Michigan. On my way down the net lanes, I noticed a bird struggling in the weeds. It was /// a Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustalatus) thoroughly caught by the wings in the seed pods of a clump of enchanter's nightshade (Circaea quadrisulcata syn. lutetiana). Despite the bird flapping even more vigorously as I approached, it could not free itself. I disengaged the bird from the plant and returned to the banding lab. The bird was an apparently healthy hatching-year individual that weighed 32.1 grams. (The mean weight of 472 Swainson's Thrushes banded at RRBO is 32.7 g.)
4164010|We compared the effects of growing season and dormant season prescribed fire on the winter bird communities in mature pine stands on Fort Benning Military Reservation, Georgia. We surveyed the avian community using fixed-radius point counts from 1 December 1995 to 28 February 1996, one year after burning. We detected no differences in mean bird abundance or species richness between burn treatments. No species was observed more or less frequently in either burn treatment. Season of burn had little /// apparent effect on the composition of wintering bird communities in managed mature pine forests.
4164011| Although cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus) presence at predated Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) nests has been widely reported, it is unclear how often cotton rats are the actual predators. We presented two sizes of eggs to 35 wild-trapped cotton rats to better understand how avian egg size affects nest predation in the wild. Zebra Finch (Poephila guttata) eggs (16.0  11.4 mm) and Northern Bobwhite eggs (30.0  24.7 mm) were presented to captive cotton rats in 30  30 cm enclosures. Eggs were checked every 6 h for 24 h. Food was withheld from 18 of the rats in an attempt to induce egg consumption. No cotton rats consumed bobwhite eggs (0/35 cotton rats), but Zebra Finch eggs were frequently consumed (29/35 cotton rats). The gapes of cotton rats used in this study were smaller than the bobwhite egg widths and may have prevented cotton rats from successfully cracking the eggshells. It is apparent that cotton rats will readily consume eggs smaller than those of the Northern Bobwhite and pose a predation threat to passerines. Based on our data and known abundances of cotton rats throughout their range, we conclude that cotton rats pose a significant threat to smaller birds nesting on or near the ground. However, we offer no evidence to implicate cotton rats as important predators of bobwhite nests. 
4164021| Successful conservation and management, particularly of harvested species, relies on accurate estimates of population demographics. In addition, estimates of survival and longevity allow more accurate modeling of evolutionary life-history trade-offs within and between species. We estimated survival rates for box nesting female Hooded Mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) and Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) in southeastern Missouri during 1987-1997 and 1987-1993, respectively. Hooded Merganser survival rates varied annually and ranged from 0.42-1.0 (x = 0.66  0.04). Wood Duck survival did not vary significantly over time and averaged 0.63 ( 0.02). Mean annual survival rates and capture probabilities were similar for the two species (
4164022|From an analysis of nest site habitat data at 24 Sharp-shinned Hawk (Accipiter striatus) and 52 Cooper's Hawk (A. cooperii) nests in Wisconsin, we conclude that Cooper's Hawks tend to nest in stands with lower densities of taller and larger trees than do Sharp-shinned Hawks, and that Cooper's Hawks also tend to nest in sites with a greater proportion of hardwood cover than Sharp-shinned Hawks. Significant interspecific differences were found in combined habitat types (hardwoods, mixed conifer-hardwoods, and conifer plantations) for nest tree height and nest tree DBH (diameter at breast height); nest height; nest height relative to tree height; canopy height; canopy cover; tall shrub density; tree density; and mean DBH. Nest sites of the two species were similar in terms of understory canopy cover, ground cover, low shrub index, understory tree density, basal area, distance to nearest forest opening, and distance to water. We detected few significant intraspecific differences in nest site habitat, and these only in the Cooper's Hawk.
4164023|We investigated Madagascar Fish-Eagle (Haliaeetus vociferoides) foraging ecology to determine prey preference and the effect of fish abundance on fish-eagle foraging rates and foraging success. We observed fish-eagle foraging behavior at nine lakes in western Madagascar from May to August 1996. We sampled the fish population at each lake using gill nets and recorded fish weights and species. Introduced tilapia, Oreochromis spp. and Tilapia spp., made up the majority of both the gill net (66.3%) and fish-eagle catch (64.7%) in similar proportion, suggesting that the fish-eagle is an opportunistic predator. Consequently, replacement of native fish species by exotics probably has not been detrimental to the island's fish-eagle population. Male fish-eagle foraging success was positively correlated (P < 0.001) with number of fish species, suggesting that fish species diversity may affect fish-eagle foraging effectiveness.
4164024|We analyzed the breeding season diets of California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) in the San Bernardino Mountains from 1987 through 1991 to estimate the relative importance of individual prey species to owl reproduction. We identified a total of 8441 prey remains from 109 unique territories, which represents the largest collection of prey remains from a single Spotted Owl population. Dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes) and Jerusalem crickets (Stenopelmatus fuscus) were the most frequently consumed taxa (42.2% and 20.7%, respectively), but dusky-footed woodrats dominated Spotted Owl diets by biomass (74.0%). Spotted owls consumed primarily mammals by both frequency (66.4%) and biomass (95.3%). After excluding territories with less than 20 prey remains, we compared the diets of 24 nonnesting, 24 unsuccessfully nesting, and 58 successfully nesting pairs of Spotted Owls from 56 unique territories; estimated diet along a large elevational gradient; and controlled for interterritorial and annual variation in diet. A significant relationship existed between reproductive status and the percent biomass of woodrats in Spotted Owl diets where successful nesters consumed a greater percent biomass of woodrats (
4164025|The nestling diet and breeding seasonality of the Black Swift (Cypseloides niger) were studied in southern California 1990-1992. The peak (40%) of egg laying was in mid-June and the peak of fledging (60%) was mid- to late August (n = 87 nests). Winged ants comprised 91% (n = 1179 prey items, 10 boluses) of nestling diet. Three main prey size classes were found: 6, 8, and 13 mm. Food bolus mass increased and number of trips per day to feed the nestlings decreased with nestling age. The parents made short and long foraging trips during early morning hours and long trips from early to late afternoon. Short trips were observed only during the first half of the nestling period. During the last half of the nestling period, parent swifts made a single foraging trip per day that lasted about 12 hrs. Perhaps the short foraging bouts are for feeding the young, whereas the long foraging bouts are not only for feeding the young but also for parental energy storage. The single foraging bout, during the mid- and late nestling period, might also serve to store fat for migration by the adults.
4164026|To restore a population that had declined to 4 individuals by late 1985, 54 Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) were translocated at the Savannah River Site in South Carolina between 1986 and 1995. Translocation success was evaluated by sex, age, and distance between the capture and release site. For moves involving females, the presence of a resident male and the status of the male (breeder, inexperienced, or helper) also was assessed. Of the factors I evaluated, only the distance of the move was statistically significant with increasing success associated with increasing distance. The presence of a resident male at the female's release site led to no more success than releasing the female concurrently with a male; nor did the male's status appear to play a significant role in female translocation success. Overall, 31 of 49 (excluding nestlings) translocated birds remained at or near the release site for at least 30 days, resulting in a success rate of 63.2%. Of the birds that were successfully translocated, 51.0% had reproduced by July 1996.
4164027|We present nine years of return data for individually color-banded White-eyed Vireos and describe patterns of arrival and territory use. Of all opportunities for annual return, 48.3% of males and 50% of females were resighted. Most males arrived between 17 and 30 April, with a median arrival date of 24 April, while most females arrived between 21 April and 1 May with a median arrival date of 26 April; males arrived significantly earlier than females. Older males arrived significantly earlier than younger, as has been reported for several other species. The arrival dates for individual males were consistent across years; an individual's arrival date in one year reliably predicted its arrival date in the next year. Thus, the timing of arrival co-varied with three factors: sex, age, and individual. Nearly all males remained faithful to previous territories, although some shifted so that the new territory overlapped the old. Aspects of our data and those of others suggest our return rates are likely a low estimate of survivorship for the species; the actual survival rate is probably higher.
4164028|Brown-headed Nuthatches (Sitta pusilla) reached their highest abundance within loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) plantations in the first year after thinning and declined in subsequent years. Commercial thinning of plantations resulted in a reduction of canopy cover, hardwood basal area, and understory density. Overall, the detection rates of nuthatches were low (19% of points surveyed) and no nuthatches were detected in stands before thinning. Nuthatches were more than three times as likely to be detected within survey points containing snags compared to those that did not. However, snag density did not vary significantly between stand ages. These patterns suggest that nuthatch distribution within stands may be influenced by snag distribution but that distribution among stands may be determined by the density and height of understory vegetation.
4164029|Ruby-crowned Kinglets, Regulus calendula, are small temperate zone passerine migrants that breed in conifer forests of Canada and the western United States and winter along the west coast and southern United States into Mexico. Previous studies have revealed that male kinglets precede females during spring migration and that females precede males during fall migration at various sites in eastern North America. We used mist net capture data to document sex/age structure, fat loads, and morphometrics of kinglets passing through southeastern South Dakota during spring and fall migrations from 1992-1995. Males migrated significantly earlier than females in spring; median passage dates differed by at least 8 days. These data are consistent with U.S. Geological Survey Bird Banding Laboratory records for central and eastern North America, which indicate that passage of males before females during spring migration is a widespread phenomenon. Bird Banding Laboratory data also indicate that males winter significantly farther north than females. We tested whether the differential winter distribution of the sexes could account for the differential pattern of spring migration and found that differential winter distributions do not fully account for the differential timing of spring migration between the sexes. Sex-specific migration rates do not differ over the entire spring migration route, so differences in the onset of migration apparently contribute to differential spring migration. Males migrated significantly later in the fall than females, with median dates in southeastern South Dakota differing by 7 days. We also examined whether differences in energetic condition were associated with differences in migratory timing. Visible fat scores did not differ between males and females in spring, although males had a significantly higher mean condition index (mass/wing chord). Sexes within the same age class did not differ in visible fat scores in fall, but adults tended to be fatter than juveniles, significantly so in some cases. No significant differences in condition index were apparent among sex/age classes in fall, although the adult-juvenile difference approached significance (P < 0.09), with adults having higher values. This tendency toward elevated fat and condition index in adults relative to juveniles in fall is consistent with more efficient foraging by adults than by inexperienced juveniles at migratory stopover sites, although differences in predation pressure or migratory routes and destinations might also be involved.
4164030|We examined scale-dependent site occupancy of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) in forest fragments (2-140 ha in area) dominated by mature trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) in central Alberta, Canada. Vegetation within territories, both adjacent to and away from nests, differed from vegetation in unoccupied fragments and within occupied fragments outside of territories. Territories contained higher densities of willow (Salix sp.), a taller shrub-layer, and lower densities of trembling aspen than other sites. Willow was the most frequently used plant species for nesting and foraging. Our results indicate that even within mature forest patches, American Redstarts select disturbed areas dominated by early successional plant species.
4164031|I tested whether female Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) associated with redder males in two laboratory experiments, one using males with unaltered plumage and the other using males with plumage altered by a lightened or reddened treatment. Females exhibited no preference for redder males. Given the long duration over which pair formation can occur in natural populations and the importance of territory quality to reproductive success, a female may choose a mate based on other morphological characteristics or aspects of his territory rather than on only red coloration.
4164032|In a series of choice tests, we determined the relative preferences of House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) for equicaloric aqueous solutions of hexoses (1:1 mixture of fructose and glucose) and sucrose. At 2% (m/v), birds consumed each sugar solution equally and in amounts similar to plain water. Consumption of hexose but not sucrose increased at 4% sugar concentration. At 6% and 10%, finches displayed consistent, strong preferences for the hexoses over sucrose. In other passerine species, strong hexose preference has been linked to the absence of sucrase, the enzyme needed for digestion of sucrose. Fecal sugar readings from the House Finches, however, indicated approximately equal assimilation of hexose and sucrose, so the hexose preference apparently is not due to sucrase deficiency. Rather, energetics may determine the finches' sugar preferences: hexoses are rapidly processed because the 6-carbon sugars are readily assimilable whereas sucrose must first be hydrolyzed.
4164033| I compared relative abundances of breeding birds in old-growth forest (300 years old) to surrounding landscapes using data from the Breeding Bird Census (BBC) and Breeding Bird Atlas (BBA). Eleven study plots (148 ha total) were established in relict, presettlement hemlock-white pine-northern hardwood (Tsuga canadensis-Pinus strobus) forest on the northern Appalachian Plateau, Pennsylvania. Of 56 breeding species recorded in old-growth forest, 34% were either uncommon (25% of BBA blocks) or rare (10% of BBA blocks) in adjacent landscape units. A species accumulation curve indicated that about 40 species recurred in old-growth habitat. This avian community included species less likely to occur in oldgrowth, forest interior species showing a statistically neutral relationship to oldgrowth, and habitat specialists more likely to reside in oldgrowth than in the landscape at large. The last group included several taxa linked to structural features of oldgrowth elsewhere in North America: Hairy Woodpecker (Picoides villosus), Red-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta canadensis), Brown Creeper (Certhia americana), Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes), Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus satrapa), Empidonax flycatchers, and several species of arboreal Dendroica warblers. 
4164034|Grassland passerines were surveyed during summer 1995 on the Buffalo Ridge Wind Resource Area in southwestern Minnesota to determine the relative influence of wind turbines on overall densities of upland nesting birds in Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) grasslands. Birds were surveyed along 40 m fixed width transects that were placed along wind turbine strings within three CRP fields and in three CRP fields without turbines. Conservation Reserve Program grasslands without turbines and areas located 180 m from turbines supported higher densities (261.0-312.5 males/100 ha) of grassland birds than areas within 80 m of turbines (58.2-128.0 males/100 ha). Human disturbance, turbine noise, and physical movements of turbines during operation may have distrurbed nesting birds. We recommend that wind turbines be placed within cropland habitats that support lower densities of grassland passerines than those found in CRP grasslands.
4164035|Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria), native to Eurasia, is an introduced perennial plant in North American wetlands that displaces other wetland plants. Although not well studied, purple loosestrife is widely believed to have little value as habitat for birds. To examine the value of purple loosestrife as avian breeding habitat, we conducted early, mid-, and late season bird surveys during two years (1994 and 1995) at 258 18-m (0.1 ha) fixed-radius plots in coastal wetlands of Saginaw Bay, Lake Huron. We found that loosestrife-dominated habitats had higher avian densities, but lower avian diversities than other vegetation types. The six most commonly observed bird species in all habitats combined were Sedge Wren (Cistothorus platensis), Marsh Wren (C. palustris), Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia), Common Yellowthroat (Geothylpis trichas), Swamp Sparrow (Melospiza georgiana), and Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus). Swamp Sparrow densities were highest and Marsh Wren densities were lowest in loosestrife dominated habitats. We observed ten breeding species in loosestrife dominated habitats. We conclude that avian use of loosestrife warrants further quantitative investigation because avian use may be higher than is commonly believed.
4164036|We report predation of a Common Loon (Gavia immer) chick by an adult Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in northern Wisconsin.
4164037|Breeding Common Loons (Gavia immer) are well known for vigorously defending their territory from conspecifics. Territory holders are not previously known to be supplanted by loons during the breeding season. I observed a pair of adult Common Loons displace a resident pair from their territory shortly after a territorial conflict; the takeover coincided with the death of the resident loons' chick caused by an adult Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus).
4164038|Buff-necked Ibis (Theristicus caudatus) courtship displays include "Bill Popping" and grasping twigs, behaviors reported for other species of ibis.
4164039|We counted 47 Masked Ducks (Nomonyx dominicus) in seven flocks during the fall and winter of 1992-1993 on 1009 64.75-ha plots in the Coastal Plains of Texas. Among the three wetland subclasses used by Masked Ducks, bird densities were higher on lacustrine littoral aquatic-bed rooted vascular and lacustrine littoral aquatic-bed floating vascular than palustrine scrub-shrub broad-leaved deciduous wetlands. These wetlands provide important habitat even though they are not the most abundant wetlands in the region.
4164040|The diet of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) is not well known and information on diet requirements will enhance food resource assessment and identification of suitable habitat for this rare species. Discovery of four dead Piping Plover chicks at Grand Marais, Michigan, allowed us to examine their digestive tracts for identifiable prey. Gizzard contents represented 16 families in 6 orders of freshwater and terrestrially occurring insects confirming behavioral observations that plover chicks opportunistically capture insects in shallow water and along shorelines. The most commonly taken orders were Hymenoptera. /// Coleoptera, and Diptera.
4164041| We describe the nests of four species of birds from the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica. A Great Potoo (Nyctibius grandis, nest previously unknown from Mesoamerica) nest was nothing more than a crevice in a high branch of a large tree, similar to those reported in South America. A nest of the Torrent Tyrannulet (Serpophaga cinerea) was found along a river at 35 m elevation, much lower than previous breeding reports for this normally montane species. Also, we confirm systematists' predictions that the Tawny-chested Flycatcher (Aphanotriccus capitalis), a species of near-threatened conservation status, is a secondary cavity nester. Finally, we report on the second known nest of the Sooty-faced Finch (Lysurus crassirostris) from montane forest. /// Describimos los nidos de cuatro especies de aves de la vertiente del caribe en Costa Rica. Un nido de Nyctibius grandis (nido era anteriormente desconocido en Mesoamerica) era nada ms que una grieta en una rama alta de un rbol grande, muy parecido a los nidos de la misma especie encontrados en Amrica del Sur. Describimos un nido de Serpophaga cinerea, el cual fue encontrado en un ro a los 35 msnm, mucho ms bajo que los otros registros de esta especie del bosque montano. Describimos unas observaciones que indican que el Aphanotriccus capitalis, una especie ligeramente amenazada desde la punta de vista conservacionista, anida secondariamente en los huecos dentro de los arboles. Finalmente, presentamos la segunda descripcin del nido de Lysurus crassirostris, el cual fue encontrado en un bosque montano. 
4164042|We report on a song-like vocalization of female Sumichrast's Wren (Hylorchilus sumichrasti). The female song is a series of similar syllables, all at the same low pitch, that varies in length. Thus, it differs strongly from the rich and complex songs of male Sumichrast's Wrens and of most other wrens.
4164043|In this paper we describe one example of female-female aggression in the House Wren (Troglodytes aedon). An intruding female usurped the resident female and paired with the resident male. House Wrens are known for committing infanticide as well as puncturing and removing eggs of conspecifics and other species. These behaviors have been mainly attributed to resident and floating males, but we suggest that females may also be responsible.
4164044|We report on two instances of nest reuse by Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) within the same breeding season, and three cases of nest reuse in successive years, two by Wood Thrushes and one by Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (Pheucticus ludovicianus). In each of the five cases of nest reuse, host young were successfully fledged in the original nesting episode and in the second nesting episode. Although occasional nest reuse within a single breeding season has been reported before, our study is the first to document reuse of the same nest in successive years by Wood Thrushes and Rose-breasted Grosbeaks.
4164045|A female Wilson's Warbler, Wilsonia pusilla, was heard singing regularly on the territory of a male in middle inner-coastal California during early April, 1996, and occasionally after mid-April. Based on their behavior, the resident male and the singing female were paired. The female averaged about four songs/min during singing bouts, and was heard about 30% of the time during early April. The female's song was high pitched, and did not resemble typical male "chatter" song. In contrast to the functions of female song in many tropical and some temperate parulids, this song seemed to serve as a simple contact vocalization between mates, as call notes might. A single female song heard in a newly formed pair in 1997 raises the possibility that such songs might function in pair formation.
4164046| We report the first observations of egg laying by the parasitic Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus). Three direct observations and two estimates of laying times were made at two Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) nests. Bronzed Cowbirds laid at 18.2 min  1.7 (SE) before sunrise (range 14-24 min). Laying lasted 5-10 seconds. Although the parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (M. ater) and sometimes Shiny Cowbirds (M. bonariensis) also lay before sunrise, direct observations of laying by other cowbirds are required before it can be concluded that presunrise laying is an adaptation for brood parasitism. 
4164047|We compared number of avian species and individuals in morning and evening point counts during the breeding season and during winter in a bottomland hardwood forest in west-central Mississippi, USA. In both seasons, more species and individuals were recorded during morning counts than during evening counts. We also compared morning and evening detections for 18 species during the breeding season and 9 species during winter. Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata), Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura), and Red-bellied Woodpecker (Melanerpes carolinus) were detected significantly more often in morning counts than in evening counts during the breeding season. Tufted Titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) was recorded more often in morning counts than evening counts during the breeding season and during winter. No species was detected more often in evening counts. Thus, evening point counts of birds during either the breeding season or winter will likely underestimate species richness, overall avian abundance, and the abundance of some individual species in bottomland hardwood forests.
4164061| A new species of antwren (Myrmotherula fjeldsaai) closely related to Myrmotherula haematonota is described from the lower tropical zone of eastern Ecuador and immediately adjacent Peru. It primarily differs from M. h. haematonota by its brown instead of red back in both sexes. New distributional data for nominate M. h. haematonota shows that it meets the new species north of the Ro Maran, between the Ros Napo and Pastaza, with no apparently significant physical barrier between them. 
4164062| The timing of egg laying is generally constrained by female condition, which is partly determined by the food available to her before laying. Although it was generally believed that geese rely exclusively on internal nutrient reserves for egg production, spring feeding is intensive in many populations of geese, significantly adding nutrients necessary for egg production and incubation. We compared the spring feeding ecology of Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons frontalis) and Canada Geese (Branta canadensis hutchinsii) on a shared nesting ground on the Kent Peninsula, NWT (68 N, 108 W), where pairs feed intensively from arrival until incubation. Live plant biomass did not significantly increase within specific habitats during preincubation, but the total available biomass was greater after snow melt because habitats with higher biomass became available. Live plant biomass available in pond margins (30-60
4164063|The determination of body condition of birds is important for many field studies. However, when using trapping methods based on food as a lure, the sample of trapped birds could be biased toward individuals in poor physical condition. We provide information on body mass, body condition, and sex and age ratio of Levant Sparrowhawks (Accipiter brevipes) and Eurasian Sparrowhawks (Accipiter nisus) caught in Elat, southern Israel, during spring migration. We compared physical condition of birds trapped in baited traps to physical condition of birds trapped in mist nets (no bait). The body mass and index of physical condition of migrating Levant Sparrowhawks trapped in baited traps was lower than birds trapped in mist nets. By comparison no differences were detected in body mass and condition index of migrating Eurasian Sparrowhawks caught by the different trapping methods. The differences found in condition of Levant Sparrowhawks trapped with and without food support the predictions of the condition-bias hypothesis; however, data from the Eurasian Sparrowhawk do not. The extent to which biases occur may be different even for closely related species.
4164064| We examined the vocal responsiveness of chicken (Gallus gallus) embryos at the pipped egg stage to determine if they were able to regulate their thermal environment by soliciting heat from a surrogate parent. There was no overall effect on vocalizations of exposure to 20 C or 45 C relative to the normal incubation temperature of 37.8 C. There was, however, a general trend towards increased calling as the time of hatching approached. There was also some indication that embryos tested in the late stages of hatching (ringing) vocalized more in the cold, then became relatively silent when rewarmed. When cold-challenged embryos were given 2 min of rewarming (surrogate brooding) in response to their calls body temperature was slightly but significantly elevated above cold only exposed controls. Unlike previously reported anecdotal evidence suggesting a strong vocal response to cold, our results suggest chicken embryos show only weak incipient vocal response to temperature that begins to increase late in incubation and becomes fully functional only after hatching. Unlike other species tested to date, the developmental progression of behavioral and metabolic thermoregulation appear to be tightly linked in this species. 
4164065| The first detailed information on the vocalizations (including the first sound spectrograms) and natural history of the Caura Antbird (Percnostola caurensis) and the Yapacana Antbird (Myrmeciza disjuncta) are presented. The Caura Antbird was studied in the Serrania de la Cerbatana, edo. Bolvar, Venezuela, where it inhabits humid foothill forest dominated by large rocks. Caura Antbirds specialized in foraging on or beneath rocks, a behavior unusual among the Thamnophilidae. The Yapacana Antbird was studied at a site along the south bank of the Ro Ventuari, edo. Amazonas, Venezuela. These antbirds were locally abundant in a specialized stunted woodland that grows on white sand soils. Based on newly described vocal characters, the closest relatives of P. caurensis appear to be P. leucostigma and P. schistacea, whereas M. disjuncta has no apparent close relatives and probably merits placement in a monotypic genus. 
4164066|We measured vegetation at shrub patches used for nesting by Yellow-breasted Chats (Icteria virens) to evaluate the importance of nesting habitat patch features on nest predation, cowbird parasitism, and nest site selection. Logistic regression models indicated that nests in small patches (average diameter <5.5 m) that were parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) experienced higher predation than unparasitized nests in large patches. Nests in large patches were more likely to become parasitized by cowbirds, as were nests with more large stems (> 10 cm dbh) nearby. Patches used by chats for nesting had larger average diameters than unused patches and tended to contain more small stems. Chats appeared to prefer large patches and experienced lower nest predation there. Although they might experience higher brood parasitism frequencies in large patches, losses to parasitism were balanced by higher nesting success because the mean number of chat young that fledged did not differ between nests in small versus large patches.
4164067| We recorded 181 avian species at the Paraguayan Cerrado site, Parque Nacional Serrana San Luis, depto. Concepcin, including the first record of Veery (Catharus fuscescens) for the country. We obtained further evidence of hybridization between White-bellied (Basileuterus hypoleucus) and Golden-crowned (B. culicivorus) warblers. Our results combined with those of earlier workers document a total of 219 species for this area. Pronounced differences in species composition exist between San Luis and a nearby Cerrado locality. Three threatened and four near-threatened species were recorded at San Luis. Since our inventory the area that we worked was traded for an adjacent, less human impacted sector of similar size. The new park boundary contains relatively pristine campo (grassland), which is an important habitat for a number of resident and migrant species suspected to be suffering serious population declines. /// Se registraron 181 especies de aves en el Parque Nacional Serrana San Luis, en el cerrado del Paraguay, depto. Concepcin. La lista incluye el primer registro de Catharus fuscescens para el pas, y ms evidencia de hibridizacin entre los parlidos Basileuterus hypoleucus y B. culiciviorus. En combinacin con los resultados de investigadores anteriores, han sido registrado 219 especies de aves para la zona. Existen diferencias marcadas en la composicin avifaunstica entre San Luis y otra localidad cercana en cerrado. Se registraron tres especies amenazadas y cuatro casi-amenazadas en la zona. Desde que se hizo el presente estudio, se cambi. el rea de estudio por otro adyacente, menos impactado y de extenso similar; esta zona abarca ms del campo (pastizal) en buen estado de conservacin, el cual es un refugio para varias especies residentes y migratorias que se cuentran en declives poblacionales. 
4164068|Tabasco, a Mexican state nearly half the size of the country of Costa Rica, lies juxtaposed between the Isthmus of Tehuantepec and the Yucatan Peninsula. This state hosts a diverse Neotropical resident avifauna, is a significant wintering area for Nearctic-Neotropic migrants, and has important biogeographic significance. Surprisingly little recent ornithological study has occurred in Tabasco; the last major publication treats data from 1939. Field work in March 1996 and recent specimens add nine species to the state list: Caprimulgus vociferus, Chaetura vauxi, Campylopterus excellens, Empidonax albigularis, Thryothorus modestus, Turdus infuscatus, Myadestes unicolor, Limnothlypis swainsonii, and Vermivora ruficapilla. The status of 26 other species is discussed. Further evidence of lowland forests being used as temporary refugia by birds from higher elevations is also considered.
4164069|After photographic observations in the field and laboratory tests indicated that small rodents might be significant predators on small eggs, we conducted a field study in central Massachusetts to compare predation of House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) eggs in artificial nests near to (5-15 m) and far from (100-120 m) forest edges and between ground and shrub nests. As in earlier studies in managed northeastern forest landscapes that used larger quail eggs, predation rates on small eggs in nests at the forest edge did not differ (P > 0.05) from those in the forest interior for either ground nests (edge = 0.80 vs interior = 0.90) or shrub nests (edge = 0.38 vs interior = 0.28) after 12 days of exposure. However, predation rates on eggs in ground nests were significantly higher (P < 0.001) than in shrub nests at both the edge and interior. There were no significant (P > 0.05) differences in the frequency of capture of the 6 most common small mammal species between forest edge and interior. Logistic regression analyses indicated a highly significant (P < 0.001) nest placement effect but very little location or small mammal effect. Predation of small eggs by small-mouthed ground predators such as white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) has not been documented as a major factor in egg predation studies, but use of appropriately-sized eggs and quantification of predator species presence and abundance seems essential to future studies.
4164070|Cavity-nesting bird species have been shown to be associated with early post-fire habitat during the breeding season but little study has been done of birds in the non-breeding season. We compared bird composition and foraging behavior during the winter in burned and unburned forests. We conducted point counts during four consecutive winters immediately following a stand replacement fire. Burned and unburned forests had similar numbers of bird species, yet species composition was distinctly different. Trunk and branch foraging species were 2.5 times more abundant in burned forest than in unburned forest. Within burned forests, trunk and branch foraging species significantly decreased from the first winter post-fire to the fourth winter post-fire. We conducted foraging observations of four woodpecker species within burned forests only. Woodpeckers used western larch (Larix occidentalis), ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) and Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) snags that were greater than 23 cm in diameter. Stand replacement fires may play an important role in maintaining populations of trunk and branch foraging species in mixed coniferous forests in northeastern Washington.
4164071|Camera setups revealed at least three species of rodents and seven species of birds as potential predators at artificial open nests. Surprisingly, among avian predators identified at open nests, one third were Bullock's Orioles (Icterus bullockii). Two rodent species and three bird species were potential predators at artificial cavity nests. This high predator diversity was consistent with previous studies, although the number of avian predators at open nests was higher than expected.
4164072|Late summer counts of juveniles at sea are used as an index of Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) reproductive success, but little is known about juvenile dispersal or habitat use. Further, it is not known whether these counts accurately reflect absolute breeding success. To address these questions we conducted five boat surveys for Marbled Murrelets and Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) in Kachemak Bay, Alaska between 7-24 August 1996. Juvenile murrelet distribution in the bay was patchy, and we identified a juvenile Marbled Murrelet 'nursery' area in the outer bay. Fifty-three of 61 juvenile murrelets were in this area, whereas after-hatch-year (AHY) murrelets were dispersed throughout the bay, as were juvenile and AHY Pigeon Guillemots. The murrelet nursery was characterized by water inside of or at the edge of a 20 m deep contour, semi-protected seas, productive waters, and a large bed of Nereocystis kelp. Juveniles comprised 16.1% of all murrelets and 24.8% of all guillemots observed at sea. These data suggest a maximum reproductive success of 0.32 chicks/pair if all AHY murrelets were breeding and 0.46 chicks/pair if only 70% of AHY murrelets were breeding. For guillemots, maximum productivity estimated from at-sea counts was 0.50 chicks/pair if all AHY were breeding and 0.71 chicks/pair if only 70% were breeding. The guillemot estimate was similar to that obtained by concurrent studies at nine guillemot colonies in the bay (0.56 chicks/pair). These results suggest that at sea surveys in late summer provide a reasonable index of local productivity for nearshore alcids. Further, if murrelet nursery areas can be found, at sea counts may provide a valid measure of absolute productivity.
4164073|The chicks of the Wattled Jacana (Jacana jacana) exhibited an unusual predator escape behavior in the floodplains of Venezuela. When approached by a human, chicks dove and remained completely immobile while entirely submerged with just the beak protruding vertically above the water line. Since breathing should continue while hiding, we reasoned that it would be advantageous for the bird to have the nostrils placed in a forward position along the bill to facilitate breathing while submerged. To examine this expectation we compared the relative position of the nostrils of the Wattled Jacana with those of species belonging to phylogenetically related Scolopacidae. In accordance with expectations, Wattled Jacanas have nostrils that are placed significantly more forward along the bill than all species of Scolopacidae measured. Nostril placement in species belonging to other phylogenetically related families, Thinocoridae, Pedionomidae, and Rostratulide is also basal as in Scolopacidae. Forward placement of nostrils seems to be a derived character in jacanas. The "snorkeling" behavior of Wattled Jacana chicks is a behaviorally elaborate predator escape mechanism, seemingly accompanied by anatomical adaptations.
4164074|The distribution of the Snail Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) is closely tied to that of apple snails (Pomacea spp.), its nearly exclusive food. Before the early 1990s, the species occurred in Panama primarily as a vagrant. Apple snails were introduced to Lake Gatun in central Panama in the late 1980s, and by 1994 Snail Kites had colonized the lake from population sources at least 350 km away and initiated breeding. Since 1994 the population has increased rapidly and the species can now be found throughout the lake.
4164075|We examined the arthropod fauna that coexists in nest boxes with American Kestrel chicks (Falco sparverius) in northwestern New Jersey. Of the seven arthropod species present, five were scavenging beetles, including carrion beetles (Silpha inaequalis), hister beetles (Atholus americanus and Phelister subrotundus), dermestid beetles (Dermestes caninus), and skin beetles (Trox foveicollis), which apparently were attracted to prey remains that accumulated in the nest boxes. Arthropod density and species richness were significantly greater for nest boxes in which kestrels bred than for unoccupied nest boxes.
4164076|Barred Owls (Strix varia) nested in the attic of a shed during 12 out of 13 years at Flotten Lake, Saskatchewan. Twelve nestlings were banded in five seasons. Although two species of Strix are known to nest in buildings in Europe, this appears to be the first such instance in North America.
4164077|Owls in the family Strigidae typically raise no more than one brood per year. We documented what apparently is the first unequivocal case of double brooding in Long-eared Owls (Asio otus). A banded female raised 12 young in two nesting attempts compared with a mean of 5.3 young for three single-brooded females that nested in the same grove. Two factors may have influenced the occurrence of double brooding: the first nest was initiated unusually early in the year (mid-February) and food availability (in the form of voles) was high. The rare description of double brooding in Long-eared Owls may be due to the difficulty of detecting it. Alternatively, double brooding may be uncommon because it is seldom an economically viable strategy. Factors that would select against double brooding include low probability of recruitment of the first-brood young, and reduced survival and fecundity of the adults.
4164078|Many species of birds feed on suet in winter. As far as is known, they all take bite-sized chunks by pecking into this food randomly and/or they tear off protruding pieces. I compared the peck-marks left on suet by Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) and American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) with those left by Common Ravens (Corvus corax). Although most ravens feed like jays and crows, at least one individual made distinct grooves, aligning dozens of consecutive pecks, apparently to cut transportable chunks off large suet blocks.
4164079|Habitat fragmentation has been associated with low pairing success of some Neotropical migrant songbirds occupying forest fragments. From 1996 to 1998, we conducted a nest study of Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) in 21 woodlots ranging in size from 3-12 ha in a highly fragmented agricultural landscape in southwestern Ontario. We found active nests for 46 of 48 singing Wood Thrushes that we detected in the forest fragments. Our results suggest that in at least some highly fragmented agricultural landscapes, most singing Wood Thrushes in small woodlots are successfully paired.
4164080|We present the first record of the Connecticut Warbler (Oporornis agilis) for Ecuador. The bird was mist-netted and photographed on 21 November 1996 at Playa de Oro, Rio Santiago, Esmeraldas Province, northwestern Ecuador.
4164081|Parental behavior of a bigamous male Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) in southwestern Ohio in 1997 is described. The male was neither brighter in plumage nor larger than average. Nesting periods of the two females overlapped. The male provisioned the primary female during incubation but not the secondary female. The male delayed provisioning the secondary female's nestlings until two days after they hatched but then fed both sets of nestlings at rates typical of monogamous males. Despite initially reduced paternal care, the brood of the secondary female fledged successfully.
4164082|The Committee on Undergraduate Education of the Wilson Ornithological Society conducted a survey of ornithology courses in North America as a service for teachers of ornithology. Our survey of 26 responses uncovered 26 creative approaches to teaching ornithology. Nonetheless, a number of commonalities exist. Courses at small colleges and large universities include both lecture and laboratory components and usually extend into the spring. Most courses emphasize anatomy and physiology, nesting, evolution of birds, ecology, and flight, with other topics receiving few or no lectures. Almost 60% of the courses include student dissection or faculty demonstration. Some courses use preserved birds, others use birds that died accidentally, and one uses roasted chickens that are eaten as part of the skeleto-muscular dissection. Laboratory sessions emphasize taxonomy and identification of local and, often, world birds. Most schools have at least a small collection of specimens available for student use. Courses usually include an extensive project and written work. We hope the results of the survey will stimulate discussion among teachers of ornithology as we seek to develop new ideas for our courses.
4164093|Recently, Short-eared Owls (Asio flammeus) have invaded extreme southern Florida during spring and summer, most appear to be post-fledging dispersers. Morphological and plumage characteristics identify the specimens as coming from the Antilles, most likely from Cuba, where numbers and range have expanded greatly in recent years. This dispersal continues a trend that began in other bird species more than half a century ago. Since 1932 about one landbird species per decade has colonized southern Florida from the Antilles.
4164094|Connectivity of discrete habitat patches may be described in terms of the movements of individual organisms among such patches. To examine connectivity of widely dispersed alkali lake systems, we recorded post-breeding and subsequent breeding locations of color-banded American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) in the western U.S. Great Basin, from 1995-1997. Among individuals observed during the post-breeding/premigratory season, over half of the 188 breeding adults were observed at lakes other than their breeding locations, whereas 70% of 125 post-fledged young were observed only at their natal lake systems. Of 46 breeding adults observed in consecutive years, only eight (17%) dispersed between different lake systems. Only 8% of chicks were observed after their first year, and only 1.3% returned to the natal area in subsequent breeding seasons. Adult and recently fledged birds from the southernmost breeding site were regularly observed in post-breeding aggregations at lakes several hundred kilometers to the north, suggesting seasonal differences in habitat quality at the lake systems studied. These results indicate the importance of maintaining habitat for post-breeding movements.
4164095|Ghost crabs (Ocypode quadrata) have been implicated in mortality of eggs and chicks of the beach-nesting Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) whose Atlantic Coast populations are listed as threatened. Through observation and experimentation, we investigated the interactions between ghost crabs and plovers on Wild Beach, a Piping Plover nesting area on Assateague Island, Virginia. This site has a high abundance of ghost crabs and historically low fledging success compared to adjacent areas with fewer crabs. We observed encounters of crabs with plover eggs, chicks, and adults in the field, but never predation. In staged encounters of crabs with eggs and chicks (using hatchery reared quail as plover surrogates), we were unable to elicit predatory behavior either on the beach or in the lab. We conclude that although instances of ghost crab predation on Piping Plover eggs and chicks occur, they are rare and cannot account for the high mortality frequently reported on beaches where ghost crabs are abundant. Adult plovers behave toward crabs as if they were dangerous to eggs and chicks, and their young broods in the study area did not forage along the foreshore. Hence, ghost crabs may increase mortality indirectly. Frequent responding to crabs by parents may attract more deadly brood predators. Brood nutrition may suffer as adult plovers direct chicks away from areas where forage is reportedly richer but crabs are abundant, such as the foreshore. Nutrient intake may be further reduced on more southerly breeding grounds where high temperatures on backshores force chicks to stop foraging and take shelter during mid-day. Although high mortality cannot be attributed directly to predation by crabs, it may be due to factors that covary with crab abundance, such as high temperature, behavioral responses of adult birds, and poor forage.
4164096|The taxonomic status of the crested caracaras (Caracara spp., Falconidae) has been unsettled for many years. Current sources such as the AOU Check-list recognize a single species that includes three taxa formerly considered distinct, citing observations by Hellmayr and Conover (1949) on two specimens considered to be intermediate. We studied plumage characters and measurements of over 392 museum specimens and found no evidence of clinal change between the northern and southern continental populations. Sixteen specimens from localities near the Amazon River where these two populations sporadically meet exhibit a mosaic of plumage elements from both forms. Measurements of wing chord, bill length, and bill depth indicate that size is positively correlated with latitude north and south of the equator and that females are larger than males in the northern population. These populations do not meet in western South America. We conclude that three biological species can be identified in the crested caracaras: the insular Guadalupe Caracara (Caracara lutosus); and two continental species. Northern (C. cheriway) and Southern caracara (C. plancus), neither of which shows subspecific variation.
4164097|Cryptic protective mechanisms and the conspicuousness required to communicate result in a conflict of opposing selection. In the Red-necked Nightjar (Caprimulgus ruficollis) a nocturnal bird, the use of a restricted signaling strategy provides an appropriate balance between these two selection forces. Conspicuous white wing and tail bands may have been favored by sexual selection in this species. We studied the variation of visual signals and found conspicuousness to be closely related to sex and age, being much higher in males and adults. This variation allows an individual to identify the reproductive status of conspecifics, providing sexual selection a basis to select these visual signals in this and other nocturnal bird species. We believe that a relationship between restricted signaling strategy and sexually selected visual signals may occur in nocturnal species that use visual comunication.
4164098|Interspecific competition for Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavities has been well documented and may be one factor contributing to the species' decline. Other forms of interspecific interactions have rarely been documented over most of the species' range and have received little attention. During 806 hours of Red-cockaded Woodpecker foraging observations in south-central Florida we documented 306 interspecific interactions with 19 species. We observed fewer non-foraging interactions (98) than foraging interactions (208). Red-cockaded Woodpeckers lost 70 (71%) of the non-foraging interactions and 177 (85%) of the foraging interactions. Most non-foraging interactions (64%) were with non-woodpecker species, several of which frequently and consistently dominated Red-cockaded Woodpeckers. Together, Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus), Great Crested Flycatchers (Myiarchus crinitus), Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis), and Pine Warblers (Dendroica pinus) won 45 of their 48 (94%) non-foraging interactions with Red-cockaded Woodpeckers. Most foraging interactions (97%) were with other woodpecker species. Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus) were involved in 172 (85%) of these interactions, of which they won 168 (98%). We found no relationship between the rate of interactions and the habitats or the local landscape in which these interactions occurred. Red-cockaded Woodpeckers did not appear to move to different and possibly less productive foraging sites after being usurped. In south-central Florida, where hardwood basal areas are relatively low in Red-cockaded Woodpecker habitat, the foraging niche of these two species may overlap to a greater extent than elsewhere in their range.
4164099| We used simultaneous WSR-88D radar (NEXRAD) and direct visual observations to investigate the spatial and temporal dynamics of a Purple Martin (Progne subis) pre-migratory roost in South Carolina. The timing of mass flights of martins from and to the roost was related to levels of ambient light. Each morning, the birds first departed approximately 40 min before sunrise independent of date, with peak departures occurring about 10 min before sunrise. The time of evening flights was more variable, but peak movement of birds into the roost consistently occurred at sunset. Purple Martins exited the roost in organized, annular departures (360) that were visible on radar up to 100 km away from the roost, but returned to the roost over an extended period in scattered flocks. During morning departures we recorded flight speeds up to 13.4 m/s. Radar echoes corresponding to martin flights were recorded farther from the roost, and flights from and to the roost occurred later and earlier, respectively, in response to increased cloud cover. The departures of birds from the roost appeared to be displaced by winds aloft. At the peak of the roosting season in late July, the total roost population was estimated to be at least 700,000 birds. 
4164100|Aggressive responses of Black-capped (Poecile atricapillus) and Carolina chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) to heterospecific and conspecific vocalization playbacks were measured across a historic contact zone in east-central Illinois to determine the magnitude of interspecific aggression. Within the traditional Carolina Chickadee range, chickadees responded more aggressively towards Carolina Chickadee calls than Black-capped Chickadee calls. Within the traditional Black-capped Chickadee range, chickadees did not respond to either vocalization significantly more than the other. The aggressive response towards presumed heterospecific vocalizations for all chickadees was marginally more aggressive closer to the contact zone. Thus, we conclude that interspecific aggression may not act as a gap producing mechanism between chickadee ranges.
4164101|We investigated the composition and function of individual song repertoires in Mountain Chickadees (Poecile gambeli) in Alberta, Canada. Individual males had repertoires of 4-7 song types, but three types made up 90% of all songs. We tested and rejected the hypothesis that all song types convey the same behavioral messages. Different song types were associated with different behavioral situations. Males used 3-note songs predominantly during undisturbed singing and 2-note songs predominantly during non-aggressive activity. Three-note songs with each successive note lower pitched were associated with male-male interactions. We suggest that different song types convey messages indicating different levels of aggression by the singer. The function of individual repertoires in Mountain Chickadees appears to be similar to that of other North American chickadees and titmice, with different song types having different communicative functions.
4164102| The Puerto Rican Vireo (Vireo latimeri), a Puerto Rican endemic, is declining in at least one forest reserve as the result of pressures from introduced nest predators and an introduced brood parasite. We collected data on adult survival, adult longevity, and juvenile survival from a long-term mist netting study (1973-1999) and a demographic study of color-marked birds (1990-1993) in Gunica Forest, Puerto Rico. Of the adult birds banded in the first three years of the demographic study, 24 of 32 males (75%) and 6 of 7 females (86%) were known to survive until June of the year following their banding. Model-based estimates of adult survival rate from capture/resighting of 65 color-marked birds was 0.74 ( 0.05 SE); for 51 adult males analyzed separately, survival rate was 0.74 (0.06; data were insufficient to estimate survival rate of females). We recorded a new longevity record for the Puerto Rican Vireo of 13 years, 2 months. Juvenile survival was estimated by enumeration to be 0.40 (0.15). Juveniles spent prolonged periods on their natal territory, which might increase their probability of surviving to first breeding. Puerto Rican Vireos have relatively high survival rates despite the presence of numerous introduced predators in their habitat, a highly seasonal environment, and the stress of renesting as many as 6 times in a season. 
4164103|Age-related increases in reproductive success could be the result of better survival by successful breeders (survival hypothesis), greater dispersal by unsuccessful breeders (dispersal hypothesis), and/or age-related differences in the ability to compete for breeding opportunities (constraint hypothesis). We used banding and nesting data from four consecutive breeding seasons to examine the effects of prior residency on several indices of breeding performance in Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia). We compared the breeding performance of returning birds with that of new arrivals, and of individuals between successive breeding seasons. There were no differences in clutch size between new arrivals and returning individuals, nor within individuals between successive breeding seasons. Among males, prior residence had no effect on whether a clutch was started, but among females the number of prior residents that initiated a clutch was higher than expected, and the number of new arrivals that did not was lower than expected. In contrast, there were no differences in laying or hatching date between new arrivals and returning individuals, but within-individual comparisons showed that males bred earlier in successive breeding seasons. Previous reproduction increased subsequent return rates only 1 out of 3 years in both sexes. Returning males were larger than new arrivals, but there were no differences in females. Within-individual size increases between successive breeding seasons occurred in both sexes. These results are consistent with the constraint hypothesis, but the proximate mechanisms by which these differences arise remain to be determined.
4164104|We conducted 1675 point counts on 93 survey routes to determine the distribution and habitat associations of three endemic grassland songbirds across the four prairie ecoregions of southern Saskatchewan, Canada. Within the four habitat types surveyed, Sprague's Pipits (Anthus spragueii) and Chestnut-collared Longspurs (Calcarius ornatus) occurred more frequently in native and seeded pastures than in hayland and cropland, whereas Baird's Sparrows (Ammodramus bairdii) occurred as frequently in hayland as in native and seeded pastures. The occurrence of Baird's Sparrows and Chestnut-collared Longspurs did not differ significantly between lightly, moderately, and heavily grazed native pastures, whereas Sprague's Pipits occurred less frequently in heavily grazed pastures. Sprague's Pipits and Chestnut-collared Longspurs occurred more often in the drier prairies of the southern portion of the province, but Chestnut-collared Longspurs were virtually absent from the cypress upland ecoregion. In contrast, Baird's Sparrows occurred most frequently in the semi-arid grasslands of the moist-mixed grassland ecoregion. In native pastures, Chestnut-collared Longspurs were associated with a lower density of short grasses and lesser amounts of litter whereas Baird's Sparrows were associated with a higher density of taller grasses and sparse shrub cover. Our results suggest that conservation programs that convert annually tilled cropland to perennial forage could provide additional habitat for endemic grassland birds.
4164105| Avifaunal composition was evaluated for natural (not artificial) patches of mixed temperate rain forest in the Campos Gerais region, Paran State, southern Brazil. A large patch (840 ha) and 11 smaller patches (0.5-40 ha) were censused from September to December of 1995 (five hours per month, each site). The total species number was strongly correlated with patch size (r = 0.92, P < 0.001). However, the number of edge species increased with decreasing patch area; the opposite happened with forest species. Thus, the ratio of edge to forest species increased with decreasing patch area. The number of leaf insectivore species decreased the most with a decrease in area. The mean Simpson similarity index was 73.8% among forest patches of similar size. Smaller forest patches linked to the 840 ha patch were more similar to this larger patch than isolated patches. Point counts from January to December 1991 in four patches (72 points each area) showed that several species, specially trunk (and twig) insectivores and omnivores, increased in relative abundance with decreases in area of the patch (density compensation). The "habitat appropriation" hypothesis, the expansion of niches to include slightly different habitats, could explain the increased relative abundance of two trunk (and twig) insectivores: Cranioleuca obsoleta and Cranioleuca pallida. 
4164106|Nest predation, the major cause of nest failure in passerines, has exerted a strong influence on the evolution of life history traits of birds. Because human disturbance during nest monitoring may alter predation rates, we investigated whether human scent affected the survival of artificial ground nests in shortgrass prairie. Our experiment consisted of two treatments, one in which there was no attempt to mask human scent along travel routes between artificial nests, and one in which we masked human scent with cow manure, a scent familiar to mammalian predators in the study area. We found no evidence that human scent influenced predation rates, nor that mammalian predators followed human trails between nests. We conclude that scent trails made by investigators do not result in lower nesting success of passerines of the shortgrass prairie where vegetation trampling is minimal, mammalian predators predominate, and avian predators are rare.
4164107| The mean fresh egg mass of Christmas Shearwaters (Puffinus nativitatis) on Laysan Island, in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, was 44.9  3.4 (SD) g, and the mean egg volume was 42.3  2.9 cm
4164108|We report a recent observation from southern Costa Rica of the Paint-billed Crake (Neocrex erythrops), a little known species from eastern and northern South America. An adult and recently hatched chick were observed at close range in wet grassy second-growth. This observation constitutes the first record of the young of this species and represents the only breeding record for Central America.
4164109|We report on successful nesting attempts in fall by Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) in southern Mississippi in November, 1987 and in central Arkansas in October, 1998, and a winter nesting attempt in South Carolina in December, 1998. The first nest was found 1 year before previously reported fall nestings in the Southeast and 1 month earlier in the season. The second is the most northern and western fall nesting site in the South, and the third is the latest reported nesting attempt in the southern United States. Taken together with 3 other reported successful fall nests in Mississippi and South Carolina, Killdeer would appear to be the only fall breeding shorebird in North America and, based on those 6 widely-scattered observations over the last 11 years, should now be considered a rare fall and winter breeder across the southern United States.
4164110|Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) hens frequently renest after disturbance on the nest, especially while laying or early during the incubation period. However, no record exists of Wild Turkey hens renesting after a successful hatch. We document three Wild Turkey hens that renested after having hatched a brood. None of the renests were successful.
4164111| Swainson's Hawks (Buteo swainsoni; Aguilucho Langostero) were captured and banded in La Pampa, Argentina from 28 November 1996 through 25 January 1997. We collected morphometric measurements to determine if hawks gained weight on the austral (non-breeding) grounds. Hawks in apparently healthy condition weighed 819.7  11.1 g (mean  SE, n = 127, range 540-1090 g). Weight increased significantly over the length of the non-breeding season in Argentina (P = 0.0059), but wingspan (124.9  0.5 cm, n = 127, range 105.7-137.1 cm) and tail (19.8  0.1 cm, n = 127, range 16.5-23.1 cm) did not. When separated by age, weight increased significantly for juveniles (P = 0.0083) but was marginally non-significant for adults (P = 0.0555). 
4164112|Siblicide as a mechanism for brood reduction has been reported in a number of asynchronously hatching bird species. Although researchers have documented the occurrence of facultative siblicide in several raptor species, its cause is still debated. Most hypotheses relate incidences of siblicide to food availability. The food-amount hypothesis predicts a negative relationship between the amount of food available and nestling aggression. While the food-amount hypothesis has received much attention, few studies show more than correlational support for this activity in raptors. Our observation of a siblicide event at a Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) nest used as a control in a supplemental feeding experiment, and a similar incident where a nestling goshawk's death can be attributed to siblicide provide support for the negative correlation between food amount and sibling aggression. These observations and the lack of any reported sibling aggression at seven supplementally fed nests showing extreme hatching asynchrony also indicate a relationship between food resources and brood reduction. Our observations are consistent with the idea that goshawks exhibit facultative siblicide, and that resource levels as predicted by the food-amount hypothesis directly influence it.
4164113|Cooperative foraging behavior is rarely observed in ground-walking birds. I report on observations of cooperative foraging behavior by Mountain Caracaras (Phalcoboenus megalopterus) in the puna region of Peru in September of 1995. On several occasions, three individuals (two adults and one immature) were observed working together to turn over large rocks to obtain prey from beneath. These cooperative foraging events are notable in that, unlike cooperative foraging behavior observed in other ground-walking birds, only one individual obtained prey from a given cooperative effort. The presence of the immature individual may be indicative of delayed dispersal, a behavior not previously described for this poorly known species.
4164114|I observed a Rufous Motmot (Baryphthengus martii) feeding a black-and-green poison dart frog (Dendrobates auratus) to another motmot in the Caribbean Slope lowland rainforest of northeastern Costa Rica. Neither individual appeared to suffer any ill effects from what was probably courtship feeding. Small vertebrates are typical prey for the larger species of motmots. Blue-crowned Motmots (Momotus momota) have been observed consuming several species of poison dart frogs raised in captivity but captive reared frogs either do not contain, or have reduced levels of, the toxins that native frogs produce. Relatively little is known about the effects of poison dart frog toxins on predators. Presumably, the digestive system of the Rufous Motmot is capable of neutralizing the potentially toxic effects of such prey.
4164115|When the last two eggs of Mountain Bluebird (Sialia currucoides) clutches were replaced with another bluebird egg and one House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) egg, 20% (3/15) of the sparrow eggs were removed within 24 hr. None of the surrogate bluebird eggs was removed. This is the first recorded instance of interspecific egg ejection in a bluebird species, and hole-nesters in general.
4164116|I report an observation of a foraging Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus) following a nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus), near Gainesville, Florida. Close attendance only while the armadillo was moving and disturbing leaf litter suggests the Ovenbird was taking advantage of increased prey availability caused by the armadillo's flushing of insects.
4164129|A distinctive new species of hawk-owl, Ninox ios, is described from a specimen collected in 1985 in forest at 1120 m in Bogani Nani Wartabone (then Dumoga-Bone) National Park, North Sulawesi, Indonesia. It was previously identified as a rufous morph of the Ochre-bellied Hawk-Owl, N. ochracea. Ninox ios is small, predominantly bright chestnut, and lacks facial patterning; it has pink orbital skin, yellow irides, triangular whitish scapular spots, a finely banded and relatively long tail, unusually short, slender tarsi that are feathered for most of their length, and weak claws. Its relationships within the genus Ninox are unclear; it differs in several morphological characters from all other species. Because Ninox ios is only known from one specimen, its distribution and conservation status are unknown; nothing is known of its ecology, but it probably occurs primarily at higher elevations than N. ochracea.
4164130| We studied egg size variation of Greater Scaup (Aythya marila) nesting on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska from 1991-1996. Mean egg size was 64.36  0.03 (SE) ml. Egg size did not vary with clutch size or serve as an index of body size. There was less than 2% overlap in total clutch volumes for clutches of different sizes indicating that phenotypic clutch size-egg size trade-offs are not occurring among individuals. At the population level, Greater Scaup have less variation in egg size than other species of waterfowl. The proportion of variation in egg size caused by differences among females was 0.20, caused by differences within females among years was 0.25, and caused by differences within females and years (i.e., clutches) was 0.56. The proportion of egg lipid decreased with increasing egg size while the proportion of egg protein increased with egg size. Thus, Greater Scaup appear to trade-off lipid for protein as egg size increases. The proportion of variation that was due to differences among females in total egg protein was 0.79 and in total egg lipid was 0.49. We conclude that in the absence of a fitness trade-off between clutch size and egg size, selection has reduced among-individual variation in egg size. 
4164131|We predicted that extended parental care, asynchronous hatching, and incidences of siblicide in Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) could increase the chances for conflict between siblings, and between parents and offspring as juveniles aged. This conflict could motivate independence and dispersal in this species. To test our predictions, during the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons we examined post-fledging behavior in Golden Eagles from the Little Missouri National Grassland and contiguous areas of western North Dakota. We collected observations of 28 radio-tagged juveniles to determine whether predispersal movements were correlated with age and with the presence of a sibling or parent during the first 6-10 weeks after fledging. We also recorded juvenile vocalization rates to determine if they changed with age or the presence of a parent. We found that distance from the natal nest increased with time since fledging. This was attributed to an increased proficiency in flight and gradual development of independence from parental care. We found that calling rate and distance between individuals of sibling pairs did not change with time after fledging but was highly variable. Calling rates of fledglings in the presence of parents were higher than when parents were absent. Increased calling may facilitate juvenile location or inform the parents of offspring nutritional status. Parents were not visible for most observation periods and we did not observe any aggression by parents directed toward offspring. Siblings engaged in "play" activity and we did not detect any signs of aggression between siblings. Our data do not support the predictions that an increase in parental and/or sibling aggression is associated with independence in this population of Golden Eagles.
4164132|We studied chick growth and plumage patterns in the endangered Hawaiian Stilt (Himantopus mexicanus knudseni). Body mass of captive chicks closely fit a Gompertz growth curve, revealing a growth coefficient (K) of 0.065 day
4164133|Nesting behavior of the Lilac-crowned Parrot (Amazona finschi) was observed over a three year period at 24 nests in the tropical dry forest of the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve, western Mexico. Nest site characteristics and the pattern of parental care throughout the nesting cycle are described for this mainland Amazon parrot and compared with that reported for other Amazon parrot species. Nest sites were located in natural cavities of large mature trees characteristic of semi-deciduous forest. Nest sites were similar to one another in tree species, tree size, cavity height, and entrance width, indicating that Lilac-crowned Parrots may select nest sites based on these characteristics. Unlike most parrot species, Lilac-crowned Parrots showed low nest site reuse and high synchrony of nest initiation. Throughout the nesting cycle, females and nestlings were fed only twice a day on average. Nest attendance during feeding visits was short. The infrequent feeding visits and short nest attendance exhibited by Lilac-crowned Parrots corresponds with that found for other mainland Amazon parrots in northeastern Mexico, but contrasts with the multiple feedings and longer nest attendance observed for island Amazon species. The distinct aspects of Lilac-crowned Parrot nesting behavior may be related to predation rate and food resource availability during the extreme dry season.
4164134|We examined Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) food provisioning rates of nestlings during the 1992 and 1993 breeding seasons on the Vernon Ranger District of the Kisatchie National Forest in Louisiana. Provisioning rates were monitored at nest trees in moderate (9.8 groups/2 km radius, n = 10) and low (5.9 groups/2 km radius, n = 10) density populations. Habitat around each cluster was measured within three radii (100 m, 400 m, and 800 m) to evaluate the possible influence of habitat quality on group density and nestling provisioning rates. We tested the null hypothesis that habitat quality and provisioning rates would be similar in areas with different densities of woodpecker groups. We failed to detect differences in nestling provisioning rates between woodpecker groups in moderate versus low group densities. Woodpecker groups from areas where group densities were moderate attempted to nest significantly more often than woodpecker groups occurring in low densities. Hardwood midstory vegetation was more abundant in areas with low woodpecker group density. Old-growth pines, which are known to be important for cavity excavation, were present in habitat around cavity-tree clusters of moderate-density groups, but generally absent in areas where group density was low. Woodpecker group density may be related to hardwood midstory conditions and the abundance and spatial distribution of remnant old pines.
4164135|I studied patterns of cowbird parasitism and responses to this parasitism by Bell's Vireos (Vireo bellii) in Kansas. Bell's Vireos abandoned parasitized nests at a significantly higher rate than unparasitized nests. Lower probability of brood parasitism later in the season may help make abandonment followed by renesting beneficial. Burial of cowbird eggs by vireos was also observed in several cases. I did not detect a strong relationship between nest site vegetation characteristics and the probability of brood parasitism.
4164136|The type B song of the Northern Parula (Parula americana) was described from 120 males recorded throughout much of the species' range in North America. Most songs were structured with a series of complex syllables, followed by simple syllables, trill syllables, and a terminal simple syllable. Some birds sang songs that contained 2 phrases per song with syllables that varied in structure and number between individuals. Analysis of song variables revealed variation at the macrogeographic level with songs from western populations differing significantly from eastern populations in song duration, frequency, number of trill syllables, and simple syllables. In addition, variation was evident between eastern and western populations in the structuring of phrase patterns.
4164137|According to data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey, populations of Dickcissel (Spiza americana) and Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii) have declined severely during the last 30 years. The reasons for their population declines seem to differ; habitat fragmentation on the breeding grounds has been suggested to have little negative impact on Dickcissels, but appears to be a major reason for Henslow's Sparrow declines. Previous reports on the status of Dickcissels and Henslow's Sparrows largely were based on density estimates without considering the nesting biology of the two species. My comparison of the nesting biology of Dickcissel and Henslow's Sparrow provides some insight into potential factors that might contribute to their population declines. During 1995-1997, I studied the nesting biology of Dickcissels and Henslow's Sparrows in fragments of native tallgrass prairie in southwestern Missouri. Both species had similar clutch sizes, rates of hatching success, and numbers of young fledged per successful nest. Dickcissels tended to have lower rates of nesting success and higher rates of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) than Henslow's Sparrows. Although several vegetation characteristics at the nest differed between successful and depredated nests in Dickcissels, no differences were found between successful and depredated Henslow's Sparrow nests or between parasitized and unparasitized Dickcissel nests. My results indicate that Dickcissels might reproduce less successfully than Henslow's Sparrows in southwestern Missouri, and might therefore be of higher conservation concern on the breeding ground than previously thought.
4164138| The semiarid region of Chile is influenced by El Nio Southern Oscillation. Its absence causes droughts and its presence causes wet years, which in turn result in variations in resource levels for avian assemblages. We show that bird species richness and density follow some of these pulses closely. Sixty-one bird species, 32 of which were Passeriformes, were sighted during five years in Las Chinchillas National Reserve (300 km N of Santiago). Overall, 30 species (49%) were residents and 31 (51%) were migratory. The most speciose trophic groups were insectivores (34%), carnivores (28%), and granivores (25%). Bird species richness and density declined from 43 species and 45-50 individuals/ha in spring 1993, to 29 species and 15-20 individuals/ha in autumn 1996. Increases were observed with the onset of El Nio, reaching totals of 42 species (a 45% increase from 29) and densities of 55-60 birds/ha in summer 1997. Similar trends were observed in one of two major food resources measured: small mammals. Positive correlations were found between raptor species richness and density and small mammal density, but not between insectivorous bird species richness or density and terrestrial arthropod abundance. Because the climate was very dry during most of the time of our study, we may have witnessed the lowest boundary for species richness and bird density. Whether the 1997-1998 El Nio brought the maximum bird species richness and density for the site is yet to be seen. 
4164139|We examined the potential for predators to learn the location of artificial arboreal (1.5 m above ground) nests in a managed forested landscape of central Pennsylvania from June-July 1995. We tested the hypothesis that predators do not learn the location of artificial arboreal nests placed repeatedly at the same sites (fixed nests) versus those placed at random sites in three habitats created by clearcutting (forested patches, forested corridors, contiguous forest). Sixty-nine (23%) of 299 total nests in five combined trials were disturbed by predators; 11 (16%) of these disturbances were attributed to corvids. Predation rates were greater on nests placed at random (28%) compared to fixed sites (18%, P < 0.05), indicating predators did not learn or return to the location of arboreal nests during our study. Predation rates varied significantly (P < 0.001) among habitats, with 49% of the nests disturbed in the forested-patch habitat versus only 7% and 13% in forested-corridor and contiguous-forest habitats, respectively. We propose that predation was higher in forested patches than in the other two habitats because the former had greater amounts of edge.
4164140|Many researchers have reported high rates of nest predation near forest edges. However, edges may be of various types (e.g., interior or exterior, abrupt or gradual), which may not always result in elevated predation. We compared predation rates on artificial arboreal nests along three types of edges in a bottomland forest in North Carolina during the 1996 breeding season. Edge types were forest--farm, forest--river, and the transition zone between the two dominant forest types in the floodplain (cypress-gum swamps--natural levees). We tested for differences in predation rates using two egg types: Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) and clay eggs. Predation rates were higher (P < 0.05) along forest--farm edges than along the other two edges. Predation rates did not differ between forest--river and transition zone edges. Patterns of predation on the two egg types and higher avian predator abundance on forest-farm edges suggested that avian predators may have exerted more predation pressure along these edges. These results are consistent with other studies, which suggest that encroachment by agriculture into forested landscapes may negatively affect breeding birds. Our findings also suggest that not all edge types are equivalent in terms of predation rates. This is important in assessing the conservation value of bottomland forests, which may contain various edge types resulting from natural processes (e.g., hydrodynamics).
4164141|We conducted a bird census along the same route nearly each week for 14 winters (194 censuses), and compared the mean number of species per station and the total number of species recorded on the census with the length of photoperiod and weather variables. We found significant differences among winters for both indicators of species richness. This result is consistent with previous studies in which abundance of food was measured in the same general area. Both indicators of species richness were negatively associated with the number of days after 1 November. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that wintering species dependent on nonrenewed food resources lose individuals to mortality or emigration. Further, there was a positive relationship between photoperiod and both indicators of species richness. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that the detection of individuals in the early morning hours increases with the amount of daylight they have available for foraging and social behaviors. Wind speed and temperature had negative and positive relationships, respectively, to species richness. The number of species per station was greatest on days when the ground was covered with dew and least on days when snow depth was more than 15 cm. When the "winters" were divided into four 30-day "quarters", most of the 61 species were recorded with equal frequency in each quarter. Eight species were detected less frequently at the end of winter than in the beginning. Four species exhibited the reverse pattern. Two species were recorded more frequently at the beginning and at the end of the winter than during the middle. Temperature, wind, photoperiod, successive winter day, year, and species-specific evolutionary history all affect winter bird species richness.
4164142|Recent observations of the Aleutian Tern (Sterna aleutica) in the coastal waters around Hong Kong in spring and fall, and Singapore and the Indonesian islands of Karimun and Bintan between October and April indicate that at least part of the population of this species migrates through and winters in these areas. Our observations during December 1997, suggest that the coastal waters of Java, Bali and Sulawesi may form an additional part of the winter range of this species.
4164143|Little is known of nest predation patterns in the dry subtropics. We used artificial nests to examine patterns of nest predation and to identify possible nest predators in the Bahamas. Unlike predation patterns in temperate areas, we found no relationship between predation rates and nest cover or distance to the road. Instead, the rate of nest predation depended on distance to ocean. This result and a photograph taken at a disturbed nest implicated the giant white land crab (Cardisoma guanhumi) as a possible nest predator. Because land crabs are prevalent throughout the subtropics and could potentially influence nesting behavior, we advise researchers to consider variables associated with land crabs when examining nest predation in the subtropics.
4164144| In this paper I review the current distribution of the Northern Helmeted Curassow (Pauxi pauxi) and the Wattled Guan (Aburria aburri) in Venezuela. The historical range of P. pauxi was reduced as a result of human population growth and habitat perturbations. The current distribution corresponds principally with 18 national parks located from the northern coastal mountains of central Venezuela to the Andes Cordillera and Sierra de Perij. Pauxi pauxi was recorded only in three localities outside national parks and may have expanded from its historical distribution in the eastern part of the country. Aburria aburri was recorded in Sierra de Tchira, including four new localities; three in national parks. Both species are endangered in Venezuela and their survival will depend on environmental sducation programs and enforcement of the law. 
4164145|We present the first evidence that western Burrowing Owls are capable of raising a second brood of chicks within a nesting season once their first brood successfully fledges. Two pairs of owls in central California known to have successfully fledged chicks from a first brood renested in 1998, with one pair producing five additional fledglings.
4164146| Barn Owls (Tyto alba) typically begin nesting in temperate zones in early spring. The species has high reproductive output (large clutch size, occasionally double-brooded) and high mortality for a member of the Strigiformes. We report on Barn Owls in one nest box that hatched five clutches and fledged young from four clutches within 23 months. Laying, incubation, or brood-rearing was attempted in every month of the year. In the only clutch mortality we witnessed, three young apparently died of exposure during a period of cold weather (temperatures as low as --15 C). 
4164147|The endangered southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus) is an obligate riparian species that typically nests in willow (Salix spp.) thickets or other dense, shrubby habitats. We report on the first nests in Arizona sycamore (Platanus wrightii) and in a climbing rose vine (Rosa multiflora). Although these nests were located in novel substrates, they were typical for the species in being supported by multiple small stems and in having a dense canopy cover. We suggest that nest substrate preferences of Willow Flycatchers in the Southwest may be broader than generally considered.
4164148|Cost-benefit analyses of the adaptive significance of nest defense in birds are based on the assumption that parent birds attacking nest predators risk serious injury or death. However, there are few published records of adult birds dying during nest defense. I found an adult male Veery (Catharus fuscesens) dead in circumstances indicating that the bird died while defending his nest. This observation supports speculation that adult birds risk injury or death in the course of nest defense, and lends support to explanations of variability in nest-defense behavior that are presented in terms of cost-benefit analysis and the optimization of fitness.
4164149| We obtained 1033 clutch sizes from 281 known-age female Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) nesting in nest boxes at Presquile National Wildlife Refuge in eastern Virginia from 1987 through 1998. Prothonotary Warblers typically nested twice during each breeding season; first clutches of all birds averaged 1.01 eggs greater than second clutches [4.96  0.72 (SD) vs 3.94  0.55]. Clutch size was significantly smaller in first nests of one-year-old warblers (4.64  0.48) than in first clutches of females two to eight years old (5.05  0.62). First clutches did not differ among age classes of birds older than one year. The mean size of second clutches was not significantly different among any of the age classes. One year old birds initiated laying significantly later than older birds (125.0  6.4 vs 121.5  7.7; Julian dates). The average number of infertile eggs in first clutches was larger in one year old females and differed significantly from that of older females (1.01  0.90 vs 0.63  0.87). The number of infertile eggs in second clutches did not differ significantly with female age. Significantly fewer eggs hatched in first nests of one year old birds than in those of older birds (3.75  0.89 vs 4.33  1.09). 
4164150|A male sparrow showing hybrid characteristics between Clay-colored (Spizella pallida) and Field sparrows (Spizella pusilla) was first observed in Grand Isle, Vermont, in 1997. In 1998, the same hybrid defended a territory and mated with a female Field Sparrow. The pair produced one fledgling. The hybrid's signature song was composed of the buzzy notes of a Clay-colored Sparrow rising to a final trill as if copying a Field Sparrow's accelerating clear whistles.
4164162| The breeding range of Barrow's Goldeneye (Bucephala islandica) is largely restricted to north-western North America, and little is known of the small population that winters in eastern Canada. Based on weak evidence, this eastern population was thought to nest mainly in northern Labrador. Our May 1990 to 1998 surveys identified a breeding area in the forest regions of the Quebec Laurentian Highlands. We observed Barrow's Goldeneyes on 137 lakes and 5 rivers, of which 95.2% were along the north shore of the St. Lawrence estuary and gulf. The species was found mainly on small lakes ( 10 ha) at greater than 500 m elevation. Most occupied lakes (96.5%) were within 100 km of the St. Lawrence River and 48.9% of them were headwater lakes. Four broods observed in 1998 represent the first eastern North American documentation of breeding. By means of satellite telemetry, 5 of 7 males captured on the wintering grounds were relocated on the north shore of the St. Lawrence River in May, 60-140 km inland from the estuary and gulf. Each male spent 34-50 days at its respective site, presumably with a mate. The north shore of the estuary and gulf may be the core breeding area for Barrow's Goldeneyes wintering along the St. Lawrence River. 
4164163| We examined the winter diet of Steller's Eiders (Polysticta stelleri) in Varangerfjord, northern Norway, by analyzing the esophagus content of 29 individuals (12 juveniles and 17 adults). A total of 8389 prey items of 31 species were identified: 13 species of gastropods (making up 68.4% of total number of items); 4 species of bivalves (18.5%); 12 species of crustaceans (13%); and 2 species of echinoderms (<0.1%). In terms of percentage aggregate wet weight 31.4% was gastropods, 22.6% was bivalves, and 41.4% was crustaceans. Juvenile eiders ate more crustaceans (x = 61% aggregate w.w.) than adults (x = 26%, P < 0.05), possibly because they were in poor body condition and may have had higher energy requirements than adults. Adults tended to eat more gastropods (x = 41% vs 22%) and Mytilus edulis (x = 27% vs 12%) than juveniles. There were only small differences between sexes. Most of the prey items were of species known to be associated with kelp plants, especially Laminaria hyperborea, suggesting that Steller's Eiders obtain a large proportion of their prey directly from the vegetation. 
4164164|We identified causes of nest failure and assessed the effectiveness of predator exclosures at Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus), Snowy Plover (C. alexandrinus), and Killdeer (C. vociferus) nests in southeastern Colorado during 1994-1995. Predation, nest abandonment, and weather were the primary causes of nest failure in all three species. For any of the three species we found no significant difference in the daily survival rate between nests that were protected by predator exclosures and nests that were unprotected. We reevaluated the experimental design and data analysis of previous predator exclosure studies and identified several confounding factors, including non-random assignment of exclosures, unbalanced sample sizes between protected and unprotected nests, data pooling across years, and inappropriate statistical analyses. We suggest ways to design (e.g., randomly allocate exclosures to nests and balance sample sizes between protected and unprotected nests) and analyze (e.g., use Mayfield method) future predator exclosure studies.
4164165| We monitored the movements of nine radio-tagged, adult, male Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in adjacent home ranges during the breeding seasons of 1996 or 1997 in Tucson, Arizona, to ascertain the sizes and degree of overlap of home ranges, and to assess habitat selection at two spatial scales. Size of home ranges differed among hawks (13.3-130.6 ha), but the average was small [65.5 ha  40.7 (SD)] compared to the size of home ranges reported for Cooper's Hawks in the literature. Home range size generally decreased with the number of years that a hawk had lived on its breeding territory. Only one pair of home ranges overlapped each other; overlap of one home range on the other in this pair was 14.2% and 10.6%. Proportions of land-use categories in home ranges varied widley among hawks, and suggested that the hawks did not select their home ranges on the basis of the categories we examined. Patterns of habitat use inside individual home ranges suggested that male hawks hunted primarily in the environments that surrounded their nests. Cooper's Hawks in Tucson feed primarily on doves [Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura), Inca Doves (Columbina inca), and White-winged Doves (Zenaida asiatica)], and we speculate that the abundance of doves throughout Tucson allowed the hawks to hunt successfully in several urban environments. We also speculate that Cooper's Hawks in Tucson have relatively small home ranges because they do not need to range far from their nests to find food. 
4164166|A review of stopover behavior in birds revealed that most migrate as quickly as fuel reserves allowed (i.e., were time minimizers). This pattern stemmed from studies conducted almost exclusively on smallbodied species (< 50 g), which migrate primarily by flapping flight. However, body size has a significant effect on metabolic rate and costs of locomotion, two characteristics with direct relevance to migration and stopover behavior. I examined the autumn stopover behavior of a large-bodied species (4-5.5 kg) that migrates by soaring. I captured and radio-tagged 68 Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) at Hauser Reservoir, Montana from 1992-1994. After caputre, juveniles stayed at the stopover site longer than older eagles. Body condition was similar between the two age groups and did not correlated with post capture residence time. Consumption rates of eagles were not age-specific. Juvenile and 1.5-year old eagles had similar consumption rates and body condition, but differed in residence times, which suggested that experience modified stopover behavior. Stopover behavior of Bald Eagles supported the hypothesis that large species are less sensitive than small species to body condition and consumption rates during migration.
4164167| Structural variability of guttural calls of Blue-fronted Amazons (Amazona aestiva) was examined and the contexts tin which they were given discussed relative to the role these vocalizations might play in short-range communication. Recordings were obtained at the Chancan Reserve, Crdoba. Argentina, during breeding and non-breeding seasons. Guttural calls were given year round, but were more common during the non-breeding season when most of the individuals were interacting in flocks. Gutturals were detected when perched parrots contacted each other, during take-offs, landings, complex flock flying maneuvers, and feeding sessions. Guttural calls were subdivided into four types based on structure, but none of these types could be clearly assigned to a specific context. Structural variation in guttural calls was continuous rather than discrete, with the variability within and among individuals being similar. Many guttural notes graded into one another and were combined with other vocalizations. Gutturals were brief, had sudden onset, wide bandwidth, and low intensity. Gutturals could be regarded as short-range calls because of their large structural variability (fewer restrictions of sound attenuation and degradation) and low intesity (decreased attraction of predators). They were also produced by large flocks, probably as means of maintaining contact, enhancing group spacing, and coordinating movements of individuals. 
4164168| Throughout western North America, Red-naped Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus nuchalis) nests have been previously described primarily in trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) with decy-softened wood. During 1974-1992, we located Red-naped Sapsucker nest trees (n = 125) in northwestern Montana old-growth coniferous forest that included widely scattered paper birch (Betula papyrifera). Sapsucker nests were in nine tree species (seven conifers). Most (68%) nest trees were live and 75% had broken tops. Western larch (Larix occidentalis) and birch were greatly over utilized compared to their availability. Larch nest trees (n = 84) were large [mean DBH = 69  20.95 (SD) cm]. Mean DBH of birch nest trees (n = 30) was 37  8.42 cm. All Mountain Chickadee (Poecile gambeli) nests (n = 36) and 12 of 23 Red-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta canadensis) nests were in old sapsucker excavated nest holes. Wood of larch and birch is inherently harder than that of aspen (specific gravity = 0.48, 0.48, and 0.35 respectively), posing a potential obstacle for relatively weak excavators such as sapsuckers. However, the entire inner wood column of birch is susceptible to decay fungi and the durable bark is thin. In larch sapsuckers mitigated the difficulty by selecting trees with extensive heartwood decay (old larch) and by excavating in the upper bole (mean cavity height = 21.5 m), where the bark is thinner. External evidence of heartwood decay was present in 87% of larch and 86% of birch. Decay incidence increases with age in western larch forests, amplifying their value as habitat for sapsukers and many other species. Perpetuation of old-growht western larch is an important component in the conservation of biological diversity. 
4164169|New information on the vocalizations and behavior of populations of the Pale-tipped Tyrannulet (Inezia subflava), along with analysis of biometric and plumage characters, reveal that it actually consists of two species-level groups: a northern/Guianan group, the member taxa of which are weakly differentiated from one another; and a group whose distribution is primarily Amazonian, the member taxa of which are morphologically distinct but vocally and behaviorally similar to one another. The two groups differ from one another in several vocal, plumage, and biometric characters. Tape playback experiments suggest that the vocal differences alone present effective mechanisms for reproductive isolation between the two groups. Analysis of vocalizations further suggests a possible link between the Amazonian representatives of Inezia subflava and the Yellow Tyrannulet (Capsiempis flaveola).
4164170|We compared recordings of the 'gargle' vocalization of Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) made in the field to recordings made in the laboratory of captive birds from the same populations. Individuals have repertoires of gargle calls, some of which are shared with conspecifics. Thus, a population sample of recordings reveals a variety of distinct gargle calls constituting the population repertoire. Captive birds were individually stimulated to vocalize by viewing their own image in a mirror. In the field, gargle calls were recorded during natural social interactions. We questioned whether the field recordings might reveal a greater variety of gargle calls than we found in the laboratory samples. We found that none of 901 field recorded gargle calls differed from those recorded from captive birds.
4164171|We investigated whether male parental assistance, reproductive output, and overwinter survival differed for female House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) that did and did not have to share their mate's territories with a later-settling female during the nestling stage of breeding. During first breeding attempts of the season, when mate sharing occurred, primary females in polygynous trios and females from monogamous pairs fledged equal numbers of offspring and fledged offspring of similar mass. Rates at which males fed broods of primary females were not significantly different than rates at which males fed broods of monogamous females. Primary females did not make significantly more trips to nests to feed offspring than did monogamous females. In the first year of study, primary females were more likely than monogamous females to attempt a second brood. In the second year of the study, however, primary females tended to be less likely to attempt a second brood, took longer to start such broods, and tended to be less successful in fledging offspring from second broods. This suggests that in some years there may be a delayed cost of mate sharing. Females with primary and monogamous status for first breeding attempts in a particular year were equally likely to return to the study area the next year. Overall, our results indicate that mate sharing does not appear to affect the reproductive output of first mated females in our House Wren population in the first breeding attempts of the season, but may affect output in second attempts (and hence possibly annual and lifetime success), at least in some years.
4164172|We used inexpensive (<$30) cameras to document predators at active Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) nests in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. We observed such predators as black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta), American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos), southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans), and black bears (Ursus americanus) remove the contents of nests. Camera installation had no measurable effect on nest survival; daily nest survival was approximately 0.96 for nests with and without cameras. However, placement of an artificial egg trigger in the nest appeared to reduce hatching success. The immobile egg trigger might have interfered with the female Wood Thrush's ability to incubate her eggs. The variety of nest predators observed and the moderate daily survival rates recorded suggest that predation is an important constraint on Wood Thrushes nesting in large contiguous forests.
4164173|We quantified flocking behavior and examined the impact of social context (solitary, single-species flocks, and mixed-species flocks) on the foraging behavior of Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) wintering in a Costa Rican mangrove forest and surrounding habitats. Based on observations collected over two winters during 70 visits to four sites, 87% (483) of the 555 Prothonotary Warblers encountered moved in flocks and over 48% (271) of these individuals were in single-species flocks. Although the propensity to join flocks was 6% higher for Prothonotary Warblers in the second winter of the study, neither the average size of single-species flocks nor the average number of individuals or species in mixed-species flocks differed between years. Twenty-seven different species were identified in mixed-species flocks that had at least one Prothonotary Warbler, but Nearctic migrants dominated these flocks. Analyses of focal observations on 57 females and 93 males indicated that Prothonotary Warbler foraging behavior was largely independent of flock type and size. Foraging maneuver, substrate, and location did not differ significantly for individuals of either sex foraging alone, in single-species, or mixed-species flocks. The species is almost strictly insectivorous, gleaning made up 70% of 150 prey capture attempts observed and about half of all attempts (76 of 150) were directed towards leaf surfaces. Foraging generally occurred in the outer third of the tree, on branches less than 1 cm in diameter, in the bottom half of the canopy. Agonistic interactions among flock members that involved Prothonotary Warblers were uncommon and neither flock type nor size were useful predictors for rates of foraging, movement, preening, or vigilance.
4164174|The two subspecies of Prairie Warblers (Dendroica discolor) differ in migratory behavior and habitat use. A concurrent study of mitochondrial DNA variation showed that behavioral differences between subspecies may persist because little gene flow occurs between subspecies. To determine whether geographic variation in morphology parallels variation in migratory behavior and mitochondrial DNA, I used measurements of museum specimens from throughout the Prairie Warbler's range. The subspecies differ in overall body size, with birds of the Florida subspecies (D. d. paludicola) significantly larger than the nominate race. Males of the subspecies differ in the extent of white coloration in the outer rectrices. These differences were apparent even among specimens collected in northern Florida and southern Georgia, where the subspecies' ranges are most proximate. Morphological differences coincide with differences in behavior and mitochondrial DNA and support the recognition of migratory and non-migratory forms of Prairie Warblers as subspecies and as potentially independent evolutionary lineages.
4164175|Habitat features found within 4.1 ha sample areas surrounding the song perches of 33 Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) and 33 Painted Buntings (Passerina ciris) in northeast Texas were compared to determine whether these species segregated according to habitat. The species did not differ in the proportions of open habitat or the type and amounts of successional and mature woodland in the sample areas surrounding their song perches. Indigo Buntings were mostly associated with lower elevations where they occurred along the edges of successional and mature woodlands. Painted Buntings showed no elevation bias. Compared to Indigo Buntings, Painted Buntings were associated with smaller, more numerous, and more heterogeneous stands of trees. In general, Indigo Buntings typically occurred where there were open areas within otherwise wooded habitats whereas Painted Buntings tended to occur where there were wooded areas in otherwise open habitat.
4164176|We examined macro- and microhabitat characteristics of breeding Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii) on Fort Riley Military Reservation, Kansas during 1995 and 1996. Survey points were identified at the macrohabitat scale as either grassland, savanna, or woodland edge. A military disturbance index was used to quantify the severity of training disturbance to the vegetation at survey and bird use sites. At the large scale, Henslow's Sparrows were associated with grassland habitat last burned in 1993, two or three years previously. Microhabitat at Henslow's Sparrow use sites had lower tree density than random survey points, but neither shrub density nor military disturbance index differed between use sites and survey points during spring. In summer, the military track index was higher on Henslow's Sparrow's use sites. Habitat used by Henslow's Sparrows was consistently tall and dense vegetation with high litter cover during early spring, late spring, and summer whereas the vegetation of random survey points changed in response to vegetation growth. Characteristics of Henslow's Sparrow use sites included high cover by litter and dense, structurally homogeneous vegetation, whereas litter depth and standing dead vegetation, physiognomic diversity, and military disturbance did not differ from random survey points.
4164177|To investigate the use of high elevation fir forests by fall passage migrants, we conducted standardized mist-netting and banding at a 1150-1175 m elevation site on Mt. Mansfield in north-central Vermont during the autumns of 1995-1997. Overall, we captured 3024 individuals of 62 species in 10,048 cumulative net hours (30.1 birds/100 net hr). We divided species into 3 classes: (1) those breeding regularly on Mt. Mansfield above 916 m elevation (16 species), (2) those breeding only sporadically or at very low densities above 916 m (6 species), and (3) those occurring only as transients (40 species). Breeding species accounted for 68% of new captures, followed by transients (22%), and sporadic/low density breeders (10%). Of the ten most abundant species captured, only two, Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens) and Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus), were transients, accounting for 50% and 9%, respectively, of all transient captures. Hatching-year birds accounted for 94% of known-age transients and 81% of known-age individuals among locally breeding species. Recapture rates of transients were extremely low (0.3%), while recapture rates among species known to breed locally (including presumed transient individuals) were higher (2.2%). Nearly 75% of all birds captured were very lean at first capture, and only 26% of recaptured individuals increased their fat scores between first and final captures. Weight changes of recaptured birds varied: 48% lost weight, 44% gained weight, and 8% maintained the same weight between first and final captures. Our data suggest that conditions on the Mt. Mansfield ridgeline are not conducive to prolonged migratory stopovers and that most migrants may be unable to meet their energetic requirements for continued migration. However, we believe that montane forest habitats may be preferentially selected by those migrants that use them for breeding. We further believe that montane fir forests may be an important postfledging dispersal habitat for Black-throated Blue Warblers and other low or mid-elevation breeding species, and that conservation planning for montane forest sites should carefully consider the needs of migrants outside the breeding season.
4164178| We report range extensions of Caprimulgus sericocaudatus, Automolus ochrolaemus, Dichrozona cincta, Poecilotriccus andrei, Ramphotrigon fuscicauda, Ramphotrigon megacephala, Turdus lawrencii, and Euphonia chrysopasta for Pinkaiti and Gorotire, east of the Xingu River, southeastern Par State, Brazil. The distributional status of the following species in southeastern Amazonia is also discussed: Nonnula ruficapilla, Synallaxis cherriei, and Simoxenops ucayalae. The new records we report suggest that the patchy distribution of some birds in eastern Amazonia, such as species associated with bamboo, can be explained by a complex mosaic of habitats at the eastern and southern fringes of the Amazonian basin. The range extensions we report demonstrate that areas inventoried a long time ago, before an emphasis on vocal identification of species, and assumed to be "well known", can in fact turn out to be ornithologically undersampled. /// Registramos extenses de distribuio para o sudeste da Amaznia, localidades de Pinkaiti e Gorotire, oeste do rio Xingu, estado do Par, para as seguintes espcies: Caprimulgus sericocaudatus, Automolus ochrolaemus, Dichrozona cincta, Poecilotriccus andrei, Ramphotrigon fuscicauda, Ramphotrigon megacephala, Turdus lawrencii e Euphonia chrysopasta. Tambm discutimos registros para o sudeste da Amaznia das seguintes espcies: Nonnula ruficapilla, Synallaxis cherriei, e Simoxenops ucayalae. A distribuio de habitats na forma de mosaicos no leste e sul da Amaznia pode explicar a distribuio localizada de algumas espcies de aves na regio, como espcies associadas  manchas de taboca. Nossas extenses de distribuio demonstram que reas na Amaznia exploradas h muito tempo, antes do estudo e documentao acstica da avifauna, e consideradas bem conhecidas ornitologicamente, so na realidade ainda sub-amostradas. 
4164179|There is little information concerning differences in migration chronology between male and female Common Snipe (Gallinago gallinago) and virtually no accounts of sex-related differences in winter habitat use. We collected 372 Common Snipe in five different habitat types during the non-breeding period along the central Gulf Coast of Texas. Proportions of male and female snipe collected on wintering areas during the beginning of the fall period (i.e., between 6 and 21 October) indicated a tendency for females to arrive ahead of males. Sex ratios during the latter part of spring (16 March-10 April 1998) suggested male snipe leave wintering areas before females. During the winter period (14 November 1997-4 February 1998), female snipe were more common than males along the Texas Gulf Coast. Differences in sex ratios during winter are likely due to sex-related differences in habitat use. During winter, females were more common than males in heavily vegetated habitats (e.g., coastal marshes and cultivated rice fields). Conversely, males were more common in open habitats (e.g., mud flats). Male snipe may begin spring migration before females to establish territories on the breeding grounds. Sex-specific differences in winter habitat use may be related to reverse sexual size dimorphism of Common Snipe.
4164180|Although the American Dipper (Cinclus mexicanus) uses a variety of sites on the ground adjacent to streams for nocturnal roosts, I observed nocturnal roosting in a tree by this species, apparently the first reported case for any dipper species. A fledgling spent at least 8 hours between 20:06 and 04:30 MST sleeping 1.5 m high in a black cottonwood tree (Populus trichocarpa), at the tip of a branch overhanging a creek. Use of arboreal roost sites may reduce the probability of predation on fledgling dippers while they are sleeping.
4164181|The reproductive success of avian brood parasites depends, to a great extent, on their ability to locate host nests that are at the appropriate stages of the host laying cycle. Consequently, brood parasites are expected to possess elaborate mechanisms and search modes to locate potential host nests. Through observing a population of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) parasitized by the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) we examined two specific factors that may influence cowbird parasitism of a ground nesting host. Proximity to potential perches was a significant predictor of cowbird parasitism, but overhead nest visibility, either classified dichotomously as visible or not, or measured as the absolute area of a nest visible to an observer, was not correlated with the likelihood of parasitism. Comparisons with previous studies suggest that female cowbirds use similar nest searching mechanisms in open habitats, irrespective of the height of host nests.
4164182|We observed male Dickcissels (Spiza americana) commonly feeding nestlings in Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) fields in 1997 in east-central Illinois. Male Dickcissels fed nestlings at six of the eight nests we observed, accounting for 37% of the total nest visits. Overall, females made significantly more nest visits than males. However, at the six male-assisted nests, the number of male and female nest visits did not differ significantly. Male Dickcissel feeding behavior may have been prompted by low food abundance. Males were not observed feeding nestlings in 1998, when overall nest success was higher and nestling starvation was less than in 1997.
4164193|We report the first prehistoric bird bones from the isolated limestone island of Niue, South Pacific. Discovered in a cave known as Anakuli, the bones are Holocene in age but lack cultural association. They represent three extinct species: a night-heron (Nycticorax kalavikai), a new species known thus far only from Niue but closely related to an extinct undescribed species from Tonga; the "Niuafo'ou" Megapode (Megapodius pritchardii), known historically only from Niuafo'ou (Tonga) but recorded from prehistoric sites elsewhere in Tonga; and Gallirallus huiatua, a new species of flightless rail presumably endemic to Niue and distinct from extinct, flightless congeneric species from island groups immediately east (Cook Islands) and west (Tonga) of Niue. The first two species are in accord with the overall biogeographic affinity of the extant avifauna of Niue, which is West Polynesian rather than East Polynesian.
4164194|I investigated the roles of intraclutch variation in egg volume and hatching asynchrony in the establishment of mass hierarchies in broods of the Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis). The second egg averaged 2.6% larger than the first and 1.9% larger than the third. In unmanipulated control broods, first eggs hatched an average of 25 h before second eggs, which hatched 40 h before third eggs. On the day the last egg hatched, first chicks averaged 16% heavier than second chicks and 30% heavier than third chicks. Although chick mass at hatching was strongly correlated with egg volume, differences in mass within broods were almost entirely the result of hatching asynchrony. In broods in which I experimentally reduced hatching intervals, initial nestling mass differences were significantly smaller and strongly correlated with differences in egg volume but not with hatching asynchrony. Intrabrood mass differences remained lower in experimental than control broods throughout the first 2 weeks of the nestling period. Furthermore, mass ranks established at hatching were less likely to persist through this period in experimentally synchronized broods than in asynchronous controls. These results indicate that hatching asynchrony promotes the establishment of a more stable size hierarchy. However, the adaptive significance of nestling size hierarchies in Brown Pelicans remains unresolved.
4164195| We studied the breeding biology of the Bicolored Hawk (Accipiter bicolor) in the forest of Tikal National Park of northeastern Guatemala from 1991 to 1994. Bicolored Hawks are year-round residents and establish nesting territories during the breeding season, which coincides with the late dry season and beginning of the wet season. Nest building and courtship spanned 92 days. We documented 17 nesting attempts from February to July 1991-1994. Egg-laying began in April and May, with 36 eggs laid in 15 nests for an average clutch size of 2.4 (range 1-3 eggs). We documented one renesting after failure of the first clutch. Incubation was approximately 35 days (n = 5 clutches). Young hatched asynchronously with a light pinkish natal down. Of 36 eggs laid, 64% hatched. Nearly all hatching occurred during May except one renesting, from which one young hatched on 26 June 1994. Young departed from the nest tree at 30-36 days of age and 100% of the nestlings fledged; thus a total of 1.4 young fledged per breeding attempt and overall nest success was 76%. Most reproductive losses occurred during the incubation period. We found addled eggs in 2 nests and egg predation and nestling predation at 1 nest each. Bicolored Hawk nests averaged 22 m above the ground in living trees 75 cm in diameter. All nests were stick nests, averaging 51  44 cm exterior diameter, 26 cm exterior depth, and 3.6 cm interior depth. The Bicolored Hawk diet of 173 identified prey was composed almost exclusively of birds (95%) with relatively few mammals (3%) or reptiles (2%) taken. 
4164196|We evaluated characteristics at Red-shouldered Hawk (Buteo lineatus) nest sites at two study areas with different topography and forest types in north-central and central Minnesota to identify nest site commonalities across geographically distinct areas. During the breeding seasons of 1994-1995, we located nests of Red-shouldered Hawks at the Camp Ripley Army National Guard Training Site and the Chippewa National Forest using a combination of broadcast surveys, helicopter searches, and systematic foot searches. All 38 nests at Camp Ripley and 18 nests in the Chippewa National Forest were in upland hardwood stands; the remaining two nests in the Chippewa National Forest were in aspen (Populus spp.) stands. We aged cores from 19 nest trees at Camp Ripley and measured habitat characteristics in a 0.04 ha circle centered on each nest tree and at a paired random site within the nest stand. We compared habitat variables at nest and random sites to identify habitat characteristics that were consistent predictors of nest sites versus random sites for each study area and for all nests combined. Compared to random sites, nest sites in the Chippewa National Forest had larger diameters at breast height (dbh) of the nest tree, taller nest tree height, and higher canopy height. At Camp Ripley, nest sites differed from random sites with regard to many more variables; nests were located in portions of the stand with larger trees and closer to surface water. Nest trees ranged in age from 50-89 years. Logistic regression models indicated that, for both study areas combined, nest tree dbh, basal area, canopy height, and distance to water were the most important variables in distinguishing nest sites from random sites.
4164197| We trapped more than 23,000 migrating raptors at Cedar Grove, Wisconsin during the autumns of 1953-1996, permitting accurate identification of age and sex. Adults migrated significantly later than juveniles in 8 of 10 species, and males migrated later than females in 7 species. We suggest that it is adaptive for adults and males to remain on breeding territories as long as possible. Adult Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) migrated before juveniles. There was no age difference in migration of Rough-legged Hawks (Buteo lagopus). Both species breed in the Arctic where the brief breeding season requires that adults leave as soon as possible so adults might then migrate more rapidly than juveniles. We compare our results with those of 16 other studies. Juveniles migrated significantly later than adults in 8 of 13 species at Falsterbo in southern Sweden (Kjelln 1992). Falsterbo is more than 12 latitude (1300 km) north of Cedar Grove and the breeding range of most of the species occurring there extends north of the Arctic Circle, where birds suffer from the same abbreviated breeding seasons as do the Peregrine Falcon and Rough-legged Hawk in North America. Adult females migrated after adult males in the two large species of Accipiter; this may be because the females, not the males, establish and maintain territory in these species. 
4164198| We studied the nesting ecology of the Chimango Caracara (Milvago chimango), a common yet poorly known raptor on Chilo Island, southern Chile, during two breeding seasons. Deforestation and land clearing in this landscape may be benefiting this raptor, which is tolerant of open and disturbed habitats and human activity. Chimangos nested at different heights in a variety of trees and shrubs, but nests were always well concealed because they were placed centrally and in dense vegetation within the substrate. Egg laying occurred in most nests in October during both years; the most common clutch sizes were 2 or 3 eggs. The incubation and nestling periods were approximately 5 (2 nests) and 6 (1 nest) weeks, respectively. Nest success (Mayfield) for 72 nests averaged 57% for the two years. Productivity averaged 1.22  0.11 fledglings per active nest and did not differ between years. For nests located during both years (n = 15), productivity was slightly higher in 1997-1998 and more nests failed in 1998-1999. Two pairs attempted to renest after nest failure but were not successful. Habitat and landscape features associated with high productivity of chimango nests included exotic trees and shrubs, tidal flats, linear forest strips, and occupied houses or barns. Successful nesting was associated with exotic trees and shrubs. Nesting density was highest along beaches, although not all pairs that built nests along beaches laid eggs. Successful nests along beaches fledged twice as many young as inland nests. Continued clearing of the rainforest in this region may provide increased foraging opportunities for this raptor but may also result in fewer nest sites. 
4164199| We report the study of parental care of Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) fledglings from nest-leaving to independence. From 1993 to 1995, we captured, radio-tagged, and monitored the movements and behavior of 23 fledglings and their parents from 12 broods at the U.S. Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia. For pairs that subsequently renested (n = 5), the family group of male, female, and fledglings, remained within 62 (5 SE) m of the first nest after fledging. During the period of post-fledging parental care, mean maximum distance between parents was 70 (14) m. Females attended the young 13 (1.3) days before initiating the incubation of a second clutch. Males continued attending the fledglings for 6 (0.7) more days until the young achieved independence and dispersed (28-36 days post-hatching). In final clutches (n = 7), brood care was divided between the parents, and the position of the fledglings relative to the nest depended on the parents' choice of molting site (in the nesting area or elsewhere). Division of the brood by the parents has been thought to be a strategy to reduce predation and increase foraging efficiency. However, in the Wood Thrush and other species, joint attendance of initial broods, but division of final broods, suggest that other factors could be important for the parents' decision of whether or not to split the brood. 
4164200|We investigated the influence of disturbance type (agriculture and silviculture) within forested landscapes, amount of forest cover within 1 km of the site, and local habitat characteristics on the pairing success of Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) in central Pennsylvania during May and June 1998. Because areas with low pairing success often are inferred to have high nest predation, we also examined whether pairing and nesting success were correlated across sites. We determined the pairing status of 116 male Ovenbirds on 10 sites within contiguous mature forest. Percent of males that were paired on each site ranged from 54-92% (mean = 78%). Pairing success was negatively associated with forest cover within 1 km and positively associated with leaf litter depth. Percent bare ground also was positively correlated with forest cover within 1 km of the site. Estimates of pairing success were unrelated to Ovenbird nesting success at each site (based on 48 nests), which suggests that site-level differences in nest predation or reproductive potential are not necessarily associated with the ability of males to acquire mates. Our data suggest that pairing success of Ovenbirds in forested landscapes is not reduced by the amount of habitat loss within 1 km and is determined by local habitat rather than landscape characteristics.
4164201| The Eastern Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) has undergone population declines across much of its range, especially in New England. Despite being a widespread and, at one time, a common species, relatively little is known about its natural history, ecology, or demographics. We conducted baseline research on Eastern Towhees at the Savannah River Site, South Carolina, in 1995 and 1996 to estimate breeding season survival rates, nest success rates, breeding densities, and daily movements. We also were interested in whether towhees had differences in survival and movement rates between young and mature managed pine stands. We found that survival rates during the breeding season of radio-marked towhees did not vary by sex or stand type. Daily nest success rates were very low [0.629  0.088 (SE)] as a result of high predation levels. Abundance estimates adjusted for sampling effort differed between years. In 1995, the abundance estimate was significantly lower in mature stands (7.1  0.47) than in young stands (9.6  0.60) while in 1996, there was no different between mature stands (26.2  5.67) and young stands (16.5  3.39). Average daily movements by radio-marked towhees did not vary by sex or stand type. Movements among adjacent stands were common, and sometimes great distances. 
4164202|We evaluated the effects of plant succession on habitat use and fruit resource availability for autumn migratory and resident songbirds in 43 ha of abandoned farm fields in central New Jersey. Using fixed net sites, standardized effort, and simultaneous sampling across habitat types, we mist-netted birds to compare habitat use and found that (1) use of three shrub-tree invasion interfaces declined as fruit-bearing shrubs were overgrown by trees, while use of three open shrublands changed little over the same period; (2) use of two pairs of contrasting successional habitats, shrubland and young woodland, was higher in the shrubland with abundant, highly nutritional fruits than in young woodland with sparse fruit; and (3) use of three shrublands at similar successional stages but with different fruit availability differed by bird taxonomic family and migratory strategy. Data on species composition and relative abundance of fruit-bearing shrubs and fruit consumption by birds (assessed by regurgitated and defecated matter) were used to elucidate avian patterns of habitat use. The relative abundance of fruit-bearing species may be more important than habitat structure in determining habitat use by birds. Shrubland dominated by panicled dogwood (Cornus racemosa) was favored over shrubland dominated by red cedar (Juniperus virginianum) or multiflora rose (Rosa multiflora). Favored vines were Japanese honeysuckle (Lonicera japonica), Virginia creeper (Parthenocissus quinquefolia), poison ivy (Toxicodendron radicans), and grape (Vitis spp.).
4164203|I studied the frequency with which Emperor Geese (Chen canagica) of known age were observed breeding on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. No one- or two-year old geese were observed on nests. Three-year old geese bred at a lower rate than four-year old geese. These data suggest that patterns of age-specific breeding in Emperor Geese are similar to other sympatrically nesting, large bodied geese [Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons)] but delayed relative to smaller bodied geese [Cackling Canada Geese (Branta canadensis minima) and Pacific Black Brant (B. bernicla nigricans)].
4164204|We determined diet composition of Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis; n = 136) wintering in 4 regions of Texas during November-January 1996-1997 based exclusively on examination of esophageal and proventricular contents. Wintering Sandhill Cranes were predominately herbivorous, with animal matter representing less than 5% of their diet. Agricultural grains comprised most of the diet of wintering Sandhill Cranes from all regions of Texas except the South Texas Plains where nut-grass (Cyperus spp.) tubers made up a larger proportion of their diet. Cranes used agricultural and native plant matter and animal matter in different proportions among regions. There were no sex or subspecific related differences in frequency of occurrence or proportional dry mass of foods consumed by wintering Sandhill Cranes. Agricultural foods represented a larger proportion of the diets of Sandhill Cranes in this study than in previous studies conducted along the Gulf Coast, probably because of improved sampling methodology and differences in habitat conditions.
4164205|Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) expanded their range greatly during the twentiethth century, making localized food habit studies necessary to determine their impact in newly invaded ecosystems. We examined 44 Cattle Egret stomachs collected in January 1993 from Alexander Hamilton Airport on St. Croix Island, U.S. Virgin Islands. Orthopterans and lepidopterans were the most prevalent invertebrate food items. The St. Croix anole (Anolis acutu) was the major vertebrate prey. Meat scraps and ticks occurred in minor quantities.
4164206|Most life history traits of the American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus) have not been studied and are poorly understood. The ability of the American Bittern to renest has not been confirmed previously. A second nesting attempt by an American Bittern was observed on Agassiz National Wildlife Refuge on 8 July 1996. This information provides insight into American Bittern fecundity by showing that additional reproductive capability exists when nests are destroyed by predation or weather related events. Future studies of nesting bitterns will need to consider renesting when estimating density of nesting females.
4164207| I documented interspecific and intraspecific helping behavior (more than two adults feeding young at a nest) within sapsuckers of the genus Sphyrapicus. Of 120 nests, 97 belonged to Red-breasted (Sphyrapicus ruber), Red-naped (Sphyrapicus nuchalis), or hybrid (Red-breasted  Red-naped) sapsuckers, and 23 to Williamson's Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus thyroideus). Interspecific helping behavior was observed at two nests (1 with a Red-breasted  Red-naped and hybrid female, 1 with Red-breasted  Red-breasted and Williamson's male) and intraspecific helping behavior (Red-breasted male) was observed at one nest. Given the rarity of helping behavior observed in these species a functional advantage is unlikely; individuals that helped might simply have been responding to a feeding stimulus. 
4164208|Nest helping has not been reported previously among Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii). We report a nesting attempt involving three Cooper's Hawks. An adult and subadult male made prey deliveries to an adult female and all three hawks engaged in nest defense. No evidence of intraspecific aggression was observed among the three hawks.
4164209|In altricial birds, scramble competition for favorable feeding positions in the nest may cause younger chicks to starve. We studied nestling survival in a population of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) breeding in nestboxes near Seattle, Washington, in a year of bad weather. Only a mean of 0.5 chicks fledged per nest (range 0-2, 22 nests). Nestling mortality appeared to be caused by starvation. Video filming showed that when chicks were old enough (largest chick within the brood had reached a wing length of about 55-60 mm), they spent much time in the nestbox opening, calling loudly. This behavior seemed to be driven by hunger because it occurred mainly in broods where chicks had low body masses. Parents fed the chick in the opening and did not try to push it back into the nest cavity or go around it. We suspect that blocking of the nestbox opening accelerated mortality of other young in the nest. Such behavior by dominant chicks may be more readily achieved in hole nesting birds with narrow entrances to their nest site than by open nesting birds.
4164210|During June 1999, in Grand Isle, Vermont, four Northern Rough-winged Swallows (Stelgidopteryx serripennis) fed five nestlings at one nest. A second nest 3 m away had been depredated. The four swallows continued their unusual cooperative behavior until the young had fledged.
4164211|An American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) was observed to modify and use a piece of wood as a probe.
4164212|Nests and nesting behavior of the Nightingale Wren (Microcerculus marginatus) in Panama are described. Two nests were found at the ends of horizontal burrows in dirt banks, presumably excavated by other species. The nest chambers were lined with dead leaf fragments. Clutch sizes were two and three eggs. Incubation period was 19 or 20 days for one nest, and the nestling period was 16 or 17 days for the second nest. A comparison of nests in the Troglodytidae shows the nests of M. marginatus to be most similar to those of the genera Salpinctes, Catherpes, and Hylorchilus, all of which are secondary cavity nesters. If nest type is a phylogenetically conserved characteristic, then these four genera may be more closely related than is reflected in current classifications.
4164213|During June and July, 1999, we observed two male Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) caring for recently fledged Ovenbird chicks from the same nest in what we believe was the outcome of a polyandrous relationship. If so, the circumstances surrounding this observation are similar to the only other published account of polyandry in this species. We suggest that the reason for the adoption of this behavior may be related to a shortage of females. If this is the case, then polyandry may be more widespread in Ovenbirds than previously thought because we regularly observed unmated male Ovenbirds on our study plots, indicating that the conditions favoring polyandry (limited access to females) occur relatively frequently.
4164214|We conducted unlimited radius point counts from March-July 1999 at sunrise, dusk, and night to document the relative frequency of nocturnal singing by grassland birds at Prairie Ridge State Natural Area, Jasper County, Illinois. Most grassland species were recorded singing at all times of day, but least commonly at night. Short-eared Owls (Asio flammeus) and American Woodcock (Scolopax minor) were only recorded at dusk and night. Sedge Wrens (Cistothorus platensis) and Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii) were most frequently recorded at night and least frequently at sunrise. Only 57% of all the breeding species recorded by our surveys were detected on June sunrise counts corresponding to the timing of the North American Breeding Bird Survey.
4164215|I report a predation rate of 24 birds from 3707 total captures of birds caught in mist-nets in fragmented upland forests in Kenya. Predation was highly concentrated in specific forest fragments, with multiple birds simultaneously found killed in more than half of the predation events. Predators were probably attracted to the mist-nets by the noise and activity of the netted birds because the capture rate of predated nets was more than three times the mean for the survey as a whole. The most common victims were Yellow-whiskered Greenbuls (Andropadus latirostris), and the most common predators were blue monkeys (Cercopithecus mitis). Although 20% of all our mist-net captures were in Kakamega, a large forest, not a single bird was taken from our nets there, suggesting that predation rates on mist-netted birds are higher in small forest fragments.
4164228|A new species of New World flycatcher in the genus Myiopagis (Aves, Tyrannidae, Elaeniinae) is described from Andean submontane forest of eastern Ecuador and eastern Peru. It appears to be most closely related to M. caniceps of lower elevations and more distantly to M. gaimardii, with which it is syntopic.
4164229|Few nests of Amazonian antbirds (Thamnophilidae and Formicariidae) have been described. Here we present nesting records for five species of antbirds found in Tinigua National Park, Colombia. A pouch-shaped pensile nest of the Warbling Antbird (Hypocnemis cantator) in a treefall gap within seasonally flooded forest contained two eggs colored like those found in French Guiana but different from those in Amazonian Brazil and Peru. The Black-spotted Bare-eye (Phlegopsis nigromaculata) also nested in seasonally flooded forest; it constructed a cup-shaped nest inside a hollow rotten stump and laid two eggs. Two naked nestlings with bright yellow bills disappeared soon after hatching. Two cup-shaped nests of the Scale-backed Antbird (Hylophylax poecilinota) were in mature terra firme forest. Both contained two eggs similar in color to those of other subspecies; nestlings were naked and had conspicuous yellow bills. Those found in one nest disappeared 11 days after hatching. A nest of the Amazonian Streaked-Antwren (Myrmotherula multostriata) containing one egg was in seasonally flooded forest close to the river bank. This egg differed in coloration from others found in Brazil and from those of other members of the M. surinamensis complex, with which it was formerly considered conspecific. A Striated Antthrush (Chamaeza nobilis) nested in an unlined natural cavity some 3 m above the ground. The nestling closely resembled the adult but was smaller, had yellow bill commissures, and a shorter tail.
4164230|The foraging ecology of wintering Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) is poorly understood and information on basic food habits is lacking for this species in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska where the largest winter concentrations occur. We investigated feeding behavior and food habits of wintering Harlequin Ducks in the western Aleutian Islands of Alaska with respect to sex and temporal and environmental variables to document behavioral responses to winter conditions, resource use, and nutritional requirements. We found that on average, Harlequin Ducks spent most of the diurnal period feeding (70% males, 76% females). However, more time was spent feeding during evenings, midwinter, cold weather, and high tides. Gastropods, crustaceans, and diptera larvae made up 83% of the diet, but diet composition changed throughout winter. Despite change in food habits, diet energy density was stable throughout winter.
4164231| Habitat use and home range sizes of female Eastern Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) during preincubation may influence reproductive success. Little information on habitat selection during preincubation at multiple spatial scales is available and the influence of preincubation movement rates on reproductive success is poorly understood. We monitored 35 adult female Eastern Wild Turkeys during preincubation in central Mississippi during 1996-1997. We estimated home range and core area size, macrohabitat selection at multiple spatial scales and movement rates from 1 February until the beginning of incubation. Preincubation home ranges averaged 306.6 (46.8 SE) ha and core areas 47.3 (7.4) ha. Females selected 9-15 and 16-29 year-old pine (Pinus spp.) stands over other habitats available when establishing home ranges, but within these home ranges they selected pine stands that were older than 30 years for their core areas and nest sites. However, females used habitats within their established home range in proportion to availability. Movement rates averaged 286.5 (22.3) m/hr during preincubation and were greater than during other seasons. We detected no correlations between home range or core area size and number of days nests were successfully incubated. However, we detected a positive correlation between movement rates and increased incubation, suggesting females that moved farther during preincubation successfully incubated nests longer. Our findings suggest females selected habitats differentially when establishing pre-incubation home ranges and core areas. Further, our findings suggest movement rates within home ranges may better reflect a female's habitat sampling effort during nest site selection rather than home range or core area size. 
4164232|We characterized 30 diurnal roost sites of five radio-tagged Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) in the winters of 1996-1997 on Assateague Island, Maryland and found they preferred thick cover at roost sites. Roosts occurred most often in loblolly pine forest (Pinus taeda) and shrub swamps dominated by wax myrtle (Myrica cerifera). Vegetation was measured at paired roosts and random sites in similar habitats. Distance to nearest tree and average canopy height were significantly lower at roost sites than random sites. Numbers of stems larger than 2.5 cm diameter at breast height (dbh), stems smaller than 2.5 cm dbh, and roost tree dbh were larger at roost sites. Roost height, canopy cover, canopy height, shrub height, and ground cover differed significantly between pine and shrub swamp roosts, although cover above and below the roost site were similar. Higher densities of stems and shorter distances to the nearest tree at roost sites compared to random sites indicated that owls chose sites with dense cover, probably as protection from predators or weather.
4164233|In this study we analyzed geographic variation in the Northern Waterthrush (Seiurus noveboracensis) and reassessed the status of the four subspecies described between 1880 and 1948, three of which were recognized by the AOU Check-list (1957) and Godfrey (1986). We examined 490 specimens that came from throughout the breeding range of the Northern Waterthrush and used four morphometric data sets and three color variables to investigate geographic variation. Males differed from females based on morphometric characters. Males, unlike females, showed a morphometric trend with latitude and longitude. Their wing chord, tail and tarsus lengths showed a gradual decrease in length from north to south, while their tail and tarsus lengths gradually decreased eastward. The body shape showed a longitudinal trend where western specimens tended to have proportionally longer tails than wings compared to specimens from the eastern part of the range. Color was more strongly related to geography than morphometric characters and showed both longitudinal and latitudinal trends. Specimens from the southeastern part of the range were more olive dorsally and yellow ventrally and had fewer underpart markings than most specimens from the northwestern part of the range. Only the wing length permitted us to discriminate between the most distant populations. These trends are clinal and cannot support the recognition of subspecies.
4164234| We describe the spatial organization and social behavior of Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) wintering in pine plantations and an adjacent hardwood forest in Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana over three winters. We used point counts (n = 403) to collect data on agonistic behaviors and relative abundance within the study area. We used mist-netting to study site fidelity on four 9-ha plots within and among years. We used radio-telemetry to measure Hermit Thrushes' movements and territoriality (n = 50). We found that Hermit Thrushes saturated suitable patches within the study area. Most Hermit Thrushes actively defended small [mean = 0.55  0.03 (SE) ha], minimally overlapping (15.90  3.63%) territories throughout the winter. Hermit Thrushes established and maintained territories using the same agonistic behaviors described for breeding birds. A few non-territorial birds (14%) moved among occupied territories, but most were faithful to a larger neighborhood, apparently awaiting a territory vacancy. Territorial behavior and frequency of non-territorial birds did not differ among age and sex classes, suggesting the absence of a sex- or age-based dominance hierarchy. The behavior of Hermit Thrushes conformed to the emerging view that competition for spatially mediated resources on the wintering grounds, such as food or cover, contribute to limiting populations of many species of migrant passerines. 
4164235|We compared the effect of nest predation and cowbird parasitism on the breeding success of two simultaneously nesting ecologically similar blackbird species that differ in their breeding strategies. The Scarlet-headed Blackbird (Amblyramphus holosericeus) is a monogamous species that performs territorial defense. In contrast, the Brown-and-yellow Marshbird (Pseudoleistes virescens) is a non-territorial monogamous breeder that performs mate guarding and has helpers at the nest. Both species suffered similar nest predation rates throughout their nesting cycle. However, the Brown-and-yellow Marshbird suffered higher parasitism from Shiny (Molothrus bonariensis) and Screaming cowbirds (M. rufoaxillaris) than the Scarlet-headed Blackbird (62.6% vs 15.4%). Brood parasitism accounted for most of the egg losses and hatching failures in Brown-and-yellow Marshbird. Parasitized nests had lower egg survival and hatching success than non-parasitized ones. Mean clutch size was 1.5 eggs larger in Brown-and-yellow Marshbird than in Scarlet-headed Blackbird. However, Scarlet-headed Blackbird had higher hatching success than Brown-and-yellow Marshbird and similar fledging success. Consequently, both species produced similar numbers of fledglings. We did not detect any relationship between the reproductive success of these species and their breeding strategies. The presence of helpers at Brown-and-yellow Marshbird nests did not affect nest defense or chick survival, but helpers might account for reduced parental effort by supplementing food delivery to chicks/fledglings.
4164236|Louisiana Seaside Sparrows (Ammodramus maritimus fisheri) breed and winter exclusively in brackish and saline marshes along the northern Gulf of Mexico. Many Gulf Coast marshes, particularly in the Chenier Plain of southwestern Louisiana and southeastern Texas, are burned intentionally in fall or winter as part of waterfowl management programs. Fire reportedly has negatively affected two Seaside Sparrow subspecies (A. m. nigrescens and A. m. mirabilis) in Florida, but there is no published information regarding effects of fire on A. m. fisheri. We compared abundance of territorial male Louisiana Seaside Sparrows, number of nesting activity indicators, and vegetation structure in paired burned and unburned plots in Chenier Plain marshes in southwestern Louisiana during the 1996 breeding season (April-July) before experimental winter burns (January 1997) and again during two breeding seasons post-burn (1997-1998). We found that abundance of male sparrows decreased in burned plots during the first breeding season post-burn, but was higher than that of unburned plots during the second breeding season post-burn. Indicators of nesting activity showed a similar but non-significant pattern in response to burning. Sparrow abundance and nesting activity seemingly are linked to dead vegetation cover, which was lower in burned plots during the first breeding season post-burn, but did not differ from that in unburned plots during the second breeding season post-burn. We recommend that marsh management plans in the Gulf Coast Chenier Plain integrate waterfowl and Seaside Sparrow management by maintaining a mosaic of burned and unburned marshes and allowing vegetation to recover for at least two growing seasons before reburning a marsh.
4164237|Little is known about the effects of forest fragmentation on bird communities in the boreal forests of western North America. Assessing the impact of forest fragmentation on bird communities has been complicated by the fact that few studies have applied statistical analyses that account for the possibility that individuals are randomly dispersed within landscapes. From 1993-1997, we contrasted bird communities in contiguous forest (54 sites) and nearby forest fragments surrounded by agricultural land (106 sites, 0.2-123 ha). Species were divided into groups based on migratory strategy (resident, short-distance migrant, long-distance migrant, and irruptive) and edge-sensitivity (edge, edge-interior, and interior). For each group, we tested whether richness and abundance were different from what would be expected if birds were distributed randomly across landscapes. Species richness was higher than expected in contiguous forest for interior species, whereas edge and short-distance migratory species were more common in the fragmented landscape. Similarly, the total abundance of interior and long-distance migratory birds was higher in contiguous forest, whereas edge birds were more abundant in the fragmented landscape. Brown Creeper (Certhia americana), Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), Tennessee Warbler (Vermivora peregrina), Magnolia Warbler (Dendroica magnolia), Blackburnian Warbler (Dendroica fusca), Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens), and Bay-breasted Warbler (Dendroica castanea) were virtually absent from the fragmented landscape, yet were common in contiguous forest. Within the fragmented landscape, forest fragment size had little effect on species richness but was significantly correlated with abundance of all migratory and edge-sensitivity groups except edge and short-distance migrants. Probability of occurrence, controlling for random placement, was positively correlated with forest fragment size, percent forest cover within 5 km, or the interaction between size and cover for 19 species, most of which were associated with forest interiors. Predation and brood parasitism were higher on nests of ground and shrub nesting birds in the fragmented landscape than in contiguous forest. Fragmentation of contiguous forest in the southern boreal mixedwood zone of western Canada has a negative impact on the abundance of several resident and long-distance migratory species.
4164238|We investigated the distribution of wintering woodland bird species in 47 very small, isolated, woodland fragments (0.54-6.01 ha) within an agricultural landscape in north-central Ohio. Our objectives were to determine correlations between temporal, habitat, and landscape variables and avian presence, density, and species richness within the smallest woodlots occupied by such species. Our results suggest that even common species are sensitive to variation in habitat, landscape, and season. Woodlot area explained the most variation in presence, density, and species richness. Shrub cover was also an important predictor variable for presence of the smallest resident birds. Shrub cover might function as both a refuge from predators and as a windbreak, reducing thermal costs in a flat, open landscape. Landscape factors related to isolation and connectedness were also correlated with species presence and density. The species composition of the community changed through the winter, as did the density of individual species, suggesting that the winter season may play an important role in determining the distributions of bird populations across woodlots. The models presented here for Ohio birds in this specific landscape may have biological inference for other species in similar landscapes.
4164239|We surveyed vegetation and bird assemblages in protected and exploited woodlands in the warm temperate, coastal woodlands of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Exploited woodland experienced selective logging of Celtis tala until at least 1960; presently it is used for sheltering domestic livestock. Vertical structure and floristic composition were simpler in exploited than in protected woodland. Likewise, avian density and species richness were lower in exploited woodland. Viewing the avifaunas from a guild perspective, we found the insectivore guild and frugivore-insectivore guild differed substantially between protected and exploited woodlands. The bird densities of these guilds were higher in protected woodland, and the species richness of the insectivore guild was lower in the exploited woodland. Apparently the insectivore guild responded primarily to structural differences, whereas the frugivore-insectivore guild may have responded more to differences in floristic composition. The granivore guild also differed between the two woodlands, but primarily because of changes in the density of the Rufous-collared Sparrow (Zonotrichia capensis). This bird species was more abundant in the protected woodland.
4164240|Relative abundance and habitat use of 29 forest bird species, including 22 land birds (18 indigenous breeding residents, 3 exotics, 1 migrant) along with a rail, heron, and five seabirds (shearwater, tropicbird, 3 terns) were assessed on Pohnpei [Island] during summer 1994 and compared with the results of the first survey in 1983. The most frequently encountered species in both surveys were the Purple-capped Fruit-Dove (Ptilinopus porphyraceus), Pohnpei Lory (Trichoglossus rubiginosus), Micronesian Starling (Aplonis opaca), and Micronesian Honeyeater (Myzomela rubratra). Among the five species endemic to Pohnpei, the Pohnpei Mountain Starling (Aplonis pelzelni) verges on extinction, with only one confirmed sighting in nearly 50 years; the Long-billed White-eye (Rukia longirostra) is vulnerable to encroaching agriculture in its preferred and limited montane habitat, where nearly 90% of the sightings were on approximately 10% of the land area, and the Pohnpei Lory (Trichoglossus rubiginosus), Pohnpei Flycatcher (Myiagra pluto), and Pohnpei Fantail (Rhipidura kubaryi) are widespread and common, but were less frequently encountered in 1994 than in 1983. The total number of birds encountered per observation station during 8-minute point counts in each of six elevation zones was 67-80% fewer in 1994 than in 1983. Encounter rates (birds/hour) were reduced by at least 50% in both uplands and lowlands in at least 14 of 29 species; none of the 29 showed an overall increase. Artifacts of sampling and sampling bias may have contributed to reduced observation rates, but anecdotal evidence suggests a decline in numbers is real and may be attributed to combined effects of habitat degradation, hunting practices, and possibly predation by introduced species. Protection of the upland forests from further degradation and more frequent monitoring to better assess population trends are recommended.
4164241|In grebes of the genus Podilymbus, the upper barbs of the forehead feathers are fused with the shaft into a somewhat flattened, pointed structure. We believe that when raised, these feathers may indicate a low probability of attack.
4164242|The number of Hooded Merganser (Lophodytes cucullatus) broods hatching in nest houses on 53 study areas in Massachusetts increased by 289% from 1979-1983 to 1994-1998 and the number of areas used increased from 9 of 53 in 1979 to 26 of 53 by 1998. The number of Hooded Mergansers counted on 21 Massachusetts Christmas Bird Count circles from 1979-1983 to 1994-1998 increased by 225%. The increasing trend lines did not match, suggesting different populations. This appears to support reports of increasing Hooded Merganser populations by other northeastern state waterfowl biologists.
4164243|The Northern Harrier (Circus cyaneus) is a widespread raptor that preys mainly upon small mammals and, to a lesser extent, birds. Most published accounts of harrier food habits report the majority of avian prey items are passerines with few large (> 500 g) birds taken. In fall 1999, I observed a Northern Harrier that appeared to have attacked and killed a White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) foraging in a playa wetland in Meade County, Kansas. Field observations of the harrier, in addition to physical evidence, suggest the attack was on an apparently healthy individual that did not have any obvious physical deformities. Northern Harriers appear to attack and kill White-faced Ibis and may prey on large birds more often than reported previously.
4164244|Some birds that attempt to nest in habitats such as conifer plantations may experience lower reproductive success and diminished fitness in comparison to conspecifics in other habitats, rendering such habitats sinks or ecological traps. We did not detect significant differences between conifer plantation and non-plantation nests in terms of clutch size, number of bandable young per nest, or nest success for Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in Wisconsin during 1980-1998. Pine plantations contributed recruits to subsequent breeding generations in proportion to their productivity of bandable nestlings. Conifer plantations in Wisconsin also contained nesting densities and productivity indices for Cooper's Hawks that are among the highest reported for the species. Thus, conifer plantations in Wisconsin are neither ecological traps nor population sinks for nesting Cooper's Hawks.
4164245|A Ruby-throated Hummingbird (Archilochus colubris) that had become entangled and died in the flowers of a common burdock (Arctium minus) was found 12 August 1999 in Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
4164246|I report some observations of a Chestnut-bellied Euphonia (Euphonia pectoralis) nest in a lowland Atlantic Forest of southeastern Brazil during the early nestling period. During 7.5 hours of observations, the nest was attended 46.3% of the time, 45.6% by the female and 0.7% by the male. Unattended periods lasted 16-38 min. Parents visited the nest most of the time together at 36-59 min intervals. There were 1.06 feeding visits per nestling per hour. The two nestlings in the nest ended up preyed upon by army ants (Labidus praedator, Ecitoninae). The low height of the nest (0.8 m) may have facilitated its detection by the ants.
4164247|Generalist birds are thought to be less neophobic than specialists, but the dietary difference is often confounded by differences in experience and food availability. We conducted field tests with an artificial nectar source on a foraging generalist [Lesser-Antillean Bullfinch (Loxigilla noctis)] and a nectarivorous specialist [Bananaquit (Coereba flaveola)] in Barbados. Both species are equally opportunistic and tame on this island. Bullfinches arrived first at the feeding stations and showed a shorter latency to feed in the tests than did Bananaquits, suggesting that differences in specialization lead to the differences in neophobia predicted by ecological plasticity.
4164248|On 17 occasions in Chula Vista, California, at least one Belding's Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis beldingi) was observed chasing egg-carrying female fiddler crabs (Uca crenulata) and pecking eggs from ones it caught. Sparrows did not eat any part of the adult crab while eating the eggs. A fledgling learned this novel hunting technique after accompanying its parent for a month.
4164249|A Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus) was observed stooping on a Whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus) that was eventually attacked by a nearby Common Raven (Corvus corax). This incident reinforces the idea that ravens are opportunistic and intelligent predators capable of kleptoparasitizing large prey items.
4164250|I report avian behavioral responses to a total solar eclipse on the north coast of Venezuela during the afternoon of 26 February 1998. Magnificent Frigate-birds (Fregata magnificens), Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis), and Royal Terns (Sterna maxima), which had been foraging over the water before the eclipse, left the bay 39 (terns) or 13 (frigate-birds and pelicans) min before the eclipse became total. The frigate-birds flew inland and the pelicans went to roosts on cliffs bordering the bay. Residents of the local village, who knew the birds' behavior well, remarked that the frigate-birds and pelicans were behaving as they normally did at sunset. Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) ceased foraging and flew rapidly back and forth over the water in a tight flock during the 3 min 40 s of totality. Twelve minutes after the solar disc emerged, the frigate-birds and pelicans began to return to the bay, and they and the gulls resumed foraging. The terns still had not reappeared more than 1 hr after totality. Solar eclipses, although of brief duration, apparently reduce light levels sufficiently to temporarily interrupt normal avian diurnal behavior.
4164251|The plumage of birds harbors diverse bacteria but their distribution on feathers is unknown. We plucked a single contour feather from the venter of each of 75 passerines captured in mist nets in September, October, and November 1995. Bacteria were significantly more abundant on the distal part of the feather than the proximal part. We suggest that feathers may be a barrier to bacterial infections of the skin and that distal barbs are more likely to be damaged by feather-degrading bacteria than proximal barbs.
4164262|The Gunnison Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus minimus) is described as a new species from southwestern Colorado and contrasted with the Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) from northern Colorado and western North America. Gunnison Sage-Grouse differ from all other described sage-grouse (C. u. urophasianus, C. u. phaios) in morphological measurements, plumage, courtship display, and genetics. The species currently is limited to 8 isolated populations in southwestern Colorado and adjacent San Juan County, Utah. Total estimated spring breeding population is fewer than 5000 individuals with the largest population (<3000) in the Gunnison Basin (Gunnison and Saguache counties), Colorado.
4164263|We discovered a Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) incubating a nest containing three Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) eggs and three Killdeer eggs. The nest had been incubated about two weeks when discovered and was depredated three days later. To our knowledge this is the first known occurrence of a nest having eggs from both species.
4164264|We examined sexual size dimorphism of a lek-displaying diving duck from Australia, the Musk Duck (Biziura lobata). Like other lek-displaying species, Musk Ducks exhibit extreme sexual size dimorphism in addition to structural dimorphism. Body mass ratios (male:female) for Musk Ducks are among the highest reported for birds (more than 3:1). Multivariate analyses of 16 anatomical measurements indicated that body plans of male and female Musk Ducks have diverged isometrically except for the addition of a pendant lobe on lower mandibles of males. Within males, pendant lobe length, depth, and breadth were positively correlated with center rectrix length and bill width. Lobe area also was positively related to bill width, but not to center rectrix length. Lobe breadth and center rectrix length were positively related to overall body mass. Our results suggested that information about male physical quality may be conveyed to other Musk Ducks by parts of the anatomy most conspicuously exposed during sexual advertising displays. In contrast, anatomical features that function in foraging activity showed no sexual differences in anatomical shape relative to other parts of the anatomy that do not serve obvious foraging functions. We argue that foraging niche divergence or use of different food resources, if they have occurred, probably are secondary consequences of sexual size dimorphism.
4164265|We studied wintering Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) in a mangrove and open bay site in coastal Venezuela to determine whether the minor sexual dimorphism in bill and tarsus lengths in this species was correlated with sexual differences in habitat use, behavior during foraging, and diet. We found no significant differences between the sexes in either habitat use on the mudflats or distances to conspecifics. Neither sex exhibited territorial behavior. Males used significantly more shallow pecks than did females, who used more repetitive probing, particularly at the open bay site. Diets differed between the sexes in the relative abundance of prey in the fecal samples in both habitats, with samples from males containing significantly more dipteran larvae and samples from females containing more copepods and bivalves. Prey size did not vary between the sexes. We documented significant site differences in habitat use, foraging behavior, and diet, probably as a result of differences in prey availability.
4164266|We report the diet and the fate of seeds ingested by a family group of Salvin's Curassow (Mitu salvini) in Colombian Amazon. The study group consumed 123 plant species from 41 families. Of these, 106 species provided fruits, 21 seeds, 7 cotyledons, 19 flowers, and 9 leaves. Many species of invertebrates and vertebrates were also consumed. During the 14 months about 70% of the diet of each individual was composed of fruits. However, there was considerable temporal variation in diet composition and fruits were not always the most exploited item. Salvin's Curassow acts mainly as a seed predator (67% of the species eaten) on seeds longer than 5 mm but as a seed disperser (28% of the species eaten) for seeds shorter than 5 mm long, which were only rarely and opportunistically exploited. The remaining fruits eaten (5% of the species consumed) were neither dispersed nor predated. As a result of our study, we propose that Salvin's Curassows are mainly seed predators because most seeds ingested by the study group were preyed upon, and seed size was critical in determining seed fate.
4164267|The endangered Maui Parrotbill (Pseudonestor xanthophrys) is an excavating, insectivorous Hawaiian honeycreeper endemic to the high elevation rain forests of east Maui, Hawaii. From March 1994 to June 1997, we studied various aspects of their breeding ecology. We color-banded 18 individuals, located and monitored 9 active nests, and took behavioral data during 440 hrs of nest observation. Both members of a pair maintained a year-round, all-purpose territory that included nest sites and food resources. Maui Parrotbill were monogamous within and between years; we found no evidence of polyandry, polygyny, or helpers at the nest. Nests were cup-shaped, composed mainly of lichen interlaced with small twigs, and positioned in the outer canopy forks of mature ohia (Metrosideros polymorpha) trees. Modal clutch size was one. Females performed most nest construction and all incubation and brooding; males provisioned females and assisted in feeding nestlings after their fourth day. Fledglings depended on parental care for 5-8 months, during which their bill strength increased and foraging skills improved. We calculated the overall nest success rate by the Mayfield Method as 0.42 for the 1995/1996 and 1996/1997 breeding seasons combined. Nest failure and fledgling disappearance coincided with events of high rainfall. Their breeding ecology most closely resembled the Akiapolaau (Hemignathus munroi), another excavating, insectivorous Hawaiian honeycreeper found on Hawaii Island. As with the Akiapolaau, the threat of extinction is persistent and results from both the constraints of inherent life history traits and artificial ecological changes. We advocate the protection and expansion of habitable forest areas and an ongoing program to monitor and mitigate the effects of invasive species.
4164268|Striped Cuckoos (Tapera naevia) have three different song types. We investigated behavioral correlates of two using interactive playback to simulate territorial intrusion. Individuals sang one song type frequently when not interacting closely with neighbors, mates, or playback. A less common song type was sung by subjects that had approached playback closely, and by closely countersinging neighbors. These two song types distinguish different extents to which a singer may take initiative leading to interaction: the first provides information that the singer will probably stay put and not interact closely unless approached, the second that the singer will itself approach and search for another individual. Such distinctions are significant because they parallel recent results from diverse passerines, and because the information may be fundamental in enabling singers to obviate or elicit encounters with distant individuals.
4164269|Nest placement of open-nesting bird species may affect risk of nest predation, nest microclimate, and reproductive success. In populations that breed in multiple habitat types and over long seasons, nest placement should vary seasonally and by habitat to compensate for seasonally changing and habitat specific environmental conditions that might affect the relationship between nest placement and reproductive success. Using data collected during 1994 and 1995, I investigated seasonal and habitat specific patterns of nest placement in a population of California Gnatcatchers (Polioptila californica) that breeds over a 5 month period. Nest and substrate (plant in which nest is built) height increased and vegetative concealment of nests decreased seasonally, but these variables were not related to habitat type. Substrate height varied with substrate species in 1994, and use of individual substrate species varied seasonally. Reproductive phenology differed between the two major habitat types used by gnatcatchers in this study. Whether these seasonal and habitat specific changes in nest placement are adaptive responses to changing environmental conditions that may affect reproductive success has yet to be determined.
4164270|Accurate estimates of the amount of double-brooding within a population are an important parameter for assessing the population sustainability of forest birds. In 1998 and 1999, we color-banded adult female Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) at 70 nests early in the breeding season to assess the frequency of double-brooding in a northern population. We found that double-brooding was a common breeding strategy among Wood Thrushes in southern Ontario. Forty-seven females fledged first broods and 74% (n = 35) of them initiated egg-laying in a subsequent nest. It is possible that at least 87% (n = 41) of the females were double-brooded, based on the evidence of 6 later nests built within 50 m of successful first nests that were depredated or fledged young before their owners could be identified. Other second-brood nests were probably missed because they were overlooked and because some females moved considerable distances (100-400 m) between nestings. Most birds that failed in their early nesting attempt were not found again on the site, precluding verification of their renesting efforts.
4164271|The effects of habitat and vegetation characteristics on the reproductive success of Yellow-breasted Chats (Icteria virens) were examined in central Kentucky. During the 1998 breeding season, 49 nests were located and monitored and the characteristics of nest sites and territories determined. Habitats where nests were located were categorized as old field, linear, or clump, and nests were classified as early or late. Chat nests were located in areas with more foliage and lateral cover than unused sites. However, most nests (55%) were not successful, and variables that differed between nest sites and random locations did not appear to influence nesting success. A diverse and, in an evolutionary sense, novel community of predators may eliminate predictably safe nest sites for chats on our study area. Chats in territories with more foliage cover and less canopy cover were more likely to fledge young. Dense foliage may lower the chances of nest predation by increasing the number of potential nest sites in a territory and may also provide better foraging habitat.
4164272|Wintering birds that use farm fields may benefit from strips of uncultivated, grassy, and weedy vegetation, called field borders. Field borders were established on 4 farms in the North Carolina coastal plain in Wilson and Hyde counties in the spring of 1996. In February of 1997 and 1998, bird numbers on field edges and field interiors, with and without field borders, were surveyed using strip transect and line transect methods. Most (93%) birds detected in field edges were sparrows, including Song (Melospiza melodia), Swamp (Melospiza georgiana), Field (Spizella pusilla), Chipping (Spizella passerina), White-throated (Zonotrichia albicollis), and Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis) sparrows and Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis). We detected more sparrows on farms with field borders than on farms with mowed edges. This difference was most pronounced in field edges where field borders contained 34.5 sparrows/ha and mowed edges contained 12.9 sparrows/ha. Sparrow abundance did not differ by treatment in field interiors. Sparrow density in field borders was intermediate to wintering sparrow densities reported in other studies. These results suggest that establishing field border systems may be an effective way to increase densities of overwintering sparrows on farms in the southeastern U.S. coastal plain.
4164273|Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens, n = 55), Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea, n = 60), Eastern Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus, n = 41), and Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina, n = 62) nests were monitored during 1995-1996 in the eastern panhandle of West Virginia, at the Sleepy Creek Wildlife Management Area. The objective of this study was to relate the outcomes of bird nests to surrounding habitat characteristics in an area that experienced heavy tree mortality from prior defoliation by the gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar). Large (> 22.9 cm dbh) standing snags in the nest patch were not associated with nest failure for any of the four bird species. Very large diameter (> 38.1 cm dbh) live trees and snags and reduced canopy cover increased the chances of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism only for Indigo Buntings. Nest patches of all four species differed in vegetation characteristics from random plots in similar habitat, typically by having greater densities of species' preferred nesting substrate in the nest patch. Gypsy moth defoliation, which can result in an increase in snags and opened canopy, is not likely to be a devastating ecological event for shrub and sub-canopy nesting avian species, and can create more nesting habitat for many species that use a dense forest understory.
4164274|Common Loon (Gavia immer) breeding, pre-migratory, and wintering behavior has been well described, but no previous author has characterized failed and non-breeding loon behavior during the summer breeding season. We quantified the summer behavior of non-breeding and failed breeding loons from 15 lakes in Kejimkujik National Park (Nova Scotia, Canada) and the Lepreau watershed (New Brunswick, Canada). Time-activity budgets and event quantifications were used to describe behavioral state and event patterns. The behavior of failed and non-breeders in summer is similar to that described for pre-nesting, pre-migratory, wintering, and breeding loons (except those with young chicks) with foraging the predominant behavior and peering the predominant event. We propose that the behavioral regimen of adult loons is relatively constant throughout the year, with the exception of a two-week period following chick hatching when adults brood their young.
4164275|Prey remains of a nestling Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja) over 15 months in eastern Amazon, Brazil included 11 two-toed sloths (Choloepus didactylus), 9 three-toed sloths (Bradypus variegatus), and 1 gray four-eyed opossum (Philander opossum). We found no evidence of predation on primates despite their abundance in the area and their importance to Harpy Eagles studied elsewhere. We observed no sloths in 605 km of line transects, a finding that suggests the inadequacy of transect data to estimate prey density for Harpy Eagles.
4164276|Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentiles) nesting in south central Wyoming consumed at least 33 species of prey; 14 were mammals and 19 were birds. Based on percent occurrence in regurgitated pellets, dominant (>10% frequency) prey species included: red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus; present in 50% of pellets), Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus; 34%), American Robin (Turdus migratorius; 30%), golden-mantled ground squirrel (Spermophilus lateralis; 27%), and Uinta or least chipmunk (Tamias spp.; 10%). Woodpeckers [combined frequency of occurrence for Northern Flicker, Red-naped Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus nuchalis), Hairy Woodpecker (Picoides villosus), Three-toed Woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus), and unknown species] were present in 52% of pellets. Unusual food items in the diet included mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and American marten (Martes americana).
4164277|Several bird species are thought to be itinerant breeders, reproducing in different localities during the same season, but this behavior has been documented conclusively only in the Red-billed Quelea (Quelea quelea). In 1997, I observed a case of itinerant breeding and mate switching by a banded female American Dipper (Cinclus mexicanus) in western Montana. This female raised a successful first brood on a bridge early in the breeding season, then moved 5 km to a neighboring drainage and successfully raised a second brood in a crevice with a different male. This reproductive behavior may have been facilitated in my study area by the use of low-elevation bridges as nest sites by dippers.
4164278|Four eggs in a Yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella) nest were incubated for one day by a female Yellowhammer but subsequently abandoned. The day following abandonment, the nest and the clutch were adopted by a female Blackcap (Sylvia atricapilla) who incubated the eggs until a single Yellowhammer nestling hatched; two eggs were depredated, and the embryo in the third egg was dead but well-developed. The young Yellowhammer was fed for 6 days until it was taken by a predator. Because there were no obvious benefits for the adopting female Blackcap, we speculate that the adoption resulted from misdirected parental behavior.
4164279|Populations of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) and Blue-winged Warblers (V. pinus) have coexisted in the Hudson Highlands for a century. Previous researchers in our study area suggested this unusual coexistence might be due to a low frequency of hybrids. However, during the 1998-1999 breeding season we found that 10% of the males were hybrids, a value similar to many studies elsewhere. We observed that hybrid males ceased singing and other conspicuous behaviors early in the breeding season. Pair formation and nesting by hybrids appeared to be rare, perhaps because of the reduced vigor of their displays. Most of the fieldwork by previous researchers in this area was conducted after the date when hybrids cease singing, which may account for prior reports of the absence of hybrids.
4164280|We recorded examples of complex, highly variable, song-like vocalizations uttered by female Chestnut-sided Warblers (Dendroica pensylvanica) in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. These songs occurred only during a brief period just after females arrived on the breeding grounds and were almost invariably associated with intense social interactions. Although the timing and context of the songs might suggest a territorial defense or other communicative function, the songs bore no resemblance to male songs, were uttered infrequently, and were used by only a small proportion of females. Therefore, we believe it is unlikely that the songs could be reliably recognized and interpreted by conspecifics. Perhaps the vocalizations are byproducts of seasonally high levels of circulating sex hormones, as suggested by the prolonged singing that we observed in a captive-reared female that had been implanted with testosterone.
4164281| A pair of Black-vented Orioles (Icterus wagleri) successfully fledged young from a nest inside a log cabin in the Montecristo National Park, El Salvador. This is the first breeding record of the species for El Salvador. The nest was hammock-shaped, 18  20 cm outside, 6 cm deep inside, and contained four eggs. After the first clutch failed, the pair renested using the same nest, incubating and rearing three young over 34 days. 
4164282|On 16 June 1999, I found a Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) nest parasitized by a Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater). On 22 June the female scaup had begun incubating the 10 scaup eggs but the cowbird egg was missing, presumably ejected by the female scaup.
4164283|In 1993 and 1994, we collected data on the diet and foraging behavior of Roadside Hawks (Buteo magnirostris) in primary tropical forest with slash-and-burn farming landscape nearby. We identified 140 prey items brought to nests: 90 in the farming landscape and 50 in the forest. Reptiles (57.1%, mostly lizards) and amphibians (24.3%) were the main prey types delivered to nestlings in both habitats, but size and type of prey differed between nests in the two habitats. Relatively more amphibians and reptiles were delivered to slash-and-burn nests and more mammals and insects to forest nests. In 40 of 44 prey capture attempts, Roadside Hawks utilized the typical Buteo technique, searching for prey from a perch and attacking once prey was sighted. In addition, two aerial attacks were directed at a flying and at a perched bird, and hawks walking on the ground twice captured beetles. Of 44 capture attempts, 84% were successful. In the forest, half of 32 attacks were launched from perches protruding above vegetation along a road or in clearings; the other half were launched from perches beneath the forest canopy. These hawks often took advantage of special hunting opportunities: attending army-ant swarms, taking many frogs immediately after rain showers, and catching prey fleeing from fires.
4164284|The Stripe-tailed Hummingbird (Eupherusa eximia) prefers nectar that is highly supplemented in both vitamins and minerals, when offered the choice of no, low, or high supplemented nectar. We tested the responses of hummingbirds in southern Brazil to four solutions: nectar, nectar supplemented with vitamins, nectar supplemented with minerals, and water with both vitamins and minerals added. Hummingbirds spent less time at and made fewer visits to the supplemented water than to the different nectar solutions, suggesting that nutrients alone are not enough to attract birds. One of eight species, the Violet-capped Woodnymph (Thalurania glaucopis), visited the mineral supplemented nectar more often than both nectars and one unidentified hermit species (Phaethornis sp.) visited the mineral treatment more than straight nectar. The Black-throated Mango (Anthracothorax nigricollis) made more visits to the vitamin supplemented nectar than to mineral-rich nectar whereas the Glittering-bellied Emerald (Chlorostilbon aureoventris) avoided the vitamin treatment, preferring straight nectar. A general pattern of preference was not found among species.
4164285|We report the first records of the ingestion of a toxic California newt (Taricha torosa) and a particular species of Jerusalem cricket (Stenopelmatus fuscus) by a Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus). This is one of only a few records of avian predation on this genus of toxic newt. Ingestion of the extremely poisonous tetrodotoxin present in the newt's skin was likely the cause of the owl's death.
4164298|Zimmerius villarejoi (Mishana Tyrannulet) is the second novel species to be described in recent years from poorly drained, white sand varillal forest near Iquitos, Depto. Loreto, Peru. It was initially detected by its vocalizations. Although well differentiated, close parallels in plumage and bill color suggest that Z. villarejoi may be most closely related to the poorly known and considerably larger Z. cinereicapillus (Red-billed Tyrannulet), with which it appears to be elevationally parapatric or allopatric. Amazonian forests growing on white sand and other nutrient poor soils hold many ornithological surprises and merit increased attention in field inventories.
4164299|The O'ahu 'Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis ibidis) is a monarch flycatcher endemic to the Hawaiian island of O'ahu. This forest bird has declined seriously in the last few decades and was listed as endangered under the federal Endangered Species Act in April 2000. The current distribution and population size of the O'ahu 'Elepaio are poorly known, and this information is vital to designing a recovery plan and implementing recovery actions. We surveyed most of O'ahu for 'Elepaio from 1992-2000 and compiled published and unpublished observations to estimate the current population size and construct current, recent historical, and prehistoric distribution maps. Based on 411 observations since 1991, we estimate the current population to be 1974 birds in six large subpopulations and several smaller ones. The breeding population consists of about 1768 birds due to a male-biased sex ratio, and the genetically effective population size is even lower because of the fragmented distribution. Total area of the current range is approximately 5486 ha, only 4% of the prehistoric range, and 25% of the range in 1975. Habitat loss to urbanization and agriculture caused large range reductions in the past, but cannot explain more recent declines. 'Elepaio disappeared first from areas of higher rainfall, possibly because epizootics of introduced mosquito-borne diseases are more frequent where wetter conditions provide more mosquito breeding habitat. Management is urgently needed to prevent further declines and extirpation of smaller subpopulations.
4164300|The Cinnabar Hawk-Owl (Ninox ios) is a species recently described from a single specimen collected in 1985 from Bogani Nani Wartabone National Park in North Sulawesi, Indonesia. A second bird was trapped on 14 November 1999 in a mist net set in primary forest at 1420 m in Gunung Ambang Nature Reserve, North Sulawesi. Compared to the type specimen it had generally similar plumage and was larger. This second owl was captured on the boundary between an open area of marshland surrounded by hill forest dominated by pioneer species such as Macaranga hispida and Piper aduncum. Both trapped birds, and a recent sight record from Lore Lindu National Park in Central Sulawesi, suggest that N. ios is restricted primarily to high elevation forest on Sulawesi. Although the species is currently known from only three sites, the paucity of ornithological research on Sulawesi suggests N. ios may eventually prove to be more widespread.
4164301|Features of the nest cavity, nest tree, and surrounding vegetation have variously been shown to be important in nest site selection by cavity-nesting birds, yet few investigators have simultaneously considered these three habitat components. During 1995 and 1996 we considered each component in a study of nest site selection by Elf Owls (Micrathene whitneyi) in the Sonoran Desert. All Elf Owl nests (n = 68) were located in saguaros (Carnegiea gigantea) with a density of 0.032 nest saguaros/ha. At the scale of the nesting area, the number of cavities in a saguaro was the most important variable influencing whether it was selected for nesting; each additional cavity in a saguaro increased the odds it was selected by a factor of 4.4. Increasing the density of mature saguaros also increased the odds that an area was selected. At the scale of the nest saguaro, nest cavities were located in the main stem in greater proportion than their availability and were located higher above ground than random cavities. Nest cavities also were nonrandomly oriented toward the north, suggesting that cavity microclimate may influence nest site selection. Only 20-25% of potential nest cavities were occupied by cavity nesting birds, suggesting that habitat was not saturated. The differences between Elf Owl nest sites and potential nest sites at both the scale of the nesting area and nest saguaro suggest the presence of sufficient cavities to enable owls to occupy preferred sites within the study area.
4164302|We studied the use of regenerating clear cuts in the central highlands of New Brunswick by Bicknell's (Catharus bicknelli) and Swainson's (Catharus ustulatus) thrushes during the 1997 breeding season. Bicknell's Thrushes were found at 57 of the 90 points surveyed on six mountains. Swainson's Thrushes occupied 89 of 90 survey points. Bicknell's Thrushes had a lower probability of detection (P = 0.40) than Swainson's Thrushes (P = 0.76). Fixed-radius point counts yielded breeding density estimates for birds on individual mountains ranging from about 3-22 pairs/100 ha (average 16 pairs/100 ha) for Bicknell's Thrushes, and from about 39-69 pairs/100 ha (average 51 pairs/100 ha) for Swainson's Thrushes. White birch (Betula papyrifera), balsam fir (Abies balsamea), and pin cherry (Prunus pensylvanica) were the dominant tree species on regenerating sites. Points occupied by Bicknell's Thrushes tended to be at higher elevations than unoccupied points and to have a greater proportion of white birch stems, a greater number of stems in the 5-10 cm diameter class and a lower diversity of trees and shrubs. No attempt was made to characterize Swainson's Thrush habitat since this species was present at virtually all survey points. We believe that relatively young (average height about 4 m) mixed stands of regeneration with moderate to high stem densities provide important habitat for Bicknell's Thrushes in New Brunswick. Suggestions are made about the direction of future research needed to formulate habitat management and conservation plans for this species.
4164303|We examined shorebird use of mudflats, marsh islands, and nearby agricultural fields near Humboldt Bay in northwestern California between September 1988 and April 1989. Most species used fields for both foraging and roosting, including some species usually considered to be mudflat specialists. After seasonal rains began in late fall, Dunlins (Calidris alpina), Least Sandpipers (Calidris minutilla), Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus), and Marbled Godwits (Limosa fedoa) became opportunists and used fields at intermediate and high tides when mudflats were inundated. Black-bellied Plovers (Pluvialis squatarola) and Greater Yellowlegs (Tringa melanoleuca) were seasonal generalists during the two wettest seasons, using fields at all tides and mudflats at low and intermediate tides. Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) were mudflat specialists, and Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus) were salt marsh opportunists that mainly used mudflats, but shifted to salt marsh at high tide. Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) and Common Snipe (Gallinago gallinago) were field specialists and did not use the other two habitats in significant densities during any season. The presence of short vegetation and the presence or absence of standing water were the two most important characteristics influencing increased use of fields by all species.
4164304|Eight species of parids commonly occur in the mountains of northern Sichuan Province, People's Republic of China. They represent four monophyletic groups regarded by some authorities as genera, but more traditionally as subgenera of the large genus Parus. To test the competition-based hypothesis that less closely related species are more likely to co-occur, we used specimens and observations obtained in October 1989 and May 1991 to delineate the morphology, elevational range, and habitat associations of each species in this rich assemblage. A morphometric cluster analysis did not support the assumption that phylogenetic similarity predicts morphological and hence ecological similarity. Up to five species commonly co-occurred in mixed flocks, as in Europe (where five subgenera are represented), but a randomization test showed that community assembly was random with respect to subgenus. On the other hand, for the entire data set (P = 0.05) and during spring (P = 0.07), species in the same morphometric cluster were less likely to co-occur than were species with dissimilar morphology. It appears, therefore, that competition between species of similar morphology may play (or have played) some role in structuring assemblages of parids during the breeding season in this area. For this reason, more detailed studies of the parid assemblage in this area are recommended.
4164305|In a remote area of central Maine, I established bird feeders stocked with black oil sunflower seeds to supplement the food of wintering Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapilla). The chickadees discovered experimental feeders established in late October within two weeks; feeders established in mid-January were discovered more slowly. Weekly censuses showed that chickadee abundance was significantly higher in the presence of the feeders. Mark-recapture analysis revealed that as many as 110 and 70 chickadees were using the feeders at the two most intensively studied sites over 2-day periods. Ambient temperature had no influence on the rate at which banded chickadees visited the feeders. The visitation rate of banded chickadees was higher during the first third of the winter; perhaps competition for feeder access increased as increasing numbers of unbanded chickadees used the feeders as the season progressed. The frequency of feeder use varied markedly among the chickadees at each feeding site; this variation could not be explained by age of the birds (first-winter versus adult birds). Variability in feeder use was also apparent for individual birds over time.
4164306|Columbids often exhibit irregular movement patterns in response to fruit abundance. We tested whether the abundance of nonbreeding Plain (Columba inornata) and White-crowned (C. leucocephala) pigeons was correlated with Thrinax parviflora fruit production in a dry forest in southeastern Jamaica. Monthly, from November to March, we counted the number of pigeons leaving the forest to roost in an adjacent mangrove swamp. Within two days of each roost count, we also counted all fruits on ten T. parviflora trees in the forest. Columbid and fruit counts showed similar patterns of temporal abundance, with increases from November to January and decreases from January to March. Peak (January) counts of White-crowned Pigeon, Plain Pigeon, and unidentified columbids were 129, 77, and 151, respectively. The peak Plain Pigeon count was approximately three times greater than the highest counts previously recorded for Jamaica. These data indicate that the Portland Ridge dry forest may provide a critical resource for the Plain Pigeon, perhaps at a time when fruit abundance is low on other parts of the island. Given the globally significant number of Plain Pigeons that use this site, protection from further development should be a priority.
4164307| We collected feces of breeding Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) from interior rivers of Northern Qubec, Labrador and Newfoundland to document their summer food habits. We obtained 42 samples from 50 ducks. All samples contained recognizable food items, and the mean number of taxa identified per sample was 3.6 (SD = 1.6, range = 1-7). Overall, a total of 10,222 organisms from 25 taxa were identified. Nearly all (99.7%) food items were insects; the rest were mollusks and mites. Among insects, Simuliidae larvae were the most common food item, representing 87.2% of all prey counted. Other insects had low relative frequencies, the highest being Trichoptera with only 8.0%. However, in terms of frequency of occurrence, many insects were well represented: Trichoptera (83.3%), Ephemeroptera (64.3%), Diptera (61.9%), Plecoptera (33.3%), Coleoptera (11.9%), and Heteroptera (9.5%). Although Simuliidae larvae may represent the most important food taken in terms of absolute numbers, the relative importance of Trichoptera may be much higher in terms dry weight. These results are consistent with observations that Harlequin Ducks usually feed on the bed of fast stretches of rivers, and occasionally in slow-moving waters. 
4164308|During mating, and during the phases known as solitary male, harem formation, and harem, male Greater Rheas (Rhea americana) became vigilant to assure the elimination of competitors. High rates of harem defense and male expulsion were observed at the start, with levels decreasing gradually through the phases of mating, and male-male fighting mainly limited to the phase of harem formation. Courtship was nonexistent early in the mating period, reached a high level during the phases of harem formation and harem, then declined markedly just before harem breaking. The rates of all male social activities decreased significantly just before harem breaking.
4164309|We report nine new records of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism on the Common Grackle (Quiscalus quiscula): six from Benson County, North Dakota, and three from Delta Marsh, Manitoba. These observations represent 30% of the total number of records of parasitism on this host. Parasitism frequencies were 0.8% of 727 nests in North Dakota, and 4.0% of 75 nests in Manitoba. The data from Manitoba, combined with previous data from this location (Neudorf and Sealy 1994), yields a parasitism frequency of 3.4% of 119 nests examined. These parasitism frequencies are the highest recorded for the Common Grackle.
4164310|Calcium has been reported to be a limiting nutrient for eggshell production in birds living in areas of northern Europe suffering from heavy acid deposition. To investigate whether calcium might be limiting for birds in northeastern North America, a region also experiencing high and persistent acid precipitation, we analyzed eggshell characteristics and assessed calcium needs for eggshell production of a Neotropical migrant songbird, the Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens), in two forests in New England that differed in calcium content of their soils. We found no significant differences between the two regions in warbler eggshell mass, thickness, or in the concentration or the amount of calcium in eggshells. Moreover, calculations show that a diet of larval Lepidoptera, a major food source, is not a sufficient source of calcium for this species during egg laying, but that ingestion of eight average-sized (60 mg dry mass) snails during the egg-laying period would supply sufficient calcium for eggshell formation for a 4-egg clutch. Although current densities of snails suggest that they are not a limiting resource for birds at these sites, recent findings of declining calcium availability in New England forest soils suggest that calcium could in the future become a limiting factor for birds in northern temperature forests.
4164311| During a study of Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) nesting in eastern Texas, we discovered a single breeding pair of woodpeckers with two simultaneous nests in nest trees that were 24 m apart. Incubation of eggs in each nest tree was at least 13 d and may have been as long as 16 d. The breeding male incubated and fed a nestling in one nest tree and the breeding female incubated and fed a nestling in the other nest tree until the nestlings were 24 d old. Prior to fledging, both the breeding male and female were observed feeding both nestlings in both nest trees. The pair successfully fledged the two nestlings, a single fledging from each nest tree, during one nesting cycle. After the nestlings were fledged, both the male and female woodpeckers were observed feeding both fledglings about 350 m from the pair of nest trees. Our observations indicate that there are exceptions to the current theory that the contribution by the breeding male and female to incubation and feeding of nestlings is essential and that neither the male nor the female can normally rear young birds without the contribution of the other. 
4164312| I studied the breeding biology of the Crested Gallito (Rhinocrypta lanceolata) in the Reserve of acun (western Argentina) from September 1995 to January 1999. The laying period extended from mid-September to late January, a month longer than previous reports from Argentina. The closed nest was globular with a side entrance and was made primarily of grasses. In acun, this species preferred to nest in atamisque (Capparis atamisquea). Atamisques selected for nesting were 1.6-3.5 m in height, and nests were 1.0-2.1 m above the ground. Mean clutch size (2.2 eggs) did not show a year or a seasonal variation. Mean egg size and mass were less than those reported previously. The incubation period lasted 16-17 d and the nestling period 14-15 d. Eggs hatched asynchronously. No cases of brood parasitism by Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) were observed. 
4164313|We observed an apparent incident of polygynous behavior in Giant Canada Geese (Branta canadensis maxima). Two females were paired with the same male and concurrently incubated side by side within the same nest tub. Reciprocal changes in the number of eggs within each bowl during incubation indicated that eggs were shifted between nest bowls in both years. This behavior was observed at the same location in two successive years. Goslings hatched from both nests each year. Polygynous behavior in typically monogamous Canada Geese has rarely been observed, and nest sharing has not been previously documented.
4164314|I observed the incubation and nestling periods of five nests of the Violet Sabrewing (Campylopterus hemileucurus) in Costa Rica. Each nest was built above running water. Mean incubation period was 20 d and only the female incubated. Mean nestling period lasted 23 d. Nestlings reached and surpassed adult mass before fledging (132% of adult size in males and 130% in females), although wing, tail, and culmen length did not reach adult size until after fledging. Because the Violet Sabrewing is highly sexually dimorphic in size and plumage color, I compared the postnatal development of five females and two males. Males were heavier than females and grew more slowly, consistent with generally slower growth rates in larger birds. The
4164315|I report the intentional use of objects by American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) in the contexts of foraging, nestling defense and play.
4164316|Kleptoparasitism has been extensively described for raptors and seabirds, but there are fewer observations for passerine birds. Here we describe several events of interspecific kleptoparasitism in the Great Kiskadee (Tyrannidae: Pitangus sulphuratus) in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Although interspecific kleptoparasitism has not been described previously for this species, we believe this foraging strategy is more common than expected for a passerine bird. The observations described in this paper are consistent with four of the six ecological conditions proposed by Brockmann and Barnard (1979).
4164327|I studied the relationship of nesting habitat and the spatial distribution of Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) nests with the frequency of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). For all nests combined, parasitism was over 18 times more frequent in the upland habitat. It is unlikely that the low frequency of parasitism in the marshes was due solely to an increase in the incidence of aggregate nesting. For aggregated nests, parasitism was over nine times more common in upland habitat than in marshes. Because Red-winged Blackbirds are known to react to and deter cowbirds when cowbirds are detected near nests, I assessed whether the ability of Red-winged Blackbirds to detect cowbirds may contribute to the low parasitism frequency observed in marshes. Red-winged Blackbirds nesting in marshes more often reacted aggressively to female cowbird mounts 1 m from a nest than those in upland habitat, indicating that cowbirds are more likely to be molested near nests in marshes. In upland habitat the frequency of parasitism of unaggregated nests was three times greater than that of aggregated nests. These results suggest that Red-winged Blackbirds can defend their nests against cowbirds and successfully prevent brood parasitism and that the effectiveness of nest defense varies with habitat and the spatial distribution of nests. This study provides the first direct evidence that hosts can sometimes prevent parasitism.
4164328| We report the presence of the Slaty-backed Nightingale-Thrush (Catharus fuscater) in Colombia's Central Cordillera, at two sites near the cities of Pereira and Manizales, at elevations of 2400-2600 m. This species is discontinuously distributed in humid montane forest in Costa Rica and Panama, and in the Andes from Colombia to Peru. In Colombia, it was previously known only from the northern end of the western Andean range, the Santa Marta and Perij mountains, and spottily on the eastern range of the Andes. Our record fills a gap in its distribution and suggests that it may be widely distributed in all three ranges of the Colombian Andes, although its distribution may be disjunct. At Ucumar Regional Park near Pereira, the species was found in wet second growth and the understory of 40-yr-old forest. Patterns of recaptures suggested that some individuals were sedentary residents, while others were probably temporary residents or floaters. Reproduction was concentrated in February--June, and molting in August--December. Slaty-backed Nightingale-Thrushes at Ucumar are olive-brown instead of slaty gray, and have brown irises, not white as in other populations. The disjunct distribution of this species probably has resulted in geographic variation and differentiation. 
4164330| Ornithological studies undertaken in certain sandy soil habitats of lowland northeastern Peru uncovered a previously undescribed species of Percnostola antbird. Elements of its morphology, vocalizations, and behavior indicate that it should be considered a well-differentiated species, closely related to P. rufifrons. We present a description of the new species; an analysis of how it differs from the four previously described subspecies of P. rufifrons; and a reconsideration of species limits within P. rufifrons, employing measures of morphology, vocalizations, and behavior. Under guidelines developed previously (Isler et al. 1998, 1999), vocal differences among the four subspecies (rufifrons, subcristata, minor, and jensoni) of P. rufifrons were insufficient to support considering them distinct species. However, differences in morphology among most of the four taxa were substantial, and we look forward to genetic studies of Percnostola and related groups. The localized and highly specialized habitat preferences of the new species cause grave concern for its conservation. /// Estudios ornitolgicos realizados en hbitats de arena blanca de las tierras bajas del nororiente peruano permitieron el descubrimiento de una nueva especie del gnero Percnostola. Elementos de su morfologa, vocalizaciones y comportamiento claramente diferencian esta especie, y sugieren una relacin cercana a P. rufifrons. Presentamos una descripcin de esta nueva especie; un anlisis de cmo se diferencia esta especie de las cuatro subespecies previamente descritas de P. rufifrons; y una reconsideracin de los lmites especficos dentro de P. rufifrons, empleando medidas de la morfologa, vocalizaciones y comportamiento. Siguiendo los lineamientos desarrollados en anteriores publicaciones (Isler et al. 1998, 1999), diferencias vocales entre las cuatro subespecies previamente descritas de P. rufifrons (rufifrons, subcristata, minor y jensoni) fueron insuficientes para considerarlas especies diferentes. Sin embargo, diferencias morfolgicas entre la mayoria de estos cuatro taxones fueron substanciales, por lo que es necesario esperar futuros estudios genticos de este complejo y de otros grupos relacionados. Las preferencias de hbitat altamente localizadas y especializadas de esta nueva especie son motivo de gran preocupacin por su conservacin. 
4164331|Ground-nesting is usual among the about fifty species of dabbling ducks (genus Anas), but a few southern hemisphere species prefer arboreal sites. One such arboreal-nesting species, the South American Speckled Teal (Anas flavirostris flavirostris), is believed to have evolved from a ground-nesting ancestor, represented today by the closely related Green-winged Teal (A. carolinensis) of North America. We studied the breeding biology and behavior of Speckled Teal in Buenos Aires province, Argentina, in an attempt to identify adaptations associated with arboreal nesting. In this region, Speckled Teal prefer to nest in cavities in the stick nests of Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus). Inter- and intraspecific competition for cavities was intense. Parakeets remained near the nest site year round, aggressively defending occupied cavities and forcing teal to compete with one another for possession of abandoned cavities. Male Speckled Teal helped their mates to obtain and hold nest sites by defending sites against other pairs. Males also accompanied broods and assisted in parental care. Although courtship occurs year round and extrapair courtship by males is common, competition for mates and the need for male assistance in acquiring nest sites limits the opportunities for polygyny in this population. Site fidelity of nesting females was very high; 19 of 22 returned the following year. The prevalence of courtship on land and inclusion of Point display in the repertoire are interpreted as behavioral adaptations associated with arboreal nesting.
4164332|I examined enemy recognition in Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla) using models of a brood parasite (Brown-headed Cowbird, Molothrus ater), an avian nest predator (Blue Jay, Cyanocitta cristata), and a nonthreatening control (Fox Sparrow, Passerina iliaca) during two periods of the nesting cycle: the first three days of incubation and when chicks were 2-3 d old. As predicted, Field Sparrows responded more frequently to the predator model than to the control model during both periods, and gave stronger responses to the predator model (as measured by the number of "chip" calls) during the nestling period than during incubation. Field Sparrows also gave stronger responses to the cowbird model than to the control model during incubation. However, responses to the cowbird model during incubation were not stronger than the responses during the nestling period; this result does not support the hypotheses that Field Sparrows recognize cowbirds either as brood parasites or as potential nest predators. If nests were tested during the laying stage, when they are most vulnerable to parasitism (but prone to abandonment due to disturbance), it is possible that Field Sparrows would respond most aggressively to cowbirds during that period.
4164333|We documented differences in diet composition of territorial Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus) feeding in different locations within the Elk River Estuary, Humboldt Bay, California. We used direct observations to measure diet because curlews often handled prey for long periods (up to 4 min), which enabled us to identify prey and to estimate size. Curlews ate mainly five benthic organisms: yellow shore crabs (Hemigrapsus oregonensis), bivalves (various species), marine worms (polychaetes), ghost shrimp (Callianassa spp.), and a burrow-dwelling fish (arrow goby, Clevelandia ios). During summer, curlews on eight territories ate different proportions of bivalves, shrimp, and worms, but similar proportions of crabs, fish, and unknown prey. The proportion of prey types captured changed slightly during fall and winter. More shrimp and fish were eaten during summer than during fall and winter; more worms were eaten during winter than during summer. Despite differences in diet across some territories and seasons, energy intake rates (kcal/h) were not significantly different, but were highly variable within territories and seasons. Curlews lost worms and shrimp to gulls and other shorebirds more than expected, but lost bivalves and crabs less than expected based on capture frequency. We suggest that possible reasons for interterritorial variation in diet are temporal and spatial variation in prey availability, phenotypic differences of curlews, competition or interference, and risk of kleptoparasitism.
4164334|On Appledore Island, Maine, American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) were encountered frequently during both spring and fall migration from 1990 to 1999. Males arrived earlier than females during spring, but arrival dates of males and females did not differ significantly during fall. Also, adults arrived earlier than young birds during spring, but not during fall. Recapture of banded birds at least one day after initial capture occurred more frequently during fall than spring, although mean stopover length did not differ significantly between the two seasons. Although recaptured individuals increased in mass during stopover during both seasons, mass increases were significant only during fall. However, rates of mass increase estimated by regression of condition over time of capture indicated greater mass increases during spring. Neither recapture rates, stopover lengths, nor mass changes differed significantly between males and females or between age groups within either season. These results indicate that although many American Redstarts were encountered on Appledore Island during both spring and fall migration, birds were using the site differently during the two seasons. Spring migration was more concentrated with few observed stopovers, while fall migration was protracted with increased rates of recapture. American Redstarts may have been responding differently to this site during spring and fall migration because of the proximity to breeding grounds and distance from winter grounds as well as the location of the Atlantic Ocean, which represents an ecological barrier during fall migration.
4164335|We sought to determine annual survivorship for adult male and juvenile Florida Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum floridanus), a federally endangered taxon whose range is limited to central Florida. We captured, banded, and resighted 161 birds at two study sites, Avon Park Air Force Range and Three Lakes Wildlife Management Area, from 1995-1998. For the period 1995-1998, we estimated mean adult annual male survivorship with program JOLLY to be 48.2% and 53.3% at these two sites. Because sample size of banded juveniles was small, we were unable to use the JOLLY program for this age group. Therefore, we developed a new method to determine juvenile survival that incorporated known adult annual survivorship, reproductive success, and territory densities. We estimated juvenile survivorship to be 35.1%, which was 66-73% of annual adult survivorship. This survival rate was greater than the generally assumed but undocumented 25-50% survivorship rate suggested in the literature.
4164336|We investigated the relationship between habitat and landscape characteristics and the abundance and species richness of breeding birds in 12 southern Rhode Island red maple (Acer rubrum) swamps of varying size (0.5-19.2 ha). Swamp size was the most important landscape variable explaining variation in species richness for the entire bird community and for individual habitat use groups (forest interior, interior-edge, and edge species). Richness increased log linearly with size. Increased richness appeared to be due to increased habitat heterogeneity within the swamp and at the swamp edge, not a core area effect. Bird relative abundance was not predictable from swamp size. The abundance of forest interior birds was positively related to the amount of upland forest within 1-2 km of a swamp and negatively related to the regional abundance of swamp forest; the relationships between these landscape variables and the species richness of edge-related species were just the reverse. The amount of shrub foliage 2-4 m above the ground also was a positive predictor of the abundance of forest interior birds. Variation in overall bird abundance was explained by models based on peat depth and the availability of swamp forest within 1-2 km. All four of the most common forest interior species--the Veery (Catharus fuscescens), Northern Waterthrush (Seiurus noveboracensis), Black-and-white Warbler (Mniotilta varia), and Canada Warbler (Wilsonia canadensis)--occurred in swamps as small as 1 ha. This pattern suggests that overall landscape composition (i.e., total forest availability) may be more important than swamp patch size in explaining the occurrence of these area sensitive species.
4164337|The western subspecies of the Yellow-billed Cuckoo (Coccyzus americanus occidentalis) has undergone severe population declines during recent years. The current status of this subspecies has been disputed, however, because it cannot be easily separated from C. a. americanus using morphological characteristics. We sequenced most of the cytochrome b gene in five western U.S., three eastern U.S., and two Mexican Yellow-billed Cuckoos, and one Black-billed Cuckoo (C. erythropthalmus) to determine if the subspecies could be diagnosed genotypically. The haplotypes of the eastern and western subspecies differed by four fixed base changes, suggesting that they diverged approximately 205,000-465,000 yr ago. Two of these fixed differences cause amino acid coding changes. Our findings support continued separation of the two subspecies and recognition of the western subspecies as an evolutionarily significant unit.
4164338| A pair of Planalto Woodcreepers (Dendrocolaptes platyrostris) fed young in a nest cavity 6 m up in a wooded botanic garden of an old eucalyptus grove near So Paulo, Brazil, during October 1982. The pair often visited together at first, one (likely male) raising its head feathers as noted in other species of the genus. Feedings were less frequent at midday. Songs of the southeastern moist forest D. p. platyrostris were strikingly different from inland dry forest D. p. intermedius, despite intermediate specimens where the two rather distinctly colored forms come together. There are several poorly studied forms in interior dry forests, which need much more conservation effort. 
4164339|We banded a Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) on its Vermont breeding home range and recaptured the same bird less than six months later on its winter territory in the Dominican Republic. The encounter provides a rare link between known breeding and wintering sites for a Nearctic-Neotropical migratory passerine. This individual was documented to return to its breeding site two successive summers and probably reoccupied the same territory during the winter following its initial recapture. We believe that the small breeding and wintering range of the Bicknell's Thrush, its specialized habitat requirements, and its documented site fidelity increase the species' vulnerability to habitat loss.
4164340|Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) typically are double brooded, and triple brooding is rare, even in the southern portions of their breeding range. We discovered one instance of triple brooding by a pair of Wood Thrushes in southern Ontario near the northern edge of their continental breeding range. Each of the three nesting attempts successfully fledged young. Females may spend only a short time (less than a week) with just-fledged broods before initiating another nest; in this circumstance, the survival of young birds from the earlier brood depends on the attentiveness of males. The rearing of three broods is an uncommon event among Wood Thrushes in our study; from 1998-2000, only one of 73 color-banded females (1.3%) with early season nesting success has been triple brooded.
4164341|We studied Chestnut-sided Warblers (Dendroica pensylvanica) to determine whether there exists any relationship between plumage coloration and reproductive success in this species. We observed that males with more extensive chestnut breast coloration initiated nests significantly earlier than males with less chestnut, and had marginally larger clutch sizes as well. However, there was no significant relationship between the number of young fledged or the condition of the young and the extent of chestnut breast coloration, nor were there any significant relationships between any of these measures of reproductive success and the extent of yellow crown coloration. The extent of chestnut coloration on the breast was significantly less for males in their first breeding season, suggesting that the relationships between the extent of breast coloration and reproductive success may reflect age specific differences in these parameters.
4164342|We examined several song properties of Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) breeding in open and forested habitats. Although tree density varied significantly between the two habitats, there were no significant differences in minimum frequency, maximum frequency, dominant frequency, or note-inter-note duration between songs from the open and forested habitats. The only marginally significant difference detected was that more males in forested habitat had songs with at least one note characterized by rapid frequency modulation than males in open habitats. The similarity in the song properties we measured may have resulted from social song learning, or may have been due to similarity of the acoustical environment surrounding the selected singing posts within both habitats.
4164343|I investigated the perch characteristics for "type I" singing (the song type used for mate attraction) by ten territorial male Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) in a mountain wetland in North Carolina. Males selected >75% of perches in the upper quarter of canopy trees. Song perches were located in trees larger and closer to forested edges and water than expected by chance. However, not all birds displayed an affinity for water, likely reflecting the uneven distribution of water across the study site. This study suggests that Golden-winged Warblers choose perches that enhance their ability to display vocally and visually to attract a mate. It also indicates that in this mountain wetland, water is an important attribute of Golden-winged Warbler territories.
4164344|An observation of opportunistic scavenging by a female Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) in Missouri is reported. The bird visited a captive wolf enclosure and tore cartilage and muscle from a large fresh beef bone and consumed it immediately. The Pileated Woodpecker vigilantly observed the resident wolves during her foraging and left the enclosure at their approach. This is thought to be the first observation of a Pileated Woodpecker scavenging meat in such a fashion.
4164345|We observed interactions between a nesting pair of Pileated Woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) and what appeared to be four pairs of Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa). Wood Ducks regularly approached and attempted to enter an active Pileated Woodpecker nest cavity that contained three fully feathered young Pileated Woodpeckers. The male Pileated Woodpecker often perched on a snag near their nest cavity to guard the entrance from Wood Ducks. Female Wood Ducks attempted to enter the Pileated Woodpecker nest cavity on at least 12 occasions and typically were intercepted by the male Pileated Woodpecker before they reached the lip of the nest cavity. On two occasions the male Pileated Woodpecker entered his nest cavity and forcibly evicted female Wood Ducks that had slipped into the cavity. These incidents suggest that large cavities in snags may be in high demand by Wood Ducks during the nesting season. Our observations suggest that some Pileated Woodpeckers may be able to resist attempts by Wood Ducks to usurp nest cavities during the breeding season.
4164354|The Prothonotary Warbler (Protonotaria citrea) is the only wood warbler in the eastern United States that nests in cavities. It readily accepts nest boxes in lieu of natural breeding sites and therefore provides an excellent model for tests of ecological factors associated with reproductive success. During 1987, 300 nest boxes were placed along a 30-km transect along the tidal James River in eastern Virginia, and these nest boxes have been monitored every year through 2000. During the 1999 and 2000 breeding seasons, we collected 2910 measurements of nestling mass, and recorded ages of parental females, dates of clutch initiation and hatching, brood sizes, and the number of young that survived to fledging. Multivariate analysis of variance indicates that nestling mass was a significant function of brood size, hatching date, age of the female, and year, even when the effects of all independent variables were considered simultaneously. Growth rate and fledging mass were significantly lower in larger broods. Two- to three-year-old females fledged nestlings with greater mass than one-year-old females and females older than three years. Frequency of handling nestlings was not significantly associated with changes in their mass. Ambient temperature of the study area during the breeding season was significantly colder during 1999 than during 2000. Growth rate, fledging mass, and rate of survival of nestlings to fledging were lower during 1999 than during 2000. Growth of nestling birds was related to a large suite of intrinsic variables, but application of growth data to environmental concerns requires knowledge of both demographic and ecological factors.
4164355|Pneumatization of the skull roof and cerebellum region of the occipital bone was studied in 193 skulls of 18 genera and 56 species in the family Parulidae (wood warblers). The grundtypus type of pneumatization, which closes the windows anteriorly in immatures of migratory species, was present in fall migration and was completed on the wintering grounds during December and January. The only genera to show what I call the geospizid type of skull pneumatization were Basileuterus and Phaeothlypis, supporting their treatment as congeners. The geospizid type of skull pneumatization is typical of all species in the Galapagos Finches (Geospizidae). In this type the skull roof closes posteriorly in the parietal bone; large members of the family exhibited midline pneumatization, and smaller members the peripheral type. Genera Setophaga, Myioborus, and Basileuterus retained cerebellar windows for an extended period after skull roof pneumatization had been completed. Basileuterus is set apart from other parulids by four trenchant characters and is considered primitive.
4164356|I studied the reproductive ecology of Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) in southcentral Florida from 1991 through 1993. Pairs were sedentary and defended territories year-round. Completed nests were found from late December to mid-May. Nesting peaked during mid-March with second and third nestings attempted from late March to late May. Sixty percent of all nests were built in blackberry bushes (Rubus betulifolius), but cabbage palm (Sabal palmetto) and wax myrtle (Myrica cerifera) also were used frequently. Mean nest height was 1.6 m and mean clutch size was 4.3 eggs. A mean of 17 days was required for incubation and the mean fledging period was 15 days. Nest failure occurred more often during the incubation than the nestling stage. The majority of nest losses were due to predation and inclement weather (49 and 20 nests, respectively). Mean hatching success was 87%, and 81% of chicks fledged successfully. Nesting success (percentage of nests that fledged at least one young) was 55%, and an analysis of other studies that used this measure detected significant clinal variation in Loggerhead Shrike nesting success, with success rate positively correlated with latitude. Unlike conspecifics in northern latitudes where second broods are considered rare, 96% of breeding pairs in Florida attempted second broods.
4164357|The migrant race of the Loggerhead Shirke (Lanius ludovicianus migrans) has undergone a severe decline in Canada since the mid- 1950s and was designated as endangered by the Commmitte on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) in 1991. In order to gain a better understanding of the factors that may be associated with the decline of this species in eastern Canada, we studied the breeding biology and nesting success of Loggerhead Shrikes in the three core breeding areas in Ontario, Canada, during 1991 and 1992. We located 27 breeding pairs during 1991 and 50 breeding pairs during 1992. Mean clutch size was 4.9 and 5.6, mean number of eggs hatched per nest was 4.2. and 5.4, and mean number of young lfedged per nest was 3.9 and 4.2 in 1991 and 1992, respectively. Only 2.3 and 2.5 young per pair survived to independence in each year. Percent success in fledgling at least one young was 89% and 78%. We believe that predation was the cause of all but one of the nest failures in both years. One pair successfully double brooded in 1991. In 1992 one of three double-brooding attempts was successful The probability of survival of an egg was 58.6% for nests in isolated red cdars (Juniperus virginiana), 76.2% in isolated hawthorn (Crataegus spp.) shrubs, 88.5% in hawthorn shrubs in the hedgerows, and 92.9% for all other species of nest tree. Daily nest survival was 98% for nests in isolated red cedar trees and 100% for nests in isolated hawthorn shrubs, in hawthorn shrubs in hedgerows, and in all other species of nest tree. Nest depth ranged from 11.2-12.4 cm and nest height above ground ranged from 2.1-2.5 m Most nests in red cedar and other species of trees were located adjacent to the main trunk. Nests in hawthorn shrubs were located adjacent to the main trunk, on a main branch, or in the center of the canopy.
4164358| We studied the reproductive success and habitat selection of a migratory population of Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus migrans) during the nesting season in northwest Missouri. The selection of breeding habitat was investigated at different spatial scales. Thirty-eight (67%) of 57 nests were located in osage orange (Maclura pomifera) trees. Shrike territories (defined as the area  200 m from the nest site) contained significantly more pasture, fenceline, and perch sites, but less corn, alfalfa, and forest than random sites. At larger spatial scales, more grassland was detected  300 m of shrike nests than random locations. However, no differences were deteced between shrike nests and random sites when larger radii (600, 900, and 1500 m) were analyzed. Nest success (56%) and productivity (3.63 young/successful pair) were similar to other North American means, and specific habitat variables appeared to have little association with nest success. However, nest located  15 m of roadways were significantly less successful (39%) than interior nests (76%). 
4164359| Despite widespread population declines, few studies have sought to quantify nesting habitat and reproductive characteristics of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera). We characterized territory and nesting habitat and measured productivity in forest regeneration areas in the Nantahala National Fores, North Carolina, and Cherokee National Forest, Tennessee, during 1997-1998. We located 82 territries and monitored 23 nests. Golden-winged Warblers occupied young stands with low basal area and annually mowed daylit roads (roads mowed wider than the track to facilitate drying), and nest in sites with high herbaceous density compared to unoccupied regeneration areas. Nest site had fewer saplings and less canopy cover than the surrounding territory. Overall nest success was 72.5% and nests fledged an average of 3.65 young. Recently harvested forest stands (age  13 yr) with herbaceous cover on logging roads and log landings provided habitat capable of supporting Golden-winged Warbler reproduction at levesl equal to or greater than productivity reported from other study sites across the range of this species. 
4164360|We compared nest placement and characteristics of nesting habitat used by Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceous) in deciduous forests of central Pennsylvania during the breeding seasons of 1998 and 1999. Nest patches versus random patches (0.04-ha circular plots centered on nests or random points, respectively) and successful versus unsuccessfull nest patches were compared. Vireos selected nest patches in a nonrandom fashion with respect to vegetative characteristics at two strata: canopy level and ground/ shrub level (<1.0 m). Nests were located closer to surrounding trees and were found in areas with greater canopy coverage, less ground vegetation, and fewer small (0.5-1.0 m in height) stems than random patches. Of the four microhabitat characteristics that distinguished used from random patches, however, only ground vegetation was associated with nest fate. Successful nests were surrounded by less ground vegetation than failed nests. Nest placement characteristics were not significantly associated with nest fate. We suggest that current nesting success may be independent of patch or site level attributes because the processes responsible for determining what constitutes a suitable nest patch or site characteristic may act at different spatial or temporal scales.
4164361| We measured the home range and habitat use of 11 Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) during the breeding season and 9 during the nonbreeding season in suburban Ohio, using standard telemetry techniques. Mean home ranges, calculated using the adaptive kernel method (95% isopleth), were 90 ha  11 SE during the breeding season, 189 ha  33 SE during the nonbreeding season, and 165 ha  24 Se for the annual home rane. Males and females did not differ significantly in homre range size. We examined habitat use by hawks by classifying the habitat where birds were observed perching. Habitat used by hawks differed significantly from that available within home ranges for all birds tested. Most Red-shouldered Hawks used riparian zones and pond edges more than expected, based on availability of such habitats within their home ranges; residential areas and lawns were used less than expected or in proportion to their availability. 
4164362|We report on studied of four small forest passerines of Saipan, Mariana Islands. Micronesia, in order to characterize the ecological strategies employed in this threatened but virtually unstudied bird assemblage, and to provide a baseline for assesssing shifts in foraging and microhabitat use that might follow reestablishment of extirpated populations. Data were gathered on microhabitat selection and foraging behavior, and limited observations are reported on wet-dry season shifts and anual changes in foraging. Two species were primarily canopy species, with one (Bridled White-eye, Zosterops conspicillatus) a live-leaf gleaner using smaller perches of taller trees, particularly Cynometra ramiflora, and the other (Microneasian Honeyeater. Myzomela rubratra) a flower prober using larger perches of taller trees. The remaining two species occupied the canopy and understory, with one (Rufous Fantail, Rhipidura rufifrons) and aerial forager and the other (Golden White-eye, Cleptornis marchei) a more generalized forager that selected larger perches of a wider variety of smaller trees. Hence, the species overlapped ecologically, but were differentiated in use of microhabitat space, including both structural and floristic components, and in manner of foraging. Comparison of ecological overlap demonstrated that the two white-eye species were the most similar of the four, and that the Rufous Fantail and Micronesian Honeyeater were most dissimilar. Each of the four species also exhibited versatility in their ability to utilize the forest habitat. Such versatility is advantageous in a periodically typhoon-damaged system, although competitive release could have contributed to this versatility. Prior to reestablishment of prehistorically extinct populations, additional studies should address the degree to which species interactions might influence the outcomes of such efforts.
4164363|I present the first specimen-supported evidence that Ecuadorian Caciques (Icteridae: Cacicus sclateri) breed in central Colombia. This record suggests a larger breeding range than previously known, and provides information about the nest characteristics and breeding behavior of this rare, endemic species.
4164364|We describe for the first time the characteristics of the nests and eggs of the Green-backed Sparrow (Arremonops chloronotus) and the Grey-throated Chat (Granatellus sallaei) with additional notes on breeding behavior. These two species are endemic to southern Mexico, Belize, and the northern portion of Guatemala where they are fairly common. Three nests of the Green-backed Sparrow were found on the ground, two in young successional and one in undisturbed subperennial forest. Each nest was domed with two unspotted white eggs. Two cup-shaped nests of the Grey-throated Chat were found in the understory of young successional forest, and the two eggs found in one of them were white with a pinkish wash.
4164365|Knowledge of potential breeding density and associated reproduction is critical for conserving Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) in the northern Great Plains. Each year during 1995-1998 we observed 34-50 plover pairs nesting on Appam Lake, an isolated
4164366|We observed two instances of Eastern Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) hens renesting after hatching their first clutches. These observations constitute for this species the third report of renesting after successfully hatching a clutch and, in one instance, the first record of two clutches hatching during the same breeding season. After the successful hatching of the second clutch, the hen raised the poults for at least 16 d. We observed the same female with two poults 19 days after hatching her first clutch.
4164367|We report a Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) laying eggs in a nest built and used by conspecifics the preceding year. The nest failed in both years during the incubation stage. A Gray Catbird built a nest in the same patch of shrubs later in the second year and successfully fledged young. Although passerines reusing nests have been documented previously, this is the first report for a Gray Catbird.
4164368|On 15 May 2000, I observed a Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla) nest parasitized by a Black-bellied Whistling-duck (Dendrocygna autumnalis). The nest contained three Laughing Gull eggs and three Black-bellied Whistling-duck eggs and was located in a colony of 56 Laughing Gull nests.
4164369|During 1995-2001, I documented 20 instances of Swallow-tailed Kites (Elanoides forficatus) carrying nests containing nestlings of six passerine species to their nests or roosts adjacent to kite nests in the Pearl River Basin (Mississippi and Louisiana) and Atchafalaya River Basin (Louisiana). This parental behavior is adaptive because it reduces time away from the nest, which reduces the amount of time that nestlings are left unguarded against avain predators. Nest carrying also reduces the amount of energy expended to transport prey to offspring, and may diminish loss of prey to kleptoparasitism.
4164370|Woodpeckers (family Picidae) are widely distributed and have been documented as participants in mixed species flocks in both temperate and tropical regions. However, they usually are not considered frequent flock participants, and the presence of multiple species of woodpeckers participating simultaneously in flocks is virtually undocumented. We determined the frequency of this association for the six most common woodpecker species at Pasoh Forest Reserve, West Malaysia. During the two-month study period, woodpeckers participated regularly in flocks with other woodpecker species, including congeners. Observations of multiple species of woodpeckers participating in foraging flocks in other parts of Malaysia, as well as Thailand and Indonesia, suggest that this might be a regular occurrence in Southeast Asia.
4164371|We encountered a dead southern black racer snake (Coluber constrictor priapus) coiled around a dead Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus). We suggest the owl was strangled by the snake before the snake died of wounds inflicted by the owl. There are previous reports of intense physical struggle between Great Horned Owls (and other raptors) and large constrictors but this is the first documented report of mutual mortality between a Great Horned Owl and a snake.
4164372|A female Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla) at least 16 years of age was observed at a nest near Churchill, Manitoba, which increases the previous longevity record for this species and ties that for the oldest small North American sandpiper. Mean annual adult survival rates since 1993 for Semipalmated Sandpipers in this area were not lower than those for previous years, despite considerable recent habitat destruction by Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens) and a continued decline in numbers of nesting sandpipers.
4164373| We studied the flocking behavior of adult and juvenile Broad-winged Hawks (Buteo platypterus) migrating past Hawk Mountain Sanctuary in eastern Pennsylvania during September 1996 and 1997. Adults were more likely than juveniles to fly in flocks (78% versus 62%). All-juvenile flocks had a mean of 2.0 (0.0) birds, all-adult flocks a mean of 4.5 (0.4) birds, and mixed-age flocks had a mean of 4.7 (0.4) birds. Adults, which made up 68% of all individuals in mixed-age flocks, were the first or "lead" birds in 80% of these flocks. Most (58%) adults migrated in the first, or leading, half of such flocks, and most (68%) juveniles migrated in the trailing half. Overall, our results suggest that migrating juvenile Broad-winged Hawks are more likely to follow adults than vice versa. Following experienced adults may help juveniles in two ways, first by allowing them to find thermals more quickly, and second by enabling them to better navigate to appropriate wintering areas. 
4164384| We examined geographic patterns of variation and differentiation in morphological characters of the emerald toucanets (Aulacorhynchus spp.) of Mesoamerica. Bill lengths showed flat frequency distributions, suggesting that no "adult" size is reached, and raising the possibility that bill growth in toucanets may be indeterminate. Sparse lowland populations in the Petn region are of uniformly small body size, suggesting that they may consist of subadult individuals. Patterns of variation support recognition of four species in Mesoamerica: A. wagleri in western Mexico, A. prasinus in eastern Mexico and northern Central America, A. caeruleogularis in Costa Rica and western Panama, and A. cognatus in eastern Panama, as well as several additional forms (A. lautus, A. albivitta, and A. nigrogularis) in South America. /// Se analizaron los patrones de variacin y diferenciacin de los caracteres morfolgicos en las tucanetas (Aulacorhynchus) de Mesoamrica. La longitud del pico mostr una distribucin de frecuencias plana, lo que sugiere la posibilidad de que nunca se alcanza un tamao "adulto" y, por lo tanto, el crecimiento del pico en las tucanetas es indeterminado. Las escasas poblaciones de las tierras bajas en la regin del Petn son uniformemente pequeas en tamao corporal, sugiriendo la posibilidad de que estn constituidas por individuos subadultos. Los patrones de variacin apoyan el reconocimiento de cuatro especies en Mesoamrica: A. wagleri, del oeste de Mxico, A. prasinus del este de Mxico y norte de Centroamrica, A. caeruleogularis de Costa Rica y el oeste de Panam, y A. cognatus del este de Panam, con varias formas adicionales (A. lautus, A. "albivitta" y A. "nigrogularis") en Sudamrica. 
4164385|We observed two White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) in white winter plumage (basic) in Colorado during late July through August during 35 years of field study. Both individuals were adult (>2 yr of age) females; one was collected and the second examined and photographed. Examination of the plumage revealed that neither had molted from winter plumage into their nuptial (alternate) or postnuptial (supplemental) plumage. We speculate that retention of the white winter plumage was the result of failure of the pituitary and thyroid glands to secrete sufficient hormones to initiate replacement of white body feathers with normal breeding plumage feathers. Perhaps this failure of the pituitary and thyroid glands was not age related but instead gender related. Despite conspicuous white plumage during summer, behavior and survival of both birds appeared normal.
4164386|We used morphological measurements and plumage characteristics to identify a Dendroica warbler mist netted and photographed in the Dominican Republic as a possible hybrid between D. kirtlandii (Kirtland's Warbler) and D. fusca (Blackburnian Warbler). We present a detailed description of the individual which is the first presumed hybrid of D. kirtlandii and one of only a few possible hybrids involving D. fusca.
4164387|The endangered Kirtland's Warbler (Dendroica kirtlandii) nests primarily in large (>32 ha) stands of young (5- to 25-yr-old) jack pine (Pinus banksiana) which grow on Grayling sand soil. These specific habitat requirements restrict the Kirtland's Warbler breeding range to only 13-16 counties in the northern lower peninsula of Michigan. Although the nature of the species' affinity for this habitat is poorly understood, one theory suggests that higher prey abundance in young jack pine may play a role. To explore further the hypothesis that Kirtland's Warblers choose nesting habitat due to prey abundance, a more thorough knowledge of the warblers' diet is needed. To better understand the diet, we identified arthropod and plant fragments found in 202 Kirtland's Warbler fecal samples, collected from June to September, 1995-1997. The major food items recorded were spittlebugs and aphids (Homoptera; found in 61% of all samples), ants and wasps (Hymenoptera; 45%), blueberry (Vaccinium augustifolium; 42%), beetles (Coleoptera; 25%), and moth larvae (Lepidoptera; 22%).
4164388| We studied the lek behavior of the Swallow-tailed Hummingbird (Eupetomena macroura) in an urbanized area in So Paulo state, southeastern Brazil. During the 22-month study we identified a total of 26 lekking territories in one lek that covered an area of approximately 12 ha. The lek was active throughout the year; the number of singing males per mornign ranged from 6-15. The abandonment of territories and the establishment of new ones caused continuous rearrangement of lek boundaries. Lekking territories had a mean size of
4164389|We describe for the first time the nests of the Wing-banded Wren (Microcerculus bambla), a little-known species of Trogoldytidae from northcentral South America. Two nests were discovered in French Guiana during the rainy season of 1999. Both nests were in abandoned termite mounds attached to the undersides of fallen trees. Chambers of the two nests were lined with a mat of dead leaf fragments. Each nest contained a single, well-feathered nestling that disappeared, possibly due to fledging, within a few days of nest discovery. Although we did not observe nest building, we suspect that other termitaria-nesting birds at our study site, such as Puffbirds (Bucconidae) or Jacamars (Galbulidae) excavated the chambers. Thus, both Microcerculus species with described nests, the Nightingale Wren (M. marginatus) and the Wing-banded Wren, apparently are secondary cavity nesters.
4164390|I investigated the relationship between the physical characteristics of breeding territories and the reproductive success of Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) in British Columbia. I compared measures of the threat of egg and brood depredation, conspecific competition, and food supply with measures of reproductive success on 38 oystercatcher breeding territories during 1996 and 1997. Oystercatchers breeding on territories near Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens) colonies had smaller first clutches than pairs free of neighboring gulls. Oystercatcher pairs hatched and consequently produced more young on shallow sloping intertidal shoreline sites compared to steep-sloped islets and shorelines.
4164391|Despite conservation concern for the Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsonii), little is known about its nonbreeding ecology. Because body condition can provide an indication of habitat quality, we examined Swainson's Warbler body condition indices in dry limestone forest and second growth scrub habitats in Jamaica, where this species was relatively common. In dry limestone forests, Swainson's Warblers showed no seasonal change in body mass corrected for structural size, furcular fat score, or age ratio. This contrasts with results from studies of other species of Neotropical migrant warblers that showed significant seasonal declines in body mass in similar xeric habitats. Dry limestone forest sites also supported a greater and less spatially variable biomass of prey commonly consumed by Swainson's Warblers than second growth scrub and shade coffee. Because Swainson's Warblers consume prey concealed beneath the leaf litter surface, they apparently are less susceptible to the extreme dry season desiccation that affects the availability of arthropods on the leaf litter surface and in the forest canopy. Swainson's Warbler density (0.6 birds/ha) and overwinter persistence (52%) also were relatively high in dry limestone forest sites, suggesting these forests provide high quality winter habitat for this species. Although Swainson's Warblers were able to increase body mass in preparation for migration in one second growth site, these disturbed habitats may vary in quality for Swainson's Warblers. Our results highlight the need for conservation of dry forests in the Greater Antilles as nonbreeding habitat for the Swainson's Warbler, as well as for numerous endemic species dependent upon these forests.
4164392| Many avian species have demonstrated differential wintering of the sexes, either latitudinally across their wintering range or by habitat. We examined the large numbers of wintering Ruby-crowned Kinglets (Regulus calendula) captured as part of a long term constant effort mist-netting program in coastal California to determine if such a pattern was evident in this population. Data from 1976 to 1997 revealed a consistent and significant female bias, with a mean of 2.13 ( 0.31 SE) females caught per male. We evaluated the possibility that this bias resulted from differential capture probabilities of the sexes, and found no difference in recapture probabilities between males and females. The sex ratio was biased toward females in both scrub and mixed evergreen forest habitats, but significantly more skewed in the former (3.68:1 versus 1.91:1). We also examined captures over a two-year period from nearby stations in riparian forest; the sex ratio was least skewed in this habitat (1.37:1). Considered together with the latitudinal differential distribution of this species observed in eastern and central North America, our data suggest that Ruby-crowned Kinglets may not only be geographically but also ecologically segregated according to sex across their wintering range. 
4164393|We describe vocalizations of Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris) recorded during agonistic confrontations at feeders. Calls were composed of 1-5 different note types. A sixth distinct note type, the W note, was not given within a call sequence. Similar to those of Black-chinned Hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri), Ruby-throated Hummingbird calls were complex, and exhibited a nonrandom organizational pattern as analyzed using a Markov model. The two closely related yet allopatric species shared similarities in the acoustic structure of note types, syntax, and call length. Slight differences occurred in the opening note types of calls in the two species. We investigated how vocalizing is associated with the outcome of encounters at a feeder and found that the vocalizer usually was the winner.
4164394|Microgeographic variation in song is a well-documented consequence of song learning in many songbirds, but the relationship between song variation and development in the suboscines is poorly understood. Because learning appears to play a role in song development in Long-tailed Manakins (Chiroxiphia linearis), we wanted to find out whether they also exhibit microgeographic variation in song. We compared songs of Long-tailed Manakins from three localities in Costa Rica using multivariate analysis of variance and canonical discriminant analysis of five song variables. Differences among localities were not significant, and songs from the same localities did not cluster together in a canonical plot. This finding is similar to those observed in suboscine flycatchers whose songs are innate.
4164395|We document characteristics of the previously undescribed nest, nest site, and eggs of the Ochre-breasted Antpitta (Grallaricula flavirostris). We found three nests in 1999 and 2000 in the Talamanca Mountains of southern Costa Rica. The nests were cup shaped and constructed primarily of green moss with linings of thin sticks and black rhizomorphs. Mean nest height above the ground was 3.1 m. Nests were located in the forks of slim saplings in two cases and, in one case, in a larger tree at a point where several smaller branches left the trunk. We observed clutches of one and two eggs. Eggs appeared pale reddish brown with some darker spotting. The incubation period was 17-21 d and we estimate the nestling period lasts 14-16 d.
4164396|Reproduction among close relatives is rare in birds. Here we report two cases of pair formation between mothers and sons in a marked population of Common Loons (Gavia immer) in northern Wisconsin, one of which resulted in the fledging of a chick. Short distance natal dispersal by males coupled with short distance breeding dispersal by adults after territorial displacement sets the stage for occasional mother-son pairings in this species, although data from multilocus DNA fingerprints indicate that such pairings are infrequent.
4164397|We report on the incidence of male incubation and multiple brooding in Sagebrush Brewer's Sparrows (Spizella breweri breweri) at the north-western limit of their breeding range in southern British Columbia, 1998-2000, and in central Washington, 1996-1999. Males frequently incubated eggs, accounting for 28% of 329 observations of incubation by known individuals in British Columbia. In Washington, 51% of the males we monitored incubated eggs. Males and females appeared equally able to increase nest temperature. In British Columbia, 17% of females fledged two broods per season, and two females fledged three broods. In Washington, 5% of males fledged two broods per season. Only one previous case of male incubation has been reported in this species and multiple brooding has been poorly documented. These aspects of the breeding biology of other well-studied species may be underestimated without the careful examination of populations of marked individuals.
4164398|We measured the occurrence, size, and composition of Razorbill (Alca torda) nest structures at the Gannet Islands, Labrador, Canada. More Razorbill pairs nested in enclosed crevices than on open-topped ledges, and in both habitats the majority laid their single eggs on nest structures built at the breeding site (70% overall). Most nests were composed entirely of pebbles, but many also had vegetation in the structure. On average, Razorbill nest structures included about 40 pebbles and weighed 100-150 g. These nest structures probably serve two main functions: first, they reduce the risk of accidental egg loss, and second, they allow water to drain from under the egg, keeping it dry. We conclude that Razorbills have a strong nest-building tendency, a drive that often has been overlooked.
4164399|We observed a male Razorbill (Alca torda) residing among a group of breeding Common Murres (Uria aalge) on Great Island, Newfoundland, during 1996-2000. Behavioral observations indicated that the presence of the Razorbill directly contributed to the break-up of one pair of murres and prevented another pair from producing an egg. In addition, murres with sites close to the Razorbill site may have experienced increased energetic demands arising from aggressive interactions frequently initiated by the Razorbill. A consequence of the presence of a heterospecific resident in a seabird colony may be decreased reproductive success for individuals breeding nearby.
4164400|The exotic tree, Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia), has invaded riparian zones throughout much of the western Unites States. Although promoted as a useful species for wildlife because of its abundant edible fruit, evidence for its value to breeding birds remains sparse. We compared relative rates of usage, nest success, and cowbird parasitism of birds breeding in Russian olive versus native tree species at a site where Russian olive is a minor component. Some species, such as the Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) and Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens), preferentially placed their nests in Russian olive. Nest success was similar for nests in Russian olive and native species. During 1997, nests of the Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii) were significantly more likely to be parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) when placed in Russian olive than in native species, although nest success was not significantly different. Our results may not apply to areas where Russian olive is common.
4164401|Using video to study nest predation at Fort Hood, Texas, we documented female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) removing nestlings at 7 of 133 (5.3%) Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapillus) and 1 of 11 (9.1%) Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) nests. It has been suggested that female cowbirds depredate nests they find late in the host's nesting cycle to stimulate renesting by hosts, thereby enhancing future opportunities for parasitism. At Fort Hood, the function of nestling removal by cowbirds is unclear, because cowbirds caused nest failure during only two of eight visits. At three nests, we also observed cowbirds ingesting or removing fecal sacs produced by host nestlings. Fecal sac ingestion by cowbirds, though apparently infrequent, may provide a nutritional benefit.
4164402|Information is lacking on predation of adult Golden-cheeked Warblers (Dendroica chrysoparia). Using time lapse video equipment at Fort Hood, Texas, I documented a Great Plains rat snake (Elaphe guttata emoryi) depredating a female Golden-cheeked Warbler on a nest. The predation took place on the night of 22-23 April 2000 while the adult warbler was sleeping on four eggs. Although adult mortality by predators probably occurs infrequently, the climbing ability and nocturnal foraging of rat snakes may enhance opportunities of capturing adult birds.
4164403|We observed apparent cooperative hunting by a pair of Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) in eastern Oregon, USA. A western terrestrial garter snake (Thamnophis elegans) was killed by the shrikes and then transported by one to an unknown location. The snake was carried in the direction of an active nest that was 90 m from the location where the snake was killed. This is the first time that apparent cooperative hunting has been documented in the genus Lanius.
4164412|We describe the first verified nests, eggs, and nestlings of the Nightingale Reed-Warbler (Acrocephalus luscinia), an endangered species endemic to the Mariana Islands, Micronesia. Nest composition, nest dimensions, and eggs were studied on the island of Saipan. Nests were located within three habitat types: upland introduced tangantangan (Leucaena leucocephala) forest, a native mangrove (Bruguiera gymnorrhiza) wetland, and a native reed (Phragmites karka) wetland. Nesting substrates included five native and two introduced tree species and one native reed species. Nests were composed primarily of dry vine stems, needle-like branchlets of ironwood (Casuarina equisetifolia), and tangantangan petioles. Nests were compact to bulky in construction and were secured to a forked arrangement of branches or stems. The background color of eggs ranged from white to cream to ivory-buff. Eggs were spotted, speckled, and blotched with gray, brown, black, and rust colored markings. Clutch size was 2-4, with a mode of two. Hatchlings were altricial with closed eyelids and devoid of natal down with dark gray to black skin. Nestlings examined prior to fledging resembled the adult plumage, except for the lack of the yellow supercilium found in adults. The nests and eggs have some characteristics similar to those of other Acrocephaline warblers found throughout Micronesia and Polynesia.
4164413|We reviewed the status of the breeding marine birds on San Benedicto Island, Mexico, based on > 100 years of published observations and seven of our own surveys conducted between 1978 and 2000. We found that there have been marked changes in the island avifauna with two main trends evident. First, a volcanic eruption destroyed much of the island in 1952. The Wedge-tailed Shearwater (Puffinus pacificus; estimated breeding population 1,000 pairs), Townsend's Shearwater (Puffinus auricularis; probable breeder, small numbers), and Red-footed Booby (Sula sula; 60 pairs) historically had much larger populations, but they apparently never fully recovered from the eruption. The Masked Booby (Sula dactylatra; 2,185 pairs), however, has become much more abundant perhaps due to changes in the vegetation. The second trend is that within the last three decades at least two, and possibly four, species from the central Pacific have colonized the island. The Laysan Albatross (Phoebastria immutabilis; 12 pairs) started breeding in the late 1980s; Black-footed Albatross (Phoebastria nigripes; 1 pair) in 2000. Red-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon rubricauda; probable breeder, 10 pairs) may have started breeding in the 1980s, and at least some of the breeding Brown Boobies (Sula leucogaster; 300 pairs) are from central Pacific populations. The reason(s) for this influx of central Pacific species is unknown, but likely involves changes in the marine environment. Other breeding species include the Red-billed Tropicbird (Phaethon aethereus; 200 pairs), Nazca Booby (Sula granti; 50 pairs), Great Frigatebird (Fregata minor; 165 pairs), and Magnificent Frigatebird (Fregata magnificens; 5 pairs).
4164414| New information on the vocalizations and behavior of populations of the Olive-backed Foliage-gleaner (Automolus infuscatus), along with analysis of biometric and plumage characters, reveal that it actually consists of at least two biological species: a form that is restricted to southeastern Amazonia, south of the Amazon and east of the Rio Madeira; and a group that occupies much of the remainder of humid lowland forest in Amazonia and the Guianan region. The southeastern form, although cryptically similar morphologically to other southern Amazonian subspecies of Automolus infuscatus, is highly differentiated in all vocal characters. Its distribution overlaps the Rondnia, Par, and Belm centers of endemism. The remainder of the populations currently considered part of the infuscatus group are further differentiated into two subgroups: a northern Guianan group and a southern-western group, the member taxa of which are weakly differentiated from one another, but which differ from members of the other group in plumage, biometric, and vocal characters. The significance of these differences with respect to species limits may depend on the species concept used. Current evidence would support recognition of the two groups as separate phylogenetic species in addition to the southeastern species, but is considered insufficient to support recognition of more than two species under a biological species concept. 
4164415|With the designation of Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow (Ammodramus nelsoni) and Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrow (A. caudacutus) as species of high conservation priority in the northeastern United States, the need to document fully their abundance, distribution, and the extent of range overlap has become increasingly important. We surveyed saltmarshes in coastal New England for both species from 1997 to 2000. The current overlap zone extends from Parker River, Massachusetts, north to Weskeag River, Maine, which expands the previously reported range overlap of 48 km to 208 km. Among the 49 sites surveyed within the current overlap zone, both species were present at 25 sites. It is possible that the species have experienced range expansion over the last several decades, especially the Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow. Our findings indicate that the nominate subspecies of the Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrow warrants the greatest conservation concern given its limited geographic range, a potentially expanding hybrid zone with A. n. subvirgatus, and the potential for habitat degradation from an oil spill associated with the urban/industrial centers of the Northeast.
4164416| We present historic and contemporary information on the distribution and abundance of Buff-breasted Sandpipers (Tryngites subruficollis) in South America. Historic information was collated from the literature, area ornithologists, and museums, whereas contemporary data were derived from surveys conducted throughout the main wintering range in Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil during the austral summers of 1999 and 2001. Variable circular plot sampling was used to estimate population densities. During 1999, the highest concentration of Buff-breasted Sandpipers in Argentina was in southern Baha Samborombn (General Lavalle District) and areas north of Mar Chiquita coastal lagoon. During 2001, the highest concentrations in Brazil were at Ilha da Torotama and Lagoa do Peixe National Park. During 1999 and 2001, the highest concentrations of Buff-breasted Sandpipers in Uruguay were found along three lagoons (Laguna de Rocha, Laguna de Castillos, and Laguna Garzn) bordering the Atlantic Ocean. Population densities (birds/ha) of Buff-breasted Sandpipers were 0.11 (95% C.I. = 0.04-0.31) in Argentina, 1.62 (0.67-3.93) in Brazil, and 1.08 (0.37-3.18) in Uruguay. High turnover rates at survey sites, due to the formation of large, mobile flocks, contributed to moderately large confidence intervals around our population density estimates. Nevertheless, compared with historic accounts of Buff-breasted Sandpipers, our survey data indicate the population size of this species has declined substantially since the late 1800s and contemporary information suggests the species has continued to decline during the past three decades. Buff-breasted Sandpipers were found almost exclusively in pasturelands and appear to depend heavily upon intensive grazing by livestock, which maintain suitable short grass conditions. We discuss the need for protection of critical areas and proper range management to ensure appropriate habitat remains available for the species, and provide suggestions for future research needs. 
4164417|This study examined the effectiveness of treating ticks (Ornithodoros capensis) infesting nests of Eastern Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis carolinensis). The number of immature ticks on nestling pelicans was significantly less in treated than in control nests. Nest abandonment also was less in treated nests; however, in severely infested nests, treatments did not prevent abandonment. Nesting success and hematocrit measurements did not differ significantly between control and treated groups.
4164418| We assessed edge avoidance, area sensitivity, and the relationship between local and regional forest cover for nesting Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus) in 13 forest fragments (1-2,353 ha in size) in southcentral Ontario, Canada. Red-eyed Vireo territories and nests were not significantly farther from the edge than random points in any of the forest fragments, and there was no relationship between the probability of a male pairing and the distance of the territory from the edge of the forest fragment. The density of singing males and the probability of a male being paired increased significantly with increasing local forest cover within a 2-km radius of a study site, but not with forest fragment area or regional forest cover within a 10-km radius. Nest success was low and the probability of a nest being parasitized by the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) or successfully fledging  1 host young did not vary with distance of the nest from the forest edge or with any of our area or forest cover measures. Red-eyed Vireos did not display edge avoidance nor did they appear to be area sensitive within our study region, but there was a positive relationship with the amount of local (2-km radius) forest cover. Maintaining localized regions with high forest cover has been recommended on numerous occasions for the conservation of area sensitive species; our results suggest high forest cover also may benefit species that do not appear to be area sensitive. 
4164419| Little research has examined the ecology of mixed species flocks of migrant and resident landbirds during migratory periods. We studied habitat use and behavior of mixed species insectivorous landbird flocks during fall migration in central Pennsylvania. From late August to early October, 1998 and 1999, 220 flocks were observed for 30-min periods in six forest habitat types: mature forest interior, mature forest edge, mature forest agricultural edge, mature suburban forest, pole stage forest, and shrub/sapling stage forest. Sixty species were recorded in flocks that contained 2-24 species each (mean = 9.25  0.29 SE). Flocks contained 2-181 individuals (mean = 22.12  1.18 SE). Flocks in the six habitats had 49-61% Nearctic-Neotropical migrant individuals, 5-15% temperate migrants, and 23-37% residents. Abundance and species richness of migratory guilds (Nearctic-Neotropical migrants, temperate migrants, and resident species) within flocks were highest in structurally heterogeneous habitats (especially forest edge habitat) and were lowest in homogeneous pole stage forest. Of nine migrant species whose abundance varied significantly among habitats, six had highest abundance in flocks in forest edge habitat: Blue-headed Vireo (Vireo solitarius), Red-eyed Vireo (V. olivaceus), Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea), Chestnut-sided Warbler (Dendroica pensylvanica), Black-throated Green Warbler (D. virens), and Magnolia Warbler (D. magnolia). Resident parids (Black-capped Chickadee, Poecile atricapillus, and/or Tufted Titmouse, Baeolophus bicolor) occurred within 82% of flocks and were observed leading 68% of these flocks. Movement rate (m/min) of flocks varied among habitats with flocks in edge-dominated habitats (forest edge, forest agricultural edge, and suburban forest) tending to have slower movement rates than in pole stage forest and forest interior, suggesting that food availability may have been greater in edge-dominated habitats. Consistently high species richness and abundance of migrant guilds and individual species strongly suggests that structurally diverse forest edge habitats were selected and provided relatively high quality stopover habitat for landbirds during fall migration. 
4164420| We studied the dispersion of Northern Waterthrushes (Seiurus novaboracensis) in southwestern Puerto Rico during four nonbreeding seasons, 1996-1999. Densities were high (up to 13 birds/ha) on a 3-ha mature black mangrove (Avicennia germinans) study plot, but were significantly lower during periods of high water levels. Individuals exhibited site fidelity within and between seasons. Feeding areas were small (mean = 0.074 ha  0.041 SD) and there was considerable overlap tolerated among conspecifics. Waterthrush density decreased when water submerged their primary foraging substrate: woody debris and pneumatophores. Inter-annual returns were similar to other Neotropical migrants (mean = 50%) but site persistence was low due to periodic flooding. In September 1998, hurricane Georges flooded the plot and blew down >90% of the black mangrove trees. This drastic habitat alteration was followed by a drastic decline in waterthrushes using the study area. Individuals left feeding areas for overnight roost sites in red mangroves (Rhizophora mangle). This latter finding, coupled with site fidelity and high return rates concurrent with low site persistence, suggests that waterthrushes exhibit high plasticity in their use of habitat during the nonbreeding season, but may rely upon mangroves for overwinter survival. 
4164421|We monitored the nesting biology of color-banded populations of the Louisiana Waterthrush (Seiurus motacilla) at up to 25 sites across Pennsylvania from 1996-2001. Opportunistic polygyny in this species was documented for the first time during our study. Four out of 283 paired males were polygynous; one male and female were involved in a polygynous trio during two successive years. Opportunistic polygyny may have occurred primarily as a result of female territory fidelity and a locally skewed sex ratio in two cases, but appeared to be actively pursued as a mating strategy in the case of the male who was bigamous during two successive years. His aggressive territorial behavior was consistent with that reported for polygynous birds having naturally and experimentally elevated plasma levels of testosterone. The rate of nestling provisioning by this male at a failed secondary nest was substantially lower compared to his successful primary nest and compared to mean provisioning rates for monogamous males. In addition to reduced male parental care, protraction of the renesting interval following nest failure was another possible component cost of polygyny observed for one of the mates of this male. In this instance, both costs were borne by the first mated female, who was relegated to secondary status after her initial nest was depredated.
4164422| We compared breeding ecology, density, and reproductive success of Roadside Hawks (Buteo magnirostris) in two Guatemalan study areas during 1993 and 1994. Primary forest supported 1.15 territorial
4164423|We tested whether Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) experienced a smaller food supply in small versus large forest fragments in northwestern Pennsylvania. Using 16 fragments that ranged in size from 0.7 to 214 ha, we videotaped parental feeding rates to nestlings in 35 nests and sampled arthropod abundance on 24 breeding territories. Contrary to our predictions, neither feeding rate per nestling nor arthropod abundance on breeding territories was significantly less in small (<4 ha) versus large (>150 ha) fragments. Brood loss due to starvation was rare and overall nest success was not significantly less in small fragments. Similarly, prey size delivered to nestlings and arthropod size sampled on territories did not differ significantly between fragment size classes. We conclude that Hooded Warblers breeding within small forest fragments in the northwest Pennsylvania landscape do not suffer from a relatively small food supply.
4164424|Bird species having specialized nesting substrates could suffer reduced reproductive success in habitats modified by human activities where optimal nest sites may be in short supply. We examined nest sites of Florida Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) in intact, natural oak scrub and in scrub islands embedded in a suburban matrix. Despite differences in vegetation structure between natural and suburban scrubs, scrub-jays used scrub oaks (Quercus spp.) as substrate for >80% of all nests in both habitats. Because of fire suppression, vegetation in suburban scrubs tended to be taller than in natural scrubs; however, in both habitats jays appeared to prefer shrubs slightly taller than those available. In both habitats, nest height increased with nest shrub height, but the relationship was stronger in suburbs. In suburbs, the height of nests relative to nest shrub height remained constant, whereas in natural scrub, nest height declined relative to nest shrub height. In both habitats, nests built near the top of shrubs were associated with the presence of Smilax spp., a perennial vine that provides dense foliage near the crown of oak shrubs. However, 68% of all nests in suburbs were associated with Smilax, whereas in natural scrub 9% of nest sites had Smilax. Few nest site characteristics, including habitat, were associated with nest failure, but nests built in oak shrubs were more successful than nests built in other vegetation. Suburban nests built near the top of relatively tall shrubs appeared to be more vulnerable to wind damage.
4164425|We report an observation of egg predation by conspecifics in the Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) at Archbold Biological Station in Highlands County, Florida. This is the first confirmed account of intraspecific egg predation in this threatened and declining species. We observed a group of five jays harass an established breeding pair at their nest that contained four warm eggs. One female intruder alighted on the nest and carried off an egg in its beak. Other intruding females also were seen at the nest and presumably removed two more eggs. The following day, the nest was deserted and contained only one cold egg. We discuss potential reasons for such conspecific egg predation, focusing on resource limitation. We believe that further research in this area is essential for this species in which competition for resources (e.g., nesting habitat) intensifies as suitable habitat declines.
4164426|Nests, eggs, and chicks of nesting wading birds were unharmed by two fires in the Everglades. However, at least 50 adult White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) foraging away from the breeding colonies were killed during one fire. These results are counter-intuitive given that well-flighted adult birds seem more capable of escaping a fire than immobile nests or eggs. Nests probably were unharmed because of their location in wet willow (Salix carolina) and buttonbush (Cephalanthus occidentalis) islands. The adult birds foraging in a small cattail (Typha angustifolia) stand may have been trapped by flames in surrounding tall sawgrass (Cladium jamaicense) or debilitated by smoke inhalation. These observations provide insight into the direct effects of fire on wading bird breeding colonies and individual survival.
4164427|Reticuloendotheliosis (RE) is a viral disease documented from poultry, which has been found to cause mortality in captive Attwater's (Tympanuchus cupido attwateri) and Greater (T. c. pinnatus) prairie-chickens. We surveyed blood samples from 354 Greater Prairie-Chickens from seven states collected during 1998, 1999, and 2000, and from 184 Lesser Prairie-Chickens (T. pallidicinctus) from three states during 1999 and 2000, for the presence of RE virus proviral DNA using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. All samples were negative for the presence of RE virus proviral DNA except for two samples collected from male Greater Prairie-Chickens taken in Oklahoma during 1998. This suggests that RE may not be a serious problem for most wild populations of prairie-chickens. Although our results were largely negative, because of the serious consequences of RE, the presence of the disease in wild populations of prairie-chickens should be carefully considered in any future relocation and reintroduction efforts.
4164428|Trichomoniasis, a digestive tract disease of raptors caused by ingesting the protozoan Trichomonas gallinae of infected columbid prey, recently was reported to be common in and an important agent of mortality among urban nestling and fledgling Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in Arizona. However, the prevalence of T. gallinae in wild raptor populations is poorly documented. During 2000 we detected T. gallinae in only three (2.7%) among 110 nestling Cooper's Hawks at 48 nests in both urban and rural habitats in Wisconsin, North Dakota, and British Columbia. Mortality attributable to trichomoniasis among 5- to 22-month-old Cooper's Hawks was zero in the three combined study areas. Prevalence of infection by T. gallinae seems to vary greatly among nesting Cooper's Hawks across this raptor's continental breeding range.
4164436| We reviewed morphological variation, taxonomic status, geographic distribution, ecology, and behavior of the poorly known hummingbird, the Mexican Sheartail (Doricha eliza), based on museum specimens and field studies. Although the broadly disjunct distribution of the species would suggest that two taxa are involved, morphological differences between the populations appear minor, not deserving of formal taxonomic recognition. Ecological differences between the two populations are stronger, however; modeled ecological niches are nearly nonoverlapping, and ontogenetic and behavioral differences may exist. We recommend that, given its extremely restricted distribution, the Veracruz population be considered critically endangered, whereas the Yucatan population be designated as having a restricted range and accorded near-threatened status. /// Se revisaron la variacin morfolgica, estatus taxonmico, distribucin geogrfica, ecologa y conducta de un taxn muy poco conocido, el colibr tijereta mexicano (Doricha eliza), en base en estudios de campo y en museo. A pesar de que la amplia disyuncin en su distribucin geogrfica sugiere la existencia de dos taxones diferentes, la diferenciacin morfolgica es mnima y no amerita reconocimiento taxonmico formal. Sin embargo, las diferencias ecolgicas entre las dos poblaciones son ms marcadas, con nichos ecolgicos modelados que casi no se sobrelapan, y diferencias ontogenticas y de conducta pueden existir. En general, la poblacin de Veracruz debe ser considerada en peligro de extincin, mientras que la poblacin de Yucatn debe ser designada de distribucin restringida y con un estatus de conservacin de casi amenazada. 
4164437|Here I describe for the first time nests of the Chestnut-tailed Antbird (Myrmeciza hemimelaena) in Bolivia. I found two nests in the understory of tropical lowland and hill tropical forests. The nests, 25 and 28 cm above ground, were basally supported open cups with a curved Geonoma sp. palm leaf as the structural foundation, woven with pieces of brown stringy rootlets, dead leaves, and leaf exoskeletons.
4164438|We studied the relationship between group and individual display in the courtship and social system of the White-ruffed Manakin (Corapipo leucorrhoa altera) in the Atlantic slope foothills of Costa Rica. Between 20 April and 28 May 1989, we searched for display logs and conducted 358 h of observations focused on four display logs. We found logs owned by a single resident male in which activity was continuous, as well as logs and areas where displays were occasional. Six of the eight logs found in the study area were arranged in two clusters separated by about 300 m, although we also found a solitary log 200 m from the nearest active display site. The resident male was at his display site 40.7-93.7% of the time, mostly alone. Residents were visited by other males mainly before 08:00 and less frequently by females later in the day. Residents continually gave advertisement calls during the day and performed several visual displays, including an elaborate Flap-chee-wah in which the male would fly steeply upward from the display log to land explosively at high speed a few seconds later, instantly jumping while turning in the air to land facing the original landing point. Two of these displays culminated in copulations. Other common displays were a slow undulating Butterfly flight and Throat-flagging in which males slowly moved their heads, exposing the fully erected, contrasting white throat feathers. Males performed the displays alone, in the company of other males, or in the presence of females. We conclude that C. leucorrhoa displays in dispersed leks as found by other authors for C. gutturalis. Each log is owned by a single individual and the visits by other males may have a social function related to the establishment of a dominance hierarchy. We found important similarities between the two species of Corapipo and also with the genus Masius, which supports the proposed close relation between the two groups.
4164439| Although it is commonly believed that nest boxes yield artificially high estimates of nest success, few investigators have compared nesting success in nest boxes to tree cavities in the same locality during the same time period. I studied nesting success of Great Crested Flycatchers (Myiarchus crinitus) breeding in nest boxes and natural sites (i.e., old woodpecker cavities and natural tree hollows) on the same pine plantations in northern Florida. Mayfield estimates of nesting success were nearly identical between nest boxes (0.37  0.05 SE, n = 32 nests) and tree cavities (0.38  0.06 SE, n = 27 nests) during a 2-year period. However, nesting success was greater in nest boxes (0.53  0.06 SE) than in cavities (0.33  0.10 SE) during 1997 and lower in nest boxes (0.26  0.07 SE) than in cavities (0.42  0.09 SE) during 1998. Lower nest success in nest boxes during 1998 was due to increased predation during the incubation period. Nest predation accounted for 83% of all nest failures. Documented nest predators included the southern flying squirrel (Glaucomys volans) and corn snake (Elaphe guttata). Nest boxes and cavity nests did not differ significantly in any habitat variable that would influence nest concealment, nor did these variables differ significantly between years. Evidence suggests that nest predators may learn to exploit nest boxes as a prey resource, either through the development of search images or through long term spatial memory. This study demonstrates that nest boxes are not always safer sites than tree cavities and that static comparisons may give misleading results. 
4164440|Forest fragmentation due to forestry management, agricultural activities, or urban development decreases habitat availability for some animals. This decline in forest area has been implicated in songbird population declines via changes in nest predation pressures. The increase of edge habitat that accompanies deforestation also may affect songbird breeding activities through changes in predation risk. This study found evidence for an interaction effect of distance from edge (1, 15, 30, and 45 m) and adjacent landscape matrix (residential or forested) on nest predation rates using an artificial nest design. In fragments bordered by other forested patches, nest predation rates were lowest 1 m from the edge and higher 15-45 m into the forest patch. When the forest fragment was embedded in a landscape matrix of residential and developed plots, predation rate was highest closest to the edge of the fragment.
4164441|We present information on nest site characteristics and breeding biology of the black-backed race of the Lesser Goldfinch (Carduelis psaltria psaltria) in montane ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) woodland in the foothills of Boulder County, Colorado. We located 62 nests during summer, 1999-2001. There appeared to be strong microhabitat preferences for nest sites. Nests generally were placed toward tips of long branches in the middle of ponderosa pines. Most nests were well concealed in needle clusters in trees near forest edges and openings. Mean canopy cover at nest sites was 49%. Nests usually were oriented toward the south or east, and orientation was correlated with the aspect of the surrounding terrain. More than 70% of nests were located in small, loose colonies. Nesting success was fairly high; at least 21 nests fledged young while only 10 failed due to predation. Mayfield nest success was 73% during 2000 and 52% during 2001. Most predation events occurred after the eggs had hatched. We found only one instance of brood parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater). Compared to the green-backed race (C. p. hesperophila), Black-backed Lesser Goldfinches appear to breed later in the season and have smaller clutch sizes.
4164442|Previous studies of Blue-throated Hummingbirds (Lampornis clemenciae) showed that males have elaborate songs and females also sing. Here we report complex territorial systems, sexual behavior, and communicatory repertoires of both sexes. Males typically defended territories along streams throughout the reproductive season. Time budgets revealed that males allocated more time to vocalizing in territorial advertisement than in more energetically costly activities such as chases. Both observations and playback experiments indicated that two vocalizations have different roles in territorial advertisement. Strings of chips served in long distance territorial advertisement, while the lower amplitude song, more prevalent early in the season, attracted females and also repelled males from the immediate area. Agonistic interactions included long chases, some with vocalizations. During close range encounters an array of postures and sounds occurred. Females defended territories against other females during a brief period preceding egg laying. Sexual interactions were unusually intricate, consisting of a series of activities in which the female played an active role. She delivered loud calls advertising sexual readiness and performed aerial displays. Males competed with other males for access to females. We observed four presumed copulations, all preceded by a song fragment from the male. The vocal repertoire included at least 16 different sounds, all with different functions, an unusually large number for a nonoscine. Male songs were the most complex sounds. Behaviors that differed from many other hummingbirds that have been studied included strong reliance on vocal signals, lack of male aerial displays, and female advertisement of sexual readiness. These attributes may be linked to reduced sexual dichromatism and related to the species' preference for wooded riparian habitats.
4164443|I investigated the physiognomic and floristic characteristics of Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsonii) territories at five localities within its core breeding range in Arkansas, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Florida. The warbler attained its greatest abundance (10-20 territorial
4164444| Population trend data indicates the Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii) is declining. Little information is available on the status, distribution, and habitat requirements of this species during winter. We obtained winter density estimates of Henslow's Sparrows and quantified and compared habitat structure along transects occupied and unoccupied by birds in longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) forests in westcentral Louisiana. We flushed Henslow's Sparrows from 14 transects during four surveys of 48 20-  100-m transects from January to February 1996, and 20 transects during four surveys of 46 of the same transects from December 1996 to February 1997. The range of Henslow's Sparrow densities for both survey periods combined was 0.0-13.8 birds/ha (median = 0.0, 75th percentile = 1.3, 95th percentile = 5.0). We used logistic regression to evaluate the association of vegetative structure with Henslow's Sparrow habitat use. The most parsimonious model included litter depth and herbaceous cover as habitat variables predictive of Henslow's Sparrow occurrence. The model correctly classified the occupancy status of 79% (52 of 66) of observed transects. The number of Henslow's Sparrows observed in transect surveys declined with increased number of growing seasons since the last burn, suggesting fire may influence habitat quality. 
4164445|Red-eyed (Vireo olivaceus) and Blue-headed (V. solitarius) vireos have similar foraging ecologies, similar songs, and occupy similar forest habitats. Evidence suggests, however, that the typical pattern of habitat and foraging segregation in sympatric vireos may not be observed in the southern part of their range of sympatry. We tested the degree of ecological overlap in the southern Appalachians of Virginia by asking whether these species segregate via interspecific territoriality or habitat use. We quantified response to heterospecific song, territory overlap, and habitat characteristics during the breeding seasons of 1997 and 1998. Red-eyed and Blue-headed vireos responded at low frequencies (9% and 2%, respectively; years combined) to the songs of the other species. Not surprisingly, given the playback results, approximately 54% of territories examined for each species overlapped with a territory of the other species. Within territories, both vireos used structurally similar habitat. Microhabitat composition, however, differed between species. Blue-headed Vireos occurred in areas with greater abundance of white oaks (Quercus spp.), conifers, and snags, whereas Red-eyed Vireo habitat had qualitatively greater abundance of red oaks and red maples (Acer rubrum). Red-eyed and Blue-headed vireo habitat was discriminated further by the presence of striped maple (A. pensylvanicum) and black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia) in the canopy of Red-eyed Vireo habitat, whereas conifers and black birch (Betula lenta) were more common at sites where Blue-headed Vireos were observed. Shrub species composition did not differ significantly between vireo habitats. Red-eyed and Blue-headed vireos showed only subtle habitat segregation at our study site in the southern Appalachians, and we found little evidence of interspecific aggression.
4164446|Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) nest and forage in pine-dominated forests. Research indicates that substantial hardwood midstory encroachment is detrimental to Red-cockaded Woodpecker populations, although the exact mechanisms are unknown. We examined foraging behavior in relation to midstory between August 1989 and February 1990. Red-cockaded Woodpeckers foraged at greater heights in areas of taller and denser midstory in the loblolly-shortleaf pine (Pinus taeda and P. echinata, respectively) habitat, but not in longleaf pine (P. palustris) habitat with less-developed midstory vegetation than typical of loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat. In addition, Red-cockaded Woodpeckers concentrated foraging activities in or adjacent to forest stands or openings with reduced midstory vegetation. Overall, Red-cockaded Woodpeckers foraged disproportionately at heights and sites that minimized their exposure to dense midstory conditions. These results suggest that ecosystem management, preferably using prescribed fire, that reduces midstory vegetation will improve foraging habitat for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers.
4164447|Warblers are selective in what they eat, yet little is known about the dietary cues used by warblers as they decide what to eat. Semisynthetic diets may be useful for investigating how specific dietary cues, such as appearance or nutrient composition of food, influences diet preference of warblers because these dietary cues can be easily and systematically modified with semisynthetic diets. We offered Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) paired choices of live waxworms (Galleria mellonella) and a waxworm mash, or waxworm mash and a semisynthetic mash. Birds strongly preferred live waxworms over waxworm mash, suggesting that natural appearance of food strongly influences diet preference of warblers when the nutrient composition of diets is similar. When birds initially were offered the two mash diets, they consistently preferred waxworm mash over semisynthetic mash within the first 15 min with food, suggesting that they were using dietary cues that provided rapid feedback as would be provided by a cue such as taste. This initial preference for waxworm mash was maintained for the first two days, but then the warblers ate similar amounts of waxworm mash and semisynthetic mash during the last two days of the experiment. The decrease in preference for waxworm mash over time probably occurred because at least some of the cues used by the birds in determining their diet preference(s) required days for reliable feedback. Thus, diet preferences of warblers apparently were influenced by dietary cues that provided immediate and delayed, postingestional feedback. These results support the use of semisynthetic diets in studies of avian diet preferences and highlight the importance of adequate acclimation time on test diets.
4164448|Almost all songbird males develop fully crystallized songs before or during their first potential breeding season, when they use these important signals during interactions that determine their social success. We describe a rare phenomenon, in which vocal maturation is delayed until the second potential breeding season, or third year of life, in Yellow-rumped Caciques (Cacicus cela vitellinus) from lowland Panama. We heard predefinitive males in their second year sing only uncrystallized song, while three definitive males known to be in their third year sang fully developed songs matching the local dialect. The unusual system of polygynous breeding colonies in caciques may account for why vocal development is delayed. We would expect to find other examples of delayed vocal maturation in polygynous, nonterritorial species, in which second-year males have little opportunity for social success.
4164449|Using museum specimens, we documented the molt cycles and molting grounds of adult Lucy's (Vermivora luciae) and Virginia's (V. virginiae) warblers. During prebasic molts, both species replace all body plumage. Prebasic primary molt takes a mean of 71 days for Lucy's Warblers, but a mean of just 42 days for Virginia's Warblers. Prebasic molt occurs exclusively on the breeding grounds. We found no evidence of a prealternate molt in Lucy's Warblers, and limited evidence of a prealternate molt in Virginia's Warblers. In both species, the seasonal change in crown color is a function of the freshly replaced gray-tipped feathers acquired during the prebasic molt being abraded during the winter, such that the basal red coloration of those same feathers is exposed during spring. These species differ from other western-breeding passerines in that they do not appear to directly exploit the late season food resources in the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. This difference is suggested by the lack of a shift from northern parts of their breeding range to molt in those potentially more productive regions of the southwestern monsoon region. The possibility of winter territoriality may play a role in the rapid prebasic molt exhibited by Virginia's Warblers. On the other hand, the lengthy prebasic molt of Lucy's Warblers may be explained by the use of poor nutritional resources during late summer, and/or the lack of territoriality during late summer and winter. We conclude that our data, in conjunction with data from previous studies, suggest multiple contrasting molt migration strategies among breeding passerines in western North America.
4164450|We examined differential timing of spring migration by age class for passerines banded at Long Point Bird Observatory from 1984 to 1998. Mean capture dates of after-second-year (ASY) males were earlier than second-year (SY) males for 19 of 20 species, 16 significantly so. Mean capture dates of ASY females were earlier than SY females for 11 of 12 species, 8 significantly so. There was no significant difference in the timing of migration between age classes for males of species with highly distinctive SY plumages and males of other species with more subtle plumage differences between age classes. For 12 species with adequate samples of both sexes, the mean difference in capture dates between age classes was significantly greater for males (3.5 days) than for females (2.1 days). These results suggest that differential migration by age class is widespread among passerines and that factors leading to the delayed arrival of young males also may affect females, though to a lesser extent.
4164451|We examined age and sex differences in wing loading, aspect ratio, and wing span in a sample of 208 Merlins (Falco columbarius) captured at Cedar Grove, Wisconsin, during fall migration, 1978-1993. We also examined differences in tail loading of 166 of these Merlins. Adult males had significantly greater mass and wing loading than juvenile males. Adult females differed significantly from juvenile females only in mass. Females were significantly greater than males in every measure except aspect ratio. There were no apparent age differences in tail area or flight surface loading, but females had greater values in both. Merlins show fewer age differences in aerodynamic characteristics than Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus), probably because of differences in how the two species pursue and capture avian prey. Merlins usually capture prey in the air, sometimes after multiple stoops and at high flight speeds. In contrast, Sharp-shinned Hawks take birds from their perch or after a brief chase, often in dense vegetation, at relatively low flight speeds. Slower flight speeds require larger control surfaces and can explain the increased age differences in wing and tail areas in Sharp-shinned Hawks.
4164452|I report on the social and breeding biology of four bee-eater species in Thailand. Little Green Bee-eaters (Merops orientalis) breed cooperatively in clusters of overlapping territories. Cooperative breeding units have one to two helpers that join the breeding pair only after incubation has begun. Nests rarely are left unguarded due to threats of predation and possible intraspecific brood parasitism. Males also guard their mates against extrapair copulations. The Blue-tailed Bee-eater (M. philippinus) breeds cooperatively and has a complex social system, with evidence suggestive of intraspecific brood parasitism and extrapair copulation. I provide evidence that the Bay-headed Bee-eater (M. leschenaulti) breeds cooperatively and report observations of noncooperative breeding at one nest in the Blue-bearded Bee-eater (Nyctyornis athertoni).
4164453|Until now, there have been no reports of extrapair parentage in Tufted Titmice (Baeolophus bicolor). During 1995-1998, we used multilocus minisatellite DNA fingerprinting to estimate paternity and degree of relatedness in eight central Ohio broods of this socially monogamous species. Our results suggest a rather low rate of extrapair fertilization in the study population; three of 34 nestlings could not be attributed to the attending male. Of the three extrapair offspring, two represented the entire brood in a nest attended by their mother and a nonparental male that appeared to be a close relative of the mother.
4164461|We describe for the first time the nest and eggs of the Tepui (Brown-breasted) Antpitta (Myrmothera simplex). Nest structure and eggs are very similar to those described for M. simplex's extant sister species, the Thrush-like Antpitta (M. campanisona), and nests of this genus are similar to those described for other members of the ground antbirds (Formicariidae).
4164462| Canyon Towhees (Pipilo fuscus) normally nest in trees, shrubs, and cacti. I found a nest on the ground under an octagonal road sign in Santa Fe County, New Mexico, on 14 May 2001. No young were fledged, but the eggs were incubated for 10 days. Additional records of Canyon Towhee nests in a building and an enclosed trailer are indicative of a plasticity in their nest site selection process that led to use of this unusual nest site. 
4164463|Pileated Woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) cause damage to Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity trees in the form of cavity enlargement or other excavations on the surface of the pine tree. However, it is not known whether Pileated Woodpeckers excavate more frequently on Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity trees than on noncavity trees or how stand structure is related to the frequency of Pileated Woodpecker excavation. Also, it is unclear whether the cavity itself provides the stimulus to Pileated Woodpeckers to excavate or whether the presence of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers and their activities are attracting them. We surveyed all of the Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity trees (n = 202) and 110 control trees in the loblolly (Pinus taeda)-shortleaf (P. echinata) pine habitat on the Angelina National Forest for recent Pileated Woodpecker excavation and found that approximately 7.4% of all cavity trees were damaged while no control trees showed any evidence of Pileated Woodpecker damage. The rate of Pileated Woodpecker excavation was negatively associated with hardwood midstory height and density. Pileated Woodpeckers appeared to focus most of their excavations on Red-cockaded Woodpeckers cavity entrances. We suggest that Pileated Woodpeckers may be attracted to Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity trees, especially the cavity, and that midstory removal used to improve Red-cockaded Woodpecker habitat may increase the incidence of damage to the cavity trees by Pileated Woodpeckers in the current fragmented landscape.
4164464|We studied the nesting ecology of Least Bitterns (Ixobrychus exilis) during 1999 and 2000 within an 8,000-ha wetland complex in western New York. We used radio telemetry to track 33 adult Least Bitterns to locate nests and determine movement patterns, and 12 chicks to determine postfledging movements. Least Bittern Mayfield nest success rates were 43.8% (n = 38) in 1999 and 52.5% (n = 35) in 2000, and they renested and had double broods. Mean home range of adults was 9.7 ha (n = 33), but varied (range = 1.8-35.7 ha) depending upon whether birds used one or two areas during the breeding season. The mean movement of chicks from their nests was 13.4 m between capture and 23 days posthatching (n = 11), and 29.4 m when 24-27 days old (n = 4). Mean age at first flight was about 29 days old (n = 4). Vegetational structure and composition and marsh size appear to be important factors to consider when managing for Least Bittern populations.
4164465| We quantified home range size and habitat selection of seven female Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) on Assateague Island, Maryland, during the winters of 1996 and 1997. Home range size (95% fixed kernel) was 103.5 ha ( 50.3 SE). Home range size increased with time spent radio tracking as biweekly home ranges were smaller than those calculated for longer time periods. Home ranges often overlapped in time and space and in one instance the home range for one owl was completely within that of another owl. Northern Saw-whet Owls used primarily pine woods and shrub swamp habitats, with pine woods used more often than any other habitat type and significantly more than expected based on habitat availability. 
4164466|To assess the relationship between marsh area and relative abundance of tidal marsh bird species, we surveyed birds on 86 circular plots in 40 salt and brackish tidal marshes in Connecticut. We measured marsh area in two ways: the amount of contiguous marsh vegetation not interrupted by broad barriers (>500 m of open water or >50 m of upland habitat) and by narrow barriers (>30 m of open water or >10 m upland). We determined the relationship between marsh area and the relative abundance of particular species (mean number of individuals per survey plot) with linear or logistic regression. When the broad barrier definition was used, we found that all three species of short grass meadow specialists, Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus), Seaside Sparrows (Ammodramus maritimus), and Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows (A. caudacutus), were less abundant or absent in survey plots in smaller marshes. The Seaside Sparrow and Willet also showed a significant tendency to be less frequent in smaller marshes when the narrow barrier definition was used. In contrast, species that used a wider range of wetland types, as in the Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola), Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris), and Swamp Sparrow (Melospiza georgiana), were equally frequent on plots in marshes of different areas. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that fragmentation of marsh systems with artificial habitat causes a decline in the density of short grass meadow specialists in the remaining patches of appropriate habitat.
4164467|The effects of Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) management on nontarget birds is not widely known. Intensive management for pine specialists such as the Red-cockaded Woodpecker may negatively impact both Nearctic-Neotropical and Temperate Zone migrants associated with hardwood vegetation. To evaluate possible positive and negative associations, we surveyed avian communities from 1995-1997 using point counts within managed Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity tree clusters and mature forest control sites in longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and loblolly (P. taeda)-shortleaf (P. echinata) pine habitats. In general, sites managed for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers supported more diverse and numerous bird populations than mature forest control sites. During the breeding season in loblolly-shortleaf and longleaf pine habitats, respectively, species richness was 47% and 23% greater, avian abundance was 57% and 65% greater, and bird species diversity was 25% and 21% greater within managed Red-cockaded Woodpecker cluster sites than within control sites. During winter, species richness and avian abundance each were 52% higher within managed Red-cockaded Woodpecker cluster sites than control sites in loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat.
4164468|Concern has been raised that the viability of Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) populations is precarious due, in part, to threats to its breeding habitat. Qualitative descriptions of habitat use have suggested that the species breeds primarily in dense, high elevation forests of northeastern North America. However, there is little quantitative information on habitat use patterns, which impedes formulation of effective conservation plans. To address this knowledge gap, we characterized the habitat of 42 sites occupied by Bicknell's Thrushes and 19 unoccupied sites on two mountains in the Estrie region, Quebec. Occupied sites were dominated by balsam fir (Abies balsamea) growing at high density, whereas unoccupied sites had a larger component of hardwoods at lower density. We found significant differences in vegetation composition and habitat structure between occupied and unoccupied sites for each mountain separately, and the two combined, though the particular variables distinguishing the two site types varied between the two mountains likely because of differences in management history. Our results show that the structure of occupied habitats may differ among sites even within a single region. However, it was evident that dense balsam fir-dominated habitats were used selectively by Bicknell's Thrushes at both study sites, and that the maintenance of such habitats should be a conservation priority in the Estrie region.
4164469| We examined foraging behavior and microhabitat use of four passerine bird species inhabiting an old growth coastal woodland in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Based on foraging maneuvers, we identified two groups: (1) nonaerial foragers formed by Tropical Parulas (Parula pitiayumi) and Masked Gnatcatchers (Polioptila dumicola) that hopped on branches and twigs while searching and gleaning prey from the nearby foliage, and (2) aerial foragers formed by White-crested Tyrannulets (Serpophaga subcristata) and Small-billed Elaenias (Elaenia parvirostris) that searched for and detected prey while perched, and captured it from foliage or in the air. Nonaerial foragers found prey primarily in the canopy while aerial foragers captured prey at all heights in the woodland. Tree species selection was similar among the four species. All bird species disproportionately foraged in Scutia buxifolia and avoided the use of Ligustrum lucidum trees. Our results indicate that these bird species differed in microhabitat selection in old growth coastal woodland, and that nonaerial foragers were more sensitive to foliage architecture and foliage height distribution than aerial foragers. These results illustrate the importance of woodland logging to bird densities, and provide basic information for effective management. /// Nosotros estudiamos el comportamiento de alimentacin y el uso de microhbitats de cuatro especies passeriformes que habitan bosques costeros maduros de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Considerando las maniobras de alimentacin encontramos dos grupos: (1) las recolectoras, formado por Pitiayum (Parula pitiayumi) y Tacuarita Azul (Polioptila dumicola), las cuales saltando por las ramas y ramitas buscan y recolectan presas desde el follaje cercano, y (2) las cazadoras por revoloteo, formado por Piojito Comn (Serpophaga subcristata) y Fiofo Pico Corto (Elaenia parvirostris), que buscan y detectan presas desde una percha y, usando tcticas areas, capturan las presas desde el follaje o en el aire. Las especies recolectoras capturan sus presas principalmente en el dosel del bosque, mientras que las cazadoras por revoloteo se alimentan en todas las alturas. El uso de las especies arbreas del bosque fue similar para las cuatro especies de aves. Todas seleccionaron alimentarse en rboles de Scutia buxifolia y evitaron usar los de Ligustrum lucidum. En general, las especies de aves difieren en su seleccin de los microhbitats en el bosque costero maduro: las especies recolectoras fueron ms afectadas por la arquitectura del follaje y la abundancia de cobertura en altura que las especies cazadoras por revoloteo. Los resultados obtenidos ayudan a comprender los efectos del talado del bosque sobre la densidad de aves, y proveen informacin bsica para su efectivo manejo. 
4164470|Foraging site selection by birds may be related to foraging efficiency, food availability and abundance, and predation risk. We identified selectively used foraging habitat within home ranges of 29 adult radio-tagged Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) in British Columbia during the nestling period. We compared habitat characteristics of flicker foraging locations to randomly selected locations in their home range using discriminant function analysis. Foraging plots were located in grassland and were characterized by a lack of tall vegetation, a large percentage of bare ground, and a high density of small anthills. Foraging plots had five times more anthills than random plots. Foraging plots also were closer to trees and forest edges than random plots. The random plots had significantly more medium and tall vegetation than foraging plots, and litter (dead grass) was the most abundant type of cover. Mortality of adult flickers attributed to avian predation while foraging was 14% during 1999 and 3% during 2000. The sparse ground cover of foraging plots likely increased access to food, whereas foraging near trees likely decreased avian predation. The marked selectivity of foraging areas by flickers suggests that foraging ability could be negatively affected by land use practices that alter the structure of ground cover.
4164471| Using constant effort (1993-1996) and playback mist netting with color banding (1996-1999), we estimated annual survival rates of Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) and American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) at four sites in the boreal forest of central Saskatchewan. For both species, the model that best described our data included a residency index that differentiated individuals caught more than once within the breeding season of initial capture (residents) from individuals caught only once (transients). Transients had considerably lower recapture rates than residents. The residency index was a more effective means of addressing violations of the homogeneity of capture assumption inherent in Cormack-Jolly-Seber models than a two-stage or age-structured model. We detected no significant differences in survival or recapture rate of male Ovenbirds between constant effort and playback mist netting techniques, although our estimate of annual survival for male Ovenbirds captured using playback (0.62  0.06 SE) was higher than when we used constant effort netting (0.44  0.13 SE). We observed no significant differences in survival between male (n = 99) and female (n = 113) American Redstarts or between second-year (n = 50) and after-second-year (n = 49) American Redstart males (overall survival = 0.55  0.09 SE). For Ovenbirds, the model that best fit the data incorporated sex specific differences in survival with females (n = 76) having lower survival (0.21  0.09 SE) than males (n = 197, 0.60  0.12 SE). Without accounting for the presence of transient birds in our models, our estimates of survival would have been unrealistically low. Residency indices based on the number of times an individual was captured within a season seem to provide an effective means to account for transients. 
4164472|I estimated hourly mass change at stopover sites for 14 species of migrant passerines from 15 sites across southern Canada by analyzing size-corrected mass of birds at first capture as a function of time of day of handling. Mean mass gains were 0.40% of lean body mass/h during spring and 0.53% during fall. Mass gain estimates varied significantly with season, site, and species, and were negatively related to condition of birds in the early morning. However, standard errors were large, such that few individual estimates were significantly different. Several sites with consistently low rates of mass gain had characteristics that probably reduced local food supply. Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) also had consistently low rates of mass gain. I estimated the time required to accumulate sufficient mass to fuel a 10-h migratory flight, and found that the majority of estimated mass gains were sufficient for birds to refuel during <1 week of stopover in southern Canada. At mean rates of mass gain from this study, migrants in southern Canada could potentially refuel completely during 2-3 days in both seasons, but true periods are likely somewhat longer. Analysis of mass change along migration routes (instead of across them, as in this study) is needed to detect whether there are differences among species in timing and location of maximum fuel deposition, as has been found in Europe.
4164473|We examined molting, plumage abrasion, and seasonal color changes of Lawrence's Goldfinch, Carduelis lawrencei, to determine to what extent the reported brightening of male colors at the approach of the breeding season results from plumage renewal. Lawrence's Goldfinch has only one molt per year, a complete postbreeding prebasic molt. Color changes during spring result entirely from plumage abrasion and fading, not from a prealternate molt as previously was thought. The yellow breast feathers of the males, but not the females, are unusually resistant to wear, so that the yellow on the breast appears to expand and brighten, as less durable surrounding gray feathers abrade. This may be due to a one-third greater thickness of the rachillae of the yellow barbs in males, so that instead of the rachillae progressively losing yellow-pigmented material, the brown pigmented barbules break off, leaving intact the rest of the barb with only yellow pigment. In contrast, the yellow breast feathers of females abrade progressively at the tips of the rachillae. Females change dorsal coloration little, but males develop a yellowish area on the center of the back, which results when the olive to brown tips overlapping adjacent feathers wear off and uncover yellow proximal portions of neighboring feathers. We point out the need to examine plumage microscopically when studying molting and plumage changes so as not to reach false conclusions about the causes of the changes.
4164474|We studied variation in the carotenoid color of flight feathers of hybrid Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) and its correlation with reproductive performance and survival. Color scores provided by a digital camera revealed in 218 individuals a continuous spectrum from yellow to red. Males tended to be slightly redder than females. Within individuals, an analysis of color change with age revealed that males, but not females, became redder with age. Except for yearling females, body condition did not improve with age, suggesting that color is not linked to body condition measured during incubation. We did not detect any correlations between feather color and measures of reproductive performance, such as clutch size, hatching success, or fledging success, or return rate to the study area. In a hybrid population where intraspecific variation in color is controlled partly by genes, hue or brightness may not be a useful signal of individual quality, contrary to other studies of birds. About 25% of flickers had one or more tail feathers that differed from the rest of the plumage. In each case, the "odd" feathers were paler or yellower in color and may have been caused by diet or stress when the feathers were lost and regrown during winter. Such odd colors support the hypothesis that red carotenoid pigments are costly to maintain under stressful conditions.
4164475|During a study of Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) nesting in central British Columbia, I discovered a polyandrous female attending two nests 447 m apart. The phenology at the two nests was staggered so that the female took incubation shifts and fed nestlings at both trees. Hatching success was typical but the female appeared to divide her provisioning effort between the broods. At one nest, only about 20% of visits were by the female, compared to a typical rate of 50%. Polyandrous mating benefited the female, who fledged all six nestlings in one brood and all seven in the other. The mean number of fledglings for monogamous females in this population was 5.9. Two other cases of polyandry possibly related to human disturbance are discussed. These results suggest exceptions to the idea that, in Picidae, the full contribution of both genders during incubation and brood rearing is required to fledge young.
4164476| We studied Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) nesting in artificial nesting structures in northeastern North Dakota and compared clutch size between landscapes where proportion of cropland was either high (mean = 68.9%, cropland landscapes) or low (mean = 30.2%, grassland landscapes). Mallard clutch size was significantly related to nest initiation date and landscape composition. Mean clutch size, controlled for nest initiation date, was 1.24  0.33 SE eggs smaller on cropland landscapes than on grassland landscapes. Generality of this pattern across space, time, and type of nesting sites is unknown, as is causation. Demographic importance of variation in clutch size may be influenced by covariation with other demographic variables, such as nest success and abundance of breeding pairs, which also are negatively correlated with landscape proportion of cropland. We suggest that researchers examine relationships between clutch size and landscape composition in both structure-nesting and ground-nesting Mallards, in other geographic areas, and in other duck species. 
4164477|We document the first reported observation of helping at the nest of a Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii). Video surveillance recorded two unbanded adults (a presumed male and female) and one banded adult male feeding chicks. No intraspecific aggression among the adults was observed.
4164478|We report an instance of interspecific adoption of Black-winged Stilt (Himantopus himantopus) chicks by Common Terns (Sterna hirundo), two species that nest in similar habitats but differ substantially in their behavior and diets. This is the first report of adoption between these two species.
4164479|Here I report a feeding innovation by Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis) in which the birds feed on the nectar of flax (Phormium tenax) flowers. Flax frequently is cultivated in Mar del Plata City, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, as an ornamental plant, and the Shiny Cowbird is common there. The length of the cowbird's bill is similar to that of the flax flower tube, which permits the cowbird to access the nectar. Further, the panicle stem of the flax is sufficiently rigid for perching, and the short distance between the stem and the flower enables a perched cowbird to reach the flower. At this site, flax nectar probably is utilized in a sustainable manner, as the flowers apparently are not harmed. Future investigations should examine whether or not the observed behavior is restricted to this particular population and if it is not, determine the spatial and temporal extent to which it occurs.
4164480|The breeding range of the Bay-breasted Warbler (Dendroica castanea) is thought to include only the northernmost portions of six northeastern and northcentral states in the United States. During a 10-year banding study of Kirtland's Warblers (Dendroica kirtlandii) in northern Lower Michigan, we caught 44 Bay-breasted Warblers outside of their reported migration dates during 9 of the 10 years. Two birds captured in 1997 were in breeding condition; one possessed a cloacal protuberance and the other a full brood patch. We also captured two hatching year birds with fleshy rictal flanges in 1997. We suggest that these records indicate a long term presence of Bay-breasted Warblers on breeding grounds considerably farther south than previously recorded.
4164487| I describe a new species of Micrastur (forest-falcon) from the rainforests of Brazil and adjacent northeastern Bolivia. Initial detection of the cryptic new taxon was enabled through hearing its distinctive voice, notably different from any of its congeners. Several specimens of the undescribed species subsequently were located in several museums; because the new species closely resembles M. gilvicollis (Lined Forest-Falcon), these specimens had remained unrecognized for more than a century. The new taxon not only has a vocal repertoire that differs from those of congeners, M. gilvicollis, M. plumbeous (Plumbeous Forest-Falcon), and M. ruficollis (Barred Forest-Falcon), but it also exhibits subtle yet consistent morphological distinctions that distinguish it from all other forest-falcons. This elusive raptor inhabits humid terra firme forest in southeastern Amazonia, and a disjunct population exists in the Atlantic rainforests of eastern Brazil (the latter known only from historic specimens) and merits great conservation concern. I summarize current information on the new species' distribution, offer insight into its natural history and conservation, and discuss its systematic relationships within the genus Micrastur. /// Eu descrevo uma nova espcie de Micrastur (gavio florestal) da floresta tropical do Brasil e adjacente nordeste da Bolvia. O descobrimento inicial do novo cryptico txon foi capacitada pela sua distinta voz, notavelmente diferente de qualquer um dos congneres. Vrios espcimes das espcies no descritas foram subseqentemente localizadas em vrios museus; devido  nova espcie assemelhar-se do M. gilvicollis (falco-mateiro), estas espcimes ficaram desconhecidas por mais de um sculo. O novo txon no somente tem um repertrio vocal que difere desses congneres, M. gilvicollis, M. plumbeous, (falco-chumbo) e M. ruficollis (falco-cabur), mas isto ainda tambm sutilmente exibe uma distino morfolgica que o distingue de todos os outros Micrastur. Este gavio evasivo habita nas matas de terra firme mida do sudeste da Amaznia, e com uma populao disjunta existindo na mata Atlntica do leste do Brasil (o ultimo conhecimento somente atravs de espcimes histricas) e merece grande interesse de conservao. Eu sumariei informaes atuais sobre a distribuio da nova espcie, e presenteei a introspeco dentro da histria natural e conservao, e discuto o seu relacionamento sistemtico dentro do gnero Micrastur. 
4164488|Canyon Wrens (Catherpes mexicanus) occur throughout the semiarid regions of the western United States in habitats dominated by canyons and steep rock formations. Their inaccessible habitat has made them one of the least studied among North American birds. We studied a population of Canyon Wrens in the Front Range of Colorado, documenting many aspects of their breeding biology. We report on territory density and size, nest site characteristics, nesting phenology, nesting success, and nestling development.
4164489|We studied orientation of nest sites relative to nearby vegetation for dabbling ducks (Cinnamon Teal, Anas cyanoptera; Blue-winged Teal, A. discors; Gadwall, A. strepera; Mallard, A. platyrhynchos; and Northern Shoveler, A. clypeata) and Short-eared Owls (Asio flammeus) in ungrazed grassland habitat during 1995-1997 in westcentral Montana. We estimated an index of vegetation height and density in intercardinal directions (NE, SE, SW, NW) immediately around nests. All species oriented nests with the least vegetation to the southeast and the most vegetation to either the southwest or northwest. Furthermore, maximum vegetation around nests shifted from the southwest to the northwest with increasing nest initiation date, apparently as a response of individuals tracking seasonal change in the afternoon solar path. Thus, nests were relatively exposed to solar insolation during cool morning hours but were shaded from intense insolation in the afternoon throughout the breeding season. We suggest that nest microhabitat was selected in part to moderate the thermal environment.
4164490| We analyzed landscape characteristics surrounding Mexican Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis lucida) nest and roost trees in Arizona at three spatial scales: one circular plot of 201 ha (800-m radius) and two 400-m-wide "ring" plots between 800 m and 1,600 m from each nest or roost tree. The percentages of vegetation types were significantly different between 51 owl and 51 random areas only within the 201-ha circular plots. Owls selected both mature and young mixed conifer forests that had high canopy closure (55%) more than expected based on availability. Owls selected pine (Pinus spp.) and pine-oak (Quercus spp.) forests in proportion to availability. Forty-one percent of all nests and roosts were located in mixed conifer forests, even though this forest type covered only 5% of the study area. Pine and pine-oak forests covered 78% of the study area, and 59% of nests and roosts were located in these forest types. The only forest type in which we did not locate nests and roosts was mature open canopy ponderosa pine (P. ponderosa) forest. Owls occupied areas of predominantly younger forests, but only if residual large (45.7 cm dbh) trees were present. Indices of landscape structure did not differ significantly between owl and random areas. Future management of Mexican Spotted Owls in areas of moderate topographic relief should focus on retention of mature forests, especially mixed conifer stands with canopy closure 55%. Residual large trees, especially Gambel oaks (Q. gambelii), are important microhabitat components in younger forests. 
4164491| We measured productivity and vegetation parameters of habitat quality at 16 Sharp-shinned Hawk (Accipiter striatus) nests in and near the greater Montreal area in order to evaluate nesting habitat use and its possible relationship to reproductive success in an urban setting. Mean clutch size was 4.4 and hatching success was 3.8 eggs per nest. At least one egg hatched in 11 of 16 nests (68.8%), 10 (62.5%) pairs raised young to a bandable age (10 days old), and 8 (50%) pairs successfully produced at least one fledgling. Immature individuals comprised 33.3% of male and 38.5% of female breeders. Mean values in the habitat assessment included nest tree height, 14.0 m; tree density, 955/ha; total canopy cover, 88.1%; coniferous cover, 39.7%; mean dbh, 17.6 cm; and distance to the nearest forest opening, 19.7 m. Sharp-shinned Hawks nested in a range of forest types, from mature conifer plantations to young, almost purely deciduous stands, and this population exhibited considerable flexibility with respect to most of the habitat features that we measured. Their use of older stands with more deciduous cover than those used by conspecifics elsewhere may reflect regional differences in habitat availability as well as in the abundance of competitor species. Breeding in an urbanized area does not seem to be detrimental to Sharp-shinned Hawks, as evidenced by this population's relatively large proportion of immature breeders and normal productivity, which appeared to be independent of all the assessed parameters of habitat quality. 
4164492|The Early Bird Hypothesis predicts that males fledged early in the breeding season have an advantage over their later-fledged counterparts during competition for breeding sites. We tested this hypothesis by examining the sex ratio of 1,025 fledglings from 265 broods of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) breeding in nest boxes in Wisconsin during the period 1968-1997. We found a seasonal shift in the sex ratio: the sex ratio of fledglings was biased toward males early in the breeding season, but became increasingly biased toward females as the season progressed. Our results provide support for the Early Bird Hypothesis and suggest that the steepness of this trend may decrease with increasing latitude.
4164493|The Broad-winged Hawk (Buteo platypterus) breeds in eastern and central Canada and the United States, and winters in Central America and northern and central South America. Birders and ornithologists count migrating Broad-winged Hawks at dozens of traditional watch sites throughout the northeastern United States. We modeled counts of migrating Broad-winged Hawks from two raptor migration watch sites: Montclair Hawk Lookout, New Jersey, and Hawk Mountain Sanctuary, Pennsylvania, to determine whether annual abundance and trend estimates from individual sites within the mid-Atlantic states are representative of the region as a whole. We restricted ourselves to counts made between 10:00 and 16:00 EST during September to standardize count effort between sites. We created one model set for annual counts and another model set for daily counts. When modeling daily counts we incorporated weather and identity of individual observers. Akaike's Information Criteria were used to select the best model from an initial set of competing models. Annual counts declined at both sites during 1979-1998. Broad-winged Hawk migration began, peaked, and ended later at Montclair than at Hawk Mountain, even though Hawk Mountain is 155 km west-southwest of Montclair. Mean annual counts of hawks at Montclair were more than twice those at Hawk Mountain, but were not correlated. Broad-winged Hawks counted at Montclair may not be the same birds as those counted at Hawk Mountain. Rather, the two sites may be monitoring different regional subpopulations. Broad-winged Hawks counted at the two sites may use different migration tactics, with those counted at Hawk Mountain being more likely to slope soar, and those at Montclair more likely to use thermal soaring. A system of multiple watch sites is needed to monitor various breeding populations of this widely dispersed migrant.
4164494|The Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri) is the most numerous shorebird on the Pacific coast of North America during spring migration. Twenty-six sandpipers carrying miniature radio transmitters on north-ward migration across the Fraser River delta, British Columbia, remained on or near to the section of beach where they were first detected through their entire stay. They traveled about 4-6 km each day, following the tide up and down the beach. Although some Western Sandpipers were present on all beaches of the delta, our results suggest that individuals do not roam widely once they settle. The widespread distribution of sandpipers in mud, marsh, and sand habitats suggests that all regions of the Fraser River delta are required to support the large number of Western Sandpipers during spring migration.
4164495| St. Matthew Island (60 24 N, 172 42 W) and its small nearby satellites, Hall Island and Pinnacle Rock, are isolated in the northcentral Bering Sea. This infrequently visited location occupies a geographic position with a deep Bering Land Bridge history and is in an area of interdigitation of the Old World, New World, and Beringian avifaunas. It is known for its three Beringian endemics, a bird (McKay's Bunting, Plectrophenax hyperboreus), a small mammal, and a plant. This level of endemism is striking for a high-latitude island. The only previous summary of the avifauna of St. Matthew island (Hanna 1917) included 37 species. Our report considers more than 125 species and synthesizes data on presence and absence, abundance, and phenology. Because visits have been infrequent and concentrated during summer, our understanding of migration in this region remains poor, but the area is clearly affected by both the Old and New world migration systems. There is sufficient evidence to show that some profound changes among the island's breeding birds have occurred during the past century. In particular, the breeding range of Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) has been extended north to include St. Matthew, a change that is correlated with a northward shift in the extent of sea ice (Maslanik et al. 1996). King and Common eiders (Somateria spectabilis and S. mollissima) also have shown substantial changes in summer abundance. Other changes in the summer avifauna (e.g., among shorebirds) may reflect the dynamics of edge-of-range phenomena. Because of its central position in a region undergoing profound climate change and its demonstrated track record in showing avifaunal shifts, St. Matthew Island may represent an important bellwether for monitoring the biological effects of further climate change in the northern Bering Sea. 
4164496|Many animals advertise the presence of a predator threat through vocal signals. Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapilla) use their chick-a-dee call as a mobbing call when encountering a perched hawk or owl. This social signal appears to serve as an alert to other chickadees, causing them to rally to the vicinity of the predator and join in a chorus of calling. We asked the question: do chickadees vary the mobbing call in a manner that could convey the immediacy of threat from a potential predator? We examined the responses of chickadees to a taxidermic mount of an avian predator presented at distances of 1 m and 6 m from each subject. Vocal responses were recorded and analyzed for response latency, calling rate, and syllable composition of calls. During 5-min trials, the subjects responded more quickly and produced significantly more chick-a-dee calls for predator presentations at the 1-m distance than at the 6-m distance. Alterations of syllable composition of the call also were observed under the two treatments. These results suggest that information about the immediacy of threat or proximity of a predator may be signaled by alteration of the rate of calling, with possible additional information contained in proportional changes in the different syllable types of the call. Studies of referential (symbolic) communication in birds and mammals often have failed to consider the problem of response urgency separately from predator-type labeling in vocal signal design.
4164497|I describe the nest, egg, and nesting behavior of the Snowy Cotinga (Carpodectes nitidus) in La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. The nest was placed 7.5 m high on a fork formed by four branches of a leafless tree. The nest was a simple platform made of dry tendrils and lichens. It contained a single large egg, which took at least 27 days to hatch. The nest and chick were predated the day after hatching. Both nest and egg characteristics resemble those of other cotinga species.
4164498|Very little demographic data is available for rocky intertidal shorebirds, including the long-lived Black Oystercatcher (Haematopus bachmani). In this paper we report on Black Oystercatcher chick production from 1992 to 2000, age of first breeding and natal philopatry in Laskeek Bay, Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia. Five percent of birds banded as half-grown chicks returned to breed in the same area. Known-age birds were 5 years old when first found breeding. This constitutes the first published evidence of natal philopatry for this species.
4164499|We report observations of Ring-necked Pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) parasitizing Lesser Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) nests in native sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) rangeland in southwestern Kansas. We found low incidence of interspecific nest parasitism as only 3 of 75 prairie-chicken nests were parasitized. Two of the three parasitized clutches hatched, but no Ring-necked Pheasant chicks were known to have survived.
4164500|We report the Turquoise-browed Motmot (Eumomota superciliosa) feeding in the evening on insects attracted to artificial lights. This behavior has been observed in few diurnal bird species, and has not been reported previously for the family Momotidae. Although more than one motmot engaged in this behavior at one site in El Salvador, and feeding success appeared favorable, we have not observed the behavior at other sites in El Salvador, suggesting that the behavior has not spread through the population.
4164501|We report Fan-tailed Warblers (Euthlypis lachrymosa) foraging in association with the nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) in El Imposible National Park, El Salvador. Although the warbler is known to forage opportunistically at ant swarms, this is the first report of commensal feeding with a mammal.
4164502|Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) over much of Montana incorporate large amounts of bailing twine in their nests and active nestlings sometimes become entangled and perish. We observed 12 occurrences of entanglement in 260 nests during three years of study. Disposing of the twine or cutting the twine into smaller pieces when removing it from hay bales could reduce or eliminate the problem.
4164510|We sequenced 912 bp of the cytochrome-b gene to examine phylogenetic relationships of the enigmatic Saw-billed Hermit (Ramphodon naevius), a large and distinctive hummingbird endemic to tropical forests of southeastern Brazil. Bootstrapped maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of sequence data from 11 hummingbirds and several outgroups (two swifts, one goatsucker) support: (a) monophyly of the traditional hermit (Phaethornithinae) and nonhermit (Trochilinae) subfamilies, (b) placement of Ramphodon among hermits, and (c) a sister relationship between Ramphodon and an exemplar of the widespread polytypic hermit genus Glaucis. The association of Ramphodon with derived hermit lineages is concordant with subfamilial patterns of wing anatomy and nest architecture. However, the unusual plumages (striped underparts) and male bills (long, serrated, hooked) shared by Ramphodon and the Tooth-billed Hummingbird (Androdon aequatorialis) appear to have evolved within separate hermit and nonhermit "tooth-billed" clades. Distal placement of the Ramphodon-Glaucis clade within hermits implies that even distinctive Brazilian endemics such as Ramphodon are derived forms that evolved relatively recently.
4164511|Here we describe the first nesting records of the Moustached Antpitta (Grallaria alleni). We found two nests in sub-Andean forests in the Central Andes of Colombia at 1,800 m and in northwestern Ecuador at 1,900 m elevation during November 1995 and March 1999. Both nests were bulky structures with an open deep cup, made with moist plant material, including damp dead leaves, fresh mosses, rootlets, and small stems and fibers. The eggs were aquamarine and the nestlings were covered by dark gray down and had vermilion bills and gapes. Nests of G. alleni are similar to the nests of the closely related G. guatimalensis in construction and dimensions. This note contributes new information on this endangered and poorly known species.
4164512| We describe the nest site characteristics, and report on the association between site characteristics and reproductive success (brood size at day 8), for a population of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) breeding in the Toiyabe Mountains of central Nevada. Based on data from 132 nests, the immediate vicinity (a 10-m radius) around robin nests was sparsely vegetated with limited cover at any vegetation height. Nest tree diameters at breast height were not significantly different from those of nearby trees. Based on tree availability in the immediate vicinity, robins chose to nest in single-leaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla) more often (49.6% of nests used versus 39.3% availability), and quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) less often (24.8% of nests used versus 52.1% availability), than expected by chance. Contrary to predictions based on previous studies, there was no change from coniferous to deciduous trees for nesting as the breeding season progressed, nor did robins build their nests higher in trees later in the season. Nest orientation was significantly directional in the 90 arc between east and south, but was unrelated to the amount of concealment conferred by shrub and bush cover in the four quadrants around the nest. Solar insolation resulting from nest placement was not related to brood size at day 8 and there were no discernable relationships between either solar insolation or orientation and clutch initiation date. Brood size on day 8 was inversely related to mean dbh of the surrounding trees, while canopy cover and height were associated positively with larger broods at day 8. 
4164513|We studied populations of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) on 11 islands near Victoria, British Columbia, to evaluate the relationship between nest site characteristics and parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). For all nests we recorded their height, the height of vegetation above the nest, the percentage of overhead and side exposure, the number of perches in trees and shrubs within 10 m of the nest, and the distance to the nearest tree or shrub perch. Song Sparrow nests within 10 m of trees were parasitized more often than those farther from trees. Estimates of overhead and side exposure also were lower for parasitized nests than unparasitized nests. Our results support the hypotheses that the proximity of trees, and the amount of concealing cover around host nests, influence the success of cowbirds searching for nests to parasitize.
4164514| We studied the nesting ecology of Winter Wrens (Troglodytes troglodytes) from 1994-1996 in coastal, coniferous, temperate rain forest of southeastern Alaska. Overall nesting success (estimated by the Mayfield method) of 143 nests exceeded that reported for other published studies of temperate wrens, including T. troglodytes. Wrens used understory nest sites (logs, stumps, root disks of uprooted trees, understory moss, stream banks) in two forest sites where predation of nests was low (2% of 65 nests). Males at these two sites commonly had small territories (1.8 ha  0.3 SE and 1.2 ha  0.1 SE) and often mated polygynously (22% and 78% of males had at least two mates). In the third study area, where predation (probably by red squirrels, Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) on understory nests was relatively high (19% of 59 nests), nests most often were placed in moss clumps on tree branches, as high as 18 m above ground. Males in this study area had the largest territories (2.8 ha  0.4 SE) and most (90%) mated monogamously. Variation in nesting ecology among these three superficially similar (mature conifer forest) sites may be related to subtle differences in habitat features and predator abundance. 
4164515|We examined the distribution and abundance of the Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow (Melospiza georgiana nigrescens) at previously occupied sites and points within potential habitat. We found Swamp Sparrows throughout their formerly documented range except in southern Chesapeake Bay. Swamp Sparrows were most common in the Mullica River region of New Jersey where we detected individuals at 78% of systematically chosen points with a mean count of 4.1 birds/point. The percentages of points with positive detections in the regions of Delaware River (39%), eastern Delaware Bay (23%), western Delaware Bay (34%), and Tuckahoe River (31%) were lower. The mean count of birds/point was between 0.4 and 0.6 in these regions. A higher resolution Poisson model of relative abundance suggested that the greatest concentrations of Swamp Sparrows occurred not only in the Mullica River area but also along northwestern Delaware Bay. Regression analysis of Swamp Sparrow counts and habitat features identified shrubs (Iva frutescens and Baccharis halimifolia) as a key habitat component. By applying density estimates generated by DISTANCE (Thomas et al. 1998) to the approximate area of potential shrub habitat along Delaware Bay, we estimated that the core population of Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrows was less than 28,000 pairs. We recommend that the Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow be listed as a subspecies of concern by state and local governments because of its relatively small population size, restricted distribution in the mid-Atlantic region, and narrow habitat requirements.
4164516| The Plain Pigeon (Columba inornata) was listed as endangered in Puerto Rico in 1970. During 1986-1992 and 1997-2001, we collected point transect survey data to estimate density, population size, and rate of change. Density and population size estimates increased between 1986-1992 and 1997-2001. With a mean density of 0.25  0.06 SE individuals/ha and a mean population size in the area of the surveys of 3,746  892 SE individuals during 1997-2001, we believe that the status of the Plain Pigeon is not as precarious as it was during 1986-1992, when mean density was 0.02  0.003 SE individuals/ha and mean population size in the area of the surveys was 218  42 SE individuals. However, Plain Pigeons are not widely distributed and the loss and fragmentation of second growth forests combined with the effects of hurricanes and other factors may cause their extinction. Because Plain Pigeons have a spatially clumped distribution, we recommend sampling at least 1,195 points during peak nesting activity (March through June) throughout the island, with at least 526 points covering areas of abundance in eastcentral Puerto Rico, to monitor population changes and evaluate the effectiveness of management actions. 
4164517|Previous authors have noted the unique singing behavior and apparently large song repertoires of male Yellow-breasted Chats (Icteria virens). We studied the singing behavior of 10 male chats in central Kentucky in an attempt to determine the size and functions of their song type repertoires and examine possible relationships among singing behavior, morphological characteristics, and reproductive success. During the 1995 breeding season, we recorded and analyzed chat songs and determined the morphological characteristics and reproductive success of focal males. Repertoire sizes varied among male chats, ranging from 46-81 song types. Larger males (as determined by tarsus length) had larger song type repertoires, and males with longer wing chords fledged more young. These relationships suggest a correlation between male quality (as determined by size and reproductive success) and repertoire size. Male chats spent less time singing after pairing, suggesting that singing plays a role in mate attraction. However, singing by male chats likely serves other functions, such as territorial defense and attracting additional mates, because males continued singing after pairing. In contrast to male wood-warblers (Parulidae), male chats have relatively large repertoires of song types and also vary the sequence of song types, the frequency of repetition of individual song types, and the length of time between consecutive song types. Such differences in singing behavior lend support to the hypothesis that chats are not parulids.
4164518|Female Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) fought for the best quality nests, mainly before egg laying. Female fights (n = 47) were longer than male fights (n = 138), but less frequent and less intense as indicated by the number of flipper hits and length of cuts. Female winners occupied the disputed nests, and losers usually moved to nests of lower quality. Losers subsequently fledged fewer chicks than winners. Female winners were in better body condition, were not significantly larger, and were the owners of the nest as indicated by previous season attendance at the nest.
4164519| Although Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) are Nearctic-Neotropical migrants that are common breeders across the United States and Canada, very little has been published about the migration and stopover ecology of this species. We used spring migration banding records of Common Yellowthroats from 1992-2001 on Appledore Island, Maine, to investigate potential sexual and age-related differences in migration timing and stopover ecology of this species. Arrival dates of males were significantly earlier than arrival dates of females during spring, with mean male arrival five days earlier than female arrival. Also, after-second-year (ASY) birds arrived significantly earlier than second-year (SY) birds within each sex. Males also were significantly heavier than females upon arrival on Appledore. During spring migration, 5.0% of males and 4.2% of females were recaptured at least one day after initial capture, resulting in a mean stopover length of approximately three days for both sexes. We found no significant difference in the mean minimum stopover length nor the rate of mass change between the sexes based on recaptured individuals. Furthermore, we found no significant differences in stopover ecology between age groups within either sex. Both sexes significantly increased mass during stopover, both as calculated from recaptured individuals and as estimated by regression of condition (mass  100/wing chord) over time. Results of this study confirmed differential migration among Common Yellowthroats, which is consistent with previous studies of passerine migration ecology. Lack of differences in stopover ecology between the sexes or between age groups suggests that earlier arrival of males than females and of ASY birds than SY birds may be due to an earlier onset of migration rather than increased migration speed. 
4164521|We describe a nest of the Silvery-fronted Tapaculo (Scytalopus argentifrons), a member of a large genus in which only one-fourth of the species have described nests. The nest, found in a Costa Rican cloud forest and containing two chicks, was a substantial globular structure constructed mostly of moss, located in a subterranean cavity at the end of a short, narrow tunnel.
4164522|Here I report the first case of double brooding in a Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsonii). On 7 June 2002, I observed a color-banded female feeding an 8-day-old fledgling 20 m from her first nest. On 12 July 2002, I saw the same bird feeding a banded 12-day-old fledgling 8 m from her second nest. Double brooding is one strategy by which a genotype may increase genetic representation in future generations.
4164523|We report on the use of a Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) nest by fledgling Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus) during a period of inclement weather. We found four fledgling wrens in a newly lined cardinal nest on the morning of 22 May 2002 during a heavy frost. The use of the cardinal nest by the wrens may have been precipitated by the unexpected frost. This represents a unique method of protection from inclement weather taken by young birds.
4164524|On 11 April 2002, in San Pedro, Belize, we observed a male Golden-fronted Woodpecker (Melanerpes aurifrons dubius) cache a mouse carcass and subsequently provision nestlings with tissue taken from it. During 12 min of observation, the male made seven trips with pieces of the carcass, taking pieces of muscle to the nestlings and consuming skin and connective tissue himself. This is the first published record of the consumption of mammalian prey by this species.
4164525|The natural incubation period of Great Frigatebird (Fregata minor) eggs reported in the literature (55 days) was 74% longer than the value predicted from initial egg mass (89.1 g). The long incubation period was associated with a low daily water loss (213.5 mg/day) from the eggs and few pores in the eggshell (4,643 pores/egg). The initial event in the pipping process, which represented 7.2% of the duration of the incubation period but accounted for 24.9% of the total water loss from the egg, was a star-shaped fracture of the shell which increased water loss from the egg and persisted for several days before hatching was complete. These characteristics of the eggs of the Great Frigatebird are contrasted with those from the Red-footed Booby (Sula sula), the only other altricial, pelecaniform seabird with a long incubation period, for which data are available.
4164526|We observed a male Prothonotary Warbler (Protonotaria citrea) eating a 3-cm lizard in Louisiana. There are few reports in the literature of wood warblers taking vertebrate prey, and we found no other record for a Prothonotary Warbler doing so.
4164527|An adult Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja) attacked and killed an infant collared peccary (Pecari tajacu) at a site in eastern Amazonia. The eagle appeared to have been prevented from removing its prey immediately by surviving members of the peccary herd. Circumstantial evidence suggests that a set of specific factors, including the abundance of peccaries at the site and forest structure, may have facilitated the attack.
4164528|This paper presents an updated account of 34 wading bird foraging behaviors presented by Kushlan (1978a) with findings from later studies for nine wading bird species, including: Great Egret (Ardea alba), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea), Tricolored Heron (Egretta tricolor), Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), Green Heron (Butorides virescens), Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus), White Ibis (Eudocimus albus), and Wood Stork (Mycteria americana). We also include occurrences of the behavior Prey Dropping, which was not described as a foraging behavior in Kushlan (1978a).
4164536| The Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus satrapa) is the smallest insectivorous bird that overwinters in boreal forests across North America from Alaska to Nova Scotia, where nights may last 16 h and nighttime temperatures may fall below -40C. I here provide the first documentation of Golden-crowned Kinglets huddling in the field during winter on open branches. The birds forage until darkness and do not necessarily come back every night to the same site. Traveling in groups and huddling where they end up in the darkness compensates for small body size and potential compromises in foraging time. 
4164537|We present the first account of nesting biology for the Neotropical suboscine genus Laniocera by describing the nest and eggs of the Cinereous Mourner (L. hypopyrra) based on observations made in the Peruvian Amazon during 2001. The cup-shaped nest was in mature floodplain forest among the branches of an epiphytic fern in a small tree 1.8 m above the ground, and contained two buffy eggs with chocolate brown blotches and spots. These observations demonstrate that Laniocera is not a cavity nester, supporting its removal from the myiarchine flycatchers and previous suggestions of a close relationship to the genus Schiffornis.
4164538|During 1996-2000, I studied the nesting ecology of Sprague's Pipits (Anthus spragueii), Claycolored Sparrows (Spizella pallida), Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis), Baird's Sparrows (Ammodramus bairdii), Chestnut-collared Longspurs (Calcarius ornatus), and Western Meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta) on 47 native mixed-grass prairie pastures in southern Saskatchewan. Predation was the primary cause of nest failure and occurred at a similar frequency among the six species. Nest success and productivity varied among years and was lowest during 1997, the year of a substantial increase in meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) populations in southern Saskatchewan. Nest predation was most severe during the nestling stage with daily survival rates typically lower than those of the incubation period. Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) parasitized nests of all six species, with 5-29% of host nests containing cowbird eggs. Savannah Sparrows, Clay-colored Sparrows, and Western Meadowlarks incurred the highest frequency of brood parasitism. Parasitized hosts experienced lower productivity due to a combination of reductions in clutch size, hatching success, and fledging success. Overall, brood parasitism by cowbirds cost these birds between 1.3 and 2.2 young per successful nest. These results support the general contention that nest predation is the primary factor influencing grassland songbird reproductive success.
4164539| Recent success of Eastern Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) reintroductions across southern Ontario has prompted wildlife managers to investigate the potential of extending the northern limit of this subspecies' range. We monitored the survival and reproduction of introduced Wild Turkeys on the Precambrian Shield in central Ontario during 1999-2001. Mean annual survival of 39 radio-tagged hens was 0.288  0.057 SE. Summer and winter survival rates differed between the first and second years of the study. Spring and fall survival rates did not differ significantly between years. Reproductive parameters that characterized the population included a nesting rate of 0.588, mean clutch size of 10.0 eggs/nest, nest success of 0.500, hatching rate of 0.81, hen natality rate of 1.18 females hatched/female, poult survival of 0.54, and fall recruitment of 0.63 juvenile females/breeding hen. Success of the pilot Wild Turkey introduction in central Ontario was compromised by high predation, low numbers of introduced birds, and a prolonged period of deep snow during 2000-2001. 
4164540| Effective management of Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) populations requires a full understanding of chick production. Previous reports of nest survival for Ruffed Grouse are biased because they did not account for successful nests being more likely to be found, and the role of habitat quality in determining nest survival is unknown. We determined survival rates of Ruffed Grouse nests in northern lower Michigan using the less biased Mayfield estimator, defined differences between first and second nests, and compared the local habitat characteristics of successful and unsuccessful nests. Median hatching dates were 10 June for first nests (n = 34) and 1 July for second nests (n = 6). First nests had a lower survival rate (0.442, 95% CI = 0.270-0.716), a higher mean clutch size (12.7 eggs  0.3 SE), and higher egg hatching rate (0.960, 95% CI = 0.900-0.997) than did second nests (nest survival = 0.788, 95% CI = 0.491-1.00; clutch size = 7.3 eggs  0.3 SE; and hatching rate = 0.826, 95% CI = 0.718-0.925). Nest survival, annual production (3.4 hatchling females/adult female, 95% CI = 2.3-5.0), and fall recruitment (1.0 juvenile females/adult female, 95% CI = 0.3-2.4) were less than previously reported estimates. Habitat characteristics at nest sites varied widely and did not differ appreciably between successful and unsuccessful nests. 
4164541|The Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsonii) is a locally distributed and relatively uncommon Neotropical migrant songbird that breeds in the bottomland forests of the southeastern United States and spends the nonbreeding season in the Caribbean Basin. Populations of Swainson's Warblers have declined during recent decades as bottomland forests have come under increasingly intensive management and large areas have been converted to other land uses. We examined the habitat around song perches used by male Swainson's Warblers at Big Hammock Wildlife Management Area, a managed bottomland forest along the Altamaha River in Tattnall County, Georgia. We quantified 20 features of habitat structure in areas occupied by Swainson's Warblers (occupied plots) and two sets of controls: unoccupied plots adjacent to occupied plots (adjacent control plots) and unoccupied plots throughout the management area (general control plots). Occupied plots and adjacent control plots both differed in structure from the general control plots. We detected no significant differences, however, in vegetation structure between occupied plots and adjacent control plots. General control plots tended to have a greater number of trees, greater basal area, and a complete canopy, whereas occupied and adjacent control plots had high densities of small stems, cane, herbaceous ground cover, and leaf litter; this latter pattern is typical of documented Swainson's Warbler breeding habitat. Lack of significant differences in vegetation structure may be due to great variation in habitat structure around song perches, small sample size, or scarcity of Swainson's Warblers. Future research should focus on quantifying habitat characteristics around nest sites, song perches, and feeding areas. Our results suggest that management of bottomland habitats by thinning forests and encouraging regeneration of canebrakes is needed for successful conservation of Swainson's Warblers.
4164542|We used point counts and nest monitoring to compare avain community composition and nesting success in thinned and unthinned stands of commercially managed Sierran mixed conifer forest. We conducted point counts and monitored 537 active nests of 37 species on 10 study plots during three consecutive breeding seasons in the northern Sierra Nevada. All 10 study plots had experienced a similar long term management history that included fire suppression and single-tree selection logging, but five of the plots also underwent a protocol of combined commercial and biomass thinning 5-8 years prior to the beginning of the study. Pooling species by nest substrate, we found that detections of ground-nesting bird species were similar on thinned and unthinned plots, but we detected canopy-, cavity-, and especially shrub-nesting species much more frequently on the thinned plots. Nest success rates were not statistically different between thinned and unthinned plots for ground-, shrub-, canopy-, or cavity-nesting species. Thinned stands were characterized by significantly less canopy cover, significantly lower density of small and medium conifers, and significantly greater understory cover and deer brush (Ceanothus integerrimus) cover than the unthinned stands. We surmise that the thinning protocol stimulated vigorous shrub growth, and conclude that forest conditions associated with a relatively open canopy and a well-developed shrub understory are highly beneficial to numerous breeding bird species in the Sierran mixed conifer community, including many species that may not nest or forage in the understory. Forest thinning that promotes vigorous shrub growth may correlate with an increased abundance of nesting birds, at least within stands affected by historical fire suppression and single-tree selection logging.
4164543| During spring 2000, we captured five adult female Broad-winged Hawks (Buteo platypterus) in northcentral Minnesota and western Maryland and fitted them with satellite-received radio tags. The migrating hawks left their nesting areas about 10-15 September and moved south toward eastern Texas. They followed the Gulf Coast through Mexico and an inland course through Central America to their wintering areas. Mean fall migration distance for four hawks was about 7,000 km, and for three hawks the mean fall migration time was about 70 days and mean fall migration rate was about 100 km/day. Three hawks arrived on their wintering areas from about 15 October to 15 December. Wintering areas for four hawks were in Panama, Venezuela, Brazil, and Peru, between 08 25 N, 80 54 W and 11 00 S, 67 07 W. We tracked one hawk for her entire spring migration, and two hawks showed fidelity to their nest areas. 
4164544|We examined the timing and intensity of body molt in relation to stage of remige growth for postbreeding adult male Long-tailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) off the coast of northern Alaska. During this period, remige and rectrix feathers are molted simultaneously with body feathers during the prebasic molt, which results in a period of increased energetic and nutritional demands. We collected birds from late July through mid-August and recorded intensity of molt in eight regions: head and neck, back and rump, greater coverts, lesser coverts, flank and sides, breast, belly, and tail. Using nonlinear regression, we estimated the peak intensity and variation for each region in relation to ninth primary length. We found little evidence of molt in the head and neck region. The greater and lesser coverts, and back and rump reached peak molt intensities earliest and were followed by tail, breast, and belly. Molt intensity in the flank and side region was highly variable and indicated a more prolonged molting pattern in relation to other regions. While body molt occurs simultaneously with wing molt, we found that molt among regions occurred in a staggered pattern. Long-tailed Ducks may employ this staggered molting pattern to minimize the energetic and nutritional requirements of molt.
4164545|We studied nocturnal and diurnal behavior of breeding American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) at the Jay Dow, Sr. Wetlands in the northwestern Great Basin, USA. Seven-day observation periods were centered on two full moons when ambient light was maximal and auxiliary lighting unnecessary. We recorded avocet density, habitat use, interbird distances, and behavior three times daily (beginning at 07:00, 15:00, 23:00 PST) for 14 days. We calculated the mean proportion of individuals within flocks engaged in four behavior classes (foraging, copulating, agonistic, other). Foraging birds were further subdivided by technique (pecking, dunking, scything). Avocets copulated with similar frequencies during the morning, afternoon, and night. Avocets were more aggressive and closely spaced at night than during day. The full repertoire of behaviors seen during daylight also occurred at night, though frequencies of particular behaviors, flock location, and interbird distances varied among morning, afternoon, and nighttime observations. The role of nocturnal reproductive behavior should be assessed in species generally perceived as being diurnal.
4164546|Individuals in a number of bird species have the opportunity to maintain contact with their mates during nonbreeding periods. This contact may be important to synchronize the partners' reproductive cycles before breeding begins. As a first step toward exploring the function of pair bond maintenance in non-breeding birds, I studied the behavior of three pairs of Pileated Woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) and an unpaired male at roost sites during autumn. At dawn and dusk, paired individuals exchanged visual, vocal, and other acoustical signals identical to those given during the breeding season. Demonstration tapping away from a nest is reported here for the first time. The possible function of these behaviors may be related to monitoring the partner's condition and investing in the pair bond to enhance future reproductive success.
4164547|During three field seasons in southwestern Madagascar we made opportunistic observations and tape recordings of the sounds produced by the Long-tailed Ground-roller (Uratelornis chimaera; Brachypteraciidae). Here we present new information on vocal behavior in this species and provide the first documentation of display and nonvocal production of sound by any ground-roller.
4164548|I observed an apparent coordinated attack by a mated pair of Florida Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) on a black racer (Coluber constrictor) in southcentral Florida. Depending upon their size, snakes can be either prey or predators of scrub-jays. This medium-sized snake may have been large enough that one bird could not safely subdue it. By coordinating their attack, the birds were able to kill and feed on the snake. This appears to be an example of pair hunting. The cooperative hunting technique, in which two mated birds perform coordinated movements, enables the pair to attack otherwise prohibitively large prey. Both members of the attack benefit by eating the prey. Cooperative hunting has only rarely been described in passerines.
4164549|On 21 June 2002 we observed mixed flocks of Great Egrets (Ardea alba) and Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) foraging aerially on shad (Dorosoma sp.) forced to the surface by foraging white bass (Morone chrysops) at the Richland-Chambers Reservoir in Freestone County, Texas. These events occurred over open water ranging from 3-12 m deep during a 2-h period of observation. Egrets foraged exclusively by hovering about 3-5 m above the water and then dipping to capture shad. Foraging behavior was interspersed with intervals of vigilance on a nearby shoreline. Here we provide a detailed record of the temporarily exclusive use by egrets of this rare foraging method in fresh water, in water of such depth, and on live schooling prey over open water.
4164550|This report presents experimental data on the transport of vertebrate prey by the Northern (Great Grey) Shrike (Lanius excubitor). The species is known to use three modes of transport: carrying prey exclusively with the bill, exclusively with the feet, and by transferring the prey from bill to feet while in flight. Shrikes often transport their prey a short distance from the point of capture (initial distance), followed by the longer flight to the impaling site (long distance). We found that the overall distance (initial plus long) and long distances, but not the initial distance, decreased with increasing prey weight. Greater weight of the prey coincided with reduced use of bill-only transport. The results reveal that Northern Shrikes are well adapted to carry their most common vertebrate prey, voles of the genus Microtus.
4164551|We report three unusual cases of predation in which birds of insectivorous or omnivorous species preyed upon smaller birds in El Salvador, Central America. A Squirrel Cuckoo (Piaya cayana) fed on a netted Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea); a Blue-and-white Mockingbird (Melanotis hypoleucus) chased, killed, and carried off a probable juvenile Rufous-collared Sparrow (Zonotrichia capensis); and a Black-headed Saltator (Saltator atriceps) fed on a netted Cinnamon Hummingbird (Amazilia rutila). Preying upon birds has not been reported previously in any of these species. Evidence suggests that the Squirrel Cuckoo and the Blue-and-white Mockingbird may prey on small birds or other vertebrates with some regularity, while the saltator may have consumed the hummingbird due to non-natural conditions.
4164552|I report observations of fruit consumption by Magellanic Woodpeckers (Campephilus magellanicus) and an opportunistic predation on a lizard (Liolaemus sp.) by an adult male. During normal feeding activities, the woodpecker snatched from a bark crevice of a lenga (Nothofagus pumilio) tree a lizard, which he then beat until stunned or dead, before flying off carrying the reptile. Frugivory, although undocumented for this species, is widespread among picids. Conversely, this apparently first observation of a Magellanic Woodpecker preying on another vertebrate adds to a few known cases of vertebrate predation by woodpeckers.
4164553|I observed a male Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) attack and kill a nestling of an unidentified passerine in a grassland field in Day County, South Dakota, in June 2000. The killing or removal of nestlings by female cowbirds has been reported by others, but this behavior has not been documented previously in male cowbirds.
4164554|I present the second record of Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) parasitism of the Black-chinned Siskin (Carduelis barbata). The last recorded observation was in 1929. This also represents the northernmost nesting record of the Black-chinned Siskin.
4164555|We studied parental care in the Great Kiskadee (Pitangus sulphuratus) in a suburban residential area in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, from September through December, 1998. Our data suggest that the dominant breeding system of the Great Kiskadees on our study site is social monogamy. Both male and female were involved in territory defense, nest building, and feeding the young. The female alone incubated the eggs and brooded the nestlings. Male and female visitation rates to the nest during the nestling period were similar.
4164563|Although adult plumage in Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) exhibits little or no sexual dichromatism, iris color reportedly changes from yellow or light orange in younger birds to shades of orange or red in older birds, especially in males. However, there is little quantitative data on this phenomenon. It has been suggested that male eye color may serve as a signal of age and hence reproductive fitness and thus offer a basis for nonrandom mating in Cooper's Hawks. In this study we examine the relationships between eye color and age, sex, and reproductive output for Cooper's Hawks in two breeding populations in British Columbia and North Dakota, 1999-2002, and compare these results to those previously published for a breeding population in Wisconsin, 1980-1995. Cooper's Hawks in British Columbia and North Dakota appear to acquire darker orange or red irides more frequently and more quickly than their counterparts at known and relative ages in Wisconsin. Females in all study sites are slower and less likely than males to acquire the darkest eye colors. Eye color is not a reliable predictor of age in individual male and female Cooper's Hawks, for researchers and perhaps for the birds themselves, because individual hawks of a given eye color displayed variation in known and relative ages in British Columbia and Wisconsin. There was no significant relationship between the eye color of males and their brood sizes in any of these three populations, and therefore no discernable support for the premise that male eye color per se signals male fitness, or functions as a sexual trait for assortative mating in this species.
4164564| We observed a male sparrow in May 1999 in Stow, Massachusetts, that showed hybrid characteristics resembling both Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum) and Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis). During 1999 and 2000, this male sang a simplified Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) song. However, in 2001 it also sang a typical Savannah Sparrow song and frequently alternated between these two songs. We recorded songs and captured this individual in an area with numerous Song Sparrows and about three pairs of Savannah Sparrows. We compared mitochondrial DNA, morphological measurements, behavior, and audio spectrograms of this hybrid with similar data from Grasshopper, Savannah, and Song sparrows. Genetic analysis indicated that the hybrid's mother was almost certainly a Grasshopper Sparrow. The hybrid showed morphological traits that were within the range of both Savannah Sparrow and Song Sparrow, but generally were more consistent for Savannah Sparrow. We observed this individual frequently associating with Savannah Sparrows, attempting to copulate with a female Savannah Sparrow, carrying Savannah Sparrow fecal sacs, and feeding young Savannah Sparrows, lending additional support to Savannah Sparrow paternity. We conclude that this individual was a Grasshopper  Savannah sparrow hybrid that learned to imitate the songs of Song Sparrows at an early stage of development. Interestingly, the hybrid's exposed culmen was considerably longer than culmen measurements of any of the three species of sparrows under consideration. 
4164565|We studied White-throated Jacamars (Brachygalba albogularis) at Manu National Park, Peru, finding a mean population density of 0.8 groups per km of suitable streamside habitat, and taking the first recordings of its song. Observations at nests provided the first evidence of cooperative breeding in the genus Brachygalba, as well as information on foraging tactics, prey selection, and provisioning behavior.
4164566|Female song rarely has been examined in suboscines. This paper describes the context and structure of female Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus) songs. During two years, we observed 4 of 19 females singing, and although singing occurred infrequently, it occurred predominantly at the nest during incubation and brooding. Analysis of five songs from one female showed that the mean of this female's songs fell below the distribution of male songs for the internote interval, the minimum and maximum frequency, the frequency range, and the frequency at maximum amplitude of the first note of the two-note song. These results differ from other studies showing no sex differences in song structure of tyrannid flycatchers, suggesting further analyses of female song are warranted.
4164567|Male Gambel's Quail (Callipepla gambelii) have strikingly ornate plumage. Yet, captive experiments indicate that removing multiple ornaments does not necessarily alter patterns of female mate choice or male-male competition. To test these unexpected results, I observed a wild population of banded quail for three seasons to determine ornamental and body size traits associated with pairing date and winners of male contests. I also documented mating behaviors (e.g., pairing date, mate fidelity, brood size). Consistent with captive studies, male mass, rather than ornate plumage, was the primary feature related to winners of male contests and early pairing. Heavier males paired earlier, regardless of age, but did not exhibit significantly larger ornaments. Adults of both sexes were heavier and paired earlier than yearlings. Early pairing also correlated positively with brood size, suggesting that heavy, early nesting birds experienced greater fitness. Mating behaviors were flexible across seasons. Social monogamy decreased from 83% in 1996 to 30% in 1998, while polygamy (sequential, long term pairings) increased, particularly among yearlings and adult males. Adult females were equally likely to exhibit social monogamy or polygamy each season. They also exhibited the highest frequency of early pairing and the greatest keel scores (a general measure of condition), suggesting their capacity for breeding was high. At least two adult females abandoned their first mate after hatching and re-paired, in an apparent attempt to double brood.
4164568|White Terns (Gygis alba) are common in the northwestern Hawaiian Islands, but in the main Hawaiian Islands they are found only on Oahu, where they are listed as threatened by the State of Hawaii. I censused the White Tern population on Oahu from October 2001 to January 2003, and I investigated breeding success and seasonality during monthly visits to four sites. I observed a total of 694 adult White Terns on Oahu, of which approximately 500 (72%) were breeding birds. Active nests were present during all months, but most eggs were laid from January to April (65%), with a peak in egg laying during March (22%). Nest success was 74%, and pairs produced a mean of 0.98 fledglings/year. One pair fledged successive young less than three months apart. The incubation period at one nest was 35 days, and the fledging periods at two nests were 43 and 47 days. The White Tern population on Oahu has increased from a single breeding pair in 1961 to approximately 250 pairs in 2002, a growth rate of 14% per year. White Terns on Oahu exist entirely in urban and suburban areas, and their reproduction is not inhibited by the numerous predators and sources of disturbance.
4164569|I reviewed Greater Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis tabida) reproductive success at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Oregon, 1966-1989, during which time predators were removed in 12 years and not removed in 12 years. Of 1,024 comparable crane nests found in those years, compared to those during nonremoval years, nests during years when some predators were removed had greater nesting success, more young fledged/100 pairs, lower mortality rates of young, and higher annual recruitment rates. The most important limiting factor for cranes at Malheur NWR was low annual recruitment resulting primarily from predation on eggs and prefledged young. Coyotes (Canis latrans) were the primary predator on eggs and young, but in some years Common Ravens (Corvus corax) and raccoons (Procyon lotor) took a large number of eggs.
4164570|Studies using artificial nests to assess rates or patterns of nest predation have increased during recent decades. However, the critical assumption that temporal or spatial patterns of relative predation rates of artificial nests parallel those of natural nests has begun to be questioned. We compared the daily survival rate for 365 artificial nests with that estimated for 295 open nests of passerines, and analyzed the trends in survival rates for both nest types among three breeding seasons and three species of nest plants in the central Monte Desert, Argentina. Daily survival rate for artificial nests (0.737) was significantly lower than that for natural nests (0.925). Trends in survival rates of artificial nests over years and among species of nest plants only partially reflected those of natural nests. Our results support the well established finding that artificial nests may not accurately estimate actual rates of nest predation. Artificial nests may provide an additional source of data to natural nests when testing ecological hypotheses, but artificial nest experiments should be carefully designed (i.e., realistic) and should attempt to identify predators of artificial and natural nests to validate the experimental results.
4164571| Until recently, little information was available on patterns of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in the southeastern United States, a region into which cowbirds expanded their range only during the last half of the Twentieth Century and where their abundance is relatively low. We compiled parasitism data from several published and unpublished studies conducted in Georgia and South Carolina from 1993-2000 to examine levels of brood parasitism and determine frequent host species. The combined dataset included 1,372 nests of 24 species reported in the literature to have been parasitized by cowbirds. The parasitism rate on all species combined was 8.2%. Considering only those species that served as hosts in these studies (n = 12), the parasitism rate was 9.3%. Seven species were parasitized at rates  10%. Based on the extent of parasitism (among studies and locations), their relative abundance, and the sample size of nests, Prairie Warblers (Dendroica discolor), Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina), Yellow-breasted Chats (Icteria virens), and Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea), all shrub nesters, appear to be the most important cowbird hosts in the region. Parasitism on some species reported as frequent hosts elsewhere was extremely low or not documented. We conclude that the impact of brood parasitism on the seasonal fecundity of hosts in the region probably is minimal, but additional work is warranted on species of concern, such as the Painted Bunting (Passerina ciris). 
4164572|We studied nest site selection by Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) to compare microhabitat characteristics at nest and random sites, and to compare successful and unsuccessful nests on the northern shore of Akimiski Island, Nunavut, during 2002. Nesting birds selected sites with more pebbles and less vegetative cover than randomly available in the environment. Nest sites also had smaller percentage of bare mud than random sites. Plovers selected sites within 100 m of Arctic Terns (Sterna paradisaea) more often than expected based on the distribution of random sites in the study area. Twenty-three of 41 (56%) nests hatched successfully. None of the microhabitat features that we measured predicted nest success. All 10 nests near the colony of Arctic Terns hatched, suggesting that interspecific associations are more reliable than habitat features for predicting nest success.
4164573|I examined short and long term responses of breeding bird communities to the systematic creation of early successional habitat resulting from forest management at a 1,120-ha study site in the Ridge and Valley Province of Pennsylvania, from 1998 through 2002. Species richness and abundances of all species combined and of early successional species increased from precut (1998-1999) to postcut eras (2001-2002) in a treated sector (aspen, Populus spp., and mixed oak, Quercus spp., areas combined), an uncut control sector, and the total study site (treated and control sectors combined) after the fourth cutting cycle. Abundances of a woodland species (Red-eyed Vireo, Vireo olivaceus) and four early successional species (e.g., Field Sparrow, Spizella pusilla) also increased. Over the past 15 years, which spans the third and the fourth cutting cycles at the study site, three woodland species increased significantly in both treated and control sectors (Red-eyed Vireo) or in the treated sector only (Ovenbird, Seiurus aurocapillus, and American Redstart, Setophaga ruticilla). The population of an early successional species (Indigo Bunting, Passerina cyanea) increased significantly in both treated and control sectors. Population trends of three woodland and three early successional species at the study site paralleled statewide or provincial increases in these species over the past two decades. My study has shown that the management of early successional habitats in extensively forested areas will be of benefit for the long term conservation of both early successional and mature forest bird species within a forested landscape.
4164574|The White-backed Woodpecker (Dendrocopos leucotos) is one of the rarest European woodpeckers and its populations have declined markedly during the last century in many European countries. The objective of our study was to investigate the selection of nesting and feeding trees by the subspecies D. l. lilfordi, a field not previously investigated. We conducted this study in a mountain area of central Italy characterized by wide and homogeneous tracts of beech- (Fagus sylvatica) forested slopes. The rate at which we detected the species was highly correlated with the mean trunk dbh of the stand; the more mature the stand, the greater the number of woodpecker detections. The White-backed Woodpecker was dependent upon trees that were mature, dead, or in an advanced degree of decay for both nesting and foraging. The habitat specialization of the species suggests that forest stand management should promote longer harvesting rotations, preserve dead and decaying trees, create new foraging sites, and prevent excessive fragmentation of forested landscapes.
4164575| We studied the diet of Imperial Cormorants (Phalacrocorax atriceps) and Rock Shags (P. magellanicus) at Baha Bustamante, Argentina, between 1992 and 1994. We analyzed pellet casts (1887 from Imperial Cormorants and 799 from Rock Shags) and regurgitations of stomach contents (260 from Imperial Cormorants and 24 from Rock Shags). Imperial Cormorants and Rock Shags fed on at least 22 and 21 different types of prey, respectively. The main prey species during all study years were fish: Engraulis anchoita for Imperial Cormorants and Patagonothen sp. for Rock Shags. For both species, the consumption of the main food categories as estimated by pellet analysis was similar among years. A significant relationship was found between Imperial Cormorant and Rock Shag diets during the three years, while the diet overlap index was relatively high. During all years, Imperial Cormorants consumed a significantly larger proportion of pelagic or demersal fish than did Rock Shags, while Rock Shags consumed benthic fish in a greater proportion than did Imperial Cormorants. Mean maximum diving depth, determined using capillary tube depth gauges, of Imperial Cormorants (24.4 m  18.8 SD) was significantly greater but more variable than that of Rock Shags (9.3 m  4.1 SD). 
4164576|Communal roosts are important resources for local populations of the Black Vulture (Coragyps atratus), but these roosts are increasingly becoming the focus for complaints of wildlife damage. We studied movements of Black Vultures between communal roosts in Florida using mark-resight methods. We marked 416 Black Vultures with patagial tags at two communal roosts in Orange County, Florida. A total of 1,245 resightings of 226 individuals were recorded over a 3-year period. Black Vultures made one-way movements between communal roosts of up to 152 km, and two-way movements (i.e., birds left a site and subsequently returned) between communal roosts of up to 144 km. Patterns of resightings indicated that some Black Vultures use several roosts over wide geographic ranges during parts of their lives. Long distance exchanges between roosts and high nightly turnover of membership at roosts leads to concerns that control of nuisance Black Vulture roosts has the potential to impact nontarget populations in a geographic area well beyond a given communal roost.
4164577|We trapped 994 hawks during spring migration in years between 1953 and 1972. We obtained sufficient numbers to comment on age or sex differences, or both, in the timing of migration of six species. Adults migrated earlier in most species, presumably because most adults but few juveniles breed. Adult male Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) migrated significantly before adult females and the larger (presumably female) Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) migrated significantly earlier than smaller individuals. Juvenile female Sharp-shinned Hawks and Cooper's Hawks (A. cooperii) migrated before males, probably because more juvenile females than males breed.
4164578| We compared the definitive prebasic molt schedules of Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) at two northern temperate breeding sites: the Vermont Institute of Natural Science (Vermont) in Woodstock, Vermont, and North Point (James Bay) on the southwestern coast of James Bay, Ontario. The two sites are separated by 8 of latitude. Yellow Warblers initiated molt significantly earlier in Vermont than at James Bay, with respective mean onset dates of 29 June and 20 July, but durations and rates of molt did not differ significantly between populations at the two sites. Mean individual molt durations spanned 44.5 days in Vermont and 40.0 days at James Bay. Molt rate of females differed significantly between the two sites, but male rates were similar. Based on number of primaries growing simultaneously, Yellow Warblers in both Vermont and James Bay appear to undergo a rapid and intense molt. The earlier and slightly more protracted molt of Yellow Warblers in Vermont may result from their earlier spring arrival and longer breeding season. 
4164579|We documented the breeding behavior and diet of a Philippine Eagle (Pithecophaga jefferyi) pair from July 1999 to January 2000 in an isolated forest in Central Mindanao. We observed eight distinct courtship displays and several activity patterns on the nest. Copulation started two months prior to egg laying and continued until the first month of incubation, with a mean of 1.5 copulations per day. Seventy-four percent of the time devoted to incubation was by the female. The incubation period lasted 58 days. Throughout the incubation and early brooding phases the male provided food for the female and the young. Diet consisted of 17 prey items of four vertebrate taxa, mostly mammals, with civet cats (Family Viverridae) and flying lemur (Cynocephalus volans) representing the bulk of the diet.
4164580|We observed a young male Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) about 35 days old being fed by adults associated with a neighboring territory. A survey of biologists studying this species revealed similar acts of adoption had been observed elsewhere, but the behavior appeared to be very rare. Adoption generally implies a cost to adults because care is provided to unrelated young, but the situation is complicated in cooperative breeders such as the Red-cockaded Woodpecker. Adopted birds can help breeding adults raise additional young, and the adopted male we observed remained as a helper in its adopted territory and fed young the following breeding season.
4164581|I observed a population of White-winged Trumpeters (Psophia leucoptera) in undisturbed lowland moist forest in Peru. During 2,460 h of focal observations, I observed one instance of infanticide that occurred when a permanent group killed the 7-day-old chick of an intruding group that was using a portion of its territory. Trumpeter groups defend large, year round, contiguous territories that barely provide groups with enough food to meet their caloric requirements during the dry season when fruit abundance is low. There may be a selective advantage to such infanticidal behavior if it helps prevent the formation of a new group on a resident group's territory, and the concomitant loss of space that would accompany such an event.
4164582|We evaluated the moisture-facilitated nest depredation hypothesis in a semiarid environment in the Southern High Plains of Texas during 1999 and 2000. Scaled Quail (Callipepla squamata) provided an excellent model species for this evaluation because they typically suffer significant nest mortality and inhabit semiarid to xeric environments. We monitored 102 nests until they either hatched or were predated. Nest mortalities occurred on 30 days and precipitation fell on 51 days during the two-year study. Stepwise logistic regression revealed a predictive relationship for a model with central precipitation on the day of nest predation as a predictor. However, in contrast to our predictions, the equation indicates precipitation is negatively associated with nest predation in this data set. Thus, our data do not support the moisture-facilitated nest depredation hypothesis for Scaled Quail in the semiarid, Southern High Plains of Texas.
4164583|The Cave Swallow (Petrochelidon fulva), first discovered breeding in Texas in 1915, originally was thought to be confined to sinkholes in central and western Texas. During our survey of bridges in Brazos County, Texas, we discovered Cave Swallows modify and use old Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica) nests, a previously unreported behavior. The presence of Barn Swallows (or old Barn Swallow nests) may facilitate colonization of new areas by Cave Swallows.
4164584|We observed a Yellow-crowned Night-Heron (Nyctanassa violacea) with its belly partly submerged in water, rapidly swaying its body laterally while holding its head and most of the extended neck still above the water. This behavior was observed several times with "Stand and Wait, Walk Slowly, Stand and Wait" foraging among three episodes of the "Submerge and Sway" mode. This body swaying motion appeared to flush out a frog that the heron captured during the second episode.
4164592|Piracy (kleptoparasitism) accounted for 14% of observed foraging attempts on vertebrates (n = 125) by Aplomado Falcons (Falco femoralis) in southern Texas and northern Mexico, and was over twice as successful as hunting (82% versus 37%). Aplomado Falcons pirated prey cooperatively as well as individually. Eight bird species were targeted for piracy, six of which were as large or larger than the falcons. The majority of prey items stolen were mammals.
4164593| The Pale-headed Brush-Finch (Atlapetes pallidiceps) is a critically endangered endemic bird species that is restricted to a single valley in southern Ecuador. We present the first description of the nest, eggs, breeding behavior, and juvenal plumage of this species. Seventy-two percent of nests (n = 18) were placed on thin overhanging branches 1-3 m above the ground, directly beneath the top layer of foliage in dense thickets. Nesting material consisted of various proportions of grass, twigs, and bamboo stalks and leaves. Clutch sizes ranged from 1-3 eggs (n = 22), and 55% of nests (n = 18) were parasitized by Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis). The background color of eggs was buffish white to bluish, and they were spotted and blotched with diffuse brown markings. Mean egg size was 24  17.8 mm. Fledgling plumage differed from adult plumage and had some characteristics similar to the adult White-winged Brush-Finch (Atlapetes leucopterus). Females alone incubated the eggs, and both parents fed the offspring. Incubation and nestling times were 12-14 days each. Fledglings of the Pale-headed Brush-Finch were led for several weeks after fledging. No pair initiated a second clutch after a successful first one (n = 16), but we observed second and third clutches after nest failure had occurred. Prolonged postfledging care is assumed to prevent multiple broods of the Pale-headed Brush-Finch during one season. 
4164594| We discovered and monitored a nest of the Rusty-winged Barbtail (Premnornis guttuligera) on the eastern slope of the Andes in Napo Province, Ecuador. The nest, in a hollow Cyathea tree-fern snag, was a deep cup composed entirely of Cyathea tree-fern petiole scales (ramenta). A single nestling fledged successfully on 13 March 2002. During the latter half of the nestling period, adults visited the nest with food a mean of 4.7  1.9 (SD) times/h and removed fecal sacs 2.2  1.1 times/h. Nest visitation rates generally decreased throughout the day. Adult Rusty-winged Barbtails foraged by gleaning from or probing into suspended dead leaves or moss, often while hanging onto the substrate, and did not hitch up trunks or creep along branches. Nest structure, composition, and location, and foraging behavior all raise doubts about the taxonomic placement of Premnornis in the Margarornis treerunner-barbtail assemblage. 
4164595|Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) observed at sea usually are in pairs throughout the year. Although it has been assumed that these pairs are mates, this assumption has not been formally examined. Using data from three study sites during the breeding seasons of 1997-2001, we found that 92% of the birds that were paired at capture were of male-female pairs, and that paired females were more likely (73%) to be producing eggs than were single females (8%). Fourteen of fifteen pairs were tracked to a single nest location per pair. No pair members caught at sea were found breeding at separate nest sites. One pair was caught in two successive seasons, suggesting that at least some pairs are long lasting. Notably, pair members breeding together and radio tracked throughout the summer were detected without their breeding partners for 77% of the time. Thus, while pairs of Marbled Murrelets observed at sea most likely are members of a breeding pair, single murrelets observed at sea should not be assumed to be unpaired or nonbreeders.
4164596|We examined habitat use of sympatric Fish Crows (Corvus ossifragus) and American Crows (C. brachyrhynchos) nesting in the vicinity of waterbird breeding locations at the Rockaway Peninsula, New York City. Fish Crows nested significantly more often at natural habitats, including coastal dunes and salt marsh islands; American Crows nested significantly more often at residential and recreational areas. In regard to potential foraging areas, Fish Crows nested closer to waterbird colonies and to the water's edge while American Crows nested closer to a garbage source and to lawns. Fish Crows nested significantly more often in deciduous trees that were native, while American Crows nested significantly more often in evergreen trees that more frequently were exotic, especially Japanese black pine (Pinus thunbergii). Finally, we consider the potential predatory impact of sympatric crow species on waterbirds in light of their habitat use.
4164597|We explored nest site habitat selection patterns for six grassland passerine species in northcentral Montana: Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii), Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), Baird's Sparrow (A. bairdii), Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus), and Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta). We quantified habitat characteristics at sites chosen for nesting and compared them to randomly selected sites, both spatially and temporally. Using discriminant analysis, two species groups were discernable based on a combination of habitat characteristics, which were distinct from random sites. Nest sites had greater foliage height and density than random sites. This pattern generally was shown most strongly by Western Meadowlarks, Baird's, and Savannah sparrows. Three bird species selected nest patches (5-m radius plots centered on nests) having little or no clubmoss (Selaginella densa) cover, which was one of the most powerful discriminating variables in this analysis. The conservation implications of increasing clubmoss cover in relationship to nest site selection in northern Great Plains grasslands are discussed.
4164598|We examined resin chemistry of loblolly (Pinus taeda) and shortleaf (P. echinata) pines selected as cavity trees by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) in eastern Texas. We sampled resin from (1) pines selected by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers that contained naturally excavated active cavities, (2) pines selected by forest biologists that contained artificially installed cavity inserts and were actively being used by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers, and (3) control pines of similar age and appearance to the active cavity trees. We hypothesized that if woodpeckers are inducing a change in resin chemistry by excavating resin wells, this change should appear in active cavity trees selected by woodpeckers and trees selected by biologists, but not in control pines. If woodpeckers are selecting pines that have specific resin chemistry, concentrations of some resin components in active cavity trees selected by the woodpeckers for natural cavity excavation should be different from both control pines and pines selected by biologists. A large diterpene acid peak containing an isopimariclevopimaric-palustric methyl-ester mix in active natural cavity trees was approximately 20% greater than controls and 22% greater than trees with artificial cavities. None of the other eight resin chemicals differed among treatments. The activity of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers at resin wells did not appear to affect the composition of cavity tree resin. Woodpeckers, however, may select pines with specific resin chemistries for cavity trees.
4164599|I conducted a vegetation removal experiment using American Goldfinch (Carduelis tristis) nests to test the hypothesis that predation rates vary with concealment in old field habitats in eastcentral Illinois. Daily predation rates were 0.05 for manipulated nests and 0.04 for control nests. Although manipulated nests were much less concealed than control nests, the probability of predation did not differ significantly between treatments or years. Logistic regression models indicated that nests initiated earlier in the breeding season had a greater probability of predation than nests initiated later in the breeding season. These results indicate that time of breeding season may be more important than concealment in explaining probability of predation of American Goldfinch nests in this old field system.
4164600| We report on the relationship between Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) clutch size and cropland area in the landscape in western Minnesota during 1997-1999. We measured clutch size in two types of nest structures and fit a mixed-effects model to the data to examine the relationship. Our model also included covariates to control for the effects of year, nest initiation date, estimated pair numbers, and nest structure type. Unique landscapes associated with each nest (n = 134) ranged from 46.4-84.8% cropland. Clutch size was unrelated to cropland area, nest structure type, and estimated number of pairs with access to structures. Mean clutch size declined with nest initiation date early in the nesting season, but increased somewhat for nests initiated after 30 May. Clutch size also differed among years. Mean clutch size, adjusted for nest initiation date, was 11.0  0.19 SE for 1997, 10.5  0.19 SE for 1998, and 11.0  0.19 SE for 1999. Conclusions regarding the significance of the year effect and the degree of nonlinearity due to nest initiation date were sensitive to potential clutch size outliers, but cropland area had no effect on clutch size regardless of the way we constrained clutch size. Nest parasitism by philopatric females laying in certain structures might explain the observed increase in clutch size in late nest initiations. 
4164601|We examined variation in meal size, feeding frequency and daily food delivery in relation to age, nest, day, year, and weather by White-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon lepturus) using repeated weighing of chicks. We focused particularly on the differences between chicks which survived and those which died. Unsuccessful chicks became significantly lighter than successful chicks at the age of 30 days; however, some were fed until they were 60 days old. Feeding frequency and meal size differed significantly between both age classes and between surviving and nonsurviving chicks. In surviving chicks, feeding frequency remained relatively constant until chicks reached 60 days and dropped progressively thereafter. In this group, meal size was significantly lower in chicks up to 20 days old and over 70 days old than those aged 21-70 days. We found significant relationships between chick food provisioning and day, nest, and year. Feeding frequency was more important than meal size in explaining the difference in food delivery between surviving and nonsurviving chicks. This was due to much greater significant differences for feeding frequency than for meal size between surviving and nonsurviving chicks, including annual differences in feeding frequency (but not in meal size) for surviving chicks. Our study suggests that parents of unsuccessful chicks had difficulty in obtaining sufficient food for their chicks from very early on, but responded to this problem first by decreasing the feeding frequency and, later, decreasing both feeding frequency and meal size. Our study shows that parents vary in their abilities to provide optimal provisioning to their chicks. Environmental conditions determine further energetic constraints in food delivery to chicks.
4164602|Age specific survival and movement are important components of demography and population structure, and quantification of these rates is useful for management and conservation. However, information on the postfledging ecology of waterfowl species frequently is unavailable to managers. I studied postfledging survival and movements of juvenile Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia, using radio marking and capture-mark-recapture analysis of banded birds captured at coastal wintering areas. Survival of juvenile females was high, providing evidence that female winter survival may be similar among age groups. Radio-marked juvenile males were more likely to die than juvenile females, and juvenile males had lowest local survival rates of all sex-age classes. Proportions of banded juveniles found at their capture location during their second winter did not differ significantly between males and females, suggesting equal dispersal rates, and at least 25% (n = 9) of radio-marked females moved >30 km from their capture location. These results were unexpected, based on previous evidence for female philopatry and theories of male-biased dispersal in waterfowl, and suggest that males and females both likely contribute to gene flow and demographic connection among populations.
4164603|We report on the exponential growth of the Eastern Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis carolinensis) in Louisiana, following its extirpation in 1963, and its subsequent reintroduction (1968-1980). This population growth pattern is remarkable since the Brown Pelican exhibits low fecundity, a long life span, and is considered largely nonmigratory in the Gulf of Mexico. To understand the regional changes in breeding numbers of Brown Pelicans in the northern Gulf of Mexico, we investigated the long term trends of the other subpopulations in Florida and Texas. The Florida subpopulation of Brown Pelicans has exhibited a stable-limit cycle, but within the last decade the number of nesting birds has declined while the number of nesting colonies has steadily increased. The number of Brown Pelicans in Texas now exceeds estimates prior to the time pesticides caused reproductive failure of the subpopulation. The Louisiana subpopulation now equals or exceeds its historical (pre-pesticide) numbers. Although local recruitment can account for the exponential growth of Brown Pelicans in Louisiana, we believe that dispersal from colonies outside of Louisiana may have augmented the growth of its nesting population.
4164604|We analyzed seasonal variation in avian species richness and relative abundance at the community and guild level during a 13-month period in central Bolivia in an 11-ha patch of Polylepis (Rosaceae) forest, a high-Andean ecosystem that has suffered from extreme anthropogenic fragmentation. Birds were surveyed audio-visually (supplemented with mist net data) and assigned to five relative abundance categories for 2-month survey periods. We recorded 35 core species, including 16 insectivores (46%), 11 frugi-granivores (31%), seven nectarivores (20%), and one carnivore (3%). Core species richness varied from 25 (June-July) to 33 (October-November). Insectivores had a significantly higher proportion of year-round residents (81%) than frugi-granivores (45%) or nectarivores (14%); the same trend was evident with respect to seasonal variation in species richness of each guild. Although most species varied considerably in their relative abundance, no guild showed significant variation in relative abundance scores among survey periods. However, frugi-granivores and nectarivores combined, both of which depend upon plants as food resources, reached a significant minimum in mid-winter (June-July), and the same result was found at the community level. The insectivore guild thus was the most temporally stable both in terms of species richness and abundance. Qualitative observations indicated that the fluctuations in frugi-granivores and nectarivores were related to the availability of food resources.
4164605|We investigated banded, known-age Royal Terns (Sterna maxima) in North Carolina during 1999 and 2000 to determine seasonal variation in their diet and any age-related correlations in foraging. Systematic observations of adults returning with food indicated that at least 18 families of fish, squid, and crustaceans were exploited. The most common forage species in both years were anchovies (Engraulidae), herring (Clupeidae), and drum (Sciaenidae). In 1999 we also monitored a sample of 48 color-banded, known-age breeding birds ranging in age from 6-17 years to assess variations in diet with age. We detected no age-related differences in Royal Tern prey size or selection; however, our sample was relatively small and further research is warranted.
4164606|The biology of the endangered Tuamotu Sandpiper (Prosobonia cancellata) is essentially unknown. We analyzed vocalizations from presumed adult individuals and pairs, and family groups, recorded in French Polynesia during March 1990 and 2003. We recognized three types of vocalizations. Presumed adults uttered types I and II. These were brief (about 30-40 and 20-120 ms, respectively) and simple in structure (increasing then decreasing in frequency) but harmonically rich, with most energy in the second or third harmonics (peak fundamental frequency was about 775-1,380 Hz), as in some other Scolopacidae. Higher harmonics reached unusually high frequencies for a scolopacid (approaching 14 kHz). Call types I and II were uttered singly or as couplets, triplets, or longer sequences. Type III calls were longer (about 115-470 ms), of narrower bandwidth, and with modulations of a carrier frequency that decreased from about 1,925 to 1,305 Hz; they were given by a presumed family group and may represent calls of dependent young birds. Harmonic richness and variation in frequency and temporal variables within call types are consistent with a short range communication system.
4164607|Females of many species of birds possess either a reduced version of male ornaments or conspicuous but hidden ornaments. No female specific ornament display has been described previously in a species with reduced or hidden female ornaments. We describe such a display in Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). The display consists of a perched female rotating her wings open to expose the red, carotenoid-pigmented underwing coverts, which are indicative of individual quality in this species.
4164608|In this paper we report the copulation behavior of the Greater Rhea (Rhea americana), a species in which males defend a harem of females. We describe the females' behavior during 14 copulation events observed from 1995-1997 at Buenos Aires province, Argentina. During copulations, females performed a more active role than previously suggested. Moreover, on three occasions we observed that harem females performed a complex copulation solicitation display, forming a closed circle to attract the male. We hypothesize that this display could be a reliable signal to the male of the tendency of females to be inseminated and lay eggs communally.
4164609|Most female birds have only a left ovary and associated oviduct. The entry to the oviduct is on the left side of the urodeum of the cloaca. This arrangement may favor males that mount females from the left during copulation if it results in sperm being placed closer to the opening of the oviduct. Therefore, we predicted a left-sided directional bias of cloacal contacts during House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) copulations. Cloacal contacts from the left outnumbered those from the right 74 to 25 (3:1) during 25 bouts of copulation at 11 House Sparrow nests. While this pattern suggests that a left-sided bias in mounting by males during copulation may be related to the asymmetry of the female reproductive tract, it also might be related to brain lateralization.
4164610| We describe for the first time the characteristics of the nest sites, nests, eggs, and nestling behavior of the endemic Snowy-cheeked Laughingthrush (Garrulax sukatschewi). During May and June 2002, at the Lianhuashan Natural Reserve in central China, we found five nests in coniferous forest at an elevation of 2,850 m. All nests, built by both members of a pair, were cup shaped and built 1.2-2.8 m above the ground in the branches of spruce (Picea spp.) trees or willow (Salix spp.) shrubs. The eggs were unspotted and greenish blue. We observed one brood of three nestlings. The parents fed the nestlings at a frequency of about 7.9 times/h  2.8 SD, with the female performing 51.6% of the feedings. Both male and female adults removed the feces from the nest at a mean rate of 6.9 times/h. 
4164611|We analyzed the body condition of nestling Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia) at Buffalo Gap National Grassland during the summers of 1999 and 2000. In 1999, which had a wet spring, body condition was negatively related to brood size and distance from nest to colony edge. There was no relationship between body condition and brood size during 2000, which had normal precipitation. In 2000, nestlings of early arriving pairs were in better body condition than those that arrived later. The variance in body condition within a brood was not related to brood size.
4164612|We report an apparent nonlethal predation attempt on and subsequent adoption of a Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens) chick by a pair of Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in the Aleutian Archipelago, Alaska. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of a live Glaucous-winged Gull chick in a Bald Eagle nest. We describe our observations of this occurrence and offer explanations on how it may have occurred.
4164613|Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) typically hunt in forested habitats and feed upon birds and mammals there. Relatively little is known of goshawk food habits in coastal landscapes, and few seabirds have been documented in their diets. Although guillemots (Cepphus spp.) are potentially available to Northern Goshawks in most coastal landscapes within its range, they have not been documented previously in this raptor's diet. I observed the delivery of a Pigeon Guillemot (C. columba) to a goshawk nest on a coastal island in Southeast Alaska. Guillemots forage in shallow, inshore waters, making them a potentially difficult prey item for goshawks to capture. In addition, Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) occur in large numbers in Southeast Alaska and probably harass goshawks when they are foraging in open habitat near the beach edge. Therefore, even in areas where guillemots occur, it is likely that they are only rarely hunted by goshawks.
4164614|Diets of puffbirds and mortality sources of adult hummingbirds are poorly known. I observed a White-necked Puffbird (Malacoptila macrorhynchus) attack and capture a Rufous-tailed Hummingbird (Amazilia tzacatl) in the Republic of Panama. This is the first report of birds as prey of puffbirds and identifies another source of natural mortality for hummingbirds.
4164615|The Village Weaver (Ploceus cucullatus) usually is found in moist areas, breeding near water during the rainy season. On Hispaniola I observed the Village Weaver breeding in the desert, despite a lack of rain, and consuming the fruits of a columnar cactus (Stenocereus hystrix). I propose that the carbohydrate and, especially, water content of these fruits is a substitute for rainfall, facilitating Village Weaver breeding in an arid environment. Weavers also may disperse the cactus seeds.
4164616|In July 2001, during seabird surveys in dense montane rainforest at the summit of Ta'u, we documented the occurrence of the Spotless Crake (Porzana tabuensis) in American Samoa for the first time in 17 years. The last sightings were made during 1985-1986 in lowland agricultural areas, semiwetland, and secondary forests. Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) also were discovered in the montane forests and pose a threat to the continued survival of the crake at its only colony in the Samoan archipelago.
4164621|Using standardized mist-net captures collected over a 32-year period (1970-2001), we examined changes in the capture rates of passerines recorded in coastal Massachusetts during fall (78 species) and spring (72 species) migration. Capture rates of 45 species of fall migrants (58%) declined significantly between early (1970-1985) and late (1986-2001) years of the study; 36 species of spring migrants (50%) showed significant declines. Only Carolina Wren (Thryothorus ludovicianus), Tufted Titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor), Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), and Orchard Oriole (Icterus spurius) showed significant increases during spring migration; fall sampling indicated that Carolina Wren, Tufted Titmouse, Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens), and Northern Cardinal had significantly higher capture rates. Of 37 species included in the migration monitoring data but not reliably represented by Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) data in any of the northeastern physiographic strata, 23 (62%) showed significant declines at Manomet during at least one of the two migration periods. There were significant correlations in percent changes in migrant capture rates between fall and spring. BBS trends reported from the southern New England and northern New England physiographic strata were correlated with changes in migrant capture rates. However, there were also inconsistencies between results obtained by the two monitoring approaches, suggesting that factors in addition to actual changes in breeding populations may be reflected in the migration capture data.
4164622|We video-recorded three, natural, brood-parasitism events by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) at nests of Least Bell's Vireos (Vireo bellii pusillus). All instances occurred near dawn, during both egg-laying and incubation stages of the nesting cycle. In each case, an adult vireo was on the nest when the female cowbird arrived. Both members of each parasitized pair vigorously attacked the intruding cowbird, but in no encounter did a pair of vireos successfully defend its nest from parasitism. Thus, Leas Bell's Vireos in our study were unable to prevent a female cowbird from parasitizing their nests once the cowbird had reached the nest.
4164623|We examined effects of incubation mate feeding on female incubation behavior and correlates of fitness by providing female Bewick's Wrens (Thryomanes bewickii) and House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) with food supplements. Males of these species vary in their rates of feeding; Bewick's Wrens feed their incubating mates frequently, whereas House Wrens seldom engage in this behavior. Average length of incubation bout and nest attentiveness (proportion of time spent on the nest) were higher for supplemented female Bewick's Wrens and House Wrens compared to controls. Furthermore, mates of supplemented Bewick's Wrens provisioned females at lower rates than controls, and their rate of feeding was inversely correlated with ambient temperature. Incubation length and hatching success were not significantly different between treatments for either species. These results suggest that incubation mate feeding can increase female nest attentiveness and perhaps enhance fitness of both males and females. In House Wrens, potential tradeoffs between the benefits of parental care and opportunities to obtain additional mates may explain why males rarely feed incubating females.
4164624|We obtained nestling provisioning and reproductive data from 24 Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) groups occupying two different pine habitats--longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and a mixture of loblolly (P. taeda) and shortleaf pine (P. echinata)--in eastern Texas during 1990 and 1991. Habitat data were collected within 800 m of each group's cavity-tree cluster. Feeding trips per nest and prey biomass per feeding trip were significantly greater in loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat. There were few significant correlations between reproductive/provisioning and habitat variables in either pine habitat. Pines dying from infestation by southern pine beetles (Dendroctonus frontalis) were more common in loblolly-shortleaf than in longleaf pine habitat. In addition, adult male Red-cockaded Woodpeckers weighed more in loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat. Indices of southern pine beetle abundance in loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat were negatively correlated with number of feeding trips per nestling, but positively correlated with prey biomass delivered to nestlings. We hypothesize that the greater abundance of southern pine beetles and associated arthropods in loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat, and the resulting higher frequency of dying pines containing an abundant food source, were associated with an elevated prey biomass available to both nestling and adult Red-cockaded Woodpeckers.
4164625|We studied the consequences of nest predation and brood parasitism on a population of Wilson's Warblers (Wilsonia pusilla) breeding in coastal riparian woodlands in northern California. We monitored 90 warbler nests from 1997 to 2000; only 16 of these produced Wilson's Warbler young. Of 74 failed nests, 73% (54/74) failed due to nest predation. Overall, 33% (30/90) of the nests were parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). Nest success, as calculated by the Mayfield method, was 0.085 and notably lower than values reported for other warbler species. We used a simple demographic population model--under scenarios of high, average, and low productivity and survival--to evaluate the viability of this population and found it to be at risk of local extirpation without immigration. This was due to the combined effects of high levels of nest predation and the impacts of brood parasitism.
4164626|Lowland coniferous forests adjacent to northern Lake Huron provide important stopover habitat for landbirds during spring migration. Large numbers of aquatic insects emerging from nearshore waters of northern Lake Huron appear to be an important food source. In this study we compared the foraging behavior of a long-distance landbird migrant, the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla), in areas with high densities of emergent aquatic insects to areas with few or no emergent aquatic insects to assess the significance of these arthropods as an early spring food source. Redstarts foraged differently in shoreline habitats relative to inland habitats of similar vegetation composition. Both males and females gleaned significantly more in shoreline habitats as compared to inland areas of similar vegetation composition, and inland birds performed more sally strikes than birds at the shoreline. Both sexes also varied the use of tree species in which they foraged. Redstarts used northern white cedar (Thuja occidentalis) more at shoreline than inland, while inland redstarts foraged in deciduous trees more than at the shoreline. We suggest that differences in foraging between shoreline and inland locations were responses to differences in prey types and abundance, most notably the presence of emergent aquatic insects (Diptera: Chironomidae) in shoreline habitat. Our results complement those of previous work, suggesting that midges provide a critical early season resource for landbirds migrating through Michigan's eastern Upper Peninsula during spring.
4164627|Many species of Neotropical migrant songbirds have declined in recent decades, due in part to loss and fragmentation of stopover habitat. To properly manage forested landscapes for migrating songbirds, information is needed on how size and habitat structure of forest patches influence their use by migrants during stopover. We conducted surveys of Neotropical migrant birds in eight oak hammocks of varying size (0.32-3.08 ha) at the Savannah National Wildlife Refuge, Jasper County, South Carolina during spring migration 1999 and 2000 and fall migration 1999. Hammock size was the most important factor related to number of total species, species per day, individuals per day, and density of migrants. Differences in vegetation structure and patchiness among hammocks did not explain differences in migrant abundance. Density of migrants tended to be higher in smaller hammocks, particularly during spring. Hammock use was generally similar between seasons and years. Two forest-interior breeding species occurred more often in the largest hammocks, suggesting that interior species are susceptible to forest fragmentation while en route. We suggest that protection of larger (versus smaller) tracts of forest is more beneficial to migrating songbirds, especially declining forest interior species.
4164628|We radio-tracked Summer Tanagers (Piranga rubra) at a Gulf coast stopover site to study en route activity budgets. Tanagers were inactive a majority of the time, with scanning, foraging, and preening being the next most commonly observed activities. When foraging, tanagers primarily used sallying to capture a variety of insect prey. Possible explanations for inactivity during stopover include the need for rest following prolonged flight, muscle repair, reduced digestive capacity, and the short distance remaining to the breeding grounds.
4164629|Extensive observations and experiments suggest that collisions with plate glass result in more avian mortalities than any other human-associated factor. We tested the effects of window angling and the distance of bird feeders from windows on bird-glass collisions. Strike frequency differed among windows oriented vertically (control) and those angled 20 and 40 degrees from vertical; as the angle of orientation increased, strikes and fatalities decreased. Strike frequency and fatalities at windows also increased as the distance between bird feeders and the glass surface increased. No fatalities were recorded when feeders were located within 1 m of a window, but a marked increase in mortality occurred when feeders were placed 5 and 10 m from the glass. Most glass-collision victims may go unnoticed, hidden by vegetation where they remain out of view or are removed by scavengers. We found that scavengers frequently removed baits from beneath windows at six buildings, but no baits were taken from a site without windows that served as a control. The importance of window strikes as an avian mortality factor, and the likelihood that it will increase over time, compel us to recommend a reevaluation of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA). Angling panes in new and remodeled buildings and placing bird feeders closer to windows can potentially reduce avian mortality.
4164630| Two new locations, vocalizations, and the nest of the little known Selva Cacique (Cacicus koepckeae, Icteridae) are described from southeastern Peru. Similarities between the vocalizations of Selva and Ecuadorian caciques (C. sclateri) indicate that the two species may be closely related. The Selva Cacique may be ecologically restricted to narrow rivers and headwater regions, where found in river margin habitats and nearby transitional forest. Its occurrence from an elevation of 300 m at the type locality to 575 m at the headwaters of the Ro Manu Chico, 240 km from the type locality, indicates that it may occur in small numbers over a much larger area than was previously known. 
4164631| The Neotropic Cormorant (Phalacrocorax brasilianus) is a widespread and abundant species distributed throughout the Neotropics. We report on diving behavior and foraging areas of Neotropic Cormorants in inshore marine waters of Patagonia, Argentina. Mean dive duration was 18.9  5.3 sec and differed significantly among birds. Maximum dive duration was 43 sec. Birds spent 58-79% of their time at sea underwater. Mean recovery time at the surface between successive dives was 6.7  1.5 sec, and was also significantly different among individuals. Mean diving efficiency (mean dive duration time/mean recovery time) was 2.6  0.5 (range: 0.5-4.6). We were able to locate birds while feeding on 112 of 215 occasions. Almost 90% of mapped locations (68 feeding trips) were within 2.5 km of the colony. However, we did not receive a signal on 103 occasions, suggesting that foraging may also occur in waters outside the inlet where the colony was located. High variability in dive duration and recovery time is congruent with flexible foraging techniques and diet, as Neotropic Cormorants feed on both bottom and pelagic schooling fish. 
4164632| From March 1999 to August 2000, we conducted monthly mist netting in the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve, Jalisco, Mexico to document the phenology and habitat use of the Red-breasted Chat (Granatellus venustus). We collected information on its nesting biology during the breeding season of 2001. Chats (n = 116) were caught throughout the 18 months of the study; however, far fewer captures occurred during the dry season than during the wet season. Our capture data revealed that chats made greater use of deciduous (n = 88) than semi-deciduous forest (n = 28); there were no interactions among forest type, season, and gender. Birds in breeding condition were captured June-September and molting birds were captured August-October. We found 10 cup-shaped nests in June and July. Nests were 48-103 cm above ground in saplings 2 m high. Clutch size was 3-4 and only the female incubated. The incubation period was 14 days, and we estimated the nestling period to be approximately 8-10 days. Of eight nests found with eggs or young, three were depredated during the egg stage, three during the nestling stage, and two were successful. 
4164633|Although intraspecific brood parasitism is common in many bird species, including several secondary cavity-nesting birds, it does not appear to have been reported in woodpeckers. We report a case of intraspecific brood parasitism in the Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus) in which six to eight eggs were dumped into the host nest box during a 2- to 3-week period. We estimate that the host female laid a clutch of 8 to 10 eggs, and at the end of the nestling period we confirmed that 16 flicker eggs had been laid in the nest box. This instance of egg-dumping by a floater female or another resident female in the same territory or on an adjacent territory, could have been facilitated by a lack of suitable nest sites in the area coupled with intense nest-site competition from European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris).
4164634|Common Loons (Gavia immer) normally lay a single clutch of two eggs each breeding season. They occasionally lay one- or three-egg clutches, and rarely, four-egg clutches. Participants of the Canadian Lakes Loon Survey provided seven independent observations of loon pairs rearing four-chick broods. Photographic evidence confirmed two separate instances of adult loon pairs at Anglin Lake, Saskatchewan, and Kasshabog Lake, Ontario, exhibiting parental behavior toward a four-chick brood. Occurrence of four-chick broods may be the result of supernumerary clutches, nest parasitism, post-hatch brood amalgamation, or a combination of these factors.
4164635|Some species of birds commonly forage by following other animals and capturing prey flushed by the movements of the latter. Here we describe a possible foraging association between White Hawks (Leucopternis albicollis) and white-nosed coatis (Nasua narica) in Tikal National Park, Guatemala. The frequency of association varied seasonally, perhaps due to differences in availability of reptiles, the hawks' main prey.
4164636|Wilson's Plover (Charadrius wilsonia) occurs year-round along the Caribbean and Pacific coasts of Colombia. The species frequents a variety of coastal habitats including sandy beaches, tidal flats, and small swamps and wetlands. Its breeding range extends from Virginia south through the West Indies to Surinam, and from Baja California to Peru. Here, we report the first nesting record on the Pacific coast of Colombia.
4164637| We provide the first description of the nest, eggs, young, and breeding behavior of the Great Antpitta (Grallaria excelsa) in Yacambu National Park, Venezuela. The nests (n = 3) were large, bulky, open-cup structures composed of a dense assortment of live and dead mosses, rootlets, wet leaves, small stems, detritus, and live and dead fern fronds, and were lined with a thick mesh of black rootlets and rhizomorphs. Nests were built >3.8 m above the ground in live trees where dense clusters of aroid plants, epiphytes, and lianas secured them to either a vertical fork or against the trunk itself. Both adults participated in nest building; incubating two unmarked, turquoise eggs; and feeding nestlings. Mean nest attentiveness (time spent on the nest/total video time when corrected for human disturbance) was 98.8  1.8% SD, and nestling feeding rates were low (one visit by each adult/5 hr total video time). 
4164638|We report the first record of a Bluecrowned Motmot (Momotus momota) feeding on a long-tongued bat (Glossophaginae) in a secondary forest in southwestern Costa Rica. The motmot incapacitated the bat, then swallowed it alive, head first. Motmots and bats are found in close proximity along river banks where the former nests and the latter roosts.
4164647|Cognition includes the acquisition, processing, retention of, and acting upon information from the environment. Avian cognition has been investigated by the approaches of experimental psychology and in the context of specific tasks, such as spatial memory. However, the costs and benefits of cognitive ability have not been considered in a life-history context. I explore possible relationships between behaviors that might indicate cognitive function and other attributes, particularly brain size, rate of development, age at maturity, and life span. Large brain size and prolonged development are seen as potential costs of intelligent behavior. Long life span may permit the extended learning periods that support experienced-based cognitive function. Play behavior, which plausibly supports the development of motor and social skills, and, to a lesser extent, foraging innovations, are related to brain size. The challenge of foraging in a spatially and temporally varying environment, experienced for example by pelagic seabirds, is associated with prolonged embryonic development. Although these connections lack mechanistic foundations, they suggest that cognition can be considered as a part of the life history of the individual and that potential costs of cognition might provide guidelines for directing the comparative study of intelligent behavior.
4164648|Geophagy is widespread and well documented for mammals, but avian geophagy has only recently become the subject of serious scientific investigation. I analyzed data from 606 mornings of observations at a large avian geophagy site or "clay lick" in the southwestern Amazon Basin to examine the effects of weather on bird lick use. Birds used the clay lick on 94% of the mornings without precipitation or fog. Parrots dominated the site in both numbers of species (17) and individuals (>99%). Weather conditions were significantly correlated with total lick use: there was greater use on sunny mornings and less on rainy mornings. Fog and overnight rain were correlated with low lick use. Sun, rain, fog, and overnight rain were recorded on 47, 25, 20, and 8% of the mornings, respectively. I estimated that inclement weather caused an annual 29% reduction in geophagy for all bird species combined. When early morning rain prevented species from using the lick, they did not return later in the day nor did they compensate for rainy mornings by increasing lick use on subsequent days. The timing of lick use and the lack of compensation suggest that neutralization of toxins could be driving lick use in this system.
4164649| We monitored the heart rates of free-living Tule Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons elgasi) during human disturbances on their wintering range in the Sacramento Valley of California during 1997. We used implanted radio transmitters to record the heart rates of geese as an observer experimentally approached them at a constant walking speed. On average, geese flushed when observers were 47 m (range: 25-100 m) away. Change point regression was used to identify the point in time when heart rate abruptly increased prior to flushing and when heart rate began to level off in flight after flushing. Heart rates of geese increased as the observer approached them during five of six disturbance trials, from 114.1  6.6 beats/min during the observer's initial approach to 154.8  7.4 beats/min just prior to flushing at the first change point. On average, goose heart rates began to increase most rapidly 5 sec prior to taking flight, and continued to increase rapidly for 4 sec after flushing until reaching flight speed. Heart rate was 456.2  8.4 beats/min at the second change point, which occurred immediately after flushing, and 448.3  9.5 beats/min 1 min later during flight. Although goose heart rates increased as an observer approached, the largest physiological change occurred during a 9-sec period (range: 1.0-15.7 sec) immediately before and after flushing, when heart rates nearly tripled. 
4164650|Most of what is known about diet of Xantus's Murrelets (Synthliboramphus hypoleucus) comes from prey found in 19 of 22 murrelet stomachs collected during the 1977 breeding season near Santa Barbara Island in the Southern California Bight (SCB). In May 2002, we examined stomachs of 10 Xantus's Murrelets collected near Anacapa Island, also within the SCB. Seven of the 10 stomachs contained prey. Prey were subadult or adult northern anchovy (Engraulis mordax; 2 stomachs), either juvenile bluefin driftfish (Psenes pellucidus) or medusafish (Icichthys lockingtoni; 2 stomachs), and euphausiids (Thysanoessa spinifera; 3 stomachs). Only one prey type was found in each stomach. Our sample added to the diversity of known prey types used in the SCB, including euphausiids and larger age/size classes of fish. We confirmed continued use of northern anchovy, and identified new prey species (bluefin driftfish or medusafish) associated with jellyfish or floating algae and debris in convergence lines. During the breeding season, Xantus's Murrelets appear to be generalist feeders that search for and use available prey that may be concentrated at convergence lines.
4164651|We radio-tagged 55 Pacific Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis fulva) in spring 2001-2003 on wintering grounds in Hawaii. Following their northward migration (most birds deserted winter territories in late April), we relocated 15 golden-plovers in three regions of Alaska: Copper River Delta, King Salmon, and Kotzebue. One individual made the transpacific flight from Oahu to the Alaska Peninsula in a minimum time of 70 hr at a minimum flight speed of 56 km/hr. Our findings, together with earlier records, indicate a major Hawaii-Alaska migratory connection for this species, and suggest that plovers wintering on Oahu nest throughout the known Alaska breeding range. Post-breeding, 84% of the sample birds returned to Oahu and reoccupied their previous winter territories.
4164652|We report on behavioral interactions between fire ants (Solenopsis invicta) and vertebrate predators at two Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapilla) nests at Fort Hood, Texas. In the presence of fire ants, an eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana) failed to depredate a clutch of vireo eggs at one nest, while a rat snake (Elaphe obsoleta lindheimeri) depredated nestlings at another nest, despite fire ants swarming the nest. Neither nest was successful. Direct and indirect effects of interactions among nest predators on avian nesting success need further assessment.
4164653|Decades of fruitful research on the study of vocal communication in birds have provided surprisingly little evidence of a predation cost associated with singing. In this paper, I report the first observational evidence of a risk of predation associated with chorusing in a Neotropical wood-quail. Black-breasted Wood-Quail (Odontophorus leucolaemus) live in groups year-round and produce coordinated group choruses or duets. Three mammalian and two avian species of predators were attracted to playbacks of recorded wood-quail choruses that I used during population surveys and capture attempts from March to August, 2000-2002. The trade-off between signaling and predation risk may be an important force in the evolution of chorusing in New World quails.
4164654|In broods of Crested Ibis (Nipponia nippon), aggressive dominance was unstable over time, even within feeding sessions. All chicks took turns pecking aggressively while broodmates hung their heads submissively, although roles were contested at the start of feeding bouts when chicks were 11-17 days old. In all broods, at least half of all pecks were false pecks, which did not strike broodmates even when within reach. False pecks seem to be ritualized displays that function to solicit food from parents and possibly to threaten rivals.
4164655|Several standard references report the incubation period of the Bar-tailed Godwit (Limosa lapponica) as 20-21 days, but the source of those statements is unclear and may be based on speculation. Here, I report an incubation period at a nest in Alaska that was estimated to be between 21.7 and 23.8 days. This is consistent with incubation periods of three other species of godwit, which are reported to be 22-26 days. At the Alaskan nest, both sexes incubated and would not flush until approached within about 0.6 m. No special displays were observed when the male relieved the female at the nest. The chicks departed the nest when less than 1 day old.
4164656|Geese are normally herbivorous. I report an instance of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) feeding on alkali flies (Ephydra hians) at hypersaline Mono Lake, California. The bout was brief and possibly represented exploratory behavior by inexperienced birds.
4164657|Cannibalism is uncommon in birds, and instances of adults killing and eating other adults are especially rare. Cases of intraspecific predation among passerines constitute a very small percentage of published reports, and many of the cases are based on circumstantial evidence. In July 2001. I witnessed a group of Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) kill and consume a conspecific adult in Olympic National Park, Washington. I am aware of no other published reports of adult-adult cannibalism for this species or the Corvidae family.
4164658|Instances of coprophagy by birds are rare in comparison to coprophagy by other animals such as mammals and insects. Here, I report on White-winged Crossbills (Loxia leucoptera) obtaining forage from river otter (Lontra canadensis) feces in Kouchi-bouguac National Park, New Brunswick, Canada. In sequence, two male White-winged Crossbills landed on a scat, pecked at it, and ingested small pieces before flying away. The birds may have been feeding on fish bones or undigested fish present in the feces.
4164659| We report on an unusual nest site of a Semipalmated Plover (Charadrius semipalmatus) at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, Canada. The nest was located at the base of a 41-cm-high willow (Salix spp.) in a dense willow patch surrounded by coastal mudflats. Vegetation height and percent visual obstruction at the nest site were unusually high compared to height and cover previously described for Semipalmated Plovers. The nest was successful (2 eggs hatched). The discovery of this unusual nest site in dense vegetation suggests that some Semipalmated Plover nests may be overlooked, emphasizing the need to conduct thorough searches even in non-traditional habitats among shore-bird species that typically nest in open habitats. 
4164660|We report on the discovery of a distinct female song in Nava's Wren (Hylorchilus navai), similar to that recently discovered in Sumichrast's Wren (Hylorchilus sumichrasti). In both species, females sometimes countersing with males but do not combine their songs into a synchronized duet as in many other tropical wrens. We provide observations that suggest territorial defense, intra-pair contact, and perhaps mate-guarding as possible functions of female song in Hylorchilus, a little-known genus endemic to Mexico.
4164668|We used two metrics, occupancy and relative abundance, to study forest stand characteristics believed to be important to a threatened seabird that nests in old-growth forests, the Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus). Occupancy refers to murrelet presence or absence based on observed bird behaviors, while relative abundance refers to categories of low, medium, and high numbers of bird observations per survey in a forest stand. Within the murrelet's nesting range in California and southern Oregon, we measured habitat and climatic variables in all old-growth stands surveyed for murrelets between 1991 and 1997. The two bird metrics produced similar results. In California, murrelets most often occupied, or were abundant in, redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) stands with large trees (> 100 cm diameter at breast height) located on gentle, low-elevation slopes or on alluvial flats close to streams. In stands of the less flood-tolerant Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) in southern Oregon, murrelets most often occupied, or were abundant on, gentle, low-elevation, west-facing slopes that were not close to streams. Murrelets tended to use areas farther from roads. The important climatic requirements for murrelet stands in both states were cool temperatures and high amounts of rainfall.
4164669| Basic nesting information on grassland passerines is needed for improving grassland bird management. Among the information needs are (1) the suitability of nesting habitat, (2) periods during the breeding season in which birds are most vulnerable to disturbances, and (3) how to fit grasslands into a prioritization scheme for conservation. Comparisons of nesting parameters among grassland species will help identify important management considerations. We describe and compare nest-site characteristics, nesting phenology, clutch size, hatching and fledging success, and brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) for three grassland passerine species nesting in tallgrass prairie of northwestern Minnesota and southeastern North Dakota. During 1998-2002, we found 793 Clay-colored Sparrow (Spizella pallida), 687 Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), and 315 Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) nests. These species differed in many aspects of their breeding ecology. Clay-colored and Savannah sparrows initiated their nests almost 2 weeks earlier than Bobolinks, with peak nesting occurring in June. Clutch size was lower (3.77  0.03 SE) for Clay-colored Sparrows than Savannah Sparrows (4.13  0.05) and Bobolinks (5.25  0.08). The number of host eggs hatched per nest was higher in Bobolinks (3.46  0.20) than in Clay-colored Sparrows (2.52  0.09) and Savannah Sparrows (2.41  0.11), but the number of young fledged per Bobolink nest (1.97) was similar to that of Savannah Sparrows (2.01). Clay-colored Sparrows fledged only 1.35 host young per nest. Mayfield nest success was higher for Savannah Sparrows (31.4%) than for Clay-colored Sparrows (27.4%) or Bobolinks (20.7%). The main cause of nest failure was nest predation: predation in Clay-colored Sparrows (47.9%) was higher than in Savannah Sparrows (33.5%) but similar to Bobolinks (41.8%). Brood parasitism was lower in Clay-colored Sparrows (5.1%) than in Bobolinks (10.8%), and intermediate (6.7%) in Savannah Sparrows. Compared with most other studies, grassland bird nests in our study area were more successful and less frequently parasitized; thus, northwestern Minnesota and southeastern North Dakota appear to provide important breeding habitat for grassland birds. 
4164670| Observations by local naturalists may provide valuable records of phenological events with which we can measure the response of species to climate change. To test this idea, we examined the records of a dedicated naturalist who has been observing bird arrivals, plant flowering, butterfly appearance, and frog calling on her farm in Middleborough, southeastern Massachusetts. From her 1970 to 2002 records, we extracted data on first observations of spring phenological events for 24 species--650 observations in all. Over that time, average annual local temperatures rose by 2.0 C. Twenty-two species showed earlier activity, with 5 of the 16 bird species now arriving significantly earlier in the year than they did 30 years ago. Twenty-two species responded to warming temperatures, with 4 species (two birds, one frog, and one plant) showing statistically significant earlier activity in years with warmer temperatures. The other 18 species showed similar trends, but they were not statistically significant. 
4164671|Determining the sizes and characteristics of home ranges among American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) in spring/summer is essential for understanding the importance of this species in the transmission of West Nile virus. In late spring, summer, and early fall of 2002, we radio-tracked 45 American Crows to estimate their movements and habitat preferences in urban and adjacent agricultural habitats in east-central Illinois. The 95% minimum convex polygon home ranges averaged 9.6, 6.7, and 6.4 km
4164672|We examined eight marking techniques designed specifically for use on newly hatched Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) nestlings (colored polishes applied to either the culmen or the hallux; colored elastic, plastic, or band-aid bands applied to the tarsus; stains applied to either the superciliary down or the tarsus; and superciliary down clipping) to determine which technique had the shortest application time and longest retention. Application times and retention rates varied between marking techniques, but this did not affect nestling growth or survival. Clipping of superciliary down feathers had the shortest application time and the highest retention rate of all techniques studied. This technique, however, is only applicable to species whose newly hatched young have superciliary down. Other techniques examined had comparably short application times, but were not retained for the entire nestling period.
4164673|We present information on the breeding biology and nest-site characteristics of the western subspecies of the Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina arizonae) in montane ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests of the Colorado Front Range. We located 83 nests during the summers of 1999-2002. The earliest egg date was 23 May and young fledged as late as 11 August. Nests were typically placed in needle clusters on outer branches of ponderosa pines. Mean canopy cover at nest sites was 50%. We observed no differences in nest placement or nest-site microhabitat between successful and unsuccessful nests. The nesting cycle lasted approximately 30 days, including 4 nest-building days, 3 egg-laying days, 14 incubation days, and 9 brooding days. Nests with known outcomes fledged a mean of 1.67 young from a mean clutch of 3.08 eggs. At least 27 nests (32.5%) were depredated, making predation the primary cause of nest failure. Of 42 successful nests, 5 (11.9%) were parasitized, although at least two Chipping Sparrows and one Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) fledged from each parasitized nest. Both parasitism rates and nest success are highly variable among populations in this species.
4164674|Male Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) sing for several minutes prior to dawn during the breeding season. In northeastern Colorado, dawn singing was associated with male-female interactions rather than male-male interactions; males did not approach one another during the chorus. Males sang until female arrival, at which point they attempted copulation. During copulation attempts, males always uttered strings of variable sees and nearly always attached gargles to these strings. All gargles terminated in an acoustically similar, low-pitched, buzzy syllable.
4164675|From 1984 through 1987, we studied aggressive responses of Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) to species intruding into their nesting territories in southwestern Idaho (52 nesting attempts, 613 days, 9,085 hr). Prairie Falcons responded aggressively most frequently to Common Ravens (Corvus corax; 49% of encounters), followed by Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis; 24%), Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos; 7%), Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura; 4%), Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus; 2%), American Kestrels (Falco sparverius; 1%), and bobcats (Lynx rufus; 1%). The frequency of aggressive responses toward intruders was similar for males and females, except in the case of American Kestrels and bobcats. Aggressive responses of nesting Prairie Falcons to intruders may be related to predator deterrence, competition for nest sites, stage of the nesting cycle, food availability, and sexual size dimorphism of falcons.
4164676| I present the first description of the nest, eggs, and nestlings of the Castelnau's Antshrike (Thamnophilus cryptoleucus). During June and July of 2003, I observed three nests of T. cryptoleucus in riverine habitats along the Ro Amazonas, downstream from Iquitos, Departamento Loreto, Per. The nests were deep, thin-walled cups suspended from the surrounding vegetation 1-3 m above the ground. The clutch size was two, and the eggs were cream-colored with reddish-brown markings. I found two nests on islands in the Ro Amazonas and one nest on the mainland, providing evidence that T. cryptoleucus is not exclusively restricted to river islands. Two nests were in river-edge forest dominated by Cecropia, and one was in second-growth scrub next to a banana plantation, suggesting some tolerance of anthropogenic disturbance. All three nests were active during the period when the annual floodwaters were receding. Nest placement, structure of the nest, clutch size, and appearance of the eggs were all similar to those of the closely related Blackish-gray Antshrike (Thamnophilus nigrocinereus) and are typical of the genus. 
4164677|Much confusion exists over the proper way to handle nest-fate data collected after the fledge date when using the Mayfield method. I provide a simple numerical example showing how use of these data can bias estimates of daily survival probability, and present a likelihood function demonstrating that nest-fate data collected after the fledge date do not contribute any information for parameter estimation, except in a seldom-realized special case. Consequently, it is recommended that under the Mayfield model, nest-fate data collected after the fledge date be discarded.
4164678|I observed a Western Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma californica) consume a Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) nestling and a Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) nestling in northwestern Travis County, Texas, in May 1995. During a 4.5-hr period after brood destruction, warbler adults repeatedly brought insects to the depredated nest, and during each visit they appeared to search for the nestlings in the nest area and adjacent trees while carrying the insects. When the jay subsequently returned to the nest to take an unhatched egg, the female warbler performed a distraction display. My observations indicate that, in some cases, parental feeding behavior and nest defense can continue for a short time after brood loss.
4164679|We examined age differences in wing loading, aspect ratio, wing span, and tail area in a sample of 117 Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) captured at the Cedar Grove Ornithological Station, Wisconsin, during 1979-1987. Adults had significantly wider wings, lower aspect ratios, shorter tails, and smaller tail surface areas than juveniles. Red-tailed Hawks showed fewer age differences in aerodynamic characteristics than Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus), probably because of differences between the two species in the pursuit and capture of prey. Sharp-shinned Hawks take birds from above ground or after a brief chase, often in dense vegetation. Sharp-shinned Hawks require more aerial agility (ability to make rapid twists and turns) than is necessary for Red-tailed Hawks, which capture prey on the ground, usually after a glide or flight from an elevated perch.
4164680| Baseline demographic data are lacking for most tropical forest birds, particularly from undisturbed habitats. During the 2003 breeding season, we documented the productivity of Abbott's Babbler (Malacocincla abbotti), a sedentary insectivorous passerine, on a 30-ha permanent forest plot in northeastern Thailand. We found 17 active nests of 13 breeding pairs, for which the Mayfield estimate for overall nesting success was 0.36  0.13 SE. Breeding started in mid-January, a month earlier than previously recorded. Despite a relatively long period of post-fledging parental care, at least five pairs were double-brooded. 
4164681|We present the first description of a nest of the Ocellated Antbird (Phaenostictus mcleannani), an understory species that ranges from southeastern Honduras to northwestern Ecuador. The opencup nest was found in June 2002, in the Republic of Panama, and was located on the leaf litter between the buttresses of a Virola surinamensis tree. The nest contained two ovoid, whitish eggs with reddish-brown speckles and longitudinal streaks.
4164689|To investigate molts and ornamental-plume development in herons and egrets, we examined 448 specimens of 10 North American species. We found no evidence for a prealternate molt, despite widespread opinion that such a molt occurs and includes the ornamental plumes. Our data indicate that these plumes emerge during the later stages of the definitive prebasic molt in August-November, grow slowly through January-February, and are retained until replacement during the following prebasic molt. The preformative (traditionally termed "first-prebasic") molt shows substantial variation in extent. In 91.9% of 86 first-year individuals collected between November and May, this molt included the development of ornamental plumes that were similar in form, but shorter in length, than those of adults. Male Great Blue (Ardea herodias) and Little Blue (Egretta caerulea) herons developed longer ornamental plumes than females, presumably a result of sexual-selection strategies.
4164690|There are few records of functionally female birds exhibiting partial to total male plumages. On 26 March 2004, we collected a female Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) at Fort Hood, Texas, with a presumably functional ovary and whose back and belly exhibited the glossy, greenish-black plumage typical of after-hatch-year males. This individual is a unique specimen because (with the exception of partial albinism) no aberrant plumages have been reported for Brown-headed Cowbirds.
4164691| Proportions of juvenile birds in migrant populations at coastal stopover sites are often higher than proportions of juveniles at inland stopover sites, a phenomenon called the "coastal effect." The northern Great Plains forms the western boundary of the migratory ranges for many Neotropical woodland migrants. Moreover, woodland habitat is scarce in this region, consisting primarily of natural riparian corridor woodlands (hereafter corridors) and planted woodlots and shelterbelts around farmsteads and agricultural fields (hereafter woodlots). Due to the scarcity of woodland habitat, one might expect that adults--by virtue of their experience and better-developed navigational abilities--would avoid the Great Plains during fall migration, thus producing age structures in migrant populations similar to those found at coastal sites. We tested this "inland coast" hypothesis for Neotropical migrants captured during fall migration at corridor and woodlot stopover sites in southeastern South Dakota. We classified migrants into three groups based on whether our South Dakota study sites were peripheral (western edge of migratory range within South Dakota), near-peripheral (western edge in, or just west of, Wyoming or Montana), or central (western edge well west of Montana and Wyoming) to their regular migratory ranges. We captured higher juvenile proportions of peripheral (86.5  10.4%, 2 species) and near-peripheral (85.6  4.5%, 7 species) migrants than central migrants (79.6  7.2%, 5 species), but the difference was not significant (P = 0.11). The proportion of juveniles was inversely correlated with the distance of our study sites from the western edge of a given species' migratory range (r = 0.476, P = 0.085). The proportion of juvenile Neotropical migrants at our study sites was near the upper end of proportions recorded for other inland sites in North America, but was slightly lower than those recorded at coastal sites. Our results are, therefore, only partially consistent with the inland coast hypothesis, suggesting that factors other than geographic location also shape age structures at our study sites. The mean proportion of juveniles (for species captured 13 times in both habitats; n = 10) was significantly greater (P = 0.002) in the woodlot (89.1  7.0%) than in corridors (73.8  12.5%). The differential age structure in the two habitats suggests that habitat characteristics may influence age structure of the migrant community, but mechanisms for such an influence are currently unknown. 
4164692|We examined selection of grit-ingestion sites by Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) on South Humboldt Bay, California in relation to particle size and calcium content. We hypothesized that Brant site selection was dependent primarily upon calcium content and secondarily upon distribution of substrate particle size. We (1) mapped grit-ingestion sites, (2) ranked their importance by Brant abundance and individual movement probabilities between sites, (3) characterized Brant gizzard grit and compared it with grit available at ingestion sites, and (4) compared calcium content and particle-size distribution between ingestion sites and unused sites, and between primary and secondary ingestion sites. Brant repeatedly congregated at specific, discrete sites during the 2 years of observation. The distribution of gizzard-grit particle size was right-skewed toward larger particles (>0.5 mm) relative to the proportional availability of particle sizes in the substrate. We found no significant differences in calcium content or particle size between sites where grit was ingested and unused sites. Within used sites, the calcium content of substrates at the primary ingestion site was significantly higher than at the secondary ingestion sites, as ranked by Brant abundance and between-site movement probabilities. Our findings from the field corroborate previous laboratory results, and confirm that calcium is a significant ecological factor for this species.
4164693|Clearcutting is the preferred timber harvest method in bottomland hardwood forests because it is most likely to result in regeneration of preferred species. However, clearcutting generally has negative impacts on forest birds. Patch-retention harvesting may provide similar silvicultural benefits, but its effects on birds are unknown. We surveyed breeding birds in uncut control, clearcut, and patch-retention treatment areas (11-13 ha) for one season prior to harvest and two seasons postharvest in a bottomland hardwood forest in the Lower Coastal Plain of southeastern South Carolina. Bird observations recorded along line transects were analyzed using the software EstimateS to estimate species richness and program Distance to estimate densities. We found greater species richness and bird densities in the patch-retention treatment than in the clearcut in both postharvest seasons. We detected no forest-interior birds in the clearcut after the harvest, but by the second postharvest season in the patch-retention treatment, the density of forest-interior birds had returned to approximately half of its preharvest level. Thus, based on density response, patch-retention harvesting appears to be less detrimental to forest birds than clearcutting. However, additional work is needed to determine whether retained patches influence avian survival and productivity.
4164694| We examined the relationship of trends in fall-spring mass of 330 Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) with photoperiod, air temperature, energy requirements, and supplemental feeding in the Texas Panhandle during 2000-2003. Mass of bobwhites increased from September to December, at which point it peaked and then decreased through March. Mean monthly mass was negatively correlated with photoperiod (r = -0.89) and temperature (r = -0.79) and positively correlated with energy required (r = 0.79; estimated using air temperature). From September to March, bobwhites occupying areas where supplemental feed was provided (n = 246) were greater in mass (x = 193.4 g, 95% CL = 191.6-195.1) than bobwhites in areas without supplemental feed (x = 186.5 g, 95% CL = 184.0-189.0, n = 84), but mean monthly mass was different only during November (x = 197.8 g, 95% CL = 195.3-200.3 for food-supplemented; x = 188.0 g, 95% CL = 185.0-191.0 for unsupplemented). Abiotic factors, such as photoperiod and temperature, are confounding factors when attempting to explain fall and winter trends of bobwhite mass. Temporal changes in activities (daily foraging, nocturnal roosting) and their energetic costs (e.g., thermoregulation) also complicate issues of trends in mass. 
4164695|Data on historical extinction and current endangerment in non-passerine birds were used to assess associations between vulnerability to human impacts and genus size, range size, and insular endemism. Consistent with the results of previous studies, historical extinction was more frequent in species from monotypic genera, even when other factors were controlled for statistically. By contrast, current endangerment showed no such pattern when other factors were controlled for. Both historical extinction and current endangerment were more frequent in species with restricted ranges and for insular species. Moreover, insular species with restricted ranges were especially vulnerable to current endangerment. Changes between the patterns of historical extinction and current endangerment are likely due to changes in the nature of human impacts over the past 500 years, especially the recent trend toward wholesale habitat destruction.
4164696|Although offspring delay dispersal past the age of independence in many Thryothorus species, cooperative breeding has not been recorded in this genus. Here, I present the first observation of cooperative breeding in a Thryothorus wren (Buff-breasted Wren, T. leucotis). Of 41 offspring that delayed dispersal past the age of independence, 4 individuals stayed on their natal territory until their parent's next breeding attempt, indicating a low potential for cooperative breeding. Of these four individuals, one male provisioned 11- to 15-day-old nestlings and one female approached her parents' nest but was repeatedly driven away from it by her father. The retained female was apparently tolerated when in the vicinity of fledglings, but feeding was never positively confirmed.
4164697| Little is known about the breeding biology of Bridled White-eyes (Zosterops conspicillatus), especially the federally endangered Rota Bridled White-eye (Z. c. rotensis). Here, we report on the breeding behavior, nest-site characteristics, and nest dimensions of Rota Bridled White-eyes. From 1997 to 1999, we found 20 Rota Bridled White-eye nests in Elaeocarpus joga (35%), Hernandia labyrinthica (30%), Merrilliodendron megacarpum (20%), and introduced Acacia confusa (15%) trees between 320 and 460 m in elevation. Nests were 2.5-12.8 m above the ground (n = 18) in trees 3.3-14.6 m tall (n = 16). Clutch size ranged from one to two eggs (n = 7) and the breeding season was from at least December through August. Nest dimensions (n = 4) were 36-44  57.7-60.8 mm (outer height  diameter) and 25-29  44.6-47.7 mm (cup depth  diameter). 
4164698| We quantified the diet of the Chilean Hawk (Accipiter chilensis) by analyzing 495 prey remains collected during two breeding seasons (2001-2002 and 2002-2003) in an Andean Nothofagus forest of Nevados de Chilln, northern Patagonia. The diet was almost exclusively birds (97.8% of all prey remains), with relatively few rodents (1.6%) and insects (0.6%). At least 19 vertebrate species composed the prey remains (1 small mammal and 18 bird species), with Austral Thrush (Turdus falcklandii), White-crested Elaenia (Elaenia albiceps), Black-chinned Siskin (Carduelis barbata), Fire-eyed Diucon (Xolmis pyrope), and Thorn-tailed Rayadito (Aphrastura spinicauda) being the most common. All identified vertebrate prey are known to use forest habitats; 47% (n = 9) are forest specialists. Prey that inhabit both forest and shrublands accounted for 82% of the remains, and 18% of prey remains were of forest specialists. Our results indicate that during the breeding season, Chilean Hawks in Nevados de Chilln are pre-eminent, bird-eating predators that feed primarily on forest-dwelling birds. 
4164699|For 4 consecutive evenings in southern Nicaragua, a group of three Yellow Tyrannulets (Capsiempis flaveola) roosted in the same plant, and always arrived approximately 45 min before last light. Pre-roosting behavior appeared stereotyped and included mutual preening and a peculiar manner of hopping over one another. These three birds presumably left the roost around first light each morning.
4164700|A Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis; estimated mass 1,000-1,200 g) failed to kill a Red-breasted Merganser (Mergus serrator; estimated mass 1,150 g) that it captured in shallow water (<25 cm), but evidently dispatched a starving Red-necked Grebe (Podiceps grisegena; mass 645-660 g). These observations are pertinent to estimating the upper mass limit for successful foraging in water.
4164701|We observed an adult Gray Jay (Perisoreus canadensis) that had captured an adult Black-capped Chickadee (Poecile atricapillus) in Algonquin Provincial Park, Ontario, Canada, during winter. Aerial pursuit of small, adult birds and an instance of capture and predation of a juvenile bird by a Gray Jay have been reported previously. Here, we present the first documented case of capture of a seemingly uninjured, adult bird.
4164702|A number of authors have qualitatively described the songs of Vermilion Flycatchers (Pyrocephalus rubinus) given during flight display, but no spectrograms or quantitative analyses are available. We present such a description based on displays of 14 different males. Our analysis confirms the impressions of earlier authors that the flight song is closely similar to that given by perched birds, but also revealed an important difference: most flight display songs also included an extra element known as the peent vocalization. The peent is also an alarm call, given during male-male and male-female interactions, as well as during foraging bouts. Besides reporting on the common use of peent vocalizations by perched Vermilion Flycatchers, we now describe the frequency and use of peent vocalizations in flight display songs.
20060051|Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) is a rare habitat specialist that breeds in dense balsam fir (Abies balsamea) and red spruce (Picea rubens) forests at high elevations in the northeastern United States. Ongoing and projected loss of this forest type has led to increased demand for information on the species' status throughout region. We used elevation, latitude, and forest type to construct a model of Bicknell's Thrush distribution in New York, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine. The model predicts the species to be present in conifer-dominated forests above an elevation threshold that descends with increasing latitude. The slope of the threshold (-81.63 m/1 latitude) reflects climatic effects on forest compostion and structure. The distribution model encompasses 136.250 ha of montane forest, including extensive areas of the White Mountains in New Hampshire and Adirondack Mountains in New York. To test model performance, we conducted point count and playback surveys along 1-km routes established in conifer forests above and below the threshold. The model accurately predicted the presence or presumed absence of Bicknell's Thrush on 61 of 72 routes (84.7%). When areas within 50 vertical m of the threshold were excluded, accuracy improved to 98.1%. The distribution model is a practical tool for conservation planning at local and regional levels. Potential applications include projecting effects of climate change on Bicknell's Thrush distribution, assessing risks of habitat alteration, and setting priorities for conservation and management.
20060052|We report an observation of Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus) encountered 8 to 17 km from the nearest shoreline on Kuskokwim Bay, Alaska, on 30 August 2003. The ptarmigan were observed flying, landing on our research vessel, and landing and taking off from the water surface. We also report on one other observation of ptarmigan sitting on the water surface and other marine observations of ptarmigan from the North Pacific Pelagic Seabird Database. These observations provide evidence that Willow Ptarmigan are capable of dispersing across large bodies of water and landing and taking off from the water surface.
20060053|As human disturbance of natural landscapes increases, so does the need for information on declining, threatened, and potentially threatened native species. Proposed listing of the Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) as threatened under the U.S. Endangered Species Act in 1999 was found unwarranted in 2003, but this species remains of special concern to management agencies and conservation groups. Whereas large concentrations of breeding Mountain Plovers occur in Montana and Colorado, estimates of the numbers of Mountain Plovers in Wyoming have ranged from only 500 to 1,500 individuals and are based largely on conjecture. In 2002, we visited all known breeding locales in the state to define areas of concentrated sightings in the Laramie, Shirley, Washakie, Great Divide, and Big Horn basins. In 2003, we used distance sampling to estimate breeding bird densities in these five areas. We pooled these estimates and applied the resulting density to a minimum occupied range for the Mountain Plover based on the documented sightings and a previously derived home-range size of 56.6 ha  21.5 (SD) to generate a minimum population estimate for the state. Average Mountain Plover density was 4.47  0.55 (SE) birds/km. We calculated a minimum population estimate of 3,393 birds for Wyoming. The Mountain Plover population breeding in Wyoming appears to contribute substantially to a revised continental population estimate of 11,000 to 14,000 birds. Our approach may have applications to quantifying minimum population status of other uncommon species or species of special conservation concern using current database records, such as those compiled in Natural Heritage Programs at the state level.
20060054|Understanding the influences of habitat fragmentation on vertebrate populations is essential for the protection and ecological restoration of strategic sites for native species. We examined the effects of prairie fragmentation on avian reproductive success using artificial and natural nests on 26 randomly selected, privately owned patches of shortgrass prairie ranging in size from 7 to 454 ha within a cropland matrix in Washington County, Colorado, summer 2000. Survival trends of artificial and natural nests differed. Daily survival of artificial nests increased with patch size up to about 65 ha and differed little at larger patch sizes, whereas daily survival of Lark Bunting (Calamospiza melanocorys) and Horned Lark (Eremophila alpestris) nests decreased with increasing size of the grassland patch. We hypothesize that our unexpected findings of lower survival of natural nests with increasing patch sizes and different trends between artificial and natural nests are due to the particular structure of predator communities in our study area and the ways in which individual predators respond to artificial and natural nests. We recommend that the value of small habitat patches in highly fragmented landscapes not be overlooked.
20060055|Recent increases in the demand for communication towers have renewed interest in the impact of these towers on birds, particularly during migration. The objective of this study was to investigate avian mortality at two television towers (WGRZ and WKBW) in western New York from 1970 through 1999. Daily mortality totals ranged from 1 to 1,089 birds. The majority of the kill events were small, involving 10 or fewer birds; however, the majority of birds died in larger kill events. Both kill events and the numbers of individuals salvaged peaked in September. Patterns in avian mortality at the towers that we studied were consistent with normal migration events, during which the number of birds migrating varies substantially between nights. The two towers differed significantly in kill characteristics. At the WGRZ tower, median daily mortality generally ranged from 1 to 10 birds and was usually lower than the WKBW tower. The size of kill events varied across the 3 decades, with no very large kill events (&gt500 birds) occurring in the 1990s. Because most birds salvaged in the 1970s and 1980s were killed in medium and large kill events, the absence of any very large kill events in the 1990s could explain the previously published decline in birds salvaged at these towers.
20060056|Current models to estimate daily energy expenditure (DEE) for free-living birds are limited to either those that use fixed thermoregulatory costs or those that more accurately estimate thermoregulatory costs, but require extensive and often logistically difficult measurements. Here, we propose a model based on basal metabolic rate (BMR), activity budgets, and site-specific energetic costs of thermoregulation that requires only simple measures of ambient temperature and wind speed to provide estimates of DEE. We use the model to calculate the DEE of Buffleheads (Bucephala albeola) wintering at six habitats that afford differing degrees of protection from exposure within Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island. Bufflehead activity budget data collected during the winters of 2001-2002 and 2002-2003, along with average temperatures and wind speeds at the sites, were used to calculate DEE that ranged from 46.9 to 52.4 kJ/hr and increased with increasing wind speed. The energetic cost of thermoregulation composed as much as 28% of total DEE and increased with wind speed. Our DEE values were 13.4% higher, and thermoregulatory costs were up to 2 higher than those calculated using an existing model that incorporates fixed thermoregulatory costs. We also saw an increase in feeding activity with increasing wind speed; sensitivity analysis of the effects of wind speed and feeding activity showed that a 1 m/sec increase in wind speed at our sites increased DEE by 2.5%, whereas a corresponding increase in feeding activity increased DEE by 4.5%. This suggests that in temperate winter habitats, increased feeding activity may have a greater impact on Bufflehead DEE than wind exposure. Site-specific model estimates of DEE could also provide additional insight into the relative contribution of environmental conditions and changes in waterfowl behavior to DEE.
20060057|We document the first cases of cattle behaving as avian predators, removing nestlings and eggs from three active ground nests in continuously grazed pastures in southwestern Wisconsin, 2000-2001. Cows removed three of four Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) eggs from one nest (the fourth egg was damaged), all four Eastern Meadowlark (Sturnella magna) nestlings from another, and all three Savannah Sparrow nestlings from a third. We found only two of three missing eggs (intact) and one of seven missing nestlings (dead) near two of the nests. Cows may have eaten the egg and nestlings we were unable to account for; alternatively, the egg and nestlings may have been scavenged by predators or removed from the area by the adult birds. Without videotape documentation, we would have attributed nest failure to traditional predators and cattle would not have been implicated. We may be underestimating the impact of cattle on ground nests by not considering cattle as potential predators.
20060058|We used radio telemetry to examine Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) home-range size and foraging and roosting behavior on Padre Island National Seashore in south Texas during January and February, 2002 and 2003. Savannah Sparrows maintained fixed home ranges in winter. Mean home-range size (95% Kernel Home Range [KHR]) was 9.1 ha with a mean core area (50% KHR) of 0.9 ha. Within home ranges, mean foraging and roosting areas were 5.6 and 6.6 ha, respectively. Three distinct habitat types were used by Savannah Sparrows on the island: foredunes (adjacent to the ocean), interior grasslands, and lagoons. Birds using the foredunes had significantly larger home ranges and traveled longer distances between their foraging and roosting locations, always moving inland to roost. Roosting and foraging areas overlapped less for these birds (20%) compared with the overlap for birds found in interior grasslands (45%) and lagoons (55%). The greater distance traveled to roost sites by birds foraging in the foredune habitat appeared to be related to increased exposure in that habitat type. Savannah Sparrows selected foraging areas with less vegetative biomass and more bare ground than random sites. Roost sites had greater total (live) cover than foraging and random sites. Savannah Sparrows foraged alone or in loose aggregations with conspecifics. Birds roosted alone or in aggregations of up to 30 individuals. Savannah Sparrows often roost outside of their foraging areas; this study draws attention to differences in space use for roosting and foraging Savannah Sparrows. Although Savannah Sparrows maintained relatively small home ranges, they occasionally moved at larger spatial scales, suggesting a need for intact grassland patches much larger than the average home-range size.
20060059|We studied the breeding ecology of the critically endangered Puaiohi (Myadestes palmeri), a poorly known Hawaiian thrush endemic to the island of Kauai. From 1996 through 1998, we monitored 96 active nests over the course of three breeding seasons. Mean clutch size was 2.0, and pairs produced an average of 1.5 fledglings/successful nest. Pairs renested after failure and some raised multiple broods. The mean annual reproductive effort was 2.1 nesting attempts/territory, and pairs produced a mean 1.1 fledglings/attempt. Large differences in nesting effort and productivity occurred among years, with mean number of fledglings/territory ranging from 0.4 to 4.9. Predation by owls (probably Short-eared Owls, Asio flammeus) and introduced rats (probably black rats, Rattus rattus) accounted for most nest failures. The presence of non-breeding floaters in the population and their largely unsuccessful attempts to gain territories in the study area suggest that the population is near carrying capacity. The high reproductive potential of the Puaiohi may help explain its persistence despite the species' historical rarity.
20060060|Little is known about Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) chicks from the time they leave the nest until fledging because they are highly mobile and cryptically colored. We evaluated the efficacy of using radiotelemetry to monitor Interior Least Tern (S. a. athalassos) chicks at Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge, Oklahoma. In 1999, we attached radio transmitters to 26 Least Tern chicks and tracked them for 2-17 days. No adults abandoned their chicks after transmitters were attached. Transmitters did not appear to alter growth rates of transmittered chicks (P = 0.36) or prevent feather growth, although dermal irritation was observed on one chick. However, without frequent reattachment, transmitters generally did not remain on chicks &lt1 week old for more than 2 days because of feather growth and transmitter removal, presumably by adult terns. Although the presence of transmitters did not adversely affect Least Tern chicks, future assessments should investigate nonintrusive methods to improve retention of transmitters on young chicks and reduce the number of times that chicks need to be handled.
20060061|We sampled birds with mist nets and point counts in old-growth and second-growth Chaco forest in Argentina to compare the contribution of each method to estimates of species abundance and diversity. We captured 53 species with mist nets (13 exclusively), and detected 75 species on point counts (43 exclusively). Species richness estimated by rarefaction curves did not differ between methods, except in old-growth understory, where point counts detected fewer species than mist nets. Both methods showed similar patterns of bird diversity and distribution, although point counts revealed more differences between forest layers and forest types. Mist netting contributed to the detection of cryptic or secretive species, especially in the understory, but largebodied (&gt200 g) species were detected by point counts alone. Multivariate analysis discerned guilds and species associated with different forest layers and types. Point counts seem to better reflect relative abundance, whereas mist nets may be more sensitive to bird activity (e.g., movements between resources). The simultaneous use of both techniques enhances the description of bird communities, and birds' use of habitats.
20060062|There are few published reports of Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) taking vertebrate prey or provisioning their young with vertebrates. We report finding a dead flat-headed snake (Tantilla gracilis) in an Eastern Bluebird nest. Flat-headed snakes feed primarily on soft-bodied invertebrates; thus, it is unlikely that the snake was attempting to depredate the bluebird nestlings. Moreover, flat-headed snakes are fossorial and rarely occur in open habitats. Therefore, the snake was most likely captured by one of the adult bluebirds and brought to the nestlings as a food item.
20060063|We document for the first time a Red-naped Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus nuchalis) usurping the nest of a Red-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta canadensis). A nuthatch nest in the incubation phase was usurped by a male Red-naped Sapsucker on 23 May 2003, and a sapsucker nest was initiated in the cavity on 1 June. Red-naped Sapsuckers are primary cavity excavators that normally nest in live and dead quaking aspens (Populus tremuloides) infected with heart rot fungus (Fomes spp.). Red-breasted Nuthatches are weak excavators that most commonly nest in broken-topped conifer snags. Nest usurpation was likely due to a shortage of suitable nest sites in our study plot.
20060064|The Wing-banded Antbird (Myrmornis torquata) is a poorly known suboscine passerine found in lowland Amazonian forests. Here, we present new information about the nest and nestlings of this enigmatic species. Our findings differ from previous observations and notes on clutch size.
20060073|We report movements and home-range sizes of adult Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) with broods on rangeland, agricultural fields, and prairie dog habitats in eastern Colorado. Estimates of home range size (95% fixed kernel) were similar across the three habitats: rangeland (146.1 ha  101.5), agricultural fields (131.6 ha  74.4), and prairie dog towns (243.3 ha  366.3). Our minimum convex polygon estimates of home-range size were comparable to those on rangeland reported by Knopf and Rupert (1996). In addition, movements--defined as the distance between consecutive locations of adults with broods--were equivalent across habitats. However, our findings on prairie dog habitat suggest that home-range size for brood rearing may be related to whether the prairie dog habitat is in a complex of towns or in an isolated town.
20060074|We studied the feeding ecology of Long-tailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) in two different marine benthic habitats in the Baltic Sea to determine whether there were differences in diet choice, foraging selectivity, body condition, and bird abundance. Our results corroborate earlier suggestions that Long-tailed Ducks exhibit ecological plasticity in selecting winter habitat and food. The majority of Long-tailed Ducks occurred in hard-bottom habitats where they relied on the bivalve Mytilus edulis; however, some of the population wintered in less productive, soft-bottom habitats where they employed a prey-selective foraging strategy, in which they fed on less abundant, but energy rich, crustaceans. Both strategies were apparently viable, as dissected birds in both habitats were in good body condition and had substantial fat reserves.
20060075|We summarized published and unpublished information on the reproductive biology and ecology of Jabirus (Jabiru mycteria) in Belize. From 1968 to 1987, 91 individual nests were discovered in 16 of 19 breeding seasons; 69 nests were confirmed as active. Jabiru nests were 15-30 m above ground in Ceiba pentandra (five nests), Pinus caribaea (five nests), Tabebuia ochracea (one nest), Acoelorrhaphe wrightii (one nest), and dead trees (three nests). Most nests (32 of 36) were located in northern and central Belize in isolated, tall, emergent trees with crowns that stand above the surrounding canopy). Nest trees were usually surrounded by riparian forests or seasonally inundated pine-savanna wetlands situated in transitional zones where pine savannah meets coastal lowlands. Two nests were used for at least 10 years. The breeding season began with the transition from wet to dry season (November-December). Earliest eggs were observed on 12 December 1973 and latest eggs on 26 February 1987. Earliest nestlings were observed on 15 January 1970, and young were seen on nests as late as 28 May 1973. Young birds fledged 100 to 115 days after hatching but were still dependent on parents. From 1968 to 1987, a total of 44 eggs and 92 nestlings were counted. Mean clutch size was 3.14  1.17 SE (range = 1-5 eggs, n = 14 nests). Hatching success for four nests during the 1972-1973 breeding season was 43.8%. For 14 years in which crude hatching success (nestlings per active nest) could be calculated, 71.6% (43 of 60) of all active nests had at least one nestling. The mean number of nestlings per nest was 2.13  0.71 SE (range = 1-4 nestlings, n = 43 nests). Productivity (the number of nestlings per nest for all active nests) was 1.53. These results were similar to those of two other studies of Jabiru breeding biology conducted in Brazil and Venezuela. Jabiru populations in Belize appear to have increased since the species gained protected status in 1973.
20060076|The Blue-winged Macaw (Primolius maracana) has disappeared from most of southern Brazil, Argentina, and Paraguay; its remaining southern stronghold is the 2,179-ha Caetetus Reserve, So Paulo state, Brazil. We estimated the macaw's population inside the reserve (88 individuals) and examined how it and other parrots use the extra-reserve landscape, which is dominated by coffee plantations and pasturelands. Flight activity of the macaw and Scaly-headed Parrot (Pionus maximiliani) declined with distance from Caetetus, although many macaws flew to the vicinity of the reserve to roost. Two other species, Canary-winged Parakeet (Brotogeris versicolurus) and White-eyed Parakeet (Aratinga leucophthalmus), used the landscape independent of the reserve itself. We recorded parrots in 90% of our 1-km study plots outside (&lt12 km) the reserve, but no species was recorded using pasture, coffee or rubber/orange plantations, or scrub habitats, which composed 80% of the landscape around the reserve. Only four habitat types were used by any species. Primary and secondary forests were the habitats most preferred; Eucalyptus plantation habitat was the only totally anthropogenic habitat used. Clearly, protection, and preferably augmentation, of forest cover around Caetetus may be crucial for the macaw's survival at this important site.
20060077|Big Quill Lake, Saskatchewan, is an important breeding area for Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus); the area hosts up to 8% of the continental breeding population, yet little is known about how the site contributes to the overall survival of this species. We studied the reproductive success of Piping Plovers at Big Quill Lake from 1993 to 1995. We located 208 nests and captured and banded 456 young. Nest initiation occurred from mid-May to mid-July, and median nest-initiation dates were 14, 13, and 13 May in 1993, 1994, and 1995, respectively. Mean clutch size for presumed first nests was 3.92 eggs. Nesting success was consistently high from 1993 to 1995, with Mayfield estimates of nest success ranging from 75 to 88%; nests initiated later in the season were less successful than earlier nests. The wide beach (200-1,000 m) at Big Quill Lake may have contributed to high nesting success by reducing efficiency of predators. Use of Big Quill Lake beaches by humans and cattle was also minimal. Fledging success varied dramatically, with 0.02, 1.35, and 1.78 young fledged per breeding pair in 1993, 1994, and 1995, respectively. Low productivity of Piping Plovers in 1993 was a result of low chick survival during a week of rain, cold temperatures, and high winds, rather than low nesting success. Fledging success in 1994 and 1995 was higher than the 1.24 chicks per pair required for population stability on alkaline lakes in the Northern Great Plains. This high productivity suggests that Big Quill Lake is an important Piping Plover breeding site and measures should be taken to ensure its continued protection.
20060078|Using field-implanted subcutaneous radio transmitters, we monitored the breeding biology of White-winged Doves (Zenaida asiatica) in a recently colonized urban area (Waco, Texas). We implanted transmitters in June 2002 (n = 39; 16 males, 23 females) and February and March 2003 (n = 40; 17 males, 17 females, 6 unknown sex), and tracked radio-tagged doves every 3rd day until transmitters no longer functioned (90-120 days). We tracked 26 doves to 36 nests in nine tree species. The maximum number of nesting attempts was four. Nest success of first and second nesting attempts was 62 and 24%, respectively, and overall nest success for both years combined was 52%. Mean nest height--as a proportion of tree height--ranged from 0.31 to 0.75. Urban White-winged Doves had an extended breeding season; nesting attempts occured both before and after the traditional dove breeding period in native brush habitats of the lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas. Field-implantation of subcutaneous radio transmitters was a viable technique for monitoring nesting activities of White-winged Doves.
20060079|According to Breeding Bird Survey data, grassland birds are among the most imperiled species in North America. Within this group, grassland owls show steep population declines across the United States. Despite these declines, questions still remain regarding the seasonal and geographic distribution of grassland owls. On San Clemente Island (SCI), California, grassland owls are known to occur, but nothing is known about their distribution or abundance. To increase our understanding of owl populations on SCI, we used night-time spotlighting to survey for grassland owls from October 2001 to October 2002. We recorded 733 detections of three species of owls: Barn Owl (Tyto alba), Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia), and Short-eared Owl (Asio flammeus). Barn (8.3  0.8 owls/hr) and Burrowing owls (2.2  0.7 owls/hr) were the most frequently detected species, whereas Short-eared Owls were rarely detected (0.2  0.1 owls/hr). We detected owls during all night-time hours surveyed and detected Barn Owls in every month of the study. We detected Burrowing Owls only from October to March and Short-eared Owls from December to April, suggesting that they are winter visitors. Despite the bias of increased detectability using roadside surveys, spotlighting from a vehicle enabled us to efficiently cover a large proportion of the island (compared to walking surveys) and survey multiple grassland species using one survey technique.
20060080|While banding Cactus Ferruginous Pygmy-Owls (Glacidium brasilianum cactorum) in Arizona, we removed three Protocalliphora sialia (Diptera: Calliphoridae) from the wing margin of one nestling. Subsequent inspection of nest material revealed an additional 119 Hesperocimex sonorensis (Hemiptera: Cimicidae), another hematophagous parasite. All nestlings (n = 3) fledged successfully, but on day 8 postfledging, two fledglings were found dead and one was missing. Although unsubstantiated, the subclinical effect (e.g., anemia) of these hematophagous parasites may have contributed to the fledglings' demise. This is the first published record of P. sialia parasitizing Ferruginous Pygmy-Owls and the first documented infestation of H. sonorensis for nesting Ferruginous Pygmy-Owls.
20060081|Differing intensities of predation pressure can affect the evolution of life history traits in island and mainland populations. We found extremely low nesting success in an insular subspecies of the Varied Tit (Parus varius namiyei; Kozushima Island), and we compared certain life history traits among three subspecies of P. varius experiencing different predation pressures. The nesting success of P. v. namiyei was extremely low as a result of significant nest predation and nest abandonment; 83% of active nests failed due to snake predation. The proportion of depredated nests was significantly greater on Kozushima Island than on Miyakejima Island (P. v. owstoni) or on the mainland (P. v. varius). Of the three subspecies, P. v. namiyei had the longest incubation period, shortest nestling period, an intermediate clutch size, and a small brood size. There were no differences in the date of egg laying among the three populations. The short nestling period for P. v. namiyei may be an adaptive response, as the predation risk during the nestling period on Kozushima was extremely high.
20060082|We report the first record of Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus) parasitism on the Greattailed Grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus), which represents the 96th known host for this cowbird species. The record is based on a parasitized clutch, collected from Sinaloa, Mexico, in the collection at the Western Foundation of Vertebrate Zoology. The clutch contained four grackle eggs and one Bronzed Cowbird egg. This record is unusual because the Great-tailed Grackle is extremely intolerant of foreign eggs, ejecting them from their nests almost immediately. As the Bronzed Cowbird expands its range and is studied in greater depth, more hosts will undoubtedly be recorded.
20060083|A male Eastern Phoebe (Sayornis phoebe) was found dead on 15 April 2004, hanging from a piece of monofilament fishing line over the Kinnikinic River near River Falls. Wisconsin (Pierce County). The individual was hooked through the tongue by a fly-fishing lure. Although fishing tackle has been reported as a cause of mortality for several aquatic bird species, further research is needed to determine whether abandoned trout-fishing lures represent a significant threat to aerial insectivores.
20060084|We report the first record of blow flies (Protocalliphora) parasitizing Swainson's Warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii). Eight of 12 (67%) nests collected in southeastern Oklahoma during four breeding seasons (2001-xs2004) were parasitized by P. deceptor larvae. Because Swainson's Warbler is considered a species of high conservation priority in the southeastern United States, and because Protocalliphora can have negative impacts on their hosts, factors influencing blow fly parasitism of this species warrant further investigation.
20060085|Little is known about the biology of the Great Spotted Cuckoo (Clamator glandarius) in Israel. After erecting nest boxes intended for cavitynesting raptors, however, we had opportunities to observe Great Spotted Cuckoos parasitizing Eurasian Jackdaws (Corvus monedula) that also nested in some of the boxes. During the 2003 breeding season, we monitored seven jackdaw nests, six of which were parasitized by cuckoos. In five of the jackdaw nests, one to four cuckoo eggs hatched, and one to three nestlings survived to fledge (four nests). This is the first documentation of Great Spotted Cuckoos parasitizing jackdaws in Israel.
20060086|On 25 May 2002, we observed a House Wren (Troglodytes aedon) eating a juvenile house gecko (Hemidactylus frenatus) in Golfito, Costa Rica. Just a few studies report insect-eating birds taking vertebrate prey, and we found no prior publications for this species. The recently introduced house gecko may be a new potential food resource for other native species in Costa Rica and elsewhere.
20060093|Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii) is a declining, disturbance-dependent grassland bird that winters in the longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) ecosystem of the southeastern United States. During two winters (2001, 2002), we estimated the relative abundances, movement patterns, and habitat associations of Henslow's Sparrows wintering in habitat patches differing in time since last burn (burn treatment). We conducted our study in southeastern Louisiana in Andropogon spp.-dominated longleaf pine savanna habitat. Henslow's Sparrows were most abundant in savannas burned the previous growing season, with a mean relative abundance of 2.6 individuals/ha. The most dramatic decline occurred between burn year 0 and year 1 (first and second winters after burning), when mean relative abundance dropped to 1.0 individual/ha. Home-range size of radio-tagged birds was not correlated with burn treatment. All radio-tagged individuals maintained stable home ranges, with a mean size of 0.30 ha. Vegetation characteristics differed significantly among burn treatments. Sites burned the previous growing season had low vegetation density near the ground, vegetation taller than 1.0 m, and high seed abundance. These variables were all highly correlated with Henslow's Sparrow relative abundance, but seed density best predicted Henslow's Sparrow numbers. We recommend a biennial, rotational burn regime to maintain habitat characteristics correlated with Henslow's Sparrow abundance.
20060094|We examined nest-site spacing and selection of nesting cliffs by Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) in central West Greenland. Our sample included 67 nesting cliffs that were occupied at least once between 1972 and 1999 and 38 cliffs with no known history of Peregrine Falcon occupancy. We measured 29 eyrie, cliff, and topographical features at each occupied nesting cliff and unused cliff in 1998-1999 and used them to model the probability of peregrines occupying a cliff for a breeding attempt. Nearest-neighbor was significantly greater than both nearest-cliff distance and nearest-occupied distance (the distance between an occupied cliff and one occupied at least once, 1972-1999). Thus, spacing among occupied cliffs was probably the most important factor limiting nesting-cliff availability, and, ultimately, peregrine nesting densities. Although some unused cliffs were unavailable in a given year because of peregrine spacing behavior, physical characteristics apparently made some cliffs unsuitable, regardless of availability. We confirmed the importance of several features common to descriptions of peregrine nesting habitat and found that peregrines occupied tall nesting cliffs with open views. They chose nesting cliffs with eyrie ledges that provided a moderate degree of overhang protection and that were inaccessible to ground predators. Overall, we concluded that certain features of a cliff were important in determining its suitability as a nest site, but within a given breeding season there also must be sufficient spacing between neighboring falcon pairs. Our habitat model and information on spacing requirements may be applicable to other areas of Greenland and the Arctic, and can be used to test the generalities about features of Peregrine Falcon nesting cliffs throughout the species' widespread distribution.
20060095|Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) and Cooper's Hawks (A. cooperii) are important predators of birds in North America, but little is known about their natural history during the winter. Even basic survival information is not well documented in these species and is generally unknown during the winter. Therefore, we examined survivorship and causes of mortality among wintering Cooper's and Sharp-shinned hawks. We radio-tracked 27 Cooper's and 40 Sharp-shinned hawks during 5 winters from 1999 to 2004. Neither species nor sex was a significant covariate of survivorship, but the probability of adult survival (75.4%) over 110 days was significantly higher than that of juveniles (9.4%). Our estimate of adult survivorship is comparable with those published for other accipiters, but our estimate for juveniles is lower. Age differences in survivorship may be attributed to risk taking or inexperience in juveniles and/or difficulties in dealing with transmitter attachments. Two types of mortality (predation and collisions) were observed in the study. Whereas predation by owls was a major source of mortality in rural habitat, no predation was observed in the urban habitat. Our results suggest that predation by owls may have important implications for the behavioral interactions between accipiters and their prey.
20060096|The value of riparian habitats to birds differs among ecosystems. I tested whether riparian habitat near large streams and rivers in the Pacific Northwest supported a higher abundance and diversity of birds than adjacent upland forest. From 1996 to 1998, I surveyed breeding birds at four 9-ha sites in coastal western hemlock forest on western Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Five species of forest generalists dominated both riparian and upland bird communities: Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes), Chestnut-backed Chickadee (Poecile rufescens), American Robin (Turdus migratorius), Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), and Pacific-slope Flycatcher (Empidonax difficilis). Species richness and total abundance were similar over the riparian-to-upland gradient, whereas abundances of riparian specialists and aerial foragers declined with distance from the river. To explore whether vegetation composition and structure explained bird distribution patterns, I sampled three locations along both riparian and upland transects at each site. Riparian areas had higher densities of deciduous trees; conifer and snag densities were higher in upland areas. Salmonberry (Rubus spectabilis) cover was marginally higher in riparian areas and blueberry (Vaccinium spp.) cover was higher in upland areas. There was little effect of distance from the river on most bird species, but there were stronger associations of birds with specific vegetation attributes. Tree and snag densities explained the most variation in abundance of aerial foragers, and eight of nine individual species, whereas distance from the river and shrub cover were important predictors of Hammond's Flycatcher (Empidonax hammondii) abundance. Apart from riparian specialists and a few species with strong vegetation associations, bird assemblages in riparian and upland habitats of this moist forest type were dominated by similar sets of generalist species.
20060097|Grassland bird populations are sharply declining in North America. Changes in agricultural practices during the past 50 years have been suggested as one of the major causes of this decline. Field-border conservation practices encouraged by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Conservation Buffer Initiative meet many of the needs of sustainable agriculture and offer excellent opportunities to enhance local grassland bird populations within intensive agricultural production systems. Despite the abundant information on avian use of, and reproductive success in, strip habitats during the breeding season, few studies have examined the potential value of field borders for wintering birds. We planted 89.0 km of field borders (6.1 m wide) along agricultural field edges on one-half of each of three row crop and forage production farms in northeastern Mississippi. We sampled bird communities along these field edges during February-March 2002 and 2003 using line-transect distance sampling and strip transects to estimate density and community structure, respectively. We used Program DISTANCE to estimate densities of Song (Melospiza melodia), Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis), and other sparrows along bordered and non-bordered transects while controlling for adjacent plant community. Greater densities of several sparrow species were observed along most bordered transects. However, effects of field borders differed by species and adjacent plant community types. Diversity, species richness, and relative conservation value (a weighted index derived by multiplying species-specific abundances by their respective Partners in Flight conservation priority scores) were similar between bordered and non-bordered edges. Field borders are practical conservation tools that can be used to accrue multiple environmental benefits and enhance wintering farmland bird populations. Provision of wintering habitat at southern latitudes may influence population trajectories of short-distance migrants of regional conservation concern.
20060098|The eastern Gulf of Alaska coastline is suspected of providing an important pathway for birds migrating to and from Alaska. Because no intensive study of landbird migration has been conducted in this region, we used mist nets to study the post-breeding migration of landbirds along the coast from 1994 through 1999. Over six post-breeding periods, we netted for a total of 316 days (23,538 net-hr) and captured 13,490 individuals of 46 species (57.3 birds/100 net-hr). Six species constituted &gt65% of all captures (ordered by abundance): Orange-crowned Warbler (Vermivora celata), Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus), Lincoln's Sparrow (Melospiza lincolnii), Ruby-crowned Kinglet (Regulus calendula), Fox Sparrow (Passerella iliaca), and Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia). Most birds captured (71%) were Nearctic-Neotropical migrants, and percentages of hatching-year (HY) birds varied from 51 to 90% among common species. Daily capture rates of all species were highest between mid-August and mid-September. Migration of HY individuals preceded that of after-hatching-year (AHY) birds in 70% of the Nearctic-Neotropical species. Masses of HY Nearctic-Neotropical migrants were significantly less than those of AHY individuals. High capture rates and consistent annual use indicate that the eastern Gulf of Alaska coast is an important pathway for many small landbird migrants, particularly Nearctic-Neotropical species, departing breeding grounds in southern Alaska.
20060099|We studied incubation patterns and hatchability of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) nesting in two different wetland habitats--beaver ponds and sewage lagoons--in eastern Ontario during 1999-2001. We presumed that, if incubating Red-winged Blackbirds could acquire food more readily at sewage lagoons than at beaver ponds, they should respond by taking fewer and shorter foraging bouts, which would result in longer bouts of attentiveness, shorter incubation periods, and higher hatchability of eggs. Although differences were small, female foraging bouts were shorter and bouts of attentiveness were longer at sewage lagoons than they were at beaver ponds. Incubation constancies were subsequently greater, and, ultimately, incubation periods at sewage lagoons were shorter. Shorter incubation periods at sewage lagoons, however, did not result in increased hatchability. Our results suggest that, in habitats where incubating Red-winged Blackbirds can acquire food more readily, incubation periods may become shorter and incubation constancies may become higher.
20060100|We used radio-telemetry techniques to determine hourly activity patterns of 29 juvenile Lilaccrowned Parrots (Amazona finschi) during 1996-2000 in tropical dry forest of Jalisco, Mexico. Parrots had two peak activity periods--early morning and local movement. Individuals were generally inactive and did not change location for 5-6 hr during the middle of the day. Parrots were more active in the dry season than in the rainy season, although movements resulting in a change of location did not vary between seasons. Seasonal variations in activity of Lilac-crowned Parrots may be related to variations in food availability or temperature. Activity patterns of parrots need to be considered when evaluating habitat use or survey data.
20060101|Parrots that inhabit tropical lowland forests are difficult to study, are poorly known, and little information is available on their nesting habits, making analysis of community-wide nesting patterns difficult. I present nesting records for 15 species of psittacids that co-occur in southeastern Peru. The psittacid breeding season in this area lasted from June to April, with smaller species nesting earlier than larger species. Why smaller species bred earlier is uncertain, though it may be related to interspecific competition for nest sites or variations in food availability. This study identified two keystone plant resources used by nesting parrots: Dipteryx micrantha (Fabaceae) and Mauritia flexuosa (Arecaceae). Local threats to these plant species are discussed.
20060102|We investigated the effect of group size on incubation effort in Taiwan Yuhinas (Yuhina brunneiceps) at the Highlands Experimental Farm of National Taiwan University at Meifeng, Nantou County, central Taiwan, during 2000 and 2001. The Taiwan Yuhina is a joint-nesting, cooperatively breeding species endemic to Taiwan. We compared differences in parental investment among individuals of different sexes and status, explored the effect of group size on group incubation effort, and investigated whether individuals show compensatory reductions in care with respect to the number of females laying. Constancy of incubation increased as group size increased. Alpha females exhibited a significantly greater incubation effort than other individuals, but effort was similar among other group members. Both alpha males and females decreased their relative and absolute incubation effort as group size increased (i.e., there was a compensatory reduction in parental effort). However, beta pairs maintained a consistent but low incubation effort when either gamma pairs or an extra individual joined the group. Our study also demonstrated a new potential group-size benefit for cooperatively breeding birds--an increase in the constancy of incubation.
20060103|I describe an unusual food-handling behavior performed by juvenile Northern Mocking-birds (Mimus polyglottos). In the course of one morning, I observed juvenile Northern Mockingbirds repeatedly roll several prey items down the incline of a roof in Charlottesville, Virginia. I discuss this behavior in the context of the development of aerial foraging skills.
20060104|The Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) is one of the most studied game birds in North America. It is a ground-nesting galliform capable of producing multiple nests during a single season. Since 1993, personnel of the Albany Quail Project have radio-tagged &gt6,000 bobwhites and monitored &gt2,000 nests via radio telemetry on private lands in southwestern Georgia. We have observed nests in some peculiar places; however, every nest that we have monitored has been on the ground. Previously, no case of above-ground nesting has been documented for this species. Here, we report an above-ground nest, found in June 2001.
20060105|I report the first case of divorce for the Canary Islands Stonechat (Saxicola dacotiae), an endemic bird species of the semiarid island of Fuerteventura (Canary Islands, Spain). I studied 72 pairs during three breeding seasons (2000-2001, 2001-2002, and 2002-2003). In 2001-2002, a female divorced after a successful first nesting. This female settled in a neighboring territory where the owner was unpaired, built a new nest, and laid four eggs. The low rate of divorce (1.4%) suggests that unforced mate changes by Canary Islands Stonechats are rare.
20060106|I describe a Yellow-crowned Tyrannulet (Tyrannulus elatus) nest built largely of mistletoe seeds, which differs from the cup of plant matter typically constructed by this species. Mistletoe seeds have been observed in the nests of at least two other bird species, but this observation is the first where the nest appeared to be purposely constructed from seeds, possibly to take advantage of their adhesive properties.
20060115|From 1971 through 2003, Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapilla) at the Hemlock Hill Biological Research Area in northwestern Pennsylvania never bred in forest interior. Instead, they exhibited atypical habitat selection for breeding by occupying regenerating forest edges. Pairs in 14 territories, the entire population, showed normal annual return rates and pairing rates compared with other studies. For this ground-foraging bird, other studies showed that deep soil litter is preferred--but at my study site, soil litter depth in Ovenbird-occupied areas was lower than that found in the unoccupied forest interior. During May, July, and August, songs played in forest interior to attract Ovenbirds to settle there were unsuccessful. I tested the hypothesis that eastern chipmunk (Tamias striatus) abundance influenced this atypical habitat selection. Chipmunks were nearly absent from Ovenbird territories, but were abundant in the forest interior. I discuss habitat selection in birds in relation to simple cues and relate this to variation in habitat selection and use found in Ovenbirds.
20060116|In the temperate zone, few plants produce fruit during the peak of the avian breeding season when arthropods are abundant. This study examined avian frugivory on red elderberry (Sambucus racemosa pubens), a gap-specialist that fruits in late June and early July. First, we videotaped fruiting elderberry plants (n = 67 hr) within a forest to determine which avian species ate elderberry fruit. The birds that fed most frequently on red elderberry fruits were Scarlet Tanagers (Piranga olivacea) and Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (Pheucticus ludovicianus). We then analyzed radiotelemetry data for Scarlet Tanagers to determine (1) whether tanagers shifted their territories when elderberry was in fruit, and (2) whether tanagers traveled long distances off territory to visit fruiting elderberry. During the fruiting period, male tanagers shifted their home ranges and spent more time near elderberry bushes; however, they left their territories only 0.25 times per hr and moved an average of only 115 m during trips off territory. These results suggest that while tanagers do focus their activity near fruiting elderberry, they do not leave their territories regularly to find fruit.
20060117|In 2001 and 2002, we inventoried the bird communities and vegetation of two 6.25-ha plots in a late-successional spruce-fir (Picea mariana-Abies balsamea) forest of northern Minnesota that was severely disturbed by a 1999 windstorm. We compared these results with those from two nearby plots that were largely unaffected by the storm. Using vegetation data collected from one of the two plots in each location before the disturbance in 1996 and 1998, we examined similarities between plots before and after the storm. The most significant effect of the storm on vegetation was a 80% decrease in tree cover and a &gt 100% increase in shrublayer structure because of trees that were tipped over or snapped off. Of 30 territorial bird species, 9 held territories exclusively in the blowdown, while 2 held territories exclusively in the control. By foraging guild, 10 of 11 (91%) species of ground-brush foragers had more territory cover in the blowdown, while 7 of 13 (54%) species of tree-foliage searchers had more territory cover in the control. Black-and-white Warbler (Mniotilta varia), Chestnut-sided Warbler (Dendroica pensylvanica), Mourning Warbler (Oporornis philadelphia), Yellowbellied Flycatcher (Empidonax flaviventris), and Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus) had significantly (P &lt 0.05) more territory cover in the blowdown, whereas Blackburnian Warbler (Dendroica fusca), Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus satrapa), and Yellow-rumped Warbler (Dendroica coronata) had more territory cover in the control. Canonical correspondence analysis revealed that differences in avian territory cover were primarily attributable to changes in vegetation structure, in particular the increase of structural debris on the ground and the reduction in tree canopy, occurring because of the wind.
20060118|Silviculture in the Ouachita National Forest in Arkansas and Oklahoma has shifted in recent years from mostly even-aged management to a mix of even- and uneven-aged regeneration systems, including group-selection. Researchers have described presence/absence of early-successional bird species in forest openings created by even- and uneven-aged silviculture, but few have examined nest success. We examined occupancy and nest success of three early-successional species--Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea), Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens), and Prairie Warbler (Dendroica discolor)--within 6- and 7-year-old openings created by group-selection (uneven-aged, 0.8 ha) and seed-tree (even-aged, 11-16 ha) cuts in Arkansas. We found 54 Indigo Bunting nests in openings created by seed-tree cuts and 28 in openings created by group-selection cuts (hereafter "seed-tree stands" and "group-selection stands," respectively). We found 50 Yellow-breasted Chat nests in seed-tree stands, but only 2 were found in group-selection stands. We found 14 Prairie Warbler nests in seed-tree and none in group-selection stands. Mayfield nest success for Indigo Bunting was 30.9% in seed-tree stands and 41.9% in group-selection openings, but there was no difference in daily nest survival (0.952  0.009 and 0.964  0.010, respectively;  = 0.792, P = 0.37). Our data suggest that Indigo Buntings can nest successfully in both regenerating seed-tree and group-selection stands; however, group-selection openings may be too small to support nesting Yellow-breasted Chats and Prairie Warblers. Public concerns about clear-cutting have resulted in increased use of uneven-aged management by the USDA Forest Service. However, before widespread implementation of group-selection cutting, additional research should be conducted to evaluate the effects of this management strategy on Neotropical migratory bird communities.
20060119|Speed (km/hr) during flight is one of several factors determining the rate of migration (km/day) and flight range of birds. We attached 26-g, back-mounted satellite-received radio tags (platform transmitting terminals; PTTs) to adult female Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) during (1) midwinter 2000-2003 in the northern Central Valley of California, (2) fall and winter 2002-2003 in the Playa Lakes Region and Gulf Coast of Texas, and (3) early fall 2002-2003 in south-central New Mexico. We tracked tagged birds after release and, in several instances, obtained multiple locations during single migratory flights (flight paths). We used data from 17 PTT-tagged hens along 21 migratory flight paths to estimate groundspeeds during spring (n = 19 flights) and fall (n = 2 flights). Pintails migrated at an average groundspeed of 77  4 (SE) km/hr (range for individual flight paths = 40-122 km/hr), which was within the range of estimates reported in the literature for migratory and local flights of waterfowl (42-116 km/hr); further, groundspeed averaged 53  6 km/hr in headwinds and 82  4 km/hr in tailwinds. At a typical, but hypothetical, flight altitude of 1,460 m (850 millibars standard pressure), 17 of the 21 flight paths occurred in tailwinds with an average airspeed of 55  4 km/hr, and 4 occurred in headwinds with an average airspeed of 71  4 km/hr. These adjustments in airspeed and groundspeed in response to wind suggest that pintails migrated at airspeeds that on average maximized range and conserved energy, and fell within the range of expectations based on aerodynamic and energetic theory.
20060120|Sympatric avian brood parasites may compete for the same nests to parasitize. Host-resource partitioning, or "alloxenia," is exhibited by several Old World cuckoos where they are sympatric in Africa, Japan, and Australia. I examined host use by sympatric Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and Bronzed Cowbirds (M. aeneus) from 1997 to 1999 in pine-oak and montane riparian forests in southeastern Arizona. Bronzed and Brown-headed cowbirds partitioned hosts by host body size. Brown-headed Cowbirds did not parasitize larger hosts (i.e., Western Tanager, Piranga ludoviciana; and Hepatic Tanager, P. flava), while Bronzed Cowbirds did not parasitize smaller hosts (i.e., Painted Redstarts, Myioborus pictus; and Bell's Vireos, Vireo bellii). Although there was some host overlap (only 2/7 parasitized host species were parasitized by both cowbird species), only 3/48 nests (all Plumbeous Vireo, V. plumbeus) contained eggs of both parasite species. Parasitism by sympatric cowbirds in southeastern Arizona appears to fit the pattern of alloxenia.
20060121|Since 2000, we have been banding American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) chicks at Cape Lookout and Cape Hatteras national seashores as part of a long-term demographic study. Between 2000 and 2002, we banded 23 chicks. We report on resightings of eight chicks that returned to the Outer Banks of North Carolina in the summers of 2003 and 2004. These are the first records of American Oystercatcher chicks resighted near their natal areas in their 2nd and 3rd years. The 3-year-old birds appeared to be paired and acted territorial, whereas the 2nd-year birds were observed alone or in groups and did not exhibit territorial behavior. Our observations suggest that the American Oystercatcher's life history is similar to that of the Eurasian Oystercatcher (Haematopus ostralegus).
20060122|In 1999, we compared foraging success rates (captures/min) and foraging behaviors of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) at tidal (Georgia) and non-tidal freshwater (South Carolina) foraging sites. Foraging success rates were 30 times greater at the tidal site, but storks foraging in tidal areas only fed at low tide, which limited their foraging time at that site. On-site behaviors indicated the window of prey availability. Storks at the tidal site engaged almost exclusively in foraging behaviors, whereas storks at the non-tidal site devoted more time to other, non-foraging behaviors (e.g., preening, resting). The greater foraging success rate associated with the tidal site suggests that salt marsh/tidal creek habitats are high-quality foraging areas.
20060123|Sexual dimorphism in color and pattern of contour feathers is rare in juvenile songbirds. We describe how captive-bred juvenile males of Scottish Crossbill (Loxia scotica) and nominate Red Crossbill (L. curvirostra curvirostra) can be differentiated from females prior to prebasic molt by an unstreaked patch on the males' upper breast. There may be a functional relationship between sexual dimorphism and the formation of pair bonds or breeding while the birds are still in juvenile plumage. Sexually dimorphic Red Crossbills and Bearded Tits (Panurus biarmicus) are known to form pair bonds, and even breed successfully, while still in juvenile plumage.
20060124|I present a description of the nest, eggs, and nestlings of the Pale-eyed Thrush (Platycichla leucops). In addition, I present data on nest temperatures and incubation patterns. Two cup-shaped nests were found at a cloud forest site in the Central Andes of Colombia, both made of moss and containing two greenish-colored eggs with brown blotches. Generally, the incubating female spent the night on the nest. She left the nest at dawn, returned several times during the day and at dusk. Only the female incubated, but the male helped feed the nestlings. Nest temperature varied during incubation between 24 and 27C, which was several degrees above ambient temperature. There were differences between the two nests in the rate of cooling after the female left the nest at dawn, probably related to nest placement. Nest microclimate was affected by microhabitat and adult incubation behavior.
20060125|We report an observation of interspecific nest sharing between Red-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta canadensis) and Mountain Chickadees (Poecile gambeli) near Williams Lake, British Columbia, Canada. The nest contained two Red-breasted Nuthatch and three Mountain Chickadee nestlings. The nest was attended by a pair of Mountain Chickadees earlier in the observation period and later by an adult female Red-breasted Nuthatch; all five nestlings fledged. Competition for nest sites due to a decrease in cavity availability may have contributed to this occurrence.
20060126|On 22 July 2004, we found a Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow (Ammodramus nelsoni) nest in Sheridan County, Montana, containing a single Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) nestling that was about to fledge. A punctured sharp-tailed sparrow egg was found below the nest. This is the second definitive report of cowbird brood parasitism of a Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow nest and the first indicating successful rearing of a cowbird by this host species. The impact of cowbird parasitism on nesting success of Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow has not been studied, but our record indicates that nest failure (i.e., producing no host young) may be an outcome for some nests of this species.
20060127|Dunking behavior, the immersion of food items in water, is a relatively rare behavior in birds. I observed American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) dunking several types of food in rain puddles at Mont-Royal Park, Montral, Qubec, Canada. Pieces of dry bread and unshelled peanuts were provided in two experiments to test the potential effects of item size (bread) and shell softening (peanuts) on crow behavior. Crows dunked large pieces of bread more often than small ones. Dunking unshelled peanuts did not speed up the opening process. These observations further support the suggestion that food dunking among birds facilitates food ingestion by softening large, hard items.
20060128|Cooperative hunting is a behavior rarely observed in passerine birds. I observed two immature Northern Shrikes (Lanius excubitor invictus) apparently hunting cooperatively while preying on American Tree Sparrows (Spizella arborea) in central Alaska. During each of three foraging attempts, both shrikes appeared to work together to flush prey from dense cover into the open where it was then pursued. Cooperative hunting in this otherwise solitary species may be an adaptive behavior among inexperienced birds to increase their foraging efficiency, or to compensate for seasonal fluctuations in the accessibility or availability of prey.
20060129|We describe a photodocumented field observation in Sinaloa, Mexico, of a head-down (or "preening invitation") display performed by a male Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus), which elicited both grooming and pecking responses from a female Great-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus). Previously, such displays by parasitic cowbirds and responses by conspecific or various heterospecific bird species have been documented mainly under aviary conditions; most field observations have involved Brown-headed (M. ater) and Shiny (M. bonariensis) cowbirds. The function and evolutionary significance of such interspecific interactions remain elusive, but continued documentation of such occurrences may help elucidate their biological significance.
20060130|We report on a female House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) eating one of her own eggs from a clutch of six on the 3rd day of incubation. This observation is a confirmed case of filial cannibalism in the egg stage. The reason for this behavior is unknown, but we suggest and discuss three possibilities: (1) an idiosyncratic response to human disturbance, (2) removal of a damaged egg from the nest, and (3) facultative brood reduction in the egg stage.
20060131|I observed a pair of Orange-breasted Falcons (Falco deiroleucus) in Tikal, Guatemala, on 30 December 2003 and 1 January 2004. I observed the birds flying through wet foliage as a means of bathing, which has not been described previously for this species. During a morning with light rain, an adult falcon took off from a perch, flew low over the forest canopy, and appeared to crash intentionally into the wet, upper foliage of emergent trees before returning to its perch. I observed three repetitions of this behavior.
20060132|I observed a juvenile male Barenecked Umbrellabird (Cephalopterus glabricollis) forage on arthropods flushed by a large swarm of the army ant Eciton burchellii in the Caribbean foothills of Costa Rica. Apparently, this is the first report of this species attending an army ant swarm. At least 60 birds of eight different species were foraging at that swarm, the largest assemblage of army ant-following birds reported in the Neotropics.
