10.2307/25027589|A taxonomic treatment of the 50 species of Cyperus occurring in Costa Rica and Panama is presented. The treatment is based on herbarium study of some 4000 specimens from 27 herbaria. A new species is described, C. amplus Tucker (subgenus Protocyperus) and a new name, C. dentoniae, is provided for the species called C. asper by O'Neill. Descriptions of all the taxa are given, as well as discussions of morphology and the taxonomy of the subgenera. A key to the species treated and distribution maps are also provided. All numbered collections examined are listed in an index.
10.2307/25027593|For this study data from morphology, anatomy, cytology, ecology, and reproductive biology were used to circumscribe eleven taxa of Saxifraga section Boraphila subsection Integrifoliae and to assess their relationships. Most taxa have strong protandry as a method of ensuring outcrossing, and taxa in the S. integrifolia complex (S. integrifolia, S. apetala, and S. nidifica) have been shown to be self-compatible. Saxifraga californica has been shown to be self-incompatible but not protandrous. In occasional populations of S. integrifolia, gynodioecy occurs as an alternate outcrossing mechanism. Limited hybridization experiments and morphological analysis of putative natural hybrids suggest that at least one species, S. hitchcockiana Elvander, nom. nov., evolved by reticulate evolution. Hybrids have been produced and putative hybrids in nature have been found between taxa of subsection Integrifoliae and subsection Nivali-virginienses. Chromosome numbers have been determined for all but two taxa: S. apetala (n = 38), S. aprica (n = 10), S. integrifolia (n = 19), S. hitchcockiana (n = 38), S. nidifica (n = 10, 19), S. oregana (n = 19, 38), S. rhomboidea (n = 10, 19, 20, 28), and S. tempestiva (n = 5). It is hypothesized that combinations of self-compatibility, hybridization, polyploidy, and aneuploid reduction have been significant influences on speciation in subsection Integrifoliae and probably in other subsections of section Boraphila. The treatment includes a new combination, S. nidifica var. claytoniifolia (Canby ex Small) Elvander. A key to the species and varieties as well as distribution maps are provided. All numbered collections cited are listed in an index.
10.2307/25027594|The eastern species of Heuchera fall into two natural groups on the basis of phenological, morphological, and breeding data. Three spring-blooming species (H. pubescens, H. richardsonii, and H. longiflora) formerly belonging to section Heruchea are placed in subsection Americanae of section Heuchera with H. americana and H. caroliniana. These species possess striking differences in floral characteristics but are vegetatively quite similar; they do not have genetic barriers to hybridization and several species in this group are only weakly isolated by geographical and ecological barriers. Natural hybridization involving three species (H. americana with H. pubescens and H. richardsonii) is suspected. Among the summer-blooming species H. parviflora is removed from subsection Micranthae to subsection Villosae within section Heuchera. These species are very similar in floral characters but are vegetatively and ecologically distinct; they apparently do not hybridize in the wild, even though artificial hybrids between them are moderately fertile. The first chromosome counts for H. caroliniana and H. longiflora (both n = 7) are reported. The treatment includes descriptions for all taxa and illustrations for all species. A key to the species and varieties as well as distribution maps are provided. All numbered collections examined are listed in an index.
10.2307/25027598|Tuberous lomatiums (Lomatium, Umbelliferae) constitute an easily recognized, reasonably well-defined group of 13 species. The group is characterized by tuberous roots; a low, usually acaulescent habit; leaves divided into narrow segments; and mericarps with an elliptical outline and narrow, thin lateral wings. All taxa except one are diploids with 11 pairs of chromosomes. Species are reproductively isolated by post-mating barriers. Speciation has occurred via geographic isolation and divergence promoted by inbreeding. Much of the morphological variation within the group can be interpreted as a series of adaptations to an early, short growing season followed by long summer drought. It is likely that a considerable amount of parallel evolution has occurred.
10.2307/25027602|A reexamination of previous taxonomic treatments of Maurandya s. l. has been undertaken, which incorporates new information from macromorphology, chromosome numbers, pollen morphology, morphology and anatomy of the seed coat, reproductive biology, cladistic analyses, and geographic distribution. The data suggest that the Maurandyinae is a monophyletic, New World group of twenty species in four genera (Maurandya, Holmgrenanthe, Mabrya, Lophospermum) sufficiently distinct from other genera in the tribe to justify subtribal rank. Two previously recognized monotypic genera, Epixiphium and Rhodochiton, have been submerged in Maurandya and Lophospermum, respectively. Two new genera (Holmgrenanthe, Mabrya), six new species (Lophospermum turneri, L. chiapense, L. breedlovei, L. purpurascens, L. hintonii, L. nubicola), one new subspecies (Mabrya geniculata subsp. lanata), eight new combinations (Maurandya antirrhiniflora subsp. hederifolia, Holmgrenanthe petrophila, Mabrya acerifolia, M. geniculata, M. geniculata subsp. flaviflora, M. coccinea, M. rosei, M. erecta), and three changes of status are presented in the taxonomic treatment. Correlations of cladistic branching patterns and geographic distribution suggest that the subtribe originated in xeric habitats of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. The taxa have subsequently radiated/migrated along the Sierra Madre Oriental to more mesic habitats of southern Mexico and Guatemala.
10.2307/25027606|Lilaeopsis is a genus of perennial, rhizomatous herbs in the Umbelliferae (Apiaceae). Its thirteen species occupy damp, marshy, or truly aquatic habitats. The genus is well-developed in temperate and alpine zones of North America, South America, and Australasia. The group is difficult taxonomically due to its simplified vegetative morphology. The leaves are linear or spatulate, hollow, and transversely septate. They have apparently been derived from the axis of a compound leaf. The size and shape of the leaves are readily modified by the environment. Traditionally, microscopic characters of the fruit have been emphasized to distinguish the species. This study was undertaken to revise the taxonomy of Lilaeopsis, to collect more information concerning the biology of the plants, and to throw light upon the biogeographical history of the genus. The investigation employed standard herbarium techniques, numerical analysis, and light and scanning electron microscopy. Extensive field work in North and South America, Australia, and New Zealand was supplemented by cultivation of living material at the University of Michigan Botanical Gardens. Samples from 53 populations, representing eleven of the thirteen species, were grown in the common-garden. Data were collected concerning limits of phenotypic plasticity in response to various degrees of submergence and light intensity. In this treatment thirteen species of Lilaeopsis are recognized. One new species, L. ruthiana, is described, and three new combinations are made: L. attenuata subsp. ulei, L. brasiliensis, and L. schaffneriana subsp. recurva. Carpological characters continue to receive emphasis, but recognition of their extensive variability in some taxa resulted in the merging of several previously recognized species. There appear to have been at least two waves of migration of Lilaeopsis between North and South America, one between the eastern sides of the continents, a second between the northern Andes and southwestern North America. High latitude migration across the southern hemisphere is the most reasonable explanation for the disjunction between South America and Australasia. The timing and mode of these migrations are unknown, but long-distance dispersal, more favorable climatic conditions, and perhaps greater proximity of the southern land masses were probably involved.
10.2307/25027610|The Acutae group of Carex (Cyperaceae) consists of the 70-90 species of subgenus Carex, which have two stigmas and evaginate involucral bracts. The systematics of this group in the Pacific Northwest region of North America was investigated to determine the number and circumscription of taxa, and the relationships among taxa. Based on studies of anatomical and morphological variation, chromosome numbers, and reproductive biology, 10 species (17 taxa) are recognized in this region. Species are distinguished by consistent, qualitative differences in the morphology of perigynia, inflorescences, and sheaths of the basal leaves. Differences in chromosome numbers, habitat preferences, growth forms, anatomy of leaves and culms, and micromorphology of perigynia and achenes are correlated with these morphological differences. Varieties are distinguished within polymorphic species primarily by geographic or ecological variation in the morphology of the perigynia. These differences are not always consistent, and break down when ranges of the varieties overlap or come into contact. Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time for five species of the Acutae group. Reproductive isolation of sympatric species generally results from differences in the phenology of flowering, or from large differences in chromosome numbers, as demonstrated by artificial hybridizations. The following new combinations are made: C. lenticularis var. dolia, C. lenticularis var. impressa, C. lenticularis var. lipocarpa, and C. scopulorum var. prionophylla.
10.2307/25027614|Acmella, a pantropical genus of the Asteraceae-Heliantheae, is closely allied to Spilanthes in the subtribe Verbesininae, and consists of annual and perennial herbs with matted to erect growth habits. The genus has very complex patterns of morphological and chromosomal variation that have caused difficulties in delimiting taxa, especially at the specific and infraspecific levels. Hybridization between the same and different ploidy levels, infraspecific and even intrapopulational euploidy, and asexual reproduction have all resulted in a variable polyploid pillar complex in a large part of the genus. The patterns of variation are so complex in some instances that the use of numerical methods of data analysis was necessary for the recognition of taxa. In the present treatment morphological and chromosomal evidence aided by numerical taxonomic studies supports the recognition of thirty species and of nine varieties in addition to the nominate varieties. Complex character variation, numerous parallelisms, and widespread reticulate evolution in Acmella have posed special problems in using cladistic analysis. The phylogenetic analysis has provided support for the recognition of three sections in addition to clarifying the relationships among taxa at the specific and infraspecific levels. Two new sections, sect. Annuae and sect. Metaglottis, four new species, A. lundellii, A. pilosa, A. psilocarpa, and A. serratifolia, and three new varieties, A. alba var. ecuadorensis, A. filipes var. cayensis, A. grandiflora var. discoidea, are described. The new combinations made are A. alba, A. alpestris, A. bellidioides, A. calva, A. darwinii, A. decumbens, A. decumbens var. affinis, A. filipes, A. filipes var. parvifolia, A. glaberrima, A. grandiflora, A. grandiflora var. brachyglossa, A. grisea, A. iodiscaea, A. leptophylla, A. leucantha, A. oleracea, A. oppositifolia, A. oppositifolia var. repens, A. paniculata, A. papposa, A. papposa var. macrophylla, A. poliolepidica, A. pusilla, A. radicans, A. radicans var. debilis, A. ramosa, and A. sodiroi.
10.2307/25027622|Cordylanthus (Scrophulariaceae-Pedicularieae-Castillejinae) is a genus of 18 species of hemiparasitic annuals that occupy diverse habitats in the western United States and adjacent Mexico. The genus is separated from related genera by its spathelike calyx, which is open anteriorly to the base or nearly so, by a diversity of inflorescence types that range from spikes to reduced single-flowered florescences that may be aggregated into spikelike or headlike clusters, and by a range of chromosome numbers from a base number of x = 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 21. This monograph completes a taxonomic revision of the genus based on morphological studies of living plants and available herbarium specimens, on seed coat patterns as seen under scanning electron microscope, and on chromosome number; subgenera Dicranostegia and Hemistegia were treated earlier. Subgenus Cordylanthus, treated taxonomically here, is divided into three sections that correspond with distinctive chromosome numbers: 1) section Cordylanthus (6 species of the Cascade-Sierra Nevada-Transverse ranges and westward, n = 14); 2) section Anisocheila (6 species primarily of the Great Basin and southward into northern Sonora, n = 13); 3) section Ramosi (1 species primarily of the Great Basin, n = 12). Keys to the subgenera and a complete synonymy of taxa are provided for the entire genus. For subgenus Cordylanthus keys are provided to all species and subspecies; illustrations, a full description, a dot map of geographic distribution, and representative specimens are given for each taxon, and the relationships and variability are discussed where appropriate. Five new subspecies are described: C. eremicus subsp. kernensis, C. kingii subsp. densiflorus, C. rigidus subsp. setigerus, C. tenuis subsp. barbatus, and C. wrightii subsp. kaibabensis. Nine new combinations are proposed: C. kingii subsp. helleri, C. pilosus subsp. hansenii, C. pilosus subsp. trifidus, C. rigidus subsp. involutus, C. rigidus subsp. littoralis, C. tenuis subsp. capillaris, C. tenuis subsp. pallescens, C. tenuis subsp. viscidus, C. wrightii subsp. tenuifolius.
10.2307/25027626|A systematic revision of the New World species of Marsilea (Marsileaceae), involving field, greenhouse, herbarium, and laboratory studies, was conducted. Comparison of Marsileaceae to floating-leaved rhizomatous aquatic angiosperms revealed numerous structural convergences between the two, and suggested that adaptation to flotation was an important factor in determining the morphology of the Marsilea leaf. The plants showed extreme environmental plasticity. Stomatal patterns and presence of epidermal streaks on the leaflets, which had been used systematically, were shown to be variable. Other vegetative characters, such as position of roots on the rhizome, were relatively stable. Vessel elements with simple perforation plates were found in roots of all species except M. deflexa and M. crotophora, which had only tracheids with oblique scalariform end walls. The life-history of Marsilea shares characteristics with those of many weedy angiosperms, including long propagule dormancies, self-compatibility, occurrence in early successional habitats, and rapid growth. Waterbirds seem to be important in sporocarp dispersal of species of Marsilea. The fossil record shows that the Marsileaceae orginiated before or during the Lower Cretaceous, and extant genera were present possibly by the Upper Cretaceous. The fossil genus Rodeites is similar to extant species of Marsilea. Twelve species, including the newly described M. crotophora, and three putative hybrids are recognized among the New World marsileas. To focus future taxonomic work in Marsilea on natural rather than geographically defined groups, these taxa have been placed into three sections, two of which, section Clemys and section Nodorhizae, are newly described. Each species is illustrated and its range mapped.
10.2307/25027630|Tetramerium is treated as comprising 28 species, 14 of which (T. butterwickianum, T. crenatum, T. denudatum, T. emilyanum, T. guerrerense, T. mcvaughii, T. oaxacanum, T. obovatum, T. rzedowskii, T. sagasteguianum, T. surcubambense, T. wasshausenii, T. yaquianum, and T. zeta) are newly described. Five species (T. abditum, T. angustius, T. ochoterenae, T. peruvianum, and T. tetramerioides) are transferred to Tetramerium from other genera. The genus is included in the subfamily Ruellioideae, tribe Justicieae, subtribe Odontoneminae, where its closest relatives are Henrya, Carlowrightia, Anisacanthus, Mirandea, and MExacanthus. The generic limits of Tetramerium are established with respect to these genera and summarized in a key. Within the genus three sections are recognized based primarily on differences in form and color of the corolla. Studies of pollination biology reveal some of these differences to be indicative of contrasting modes of pollination. A chromosome number of n = 18 was determined for 11 species representing two of the sections. The geographic range of Tetramerium extends from the southwestern United States southward to Bolivia. The plants occur primarily in regions of tropical dry forest. Twenty-one species occur in Mexico and 18 are endemic there. Only one species, T. nervosum, occurs in both North and South America. Studies of eight species in sect. Tetramerium show that these species are self-compatible, and most of them are fully autogamous. Natural hybrids involving at least two pairs of sympatric species are suspected. Interspecific hybridizations were attempted among eight species of sect. Tetramerium. Seventy-five percent of these crosses resulted in the formation of capsules with seeds. Each of the 28 species is described and its distribution mapped. Illustrations are provided for most of the species. Flowering periodicity, habitat preference, and presumed interspecific relationships are also discussed.
10.2307/25027634|Azpeitia M. Peragallo was described in 1912 from fossil material. The type species is A. antiqua, here transferred from Triceratium. Many of the species belonging in Azpeitia were originally described in Coscinodiscus; the new combinations made here are A. aeginensis, A. africana, A. biradiata, A. elegantula, A. endoi, A. neocrenulata, A. nodulifer, A. oligocenica, A. praenodulifer, A. salisburyana, A. tabularis, A. tuberculata, A. tuberculata var. atlantica, A. vetustissima, and A. voluta. Three new species are described (A. barronii, A. crenuloides, A. verruculosa), and the new name A. grovei is proposed. Azpeitia includes fossil and living marine species ranging from the Eocene to the Recent. They have a warm water distribution; only A. tabularis has radiated into austral cold water masses. This primitive genus is characterized by valves with a nearly central labiate process often on the edge of an annulus, a ring of labiate processes on the valve mantle, specialized areola patterns on the mantle differing from those on the face of the valve, and two or more (usually three) hyaline girdle bands including a wide valvocopula. Light (LM) and scanning electron (SEM) microscope treatments are given for the new species as well as for A. africana, A. antiqua, A. biradiata, A. elegantula, A. grovei, A. neocrenulata, A. nodulifer, A. tabularis, A. tuberculata, and A. voluta, and also for an unidentified species of Actinocyclus, Roperia tesselata, and Hemidiscus cuneiformis. A sequence of symmetry, from biradial (approaching radial) to dissymmetry is noted in Azpeitia and in related genera, which include Actinocyclus, Roperia, and Hemidiscus. A line of evolution from Azpeitia to Actinocyclus in the Hemidiscaceae is proposed, radiating from warm marine waters to colder waters at least in the southern hemisphere.
10.2307/25027638|This monograph is an ecological study and complete revision of the genus Leochilus (Orchidaceae: Oncidiinae). Examination of living, liquid preserved, and pressed specimens was supplemented with fairly extensive study in the species' native habitats in Mexico, Central America, northern South America, and the Caribbean (more or less throughout the complete range of the genus). Various forms of laboratory investigations were conducted on many vegetative and floral features (most of which are illustrated). Chromosome counts are reported for L. carinatus (2n = 42), L. crocodiliceps (2n = 48), and L. oncidioides (n = 21). Twig epiphytism and the modifications of the Leochilus species for this habitat are discussed, including the psygmoid (fanshaped) juvenile habit, seed morphology, and epiphytic weediness. Pollination of Leochilus by lower hymenopteran vectors is described and discussed with special emphasis on one case of microsympatry. Five of the nine species in Leochilus are known to occur in mixed populations, yet no natural hybrids have been identified. Genetic identity appears to be maintained by adaptation for pollination by different sizes and types of insects. Contrary to historical placement, Leochilus is considered at most only a distant relative of Oncidium, with which it shares only the general vegetative, floral, and ecological features of the subtribe Oncidiinae. Leochilus is more closely related to a group of other twig epiphytes, including Capanemia, Comparettia, Ionopsis, Notylia, Papperitizia, and Rodriguezia, and is most closely related to Hybochilus leochilinus. A Groundplan-divergence Method cladogram is presented for Leochilus; four clades are identified, each with a number of parallel character states. The section on taxonomy includes a generic history and description as well as a key and descriptions, discussions, illustrations, and distribution maps for each species.
10.2307/25027618|The taxonomy of Salix in the southeastern United States was studied in the field and herbarium. Twelve species and one variety of native willows are recognized and seven species and one subspecies are shown to be introduced and naturalized. A quantitative study of variation in S. caroliniana and S. nigra supported species rank for these entities and showed that infraspecific variation was too diffuse to warrant taxonomic recognition. Salix humilis has been shown to consist of two varieties: var. humilis and var. microphylla. Salix floridana is an endemic species that belongs in sect. Humboldtiana. It may be a Tertiary relict that survived the Pleistocene glaciation in northern Florida. The phytogeographical patterns displayed by this and other species of Salix are related to Pleistocene events. During the Full-Glacial some northern willows presumably extended far south of their present ranges and some northern species had their ranges fragmented. Some northern species occur here now as peripheral species (S. amygdaloides, S. bebbiana, S. discolor, and S. lucida); others, such as S. eriocephala, left major disjunct populations behind following deglaciation. The disjunct Ozark population of S. caroliniana may also be related to these events, or it may have had its origin in Tertiary times. The recognition of these taxa of Salix is aided by keys to staminate, pistillate, and vegetative specimens, detailed descriptions, and comparison with related and similar species. Taxonomy, nomenclature, variation, and hybridization of each native species are discussed. Each species is illustrated; range maps are also provided.
10.2307/25027677|Agastache section Brittonastrum comprises 14 species, including 2 subspecies and 14 varieties, of herbaceous perennials of the southwestern United States and Mexico. Earlier interpretations of the specific delimitations and relationships are reviewed on the basis of morphology, chromosome numbers, habitats, and geographic distributions. The most consistent taxonomic features are growth habit, indument, leaf shape, inflorescence structure, calyx structure, and corolla lobing. Other characters, including the overall size and venation of the corolla, are subject to greater intrapopulational variation. Chromosome numbers are uniformly n = 9. The species are grouped in five newly described series: Brittonastrum, Canae, Mearnsianae, Micranthae, and Pallidae. Keys and descriptions to all series, species, and infraspecific taxa are provided.
10.2307/25027681|Nymphaea subgenus Hydrocallis is described to include 14 species. Evidence for this classification was obtained from numerical taxonomy, scanning electron microscopy of seeds and pollen, chromosome numbers, floral biology, artificial hybridization, flavonoid chemistry, and general morphology. Representative species from other subgenera of Nymphaea were included in many of these investigations for comparative purposes. Seed investigations were exceedingly valuable in defining certain species and in clarifying their phylogenetic relationships. Pollen studies, on the contrary, were of little value in distinguishing individual species but provided evidence for the relationship of subg. Hydrocallis to other subgenera. The addition of information on chromosome number and flavonoid profile for 12 taxa, supplemented by observations on floral biology and crossability, has permitted a general phylogenetic interpretation of subg. Hydrocallis. Two major evolutionary lines are apparent. One includes N. amazonum, N. prolifera, N. lasiophylla, and N. lingulata. Hybridization events within this line involving subg. Lotos may have contributed to the formation of N. rudgeana, but more evidence is needed to substantiate this interpretation. The other lineage includes N. novogranatensis, N. gardneriana, N. conardii, and N. jamesoniana, with a secondary branch involving N. glandulifera, N. potamophila, N. oxypetala, and perhaps N. belophylla. Nymphaea tenerinervia exhibits affinities to both major lines and appears to represent an evolutionary link between them. A complete taxonomic treatment of subg. Hydrocallis, including the description of the new subspecies N. amazonum subsp. pedersenii, is presented.
10.2307/25027685|A taxonomic revision of the American frankenias is presented in which fourteen species and four closely related species groups are recognized. These species range in habit from rhizomatous subshrubs to true cushion plants. They occur in dry climatic regions in North and South America and are confined primarily to saline and gypseous soils. Morphological diversification in this group has included the evolution of highly specialized vegetative structures, e.g., xeromorphic leaf features, in many species. Available evidence suggests that geographical isolation and ecological isolation, e.g., on different soil types, have been important in the evolutionary history of this group. Disjunct distributions and geographically isolated populations are characteristic of many species, and long-range disjunctions involving both single species and closely related species pairs occur. Five of the fourteen species are narrow endemics, and this high level of endemism appears to be correlated with edaphic factors. Most of the geographically restricted species show reduced ovule numbers per flower and reduced seed numbers per fruit, compared to their more widespread close relatives. A key, descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps for all species are provided.
10.2307/25027689|Eremolepidaceae is a strictly American family of mistletoes, which is centered in South America but reaches southern Mexico and the largest Caribbean Islands. It consists of three genera (Antidaphne, Eubrachion, and Lepidoceras) and twelve species; the type genus Eremolepis is included in Antidaphne. The status of Eremolepidaceae as a family is confirmed, and affinities with early Loranthaceae but not with Viscaceae are maintained. In this monograph, two new species are described (Eubrachion gracile, Lepidoceras peruvianum) and five new combinations are proposed (Antidaphne antidaphneoides, A. glaziovii, A. punctulata, A. schottii, A. wrightii).
10.2307/25027693|The mistletoe genus Tristerix (Loranthaceae) consists of eleven species and ranges from subpramo elevations in north-central Colombia and Ecuador to low elevations in and adjacent to the Andes in Argentina and southern Chile. One species, T. aphyllus, is squamate and reduced to inflorescences emerging from the host, several species of cacti; other species are leafy. In this revision, two subgenera are recognized: subg. Tristerix (2 species) of southern Chile and adjoining Argentina and subg. Metastachys (9 species) from Chile to Colombia. Tristerix has no close relatives either in the Old or New World, but remote affinities are suggested with Ligaria and perhaps Aetanthus and Psittacanthus. Three new species are described (T. penduliflorus, T. peytonii, T. pubescens) and four new combinations are proposed (T. chodatianus, T. corymbosus, T. peruvianus, T. secundus).
10.2307/25027697|The genus Cuphea, the largest in the Lythraceae, comprises ca 260 zygomorphic-flowered, herbaceous species, primarily of the New World tropics, which are assigned to two subgenera and fourteen sections. In this revision of sect. Heterodon, which is defined by the presence of a large dorsal calyx lobe, twenty-eight species including nine varieties, predominantly Mexican annuals, are recognized. New information about floral and vegetative morphology, pollen studies, cytology, seed oil chemistry, floral biology, and distribution and habitats is presented, and a key and descriptions are provided. A new subgeneric name (subg. Bracteolatae), two new species (C. caesariata and C. humifusa), four new varieties (C. ferrisiae var. Rosea, C. lobophora var. elongata, C. lobophora var. occidentalis, and C. wrightii var. alba), and two new combinations (C. wrightii var. meionandra and C. wrightii var. venusta) are proposed. Rapid speciation and expansion after introduction of the ancestral line from eastern South America into Mexico are believed to have been promoted by extensive orogenic and physiographic changes associated with mountain building during the Tertiary. Relationships with members of less specialized sections are evident in species formerly placed in sect. Brachyandra subsect. Lophostomopsis but now assigned to sect. Heterodon; relationships with members of more specialized sections are noted in species that share characteristics with those of sect. Melvilla subsect. Erythrocalyx and sect. Diploptychia. In sect. Heterodon, evolution apparently proceeded from outcrossing perennials with moderate-sized flowers to small-flowered, self-fertilizing annuals whose seed oils are composed primarily of lauric acid and also to large-flowered, outcrossing annuals whose seed oils are composed primarily of capric acid. Chromosome numbers (n = 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 20, 22) suggest that autoploidy, alloploidy, aneuploidy, and hybridization were all involved in speciation in this group. Although most species are morphologically discrete, patterns of variation among species are complex and homoplasy is extensive. Delimitations are based on suites of characters.
10.2307/25027701|Coursetia, as presently characterized, includes the species formerly referred to the genera Cracca (sensu Bentham), Humboldtiella, Neocracca, and Poissonia. The genus is a member of the tribe Robinieae and its close relatives are Robinia, Olneya, Peteria, and Genistidium. Coursetia is distinguished from these genera by: legumes with seed compartments; axillary inflorescences with a relatively slow, acropetal maturation of flowers; styles with a pollen brush that is initiated extrorsely and often assumes a latrorse position at maturity; acute keel petals; the absence (a possible loss) of spinescent stipules; and a base chromosome number of x = 8 (but shared with Genistidium). Geographically, Coursetia is centered to the south of these genera in the mountains of Mexico and the Andes of South America. It is the only genus of the tribe Robinieae to have radiated significantly into South America. Based in part on a cladistic analysis of Coursetia and close relatives, five presumably monophyletic sections are recognized within the genus; they are readily distinguished from each other by leaf morphology and nyctinastic leaflet movements. Two of these sections correspond to the formerly recognized genera Poissonia (with two species) and Neocracca (with one species). The former separation of Coursetia and Cracca, distinguished by woody versus herbaceous habits, is not supported in this analysis; the species of these two genera are placed in the sections Madrenses (with nine species), Coursetia (with nine species), and Craccoides (with seventeen species). Floral resupination, leaflet nyctinasty, and morphology of leaves, stipules, and inflorescences are examples of more useful features for classification in this group than simply growth habits. A chromosome number n = 8 has been established for fifteen species and two varieties representing four sections; however, the fifth section, Neocracca, is tetraploid with n = 16. Coursetia occurs from the southwestern U.S.A. southward to northern Argentina and inhabits primarily seasonally dry, tropical forests or scrublands. Nineteen species are restricted to North America and eighteen to South America. Only one species, C. caribaea, is widespread on both continents and is the only species that occurs in the West Indies. Thirty-eight species of Coursetia are described and discussed with regard to distribution, flowering season, habitat, and presumed interspecific relationships. Of these, seven species and one variety are described as new: C. maraniona, C. cajamarcana, C. hidalgoana, C. barrancana, C. andina, C. intermontana, C. gracilis, and C. caribaea var. tomentosa, and six new combinations are proposed: C. caribaea var. sericea, var. trifoliolata, var. chiapensis, var. pacifica, var. astragalina, and var. ochroleuca.
10.2307/25027705|Antirrhinum is one of very few genera of flowering plants disjunct between western North America (15 species) and the western Mediterranean region (ca. 21 species). The much greater diversity of the New World snapdragons, including species with prehensile pedicels or branchlets, disparate flower, fruit, and seed morphologies, differing chromosome numbers, and unusual ecological requirements, has made generic circumscription controversial. The relationships among these disparate New World groups and their relationship to the more homogeneous Old World group was evaluated. Extensive field study of the genus in the Old and New Worlds, together with experimental studies of cultivated plants and analysis of herbarium specimens, was followed by a cladistic analysis of the New World group. Fifteen species are recognized in the New World section Saerorhinum. One new subspecies, A. vexillo-calyculatum subsp. intermedium, is described, and two new combinations are proposed: A. vexillo-calyculatum subsp. breweri and A. nuttallianum subsp. subsessile. Line drawings, distribution maps, SEM micrographs of seeds, and chromosome counts are provided for all of the New World species. SEM micrographs of seeds of representative Old World species, together with SEM micrographs of pollen of selected New and Old World species, are presented. The New World species morphologically most similar to the Old World group have the chromosome number n = 16. The data suggest that the New World group (n = 16, 15, 13) arose through migration and/or long-distance dispersal, chromosome doubling, and subsequent aneuploid reduction from the Old World group (n = 8). New evidence from studies of flower, fruit, seed, and pollen morphology and anatomy, overall plant development, reproductive biology, crossability, cytology, ecological requirements, and geographic distributions suggests a very close relationship between the Old and New World groups and links the disparate New World species together, supporting the maintenance of these species in one genus.
10.2307/25027709|A monograph, based on field and herbarium studies, is provided for Paepalanthus subg. Xeractis, which is distinguished by involucral bracts usually exceeding the capitulum and by male corollas hairy within. Some of the species show markedly primitive characters, such as leaflike bracts, deeply divided corollas in male flowers, and sepals with stomata. On the basis of floral characters, six species are removed from the subgenus. Five species, four varieties, and one form are newly described: P. anamariae, P. clausenii, P. digitiformis, P. lanuginosus, P. revolutus, P. augustus var. picensis, P. mollis var. itambeensis, P. superbus var. gracilis, P. uncinatus var. rectus, and P. chlorocephalus f. parviflorus. In addition, three new combinations are proposed: P. argenteus var. elatus, P. calvulus, and P. superbus var. niveo-niger. Subgenus Xeractis comprises twenty-seven species, including eleven varieties and two forms. These are grouped into the newly described sections Chrysostegis, Gymnostegis, Pleurophyllon, and Xeractis, the last divided into series Albidi and Fuscati. The sections and series are distinguished on the basis of habit, leaf anatomy, involucral bract color, and floral pubescence and pigmentation. In addition, twelve putative hybrids were collected in the field or identified from herbarium material. Substantial introgression was found in one of these instances of hybridization. Subgenus Xeractis is wholly endemic to the Serra do Espinhao of Minas Gerais, Brazil, a mountain range about 370 km long, which supports high diversity and endemism in many angiosperm taxa. Most species have a very small range, and the collective patterns of their distribution suggest a division of the Serra do Espinhao into four floristic regions: the Diamantina plateau; the northern Serra do Cip; the southern Serra do Cip; and the southern Serra do Espinhao. The species diversity is highest and the species distributions narrowest in the very poor quartzitic soils of the Serra do Cip. Within the Serra do Cip, the species occurring in seasonally wet habitats on shallow or poorly drained soils are the most problematic; they are characterized by reticulate variation patterns and otherwise show indications of recent diversification.
10.2307/25027713|This is the third paper in a series treating the five subsections of the large Oenothera sect. Oenothera (76 species), divided into its present form based on comparative morphological studies and on genome and plastome relationships inferred from an extensive crossing program. The taxonomy, details of breeding systems, cytology, and a discussion of the relationships pertinent to the classification of the species of subsect. Raimannia (11 species) and subsect. Nutantigemma (3 species) are presented. The five species of subsect. Raimannia having erect stems, compact densely flowered inflorescences, and lanceoloid capsules are placed in ser. Candela. Oenothera heterophylla, O. cordata, and O. rhombipetala have the plesiomorphic features of large flowers and self-incompatibility. These species, which occur from eastern Texas north throughout the Great Plains, form bivalents or small translocation rings and bivalents in meiosis. The other two species, O. clelandii and O. curtissii, appear to have been independently derived from O. rhombipetala, but are now geographically removed from their progenitor. Both are small-flowered, autogamous, permanent structural heterozygotes, forming a ring of 14 chromosomes in meiosis and having about 50% pollen fertility. Oenothera clelandii occurs north and east of O. rhombipetala in the central lowlands, from eastern Minnesota and eastern Iowa to northern Indiana and Michigan, and O. curtissii is restricted to scattered localities in the southeastern U.S.A. (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina). The remaining six species of subsect. Raimannia are placed in ser. Raimannia, characterized by relatively few-flowered inflorescences with lateral branches and cylindrical capsules. This group is centered in the southern grasslands of Texas, where four of the six species occur. Oenothera grandis, primarily of the Great Plains to southern Texas, is the only self-incompatible species of the series. Oenothera falfurriae and O. mexicana, endemics of southern Texas, are both small-flowered, autogamous bivalent formers. Oenothera laciniata, which occurs nearly throughout the eastern U.S.A. and is widely naturalized, is an autogamous, permanent structural heterozygote derived from O. grandis. The other two species of ser. Raimannia are restricted to coastal dune areas on the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic. Oenothera drummondii subsp. drummondii, a large-flowered, self-compatible, modally outcrossing subspecies, occurs from Campeche, Mexico, to North Carolina but is rare and apparently relictual from Louisiana to North Carolina. It is replaced by the derived permanent structural heterozygote O. humifusa from Louisiana northward to Pennsylvania. Oenothera drummondii subsp. thalassaphila is a rare self-compatible, modally outcrossing, bivalent former disjunct in Baja California Sur. Subsection Nutantigemma consists of three species that exhibit genetic differentiation; they form sterile hybrids with irregular meiosis in crossing experiments with members of subsect. Raimannia. Oenothera pubescens, a permanent structural heterozygote, has the widest natural distribution in the genus: from the southwestern U.S.A. to Andean South America and the Galapagos Islands. Also included in this subsection are O. breedlovei, endemic to Sierra Laguna, Baja California Sur, and O. tamrae, known only from the type collected in Nayarit, Mexico. Oenothera breedlovei is a large-flowered, self-compatible, presumably modally outcrossing, relict species; O. tamrae, with large flowers and pollen fertility of over 90%, is also presumed to be a bivalent former.
10.2307/25027717|The "Malvaceae of Mexico" is a revisionary-level floristic treatment of the family as it occurs in Mexico, one of its centers of floristic diversity; it is intended as a contribution to an eventual Flora of Mexico. Fifty-five genera (372 species including ten infraspecific taxa) are treated. Discussion is devoted to endemism and diversity in the family and to taxonomic subdivision of the family, wherein four tribes are recognized as occurring in Mexico, one of which (the Malveae) is further subdivided into 16 generic alliances. Morphology of the family is reviewed, with special attention given to specialized terminology relevant to the family. A key to the genera is presented, and for each genus the following information is given: typification and synonymy, generic description, etymological derivation, a statement on the size and distribution of the genus, citation of important references concerning the genus, and a key to the Mexican species of the genus. For each species the following information is provided: typification and synonymy with full bibliographical data, species description, vernacular names and uses of the plant if any, distribution (geographical and elevational) and flowering period, specimen citations by states, and a distribution map. Illustrations are included for most of the genera. Scientific names and specimen citations are fully indexed. Two new sections of Abutilon (Abutilon sect. Mexabutilon and Abutilon sect. Pluriovulata) are published, as are three new sections of Hibiscus described by O. Blanchard (Hibiscus sect. Clypeati, Hibiscus sect. Muenchhusia, Hibiscus sect. Striati). Four new species, Bastardiastrum tarasoides, Pavonia alia, Pavonia baumliana, and Pavonia durangensis are described, and a new combination, Melochia spicata (Sterculiaceae), is proposed. Also, the new genus Allosidastrum and the new combinations Allosidastrum hilarianum, Allosidastrum interruptum, and Allosidastrum pyramidatum are published.
10.2307/25027720|This revision of Palicourea (Rubiaceae) in Mexico and Central America is based on field observations and study of herbarium specimens. Thirty-one species are recognized. Eight new species (P. albocaerulea, P. bellula, P. hammelii, P. orosiana, P. pendula, P. purpurea, P. skotakii, P. tilaranensis) and one new name, P. standleyana, are published. The relationship of Palicourea to Psychotria is discussed. The morphology of the Mexican and Central American species of Palicourea as well as habitats, distribution, and phenology are described. In addition to the descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are presented for each species.
10.2307/25027724|A classification of the Neotropical bamboo genus Chusquea into five sections is proposed, and detailed descriptions of 32 of the ca. 120 species are presented. Shrubby, high-altitude species with intravaginal branching, formerly segregated as the genus Swallenochloa, are incorporated into Chusquea as section Swallenochloa (16 species). Three other smaller groups known from lower elevations are formally classified as section Verticillatae (six species), section Serpentes (five species), and section Longifoliae (five species). These four sections are well-defined, primarily on morphology of the buds, branches, and foliage leaves. The remaining species are provisionally assigned to section Chusquea. Morphological evidence supporting this classification is presented, and additional comments on chromosome numbers, phenology, habitats, and distributions are included. Two keys to species are provided, one based solely on vegetative characters and the other on vegetative and flowering characters. One new species, C. glauca, is described. The distribution of each species is mapped, and most species are illustrated.
10.2307/25027728|A systematic study of the morphology and secondary product chemistry of the fruticose lichen genus Oropogon (Alectoriaceae) was conducted. This montane genus is distinguished from the other members of the family by its large, brown, muriform ascospores, which occur singly in the ascus. The presence of small thallus perforations has also long been considered a uniform character of Oropogon, but a small number of species have typical pseudocyphellae essentially like those of the related genus Bryoria. The perforations characteristic of the majority of species of Oropogon are also specialized pseudocyphellae. Morphological studies supplemented by chemical studies using thin-layer chromatography have resulted in the recognition of 30 species of Oropogon in the New World where previously only 3 had been known. Twenty-six new species of Oropogon are described from the Americas: O. aliphaticus, O. americanus, O. barbaticus, O. bicolor, O. bolivianus, O. byssaceus, O. caespitosus, O. cinereus, O. colibor, O. diffractaicus, O. fissuratus, O. granulosus, O. halei, O. herzogii, O. imperforatus, O. lateralis, O. lorobic, O. macilentus, O. maurus, O. mexicanus, O. parietinus, O. pendulus, O. pseudoloxensis, O. sperlingii, O. striatulus, and O. venezuelensis. An appendix summarizing the known Asian species is provided, including four new species (O. salazinicus, O. satoanus, O. secalonicus, O. yunnanensis) and a new combination (O. orientalis). The primary characters found to be useful in delineating species in this genus are habit, color, type of pseudocyphellae (perforate vs. eperforate), hollow vs. filled medulla, and the presence of particular secondary lichen substances. Chemically, Oropogon has proven to be more diverse than any of the other genera of Alectoriaceae. It is characterized by the presence of more than 57 lichen substances, 26 of which have been identified with compounds of known structure. The major types of secondary substances include aliphatic acids, orcinol para-depsides, -orcinol para-depsides, -orcinol depsidones, benzyl esters, quinone-type pigments, and an usnic acid.
10.2307/25027732|In this revision 19 species, including two subspecies, of Hieracium are recognized in Mexico and Central America. All are members of subg. Chionoracium. The taxa are described and distinguished with a dichotomous key; their occurrence is documented with specimen citations and distribution maps. Phenology and distribution of each species are briefly discussed. The revision is based mainly on herbarium specimens, but one or more populations of most species were examined in the field and two species were grown in culture. One new species, Hieracium macdonaldii Beaman & B. Turner, is described; 84 previously published names are placed in synonymy with relevant recognized taxa.
10.2307/25027790|Simsia (Compositae-Heliantheae) comprises annuals, herbaceous perennials, suffrutescent perennials, and shrubs. It occurs throughout tropical America from sea level to 3000 m. This study is based on comparative morphology, including extensive field studies and observations in the greenhouse, phenetic studies, crossing experiments, and cytology. Eighteen species including seven varieties are recognized. Two species, S. santarosensis and S. villasenorii, are newly described. The following new combinations are proposed: S. annectens var. grayi, S. foetida var. grandiflora, S. foetida var. jamaicensis, S. foetida var. megacephala, and S. foetida var. panamensis. Twenty species and varieties are predominantly self-incompatible and outcrossers; three species are self-compatible (or apomictic) and possibly inbreeders. Meiosis is normal in most of the
10.2307/25027794|This account of the annual species of Muhlenbergia (Poaceae) is based on field and herbarium studies, and investigations of lemma micromorphological features, leaf anatomical sections, and chromosomes. Scanning electron microscopy of lemma surfaces has revealed five major types of vestiture: appressed and villous pubescence composed of macrohairs, swollen-base macrohairs, prickle hairs, bicellular microhairs, and papillae. Size, wall thickness, undulation characteristics of the epidermal long cells, and specific location, shape, and arrangement of the five vestiture types were useful in delimiting preliminary phenetic groups. Fourteen leaf anatomical characters were found useful in separating four major species groups. The most important are: number of tertiary vascular bundles between primary vascular bundles, chlorenchyma arrangement, extent of chlorenchyma development, and bulliform cell shape. The base chromosome number of twenty of the species investigated is x = 10 and of two species x = 9; one species is triploid, n = 15. Of the 29 annual species of Muhlenbergia here recognized, 28 occur in Mexico, and 15 of these extend into the southwestern United States; one species is endemic to Central and South America. One new combination, M. capillipes, is proposed. A key to the species is provided as well as a complete synonymy, description, illustration, and distribution map for each species.
10.2307/25027798|Clermontia, a genus of shrubs and trees endemic to the six largest Hawaiian Islands, occurs in cloud forests and montane rain forests, rarely in montane bogs and subalpine forests, at elevations of 150-2100 m. Most species and subspecies are restricted to a single island. Clermontia differs from the related Cyanea sect. Delisseoideae by its repeatedly branched habit; usually 2-flowered axillary inflorescences; corollas dorsally cleft to near the base; and orange or yellow, large, thick-walled berries. Two previously recognized sections are maintained and divided for the first time into three series each on the basis of qualitative differences in floral structure (sect. Clermontioideae: ser. Clermontioideae, ser. Sarcanthae, ser. Unilabiatae, and sect. Clermontia: ser. Kakeanae, ser. Parviflorae, ser. Clermontia). Twenty-two species, including 15 subspecies, are recognized. One subspecies is newly described (C. grandiflora subsp. maxima), and two new combinations are proposed (C. arborescens subsp. waikoluensis, C. peleana subsp. singuliflora).
10.2307/25027802|Review of comparative morphology, ecology, and geography of some 150 nominal species that are generally included in Ecliptinae led to -taxonomic revisions of circumscriptions of Wedelia and Zexmenia and of taxa that have been included within them and led also to recognition of previously unnamed taxa. Three widely scattered but closely related species previously included in Wedelia are transferred to a new genus as Complaya chinensis, C. gracilis, and C. trilobata. Elaphandra bicornis is named as a new species in a new genus from Panama. Lasianthaea nowickeana from Panama is transferred to a new genus as Iogeton nowickeanus. Five species, which collectively range from the western U.S.A. through Mexico into Central America and were previously included in Zexmenia, are transferred to a new genus as Jefea brevifolia, J. gnaphalioides, J. lantanifolia, J. phyllocephala, and J. pringlei. Three Mexican and Central American species previously included in Zexmenia are transferred to a new genus as Wamalchitamia aurantiaca, W. appressipila, and W. williamsii. Lipochaeta strigosa from Mexico is transferred as Wamalchitamia strigosa. A new species, Wamalchitamia dionysi, is named for plants from Mexico. The name Pascalia glauca is revived for South American plants that have been recorded sporadically from the U.S.A. and have been referred to as Wedelia glauca; Wedelia subvaginata, a South American taxon, is transferred as Pascalia subvaginata. For continental North America, 20 species of Wedelia are recognized. New combinations in Wedelia are W. acapulcensis var. ayerscottiana, W. acapulcensis var. hispida, W. acapulcensis var. parviceps, W. acapulcensis var. ramosissima, W. acapulcensis var. tehuantepecana, W. iners, and W. ligulifolia. Names of newly recognized taxa in Wedelia are W. acapulcensis var. cintalapana, W. tegetis, and W. vexata. Removal of discordant elements leaves Zexmenia with two species. Oyedaea lundellii from Guatemala and Belize is transferred to a new genus as Zyzyxia lundellii.
10.2307/25027806|In this comprehensive revision, the taxonomy of the Chinese species of Epilobium is presented along with discussions about their phytogeography and intrageneric relationships. The study is based on examination of many new collections from China, on field work in Taiwan, northwest China, and parts of south-central China, and on detailed study of pollen, seeds, and trichomes. Thirty-seven species, including eight subspecies, are recognized. Three species are newly described (E. fangii, E. pengii, E. taiwanianum), and one new combinations is proposed (E. amurense subsp. cephalostigma). Nine taxa are reported from China for the first time. Four species are recognized in sect. Chamaenerion, a small, well-delimited group sometimes segregated as a separate genus. Data from cytology and distribution support the hypothesis of a Eurasian origin for the distinctive group. The remaining species belong to sect. Epilobium, a group of about 150 species of worldwide distribution. The Chinese species are arranged in groups of probable affinities, based on morphology. The major groups discussed are the circumboreal species, the Eurasian species (mostly in the Tian Shan-Altay region of northwestern Xinjiang), the Sino-Himalayan species (the large majority of the species treated), the Sino-Japan species (including several ranging into subtropical Vietnam and Luzon), and the Taiwan species. The last comprise seven taxa, including four endemics and two with striking range disjunctions to southwest China. Five species are endemic to mainland China: E. blinii, E. fangii, E. kingdonii, E. sinense, and E. subcoriaceum. Epilobium ciliatum, of northeast China, has its major distribution and affinities in North America.
10.2307/25027810|This revision of the Old World taxa of Crataegus sect. Crataegus and of the newly described nothosect. Crataeguineae, subfam. Maloideae, is based on field work and herbarium study. The taxonomic history is reviewed, and morphology and infrageneric relationships as well as the role of hybridization are discussed. The taxonomic categories employed are defined. All available chromosome counts are listed in an appendix. Data concerning phenology, dispersal, habitats, and distribution are summarized. All taxa are illustrated and their ranges mapped. Crataegus sect. Crataegus consists of 26 species and 16 nothospecies (hybrid species), distributed among 5 series, 3 subseries, and 5 nothoseries: ser. Apiifoliae (1 species, C. marshallii, in the U.S.A.), ser. Tanacetifoliae, ser. Orientales, ser. Pentagynae, and ser. Crataegus; the last is divided into subser. Crataegus, subser. Erianthae and subser. Dzhairenses, nothoser. Tanacetitales (ser. Orientales  ser. Tanacetifoliae), nothoser. Crataegifoliae (ser. Crataegus  ser. Tanacetifoliae), nothoser. Orientaegus (ser. Crataegus  ser. Orientales) and nothoser. Crataegynae (ser. Crataegus  ser. Pentagynae). Crataegus nothosect. Crataeguineae (sect. Crataegus  sect. Sanguineae) comprises 4 nothospecies. Eight new taxa are described (C. orientalis subsp. presliana, C. heterophylloides, C. nevadensis, C. yosgatica, C. sinaca subsp. rossii, C. killinica, C. hafniensis, and C. browicziana), and 13 new combinations are proposed (C. azarolus var. chlorocarpa, C. azarolus var. pontica, C. orientalis subsp. szovitsii, C. pentagyna subsp. pseudomelanocarpa, C. ambigua subsp. transcaspica, C. rhipidophylla var. lindmanii, C. pseudoheterophylla subsp. turcomanica, C. pseudoheterophylla subsp. turkestanica, C. monogyna var. lasiocarpa, C. zangezura nothosubsp. pseudoambigua, C. macrocarpa nothovar. hadensis, C. media nothovar. sicula, and C. kyrtostyla nothovar. domicensis).
10.2307/25027814|Pappobolus as circumscribed here includes the taxa previously placed in Pappobolus (sensu Blake 1916), the South American species of Helianthus (recently known as Helianthopsis), and one species transferred from Viguiera, V. acutifolia. It consists of 47 taxa (38 species), 20 of which are newly described here: P. amoenus, P. amoenus var. lambayequensis, P. andinus, P. cajamarcensis, P. davidii, P. decumbens, P. ecuadoriensis, P. ecuadoriensis var. lancifolius, P. juncosae, P. lanatus var. sanctae, P. matthewsii var. occidentalis, P. matthewsii var. viridifolius, P. microphyllus var. dillonii, P. microphyllus var. libertadianus, P. microphyllus var. soukupii, P. robinsonii, P. sanchezii, P. schillingii, P. storkhortonianus, and P. youngiorum. The genus is distinguished from closely related genera such as Simsia, Tithonia, and Viguiera by the caducous pappus of the disk achenes and a shrubby to arborescent habit. Pappobolus is endemic to the Andes of Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. It occupies habitats ranging from xerophytic and tropical deciduous forests to montane moist forest; some species also occur in the jalca of northern Peru. The greatest concentration of species is in northern Peru in the basin of the Maran River. Leaf venation patterns and floral microcharacters, such as endothecial cell morphology and style shape, are essentially identical among the species of the genus. Chromosome numbers obtained from a majority of the species support a base chromosome number of x = 17 for the genus and indicate a lack of polyploidy. Morphological data supports the recognition of two subgenera. Pappobolus subg. Apricola with nine species is distinguished by yellow anther thecae and disk flower lobes, large determinate, monochasial, thyrsoid capitulescences, and small heads. Pappobolus subg. Pappobolus with 29 species is distinguished by black anther thecae and disk flower lobes, determinate monochasial and dichasial, thyrsoid capitulescences (some associated with few, large heads), densely lanate herbage, and sclerified leaves. Keys and distribution maps are provided for all the species. Most species are illustrated. /// Pappobolus tal como se circumscribe aqu, incluye los txones previamente clasificados bajo Pappobolus (sensu Blake, 1916), las especies sudamericanas de Helianthus (recientemente conocidas como Helianthopsis) y una especie transferida del gnero Viguiera, V. acutifolia. El gnero consiste de 47 txones (38 especies) de los cuales 20 son descritos como nuevos en este estudio, P. amoenus, P. amoenus var. lambayequensis, P. andinus, P. cajamarcensis, P. davidii, P. decumbens, P. ecuadoriensis, P. ecuadoriensis var. lancifolius, P. juncosae, P. lanatus var. sanctae, P. matthewsii var. occidentalis, P. matthewsii var. viridifolius, P. microphyllus var. dillonii, P. microphyllus var. libertadianus, P. microphyllus var. soukupii, P. robinsonii, P. sanchezii, P. schillingii, P. storkhortonianus, P. youngiorum. El gnero se distingue de otros estrechamente relacionados tales como Simsia, Tithonia y Viguiera por tener el papus (vilano) del aquenio de la flor del disco caduco y por un hbito arbustivo a arborescente. Pappobolus es endmico de los Andes de Colombia, Ecuador y Per con la mayor concentracin de especies en el norte del Per en la vertiente del Ro Maran. Se encontr que los patrones de nervacin foliar as como microcaracteres florales tales como la morfologa celular del endotecio y el pice del estigma son esencialmente idnticos en las especies del gnero investigadas. Los nmeros cromosmicos obtenidos indican un nmero cromosmico bsico de x = 17 para el gnero y la ausencia de poliploida. Caracteres morfolgicos apoyan el reconocimiento de dos subgneros. Pappobolus subg. Apricola con 9 especies se distingue por tener las tecas de las anteras y los lbulos de las flores del disco amarillos o pardo-amarillos, capitulescencias determinadas tirseiformes, monocasiales y captulos relativamente pequeos. Pappobolus subg. Pappobolus con 29 especies se distingue por tener las tecas de las anterasy y los lbulos de las flores del disco negros y capitulescencias determinadas tirseiformes, monocasiales o dicasiales (algunas de stas asociadas con largos pednculos y captulos grandes). Aunado a estas caracteristicas, algunos miembros de este subgnero se caracterizan por tener hojas duras y esclerificadas con una copiosa pubescencia lanada, particularmente en el envs de la hoja, as como en otras partes de la planta. Claves y mapas de distribucin son provistos para todas las especies. La mayoria de las especies estn ilustradas.
10.2307/25027818|The genus Poitea includes the formerly recognized genera Sauvallella, Sabinea, Corynella, Notodon, and Bembicidium. It comprises 12 species confined to the Greater Antilles and Dominica of the Lesser Antilles. Phylogenetic analyses combining morphological and chloroplast DNA data suggest that Poitea comprises two subgroups. The Poitea galegoides-alliance includes species with reddish tubular flowers and imparipinnate leaves, and the Poitea florida-alliance contains those with regular papilionaceous flowers and paripinnate leaves. The former alliance is centered in southwestern and north-central Hispaniola and western Cuba, whereas the latter predominates in eastern Cuba, north-central Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, and Dominica. The phylogeny and biogeography of Poitea are consistent with Caribbean vicariance models, although more phylogenies of unrelated groups are needed to determine the likelihood of chance dispersal. Poitea is a member of an Early Tertiary North American legume group, the tribe Robinieae, and is thus ideal for testing Caribbean vicariance models. It is most closely related to North American genera Hybosema and Gliricidia, and the South American Yucaratonia. Poitea is readily distinguished from them by its flowers with long keel petals, inflorescence rachises either highly reduced or with a sequential acropetal maturation, adnate stipules-pairs, short shoots that bear distichously arranged stipules, thinly woody legume valves, uni- to bi-seriate unstoried wood rays, and possibly by being host to the rust fungus Uromyces sabineae. One variety, Poitea galegoides var. stenophylla, is described as new. Seven new combinations are proposed (P. carinalis, P. dubia, P. florida, P. gracilis, P. immarginata, P. paucifolia, P. punicea).
10.2307/25027822|Desmanthus is currently included in the Dichrostachys group of the tribe Mimoseae along with three other genera having sterile basal flowers: Dichrostachys, Neptunia, and Gagnebina. Historically, Desmanthus has often been distinguished by lacking characters present in the other genera: the short shoots or stipular spines with persistent fused stipule bases of Dichrostachys, the linear, basifixed anthers of Gagnebina, and the seismonastic leaves and unique floral development of Neptunia. A comparison of Desmanthus with the sister genera indicates that subulate stipules and peltate floral bracts may be synapomorphies of Desmanthus. A cladistic analysis of Desmanthus and Calliandropsis, using Dichrostachys, Gagnebina, and Neptunia as outgroups, supports the segregation of Calliandropsis from Desmanthus. The cladistic analysis also suggests that Neptunia may be a derived element from within Desmanthus and that Dichrostachys may be paraphyletic to Desmanthus. A study of seedling morphology in Desmanthus showed four different seedling types. These types can be used to identify species but are too plastic to be useful in higher-level classification. Scanning electron microscopy was used to observe microcharacters of the pollen and seeds. Pollen features are too invariant within Desmanthus to help resolve species relationships but are informative about generic relationships. Characters of the seed coat are important in distinguishing one infrageneric group and pleurograms in distinguishing several species. Nyctinastic leaf movements also provide valuable species and phylogenetic characters. A morphometric analysis of the Desmanthus virgatus complex was done using 19 population samples, 15 of them grown in a common garden. Based on this and other data, five species rather than four varieties are recognized in the D. virgatus complex. Desmanthus comprises 24 species, including four varieties. One new variety is described, D. pumilus var. michoacanus. Two new combinations are proposed, D. glandulosus and D. tatuhyensis var. brevipes.
10.2307/25027826|The genus Mecranium comprises 23 species (27 taxa) of montane shrubs and small trees endemic to the Greater Antilles and their satellite islands. Species of Mecranium have axillary inflorescences, 4-merous flowers, and are differentiated from species of the genus Sagraea by an erose to ciliate fringe of hairs located on the hypanthial torus, reduced external calyx teeth ( 0.5 mm long at anthesis), and loss of thick-walled indumentum. Mecranium includes Ekmaniocharis crassinervis and Ossaea acuminata and is composed of two sections. Section Sagraeoides comprises M. acuminatum and M. amygdalinum; these species have the synapomorphy of marsupiform mite domatia. Section Mecranium comprises 20 species and is characterized by the synapomorphy of internal calyx lobes fused in a calyptra that is ruptured by elongation of the style at anthesis. One species, M. plicatum, is not known from flowering material and cannot be placed with certainty in either section. Mecranium has centers of diversity in the Massif de la Hotte of Haiti (10 spp., 7 endemic), the Massif de la Selle-Sierra de Baoruco of Hispaniola (6 spp., 1 endemic), the Cordillera de Guaniguanico of Cuba (3 spp., 2 endemic), and the Blue Mountains of Jamaica (3 spp., 1 endemic). Detailed observations of morphology, including scanning electron microscopy (SEM), supplemented by anatomical and limited cytological observations, are the bases of this treatment, which includes a preliminary cladistic analysis. One previously undescribed species (M. septentrionale), four new combinations at the specific level (M. acuminatum, M. axillare, M. crassinerve, and M. latifolium), two previously undescribed subspecies (M. axillare subsp. proctorii and M. integrifolium subsp. alainii), and two new combinations at the subspecific level (M. axillare subsp. urbanianum and M. integrifolium subsp. neibense) are presented.
10.2307/25027830|The neotropical genera Cymbopetalum and Porcelia (Annonaceae) are revised on the basis of herbarium and field studies. Twenty-seven species are recognized in Cymbopetalum; 14 of them are described here as new: C. abacophyllum, C. aequale, C. alkekengi, C. coriaceum, C. euneurum, C. fosteri, C. loretoyacuense, C. oppositiflorum, C. parviflorum, C. physaloides, C. rugulosum, C. sanchezii, C. schunkei, and C. steyermarkii. In addition, one new subspecies, C. hintonii subsp. septentrionale, is described. Studies of the floral biology of several species revealed numerous adaptations, both structural and physiological, to pollination by scarab beetles of the genus Cyclocephala. Fruit maturation and seed dispersal were observed in Cymbopetalum baillonii, which, like other species of Cymbopetalum, has a suite of characteristics that promote dispersal of its seeds by birds. Seven species of Porcelia are recognized; one of them, P. mediocris of Ecuador and Colombia, is described here as new. Porcelia exhibits a pollination syndrome analogous to that of Cymbopetalum; its seeds are adapted for dispersal by mammals.
10.2307/25027834|Section Pseudodysosmia of Passiflora subg. Decaloba comprises 18 species, including 2 subspecies, of herbaceous to slightly woody climbers characterized by uncinate trichomes, circinate development of the tendril, filaments of the corona in 1 series (rarely a few vestigial filaments of a second and inner row in several species), and a cucurbitaceous appearance. This group, distributed in Mexico, Central America, and South America, has radiated primarily into temperate regions of southern Mexico, where many of its species exhibit the growth habit of annual stems arising from perennial roots. An overview is given of the morphology of the genus Passiflora in comparison to that of sect. Pseudodysosmia. The fruits of species of sect. Pseudodysosmia are unusually diverse for an alliance of closely related species in Passiflora and include dehiscent reddish fruits and indehiscent purple or pale green fruits. Flowers are probably uniformly pollinated by bees and are generally xenogamous. Herbivory and chemistry of the group are reviewed. This revision is based primarily on study of morphology of live plants from the field and greenhouse and of herbarium specimens. Four new species and one new subspecies are described (P. pendens, P. pilosa subsp. dimidiata, P. pterocarpa, P. trichopoda, and P. uncinata). A key, nomenclature, detailed descriptions, citations of localities, and a list of exsiccatae as well as illustrations and distribution maps for each species are presented.
10.2307/25027838|Timonius subgenus Abbottia comprises 29 dioecious, hemiepiphytic species, including 11 varieties, distributed from eastern Borneo (Kalimantan) through Papuasia to the Philippines, tropical Australia, Fiji, and Samoa, from near sea level to 3800 m. Synapomorphies characterizing the subgenus include hemiepiphytism, truncate calyx limbs, and well-developed reticuli-paxillate leaf venation. Several characteristics of the subgenus are unique to Rubiaceae or rare in the family: the hemiepiphytic or "strangler" habit, reticuli-paxillate leaf venation formed by groups of narrow and parallel areoles, leaf blade fibers located adaxially to the vascular bundles, and leaf domatia present in abaxial axils of tertiary as well as secondary nerves. Morphological features are discussed, and keys are provided for all taxa. Abbottia, previously recognized as a separate genus, is here included in Timonius at subgeneric rank for the first time. Eight new species (T. amungwiwanensis, T. bismarckensis, T. lamii, T. meridionalis, T. neobritannicus, T. oktediensis, T. pseudaffinis, and T. secundiflorus) and four new varieties (T. affinis var. samoensis, T. avenis var. magnifructus, T. avenis var. vogelkopensis, and T. longitubus var. pubescens) are described; one new combination (T. dolichophyllus) is proposed.
10.2307/25027842|A revision, based on herbarium study and field work, of the 89 species of Cyperus (Cyperaceae) occurring in Mexico is presented. Discussions concerning morphology, infrageneric classification, and habitats and distribution are included. Five subgenera are represented in Mexico; 14 species are endemic (C. arsenei, C. aschenbornianus, C. calderoniae, C. dioicus, C. duripes, C. matudae, C. michoacanensis, C. nayaritensis, C. perennis, C. pycnostachyus, C. semiochraceus, C. sordidus, C. tempeae, C. wilburii). Two new species, C. hypopitys and C. tempeae, are described, and one new combination, C. megalanthus, is proposed. Several nomenclatural corrections are made: C. sordidus is the oldest name for C. howellii; C. sphaerolepis displaces C. rusbyi; C. flavicomus is the correct name for the species commonly called C. albomarginatus; and C. aggregatus is the correct name for C. cayennensis [sometimes also called C. flavus (Vahl) Boeck. or C. huarmensis]. Extensive intergradation among the variants of several wide-spread species showed recognition of certain segregates untenable; C. apiculatus is here included in C. manimae, and C. eggersii and C. macrocephalus in C. odoratus. The apparent hybridization of C. microbrunneus and C. uncinulatus in southern Mexico and northern Central America is discussed. The following species are reported for the first time from Mexico: C. erythrorhizos, C. lundellii, C. microbrunneus, C. panamensis, C. retrorsus, and C. uncinulatus.
10.2307/25027846|The 27 species of Columnea (Gesneriaceae) here described are assigned to sections Pentadenia and Stygnanthe. They are herbaceous perennials, occurring from southern Mexico to Bolivia from near sea level to 3800 m. In addition to morphology, geographic distribution, breeding systems, and phylogeny are discussed. The taxonomy is based on cladistic analyses of morphological diversity and chloroplast DNA restriction site variation (details of the analyses are published elsewhere). Section Pentadenia, previously monotypic, now comprises 9 species of suffrutescent robust herbs with isophyllous to slightly anisophyllous leaves, long pedicels, and conspicuous, strongly ventricose corollas. Section Stygnanthe, also newly circumscribed, includes 18 species of creeping, pendent, or upright herbs with isophyllous to anisophyllous leaves, short pedicels, and generally small, inconspicuous, and only slightly ventricose corollas. Three new combinations are proposed in sect. Stygnanthe: Columnea antiocana, C. fritschii, and C. rileyi.
10.2307/25027850|A phylogenetic analysis of the predominantly tropical North American tribe Robinieae is presented and based primarily on morphological and phytochemical data. Recent well-supported findings from molecular systematic investigations are integrated by enforcing appropriate topological constraints during parsimony analysis. Clade robustness is evaluated by Bremer support analysis and this reveals two well-supported generic groupings: the Robinia-group (Robinia, Coursetia, Olneya, Peteria, Genistidium, and Sphinctospermum) and the Gliricidia-group (Hybosema, Poitea, and Gliricidia). The classification of the 12 constituent genera of the tribe is built around these two groups. The Sesbania-group (Sesbania, including Glottidium) is the putative sister group to the rest of the tribe and has the only native occurrence in the Paleotropics. The Hebestigma-group comprises the monotypic Cuban endemic, Hebestigma. The Gliricidia-group tentatively includes also the genus Lennea, and is mainly from tropical Mexico and Central America, but with Poitea principally of the Greater Antilles. The Robinia-group is centered in the drier regions of northern Mexico and southwestern U.S.A., but with Robinia restricted to temperate deciduous forests and woodlands of the southern U.S.A. and adjacent Mexico, and Coursetia mainly from the seasonally dry tropical forests of North and South America. An ancestral area analysis is performed to explore the feasibility of determining the relative age of Robinieae on the North versus South American continent. This ancestral area analysis is performed explicitly outside the realm of vicariance biogeography and is not akin to centers of origin concepts. The phylogenetic and biogeographic patterns of the genera of Robinieae, if found to be common for Neotropical taxa, will provide important insights into the relationships of Tertiary North American tropical biotas. For example, the closest relatives of Robinieae include the Old World genera Millettia, of the tribe Millettieae, and Wisteria and Caragana, of the tribe Galegeae. There is no evidence to suggest that the sister group of Robinieae comes from South America. These phylogenetic and biogeographic patterns are more consistent with Wolfe's Boreotropical flora hypothesis than Chaney's Neotropical Tertiary Geoflora concept. Formal species-level taxonomic treatments are provided for each genus, except Poitea, Robinia, and Coursetia, for which recent treatments have been published, and Sesbania, which is in the process of systematic study. One new variety, Lennea viridiflora var. novogaliciensis, and one new section, Coursetia sect. Madrenses, are described. Six new combinations, Sesbania sect. Daubentoniopsis, Sesbania sect. Glottidium, Poitea sect. Sabinea, Poitea sect. Sauvallella, Poitea sect. Corynella, and Gliricidia brenningii, are proposed.
10.2307/25027854|Cryosophila is a small, putatively primitive genus of understory, primarily lowland wet-forest palms. It comprises ten species (including two subspecies) that are distributed for the most part as a series of endemic allopatric disjuncts from Pacific coastal and southern Mexico to northwestern Colombia. Unique to Cryosophila and the most distinctive generic characteristic are the branched spines derived from roots that grow out from the trunk. Although the generic limits of Cryosophila are well defined, the species were poorly circumscribed prior to this account, the first monograph of the genus. Because of the paucity of collections and the inadequacy of herbarium sheets for drawing distinctions among species, extensive field work was required in order to resolve the taxonomy. PAUP 3.0s was utilized to generate hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships. Three genera closely related to Cryosophila (Chelyocarpus, Itaya, and Schippia) were employed as outgroups in these analyses. Comparison of the phylogenetic hypotheses to the biogeographic data suggests an early central to northern diversification of Cryosophila, followed by two or three independent southward radiations. Six of the twelve taxa are currently threatened or endangered, C. cookii and C. williamsii critically so. Two new species (C. bartlettii, C. grayumii) and one new subspecies (C. kalbreyeri subsp. cogolloi) are described, and one new combination (C. stauracantha) is proposed.
10.2307/25027858|A partial taxonomic revision of Philodendron subg. Pteromischum (Araceae), the result of extensive field work as well as herbarium study, is presented. Subgenus Pteromischum, the second largest of the three subgenera of Philodendron, is divided into sect. Pteromischum, characterized by sylleptic sympodial growth, and sect. Fruticosa (here described as new), marked by proleptic sympodial growth. Only the 33 species occurring in Pacific and Caribbean Tropical America are treated in detail; of these, 17 species (including 5 subspecies) are assigned to sect. Pteromischum, and 16 species (including 8 subspecies) are placed in sect. Fruticosa. Sixteen species and subspecies are described as new (P. brandii, P. burgeri, P. croatii, P. ensifolium subsp. campanense, P. ensifolium subsp. colonense, P. gonzalezii, P. hooveri, P. ichthyoderma, P. rayanum, P. elegantulum, P. rhodoaxis subsp. lewisii, P. rigidifolium subsp. sanctae-ritae, P. rodrigueziae, P. romeroi, P. seguine subsp. lingua-bovis, P. tuerckheimii), and two new combinations are proposed (P. aurantiifolium subsp. calderense, P. schottii subsp. talamancae). Typification is established for all taxa in subg. Pteromischum, including those from outside the geographic limits of the revision. Studies of pollination biology of 10 species at a single site in Costa Rica suggest that flowering phenology, production of specific floral odors, and vertical stratification in the forest interact to attract specific dynastine scarab beetle pollinators, and thus to define niches for individual species.
10.2307/25027862|The genus Houstonia (Rubiaceae-Hedyotideae) comprises 20 annual and perennial herbaceous species native to the U.S.A., Canada, and Mexico. This revision utilizes seed morphology as shown by scanning electron microscopy, chromosome number, and pollen structure as the most taxonomically significant characters. Other important morphological data have come from inflorescence types and flower and fruit morphology. The genus is subdivided into two subgenera, Houstonia and Chamisme. Subgenus Houstonia comprises two sections: sect. Houstonia includes the type of the genus, H. caerulea, and four annual and perennial species of the eastern and central U.S.A. and eastern Canada; sect. Mullera includes H. rosea, an annual species of the southcentral and southeastern U.S.A. Subgenus Chamisme also comprises two sections: sect. Amphiotis includes the type, H. purpurea, and three other perennial species of the eastern and central U.S.A. and Canada; section Ericotis includes the type, H. rubra, and nine other annual and perennial species of the southwestern U.S.A. and Mexico. The systematic treatment provides synonymies, descriptions, keys, phenological and geographic data, illustrations, and distribution maps.
10.2307/25027866|Geranium subg. Erodioidea, characterized by the "Erodium-type" fruit discharge, comprises 19 species placed in three sections. The 15 species of sect. Subacaulia occur in the circum-Mediterranean region from the Atlas Mountains to the Caucasus Mountains, the three species of sect. Erodioidea in the mountains of central and southern Europe from the Pyrenees to the Carpathians, and the single species of sect. Aculeolata in the mountains of tropical East-Africa. Section Subacaulia appears to have two centers of diversity, the Iberian Peninsula and Turkey. A numerical analysis of leaf morphology supports the taxonomic utility of certain characters, especially the lobe number per segment. Whereas the species of sections Erodioidea and Aculeolata are recognized as previously circumscribed, a new taxonomy is provided for the species of sect. Subacaulia. Brief accounts are given about chromosome number, hybrids, habitats, distribution, and diagnostic aspects of morphology. A key to sections and species, employing some novel taxonomic characters, is presented. For all species the nomenclature is reviewed, and descriptions and distribution maps are provided; most are illustrated.
10.2307/25027870|In this comprehensive revision of Oenothera subsect. Oenothera, representing the most complex species group in the Onagraceae, 13 species are recognized. This subsection, known as "Euoenothera," has had a long history of study, notably cytogenetic and genetic work that elucidated the anomalous genetic system of permanent translocation heterozygosity (PTH). The group has been significant in studies of chloroplast function, genetics, self-incompatibility, genetic interactions between genome and plastome, and recently as a pharmacological crop for the fatty acid -linolenic acid. New cytological, common garden, and extensive herbarium studies were incorporated into a revised taxonomic system using features of the genome, plastome, and morphology that is consistent with other angiosperm classifications. All published names (562) were analyzed, including many names (156), especially from the cytogenetics literature, that have never been validly published. Of the 388 validly published specific and infraspecific names the greatest number (292) have been applied to the widespread PTH species (O. biennis, O. glazioviana, O. oakesiana, O. parviflora, and O. villosa), including many for naturalized European populations. Within the subsection there are three major genomes, designated A, B, and C, and five basic plastid genomes (plastomes I, II, III, IV, and V). Five species are delimited with the plesiomorphic features of primarily outcrossed flowers, bivalent formation in meiosis, and genomic homozygosity, and eight PTH species. The properties of the PTH system serve to partition and fix variation into perceptibly differentiated true-breeding strains. Our approach aggregates the essentially clonal PTH populations (or microspecies) into species delimited according to the composition of their genomic complexes, plastome type, and associated morphological characters to reflect the evolutionary history of the group and to provide a reliable means for identification. There are three basic lineages within Oenothera subsect. Oenothera, relating to genome and plastome composition. Five of the species have AA genomes and plastome I (O. elata, O. longissima, O. jamesii, O. wolfii, and O. villosa). The first three species have plesiomorphic characteristics of mostly outcrossed large flowers and formation of bivalents or small rings of chromosomes during meiosis. Oenothera longissima and O. jamesii appear to have been derived directly from O. elata. The other two AA plastome I species, O. wolfii and the polymorphic O. villosa, are both PTH species. The former, a rare Pacific coastal endemic, is presumably derived from O. elata subsp. hookeri, while O. villosa (widespread in the western half of North America) appears to have been derived from O. elata subsp. hirsutissima. The second lineage consists of two species of eastern North America with BB genomes and plastome III. Self-incompatibility, a plesiomorphic feature retained sporadically in O. grandiflora, does not occur elsewhere in the subsection. Oenothera nutans is a PTH species presumably derived directly from O. grandiflora. The third lineage consists of the very distinctive Allegheny Mountains shale barren endemic, O. argillicola, which has a CC genomic composition and is the only species with plastome V. Three additional PTH species with wide, primarily eastern North American natural ranges had hybrid origins: O. biennis (AB or BA with plastome II or III); O. oakesiana (AC with plastome IV); and O. parviflora (BC with plastome IV). All three species are widely naturalized, especially in Europe. Hybrids occur between many of the species (19 known combinations), especially the PTH species. When they represent a more widespread phenotype, they are included in the taxon they phenotypically most closely resemble and that has the same genome and plastome composition. Exceptionally, two morphologically distinctive additional PTH species of recent hybrid origin are recognized: O. glazioviana (AB-III), and O. stucchii (AA-I). Both originated in Europe via hybridization outside the indigenous range of the subsection, the former possibly in England and the latter in Italy. Oenothera glazioviana has achieved a nearly worldwide distribution.
10.2307/25027873|Stigmaphyllon is a genus of Malpighiaceae characterized by a vining habit, long-petioled leaves with broad or sometimes lobed laminas, interpetiolar stipules, inflorescences composed of umbels or pseudoracemes dichasially arranged, yellow petals, connate carpels, and a schizocarpic fruit splitting into three samaras. In most species the stamens are heteromorphic, the styles are apically foliolate, and each samara bears an elongate dorsal wing. The genus is distributed in the Neotropics from southern Mexico to northern Argentina, except Chile and the high Andes. One species, S. bannisterioides, is also found in coastal West Africa (Guinea Bissau, Guinea, and Sierra Leone). Stigmaphyllon is allied with Banisteriopsis and its relatives among the wing-fruited genera of Malpighiaceae. It is marked by a high incidence of parallelisms and/or convergences and, in some species, a great diversity in leaf shape. In this study, the species are circumscribed and provisionally grouped on the basis of morphological characters, particularly traits of the androecium and gynoecium. Stigmaphyllon comprises 90 species, including two varieties. Two species, S. boliviense and S. carautae are newly described. The often extensive nomenclature is reviewed for each taxon. All species are described and mapped, and many are illustrated. Two kinds of keys are provided, one for the whole genus and, in an appendix, nine for species from single countries or specific regions.
10.2307/25096638|The classification of New World species of Salix was aided by numerical taxonomic methods based on a DELTA database. Ninety morphological characters were recorded for each species, and a distance matrix was generated based on the Gower metric. The data were analyzed using several clustering methods; the most consistent results were achieved using ISS FLEX. The 103 New World species were grouped into four subgenera. Salix subg. Salix is represented by four sections, S. subg. Longifoliae by one section, S. subg. Chamaetia by eight sections, and S. subg. Vetrix by fifteen sections. The species composition of each of the sections is compared with previous taxonomic treatments, and the disposition of problematic taxa is discussed. Many species of Salix are polyploid, with ploidal levels of 3x to 12x. The possibility that some polyploids are intersectional allopolyploids was assessed indirectly by comparing them with the sections to which their nearest neighbors belong. Hypotheses were posed suggesting possible intersectional and even intersubgeneric polyploidy. The evolutionary pattern within this group is reticulate, not linear, and the placement of intersectional allopolyploids in one section or another is arbitrary. Taxonomic nomenclature above the species level is given in full. Name changes are necessary for the following taxa: S. sect. Retusae is changed to S. sect. Herbella Ser., and S. sect. Vetrix to S. sect. Cinerella Ser. Two new sections are described (S. sect. Setchellianae, S. sect. Geyerianae), and two new combinations are proposed (S. subg. Longifoliae, S. glauca var. callicarpaea). Descriptions of the subgenera and sections, in the New World, were generated with the aid of DELTA.
10.2307/25096642|Cuphea sect. Diploptychia is one of fourteen sections described for the New World genus Cuphea. Members of the section, including species of sect. Ornithocuphea, which is placed in synonymy, are primarily perennial herbs recognized by floral tubes that typically exceed 14 mm in length and are "winged" within by two narrow strips of tissue that extend from the two dorsalmost stamens to the base of the floral tube. Sixteen species are treated. Two new combinations are proposed: C. avigera var. pulcherrima and C. hookeriana var. ixodes. Information is provided on the taxonomic history of the section, vegetative and floral morphology, seed morphology and seed oil composition, pollen, chromosome numbers, reproductive biology, distribution and habitats, and phylogeny. In cladistic analyses, consensus trees place sect. Ornithocuphea and all but C. nitidula of sect. Diploptychia together in a large, weakly supported polytomy. A posteriori weighting offers more resolved phylogenetic hypotheses in which members of sect. Diploptychia (except C. nitidula), sect. Ornithocuphea, and two interiorly "winged" annual species of sect. Heterodon form a monophyletic group. No transfers of species are made pending completion of the full generic revision. A key, descriptions, representative specimen citations, habit and floral illustrations, distribution maps, and an index to the collections studied are provided.
10.2307/25096646|The genus Kadsura (Schisandraceae) comprises 16 species of scandent and twining woody vines. The genus is relatively primitive, with unisexual flowers with floral organs spirally arranged around an elongate torus, and with a perianth of separate tepals. Although the female flowers are invariably apocarpous, the male flowers are structurally diverse, with three main androecial forms evident. Variation in androecial structure is used as the basis of an amended supraspecific classification, with two subgenera, viz.: Kadsura subg. Cosbaea, consisting of only one species and characterized by an androecium of essentially free stamens; and subg. Kadsura, consisting of species with compact subglobose androecia derived from the close appression of short, fleshy stamens. The latter subgenus is further divided into two sections on the basis of stamen morphology, viz.: sect. Kadsura (8 species), with stamens bearing lateral thecae so that the thecae of adjacent stamens are contiguous; and sect. Sarcocarpon (7 species), with stamens bearing dorsolateral thecae, so that the thecae of adjacent stamens are not contiguous. Various aspects relating to the genus are extensively reviewed and discussed, including: nomenclatural history; morphology and anatomy; reproductive biology (including sex expression, pollination systems, and mechanisms of fruit and seed dispersal); cytology; phytochemistry; ethnobotany (including medicinal uses); and palaeobotany. Cladistic parsimony techniques are employed for phylogenetic reconstruction, enabling a revision of the supraspecific classification and a discussion of the main evolutionary trends in the genus. Kadsura is widely distributed in eastern Asia and has a center of diversity in southern China; historical biogeographical interpretations based on occurrences of fossil species suggest that the Schisandraceae originated in the Aquilapollenites province (western North America-Asia) during the Upper Cretaceous, with subsequent retreat correlated with the post-Eocene climatic deterioration.
10.2307/25027876|The neotropical genus Leucaena comprises 22 species, 6 infraspecific taxa, and two named hybrids. A morphological data set is analyzed cladistically to determine species relationships. The comparative morphology of species of Leucaena and closely related genera is investigated and presented. This includes detailed studies of bark anatomy, nyctinastic leaf movements, morphology of extrafloral nectaries, seedlings, inflorescences, pods, anther, and pollen morphology. Scanning Electron Microscopy was used to investigate micromorphology. Criteria for the assessment of primary homology, including the problems of character coding in relation to inapplicable data and continuous characters, are discussed. A total of 29 binary and multistate characters are analyzed. A preliminary analysis of sister group relationships amongst the genera of the informal Leucaena and Dichrostachys groups and two outgroup genera, Parkia and Xylia, revealed no support for these groups and suggested that Schleinitzia, the only other genus traditionally placed in the Leucaena group, may not be the sister group of Leucaena. Instead, three resolved clades are found: a monophyletic Leucaena; a clade containing Schleinitzia, Desmanthus, and Neptunia; and a clade containing the remaining genera of the Dichrostachys group, including Calliandropsis, Alantsilodendron, Gagnebina, and Dichrostachys. This analysis was used to select different combinations of outgroups for the species-level analysis. The 22 species of Leucaena are delimited using the phylogenetic species concept. The difficulties posed by hybrids for cladistic analysis and the evidence for hybridization in Leucaena are reviewed. Analysis of species relationships omitting the four known tetraploid species showed no support for division of Leucaena into two recently recognized sections. The morphological analysis showed broad concordance with results from cpDNA restriction fragment analysis. A combined analysis was not pursued here due to a number of limitations, including intraspecific polymorphism due to introgressive hybridization, associated with the cpDNA data. A full taxonomic account of Leucaena is presented; all taxa are illustrated and their distributions mapped. One hybrid, L. mixtec, is described as new.
10.2307/25096650|The genera Pictetia (traditionally with four to eight species) and Belairia (traditionally with six) are combined into a single genus, Pictetia, that now includes eight species confined to the Greater Antilles. Pictetia is diagnosed by pods that have a distinctly two-nerved placental margin, leaves of the long shoots subtended by persistent to caducous spinescent stipules, and coriaceous leaflets that usually have spinescent mucros. These morphological synapomorphic characters, as well as ones derived from the analysis of DNA sequence data from 5.8S and flanking internal transcribed spacers, support the hypothesis of monophyly for the genus. All species except P. sulcata are confined to a single island or island system, either the eastern half of Cuba, Hispaniola (though not including the southwestern peninsula), or Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands excluding St. Croix. Pictetia sulcata occurs on central Hispaniola and eastern Cuba, and its restricted morphological variation in Cuba is suggestive of a relatively recent occurrence there. The historical biogeographic pattern of Pictetia supports a close area relationship among eastern Cuba, central Hispaniola, and Puerto Rico, which is consistent with Rosen's Caribbean vicariance model. Phylogenetically, Pictetia occupies a pivotal position within the aeschynomenoid legumes. It has been classified in the subtribe Ormocarpinae, which is shown here to be paraphyletic with respect to other aeschynomenoid genera. Among the genera of Ormocarpinae, Pictetia is most closely related to the African-Asian genus Ormocarpum, the Madagascan Ormocarpopsis, and the Meso-American Diphysa. These four genera represent one of the earliest branching clades within the aeschynomenoid radiation, according to analysis of non-molecular data. Combined and separate analyses of molecular and non-molecular data suggest that a clade comprising Ormocarpum and Ormocarpopsis is sister to Pictetia, whereas Diphysa represents the earliest branching lineage within this clade of four genera. This geographical relationship of Meso-America and the Greater Antilles with paleotropical Africa, Asia, and Madagascar is thought to be relictual from a Tertiary boreotropic distribution. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that the eight species of Pictetia are not conveniently grouped into infrageneric taxa, because the traditionally recognized series Racemosa (with P. aculeata and P. obcordata) and Fasciculatae (with P. sulcata and P. marginata) are paraphyletic with respect to the formerly recognized genus Belairia. One new combination, P. sulcata, is proposed.
10.2307/25096654|A revision of the neotropical genus Cobaea (Polemoniaceae), based on herbarium studies, SEM studies of pollen morphology, and field observations, is presented. Within the family, Cobaea is well defined by six unique characters: a scandent habit; pinnately compound leaves with the terminal leaflet modified as a tendril; very large, campanulate corollas; nearly free calyx segments; septicidally dehiscent capsules; and very large (102-233 m), pantoporate, reticulate pollen grains. Traditionally the genus has been divided into three sections, sect. Aschersoniophila, sect. Cobaea (=Eucobaea), and sect. Rosenbergia. Based on morphological data presented here, as well as recent molecular data, sect. Aschersoniophila is included in sect. Rosenbergia; some species of sect. Cobaea are transferred to sect. Rosenbergia; and two new monotypic sections are proposed: sect. Pachysepalae (C. pachysepala) and sect. Triovulatae (C. minor). Section Cobaea is mainly Mexican, with one species occurring in the Andes; section Pachysepalae is restricted to southern Mexico and Guatemala; section Rosenbergia is widespread in the neotropics; and section Triovulatae is restricted to central Mexico, Costa Rica, and Panama. A taxonomic treatment of the 18 species, including descriptions, keys, and several illustrations is rendered. Six species are lectotypified.
10.2307/25027879|Schisandra (Schisandraceae) comprises 23 species of scandent and twining woody vines. The floral characteristics of the genus are clearly indicative of its primitive status: although the flowers are unisexual, they have an elongated floral axis with generally spirally arranged organs, an indefinite number of tepals that show a gradual transition between outer chlorophyllous tepals and inner pigmented tepals, and free carpels that are poorly differentiated, without true stigmas and styles. The androecia are highly variable in the genus with four basic types, differing in the number, position, and extent of differentiation and fusion of stamens; previous interpretations of androecial structure are reappraised consonant with a study of floral ultrastructure and vasculature. The fruits are highly distinctive bacceta, consisting of fleshy red indehiscent apocarps that are separated on a greatly elongated torus. Various aspects relating to the genus are investigated and extensively reviewed and discussed in the present monograph, including: nomenclatural history; morphology and anatomy; reproductive biology (including sex expression, pollination systems, and mechanisms of fruit and seed dispersal); cytology; phytochemistry; ethnobotany (including medicinal uses); palaeobotany; and historical biogeography. A species level taxonomic revision is presented, adopting a phylogenetic species concept. Phylogenetic relationships are interpreted using techniques of parsimony cladistics, and the results used as the basis of a revised supraspecific classification of the genus. Three subgenera are recognized, viz. Pleiostema (4 species), Sinoschisandra (13 species), and Schisandra (6 species), with subg. Schisandra further subdivided into three sections, viz. Schisandra (3 species), Sphaerostema (2 species), and Maximowiczia (1 species). The genus is widely distributed in East Asia, with a center of diversity in southeastern and southcentral China; one species, S. glabra, is present in North America. Historical biogeographical interpretations based on occurrences of fossil species suggest that the Schisandraceae originated in the Aquilapollenites province (western North America-Asia) during the Upper Cretaceous, with subsequent retreat correlated with the post-Eocene climatic deterioration.
10.2307/25027883|Gasteranthus (Gesneriaceae-Beslerieae) comprises 35 species, including three subspecies. Its range extends from Guatemala and nearby Mexico, Costa Rica, and Panama through western South America south to Bolivia. The center of diversity is in western Ecuador where 25 species occur. Species of Gasteranthus are terrestrial herbs or short subshrubs, and display a diverse array of corolla variation. Corollas may be pale, whitish and funnelform with a large limb and patterns of darker dots and lines inside the throat, or may be relatively uniformly bright yellow, orange, or red, and urceolate with an often strongly inflated ventral pouch and a small throat and limb; intermediate corolla shapes have a ventricose, subventricose, or funnelform tube with a small limb. Species of Gasteranthus grow in forests throughout the range, mainly in shady and permanently humid places, usually in ravines with streams or near waterfalls, but particularly in cloud forests in the permanently wet understory vegetation. The high diversity of Gasteranthus in western Ecuador apparently reflects the speciation of the genus in separate low- and high-elevation cloud forests. Ten species of Gasteranthus are found predominantly in the low-elevation forests between 500 and 800 m elevation, and another 10 species are restricted to the higher forests above 1,800 m elevation. The remaining species appear to be less habitat-specific and consequently more widespread. Because of their limited distribution in cloud forests, the species of Gasteranthus are vulnerable to extinction. Particularly, the low-elevation cloud forests have been nearly compeltely destroyed; at least 5 endemic species already may be extinct in western Ecuador and an additional 7 throughout the entire range of Gasteranthus. Due to loss of habitat, the survival of more than 10 other species of Gasteranthus may be questionable. Eleven species are here newly described: G. adenocalyx, G. bilsaensis, G. epedunculatus, G. extinctus, G. glaber, G. mutabilis, G. orientandinus, G. osaensis, G. tenellus, G. ternatus, and G. villosus. Two new combinations are proposed: G. calcaratus subsp. calceolus and G. calcaratus subsp. oncogastrus.
10.2307/25027887|Plagiochila is the largest genus of the Hepaticae; 80 species occur in China. The genus is divided into three subgenera: subg. Paraplagiochila (one species in China), characterized by the peculiar vermiculate flexuous leaf cells; subg. Metaplagiochila (two species in China), with a distinct water sac on the ventral leaf base; and subg. Plagiochila (77 species, including 3 subspecies, in China). The last subgenus is further divided into 14 sections on the basis of habit, leaf morphology, branching pattern, and type of perianth. Most species of Plagiochila show extreme environmental plasticity, varying in plant size, leaf shape, marginal dentation, and size of trigones in the leaf cells. The centers of diversity of Plagiochila are in Southeast Asia and the Neotropics. A key to the 80 species in China is provided. Each species is described, mapped, and fully illustrated.
10.2307/25027891|Solanum section Cyphomandropsis (Solanaceae) includes 13 species native to South America. Plants of this section are woody shrubs to small trees that lack spines, are glabrous to pubescent with unbranched or dendritically branched trichomes, and have tapered anthers with small terminal pores. Section Cyphomandropsis is closely related to Solanum sect. Pachyphylla (formerly genus Cyphomandra), from which it differs by lacking discrete, enlarged connectives on the abaxial anther surfaces. Exceptionally large chromosomes characterize the Cyphomandropsis/Pachyphylla clade. The morphology, taxonomic history, nomenclature, ecology, distribution, economic value, reproductive biology, and evolutionary relationships of Solanum sect. Cyphomandropsis are reviewed. Four species groups, one new combination (S. hutchisonii), and one new name (S. pelagicum) are proposed. Dichotomous and synoptic keys are provided for the species of the section. /// Solanum seccin Cyphomandropsis (Solanaceae) incluye 13 especies sudamericanas. Las plantas de esta seccin son arbustos leosos o arbolitos que carecen de espinas, son glabros o pubescentes con tricomas simples o dendriticamente ramificados, y tienen anteras atenuadas con pequeos poros terminales. Esta seccin est estrechamente relacionada con la Solanum seccin Pachyphylla (anteriormente incluida en el gnero Cyphomandra), del que se distingue por la falta de un conectivo engrosado en la superficie dorsal de las anteras. Las dos secciones Cyphomandropsis y Pachyphylla se caracterizan por sus cromosomas excepcionalmente grandes. Aqu se revisa la morfologa, la historia taxonmica, la nomenclatura, la ecologa, la distribucin, la biologa reproductiva, las relaciones filogenticas, y el valor econmico de las especies de Solanum seccin Cyphomandropsis. Se proponen cuatro grupos de especies y dos nombres nuevos, S. hutchisonii (comb. nov.) y S. pelagicum (nom. nov.). Se proporciona una clave dicotmica y otra sinptica para las especies de la seccin.
10.2307/25027895|Aciotis (Melastomataceae) is a genus of 13 species of herbs and subshrubs that occur from southern Mexico to northern Bolivia and southeastern Brazil. Traditionally, Aciotis has been placed in Tibouchineae [=Melastomeae s.l.], because it has capsular fruits; yet, some species of Aciotis have also baccate fruits. Most of the Melastomeae have tuberculate seeds, but all species of Aciotis have foveolate seeds. Three species (A. rubricaulis, A. indecora, and A. purpurascens) have thyrsoid inflorescences and indehiscent baccate fruits; four species (A. annua, A. ornata, A. polystachya, and A. wurdackiana) have cymose inflorescences and dry dehiscent capsules. The remaining six species (A. acuminifolia, A. circaeifolia, A. ferreirana, A. olivieriana, A. paludosa, and A. viscida) exhibit several combinations of characters, such as thyrsoid inflorescences with capsular fruits or cymose inflorescences with indehiscent baccate fruits. Illustrations and distribution maps are provided for all species.
10.2307/25027899|The genus Orbea Haw. (Apocynaceae) is revised and the formerly recognized genera Orbeanthus L. C. Leach, Orbeopsis L. C. Leach, Pachycymbium L. C. Leach, and Angolluma Munster are included in it. The revision is based on a detailed survey of morphological characters and a cladistic analysis, which demonstrated lack of support for the segregate genera. The much expanded genus Orbea is the only monophyletic entity that can be recognized in this complex. One species formerly assigned to Orbea is placed in a monotypic genus, Ballyanthus, which is more closely related to Duvalia Haw. and Huernia R. Br. Orbea comprises 56 species widely distributed in Africa and the southwestern part of the Arabian peninsula; one new species, Orbea taitica, is described. Ballyanthus prognathus occurs in northern Somalia.
10.2307/25027903|The principally Neotropical genus Andira Lam. (Leguminosae) comprises 29 species; one species, A. inermis, includes three subspecies, two of which occur in Africa. Chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis allows phylogenetic placement of 21 species of Andira, including five species that were not previously studied. These data are also used to investigate intraspecific chloroplast DNA polymorphism and to identify accessions of A. humilis with plastomes derived from probable introgressive hybridization. A cladistic analysis of 12 morphological characters provides little phylogenetic resolution in comparison with a simultaneous analysis of cpDNA restriction site data and morphology. Although some of the clades discovered by this analysis are "cryptic," i.e., they are supported only by molecular characters and have no morphological synapomorphies, the results provide a reasonable estimate of the phylogeny of Andira and are used as the basis of discussions of character evolution, infrageneric classification, and biogeography. Previous infrageneric classifications of Andira were based on the nature of the indumentum of the gynoecium, but glabrous ovaries have evolved in parallel at least three times. Detailed analysis of fruit wall anatomy provides phylogenetically informative characters and insights into dispersal biology. There have been at least five instances of independent evolution of large, putatively rodent-dispersed fruits and three of large, persistent stipules. The frequent changes in stipule morphology are perhaps due to mutation in a single gene. Evidence points to a relatively recent (possibly Pleistocene) radiation of species of Andira in eastern Brazil. All species are fully described and their ranges are mapped, and 15 are illustrated. Five new species and one new subspecies are proposed: A. chigorodensis, A. jaliscensis, A. macrocarpa, A. praecox, A. taurotesticulata, and A. inermis subsp. glabricalyx.
10.2307/25027907|Austromyrtus (Nied.) Burret is divided into three genera based primarily on morphological characters of the fruit and embryo. Two new genera, Lenwebbia and Gossia, are proposed and contrasted with Austromyrtus s.s. and Myrtus. Essential oil profiles of these and related genera are reviewed. A gelatinous endosperm occurs in some species of Gossia. "Specimen aggregation analysis" of herbarium specimens that bear fixed characters is presented as an approach to determine character fixation as a part of a diagnosability criterion under a general lineage species concept. The tripartite typological syndrome of embryos in fleshy-fruited genera of Myrtaceae should be abandoned, since embryos can be described by numerous character states. As emended, Austromyrtus includes A. dulcis, A. tenuifolia, and the newly described A. glabra. Lenwebbia comprises L. lasioclada and the newly described L. prominens. Most species formerly placed in Austromyrtus are now assigned to Gossia, which in Australia includes twenty species. Of these eight are newly described: G. bamagensis, G. byrnesii, G. grayi, G. lewisensis, G. macilwraithensis, G. punctata, G. retusa, and G. sankowskiorum. Twelve new combinations are proposed: G. acmenoides, G. bidwillii, G. dallachiana, G. floribunda, G. fragrantissima, G. gonoclada, G. hillii, G. hillii, G. inophloia, G. lucida, G. myrsinocarpa, G. pubiflora, and G. shepherdii. Lectotypes are designated for the basionyms Myrtus acmenoides, M. fragrantissima, M. hillii, M. inophloia, M. racemulosa, M. shepherdii, and M. tenuifolia. All species are mapped and the newly described ones are illustrated. Keys are provided for all genera (for Gossia separate keys for fertile and sterile material.)
10.2307/25011253|The New World genus Phoradendron (Viscaceae) comprises 234 species occurring in the West Indies and in the U.S.A. to southern South America. A historical summary of work in the genus and a review of the morphology, anatomy, and parasite-host interactions are presented. The taxonomic section inludes keys, full synonymies, and descriptions. No infrageneric organization is proposed, but certain natural groupings of species are indicated. Seventy-eight new species are described: Phoradendron acuminatum, P. acutifolium, P. anamariae, P. antioquianum, P. apertiflorum, P. applanatum, P. aulestianum, P. bahiense, P. betancurii, P. bicarinatum, P. boacoi, P. botryoides, P. buchtienii, P. burgeri, P. buritacanum, P. caracheanum, P. carnosum, P. colombianum, P. crassicarpum, P. decipiens, P. decrescens, P. dwyeri, P. fallax, P. fonsecanum, P. fosteri, P. galeanum, P. gracilicarpum, P. grahamii, P. granvillei, P. harleyi, P. haughtii, P. henrici, P. heredianum, P. heterostachyum, P. irwinianum, P. jaliscense, P. juruanum, P. killipii, P. krameri, P. krukovii, P. larense, P. lindemanii, P. lingulatum, P. longissimum, P. loretoi, P. lorifolium, P. megaphyllum, P. membranifolium, P. merae, P. metense, P. microcephalum, P. microstachyum, P. napoense, P. neurophyllum, P. nudum, P. oliveirae, P. pachyneuron, P. pachystachyum, P. palaephyllum, P. planiphyllum, P. proctorii, P. ravenii, P. restrepoae, P. retrophyllum, P. rigidifolium, P. rugosum, P. schultesii, P. singulare, P. squamiferum, P. steinbachii, P. tachiranum, P. tenuicaule, P. tetracarpum, P. tillettii, P. truncatum, P. validum, P. vargasii, and P. wurdackii. Infraspecific categories are used only for P. serotinum, in which four subspecies are recognized, including a new one, P. serotinum subsp. angustifolium. Two new combinations, P. serotinum subsp. macrophyllum and P. serotinum subsp. tomentosum, and two new names ("nomina nova"), P. falcifer and P. naviculare, are proposed, and one previously published name, P. uniseriale, is validated. All species are illustrated and mapped.
10.2307/25027911|Ruprechtia is a genus of 37 species of dioecious trees, shrubs, and lianas in the tribe Triplarideae of the Polygonaceae. Its range extends from Uruguay and northern Argentina to northern Mexico. The greatest diversity is found in Brazil, which has 17 species. Most species are found in lowland and montane, seasonally dry tropical forests and have narrow distributions; a few species grow in lowland riverine forests and have wider distributions. Species are defined primarily on characters in the female flowers and the fruits, which are distinctive and have three wings formed by elongated sepals. The fruits are similar to those of Triplaris, the sister genus, and the relationship between the two genera is discussed. Earlier infrageneric classifications are rejected. A molecular phylogeny of Ruprechtia using the nuclear ribosomal ITS region was generated from samples of 19 species. The ancestral area of Ruprechtia was in South America, and the genus may not have reached Central America until after the closure of the Isthmus of Panama. South American riverine forest species are shown to be among the most recently evolved in the genus. Two new species, Ruprechtia laevigata and R. latifunda, are described.
10.2307/25027915|Solanum section Petota (Solanaceae), which includes the cultivated potato (Solanum tuberosum) and its wild relatives, contains about 200 wild species distributed from the southwestern U.S.A. (38N) to central Argentina and adjacent Chile (41S). Although most species occur in the Andes of South America, a secondary center of diversity exists between 16N and 21N in the central Mexican highlands; the populations include diploids (2n = 2x = 24; some mixed with triploids, 2n = 3x = 36), tetraploids (2n = 4x = 48), hexaploids (2n = 6x = 72), and triploid and pentaploid nothospecies. This treatment covers the wild potatoes of North and Central America (U.S.A. to the Panama/Colombia border). A summary of recent morphological and molecular studies of species limits and their interrelationships is presented. The field component of this study yielded herbarium specimens and germplasm samples from all countries harboring wild potatoes in North and Central America; germplasm collections of every species are now available. Twenty-five species and four nothospecies (and an unnamed additional nothospecies) from North and Central America are recognized and assigned to eleven informal species groups. Full descriptions and synonymies (including designations of lectotypes), illustrations, distribution maps, an extensive list of georeferenced localities, and a map of species richness are provided for all recognized taxa.
10.2307/25027918|The simple-leaved species of Sorbus (Rosaceae, Maloideae) comprise 42 species, which occur in North Africa, Europe, and Asia. They are assigned to subg. Aria (39 species; sections Alnifoliae, Aria, Chamaemespilus, Ferrugineae, Griffithianae, Thibeticae, Micromeles) and subg. Torminaria (three species). Species are delimited by morphological and anatomical characters, and results of morphometric analyses are presented. Reports of chromosome numbers and hybridization are reviewed. Full descriptions and synonymies, keys, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided. One new section, Sorbus sect. Griffithianae (subg. Aria), and one new species, Sorbus eleonorae (subg. Aria, sect. Micromeles), are described. Three new combinations are proposed: Sorbus sect. Ferrugnieae, Sorbus sect. Alnifoliae, and Sorbus sect. Thibeticae.
10.2307/25027922|An expanded circumscription of the genus Podostemum Michx. to include Crenias Spreng. and Devillea Tul. & Wedd. is presented. Justification for the expanded genus concept is based on phylogenetic analyses of morphological characters. Three synapomorphies support the monophyly of Podostemum: anisolobous ovary, capsule at an angle on the pedicel, and one capsule valve caducous. Eleven species (including two subspecies) are recognized in Podostemum. One new name (Podostemum ovatum) and five new combinations (Podostemum flagelliforme, P. rutifolium subsp. ricciiforme, P. saldanhanum, P. scaturiginum, P. weddellianum) are proposed. Ten New World species of Podostemum that were accepted by earlier authors are interpreted as environmental forms of widespread species and their names reduced to synonymy. The monograph includes sections on morphology, ecology, key to species, descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps, and lists of specimens examined. Podostemum is restricted to the New World. The region of greatest species diversity is southeastern Brazil and Argentina, where all but three species occur. Podostemum rutifolium subsp. ricciiforme occurs primarily in Mexico, with disjunct populations in Belize, Costa Rica, and Colombia. Podostemum ceratophyllum ranges from southeastern Canada to the south-central U.S.A., with disjunct populations in the Dominican Republic and Honduras.
10.2307/25027926|The group Notata of Paspalum subg. Paspalum (Poaceae) is revised to include species previously treated in group Linearia. Twenty-one species, including two varieties, are recognized. The work is based on field and herbarium studies and the evaluation of exomorphological characters. The group Notata comprises perennials found in open areas or near borders of rivers and streams from southern Mexico and the Caribbean to Chile and Argentina; three taxa have been introduced in the U.S.A. The species are characterized by membranous ligules, lanceolate to filiform leaves, and inflorescences with usually two conjugate racemes bearing solitary, glabrous or pilose spikelets on short pedicels. The lower glume is usually absent, and the upper glume and lower lemma are subequal, usually 5-nerved, membranous or papyraceous, corrugated or not; occasionally the upper glume is also absent. The lower palea and lower flower are absent, and the upper floret is indurate and usually bears papillae, bicellular microhairs, and prickles. The base chromosome number is x=10. Keys to the subgenera of Paspalum and to the species of group Notata are provided. For each species a full synonymy and description are presented; all species are mapped and all but one are illustrated.
25027930|Schiedea (Caryophyllaceae subfam. Alsinoideae), endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, comprises deciduous perennials, sprawling subshrubs, shrubs, and rainforest vines exhibiting an extraordinary range of breeding system variation and habitat preference. Morphological and molecular phylogenetic analyses support the division of Schiedea into seven sections and 34 species (including two subspecies). In a majority of the species each floral nectary is either terminated by a tubular, straight structure (a shaft) that extrudes a drop of nectar at the tip, or in three species a recurved shaft that deposits a pool of nectar on the adaxial face of each sepal. In four species (sections Alsinidendron and Nothoschiedea, formerly treated as a separate genus, Alsinidendron) the nectary appendages are flap- or cup-like, and collect large quantities of black nectar. These hypodermic shafts and flap- or cup-like extensions of the floral nectaries are unique within the Caryophyllaceae, and serve as a key feature to delineate Schiedea as a monophyletic group resulting from a single colonization of the Hawaiian Islands. Species are hermaphroditic and insect- or bird-pollinated or autogamous, or dimorphic (dioecious, subdioecious, and gynodioecious) and wind-pollinated. Nearly all hermaphroditic species occur in mesic or wet forests, whereas all dimorphic species are found in dry, often windy habitats. The morphological changes associated with the evolution of wind pollination, including a shift to smaller flower size, abundant pollen production and high pollen/ovule ratios, smaller pollen grains, and upright, highly condensed inflorescences, have had profound effects on the morphological diversity found within this lineage. Two species (S. amplexicaulis, S. implexa) are considered extinct, and the others are greatly at risk. Three new combinations (Schiedea sect. Alsinidendron, S. diffusa subsp. macraei, S. obovata) are proposed, and five new sections (S. sect. Alphaschiedea, S. sect. Anestioschiedea, S. sect. Leucocalyx, S. sect. Mononeura, S. sect. Polyneura) and two new species (S. laui, S. perlmanii) are described. All species are illustrated and their ranges mapped.
25027934|Delissea is a genus of soft-wooded shrubs, treelets, and palm-like trees endemic to the seven largest Hawaiian Islands; it is most closely related to the endemic Hawaiian genus Brighamia. Delissea is characterized by fleshy, glabrous, petiolate leaves drying membranous or slightly chartaceous and almost translucent; axillary racemose inflorescences with usually ebracteolate pedicels; small tooth-like calyx lobes; white or greenish bilabiate corollas with the curved tube slit dorsally for less than half its length and a distinct knob at the base of this slit (sometimes flanked by a pair of lateral knobs); free exserted staminal column; small dark purple thin-walled berries; large, dull white, transversely rugose seeds; and a chromosome number of 2n=28. Fifteen species, each endemic to a single island, are recognized here and divided among three sections on the basis of habit and floral features: sect. Delissea (four species), sect. Rhytidospermae (four species), and sect. Macranthae (seven species, one comprising two subspecies). Eleven species are presumed extinct, and the remaining four are critically endangered. One new section (Delissea sect. Rhytidospermae), two new species (D. takeuchii and D. waianaeensis), and two new combinations are proposed (D. kauaiensis, D. subcordata subsp. obtusifolia). As part of a nomenclatural review lectotypes are designated for two names at one time included in Delissea but now assigned to Cyanea: Rollandia delessertiana Gaudichaud and Cyanea floribunda F. E. Wimmer.
25027938|Lopholejeunea with ca. 30 species is the largest genus of Lejeuneaceae subfam. Ptychanthoideae. The genus is well characterized by the usually blackish pigmented plants, unlobed underleaves, stems with enlarged cortical cells, isodiametrical leaf cells with homogeneous oil bodies, absence of gynoecial innovations, 2-5-keeled perianths with toothed to laciniate keels, a non-articulate seta, and only 30 elaters per capsule. Three subgenera are provisionally recognized: the pantropical subg. Lopholejeunea (ca. 25 species), subg. Pteryganthus with four species in East Africa, and the monospecific subg. Pholianthus (L. colensoi) in Australia and New Zealand. The Malesian archipelago is the center of diversity for Lopholejeunea. In Asia subg. Lopholejeunea includes 17 species assigned to two sections: sect. Lopholejeunea (nine species) characterized by having the leaf lobule apex attached to the lobe across 2-8 cells, and sect. Eulophae (eight species) characterized by having the lobule apex attached to the lobe by only one cell. Subgenus Laciniatae is newly treated as a synonym of Lopholejeunea subg. Lopholejeunea. Seven sections are reduced to synonymy (sections Latilobulae, Longicaules, Parvae, and Subfuscae = sect. Lopholejeunea; sections Acutifoliae, Constrictae, and Muellerianae = sect. Eulophae). Two new species, Lopholejeunea grollei from New Guinea and L. soae from China, are described. A synopsis of subgenera and sections is provided, and a key to sections and species in Asia is given. Each species is described and fully illustrated, and detailed habitat and distribution data are provided.
25027942|Mimulus subg. Schizoplacus is one of two subgenera in the genus and is characterized by parietal placentation, marcescent corollas, and pedicels that are shorter than the calyces. All but three of the thirty species are annuals; two of the three perennial species are herbs and one is a shrub. They are found only in California, U.S.A., and all adjacent states, including Baja California, Mexico, as well as a few places in Washington, Montana, and Wyoming. The species are easily grouped into four sections (M. sect. Oenoe, M. sect. Eunanus, M. sect. Diplacus, M. sect. Mimulastrum), but relationships among the sections are not clear due to a lack of shared derived characters. Within these sections, numerous instances of interspecific hybridization, together with the close similarities among many of the species and the likelihood of reticulate evolution and parallelisms and/or convergences, have caused taxonomic complexities and confounded cladistic analysis based on morphological data. Over 22,000 herbarium specimens and over 300 living field populations are represented in this study. Nomenclature has been re-examined for each taxon and each is fully described and illustrated, with its distribution mapped in detail. New information concerning the ecology of each species is provided, based on extensive field, laboratory, and common garden study. Chromosome numbers, supported by light micrographs, are provided for all but two of the rarest species, and most species are represented by SEM micrographs of seeds and pollen. Mimulus viscidus var. compactus and M. fremontii var. vandenbergensis are newly described.
25027945|Baccharis (Compositae-Astereae) includes herbaceous perennials, shrubs, vines, and trees. It occurs throughout the warmer regions of North America and in Central America, in the West Indies, and in South America from sea level to over 5000 m elevation. The genus is morphologically diverse, and investigation of microcharacters is suggested to be crucial for future taxonomic work. Striking parallel evolution of habit characters was observed in different lineages, e.g., of dwarf procumbent shrubs of the alpine and nival vegetation zone, large shrubs of the cloud forest and ceja vegetation with large, pinnately veined leaves and corymbose capitulescences, and vines of cloud and rain forests at different elevations. Baccharis occurs throughout Bolivia, but is most abundant and species-rich at middle and high elevations of the Andes, especially in the Yungas, the Tucumn forest region, and the dry valley regions. Some species (e.g., Baccharis dracunculifolia, B. tola) are dominant elements of open, high altitude vegetation. The tropical and subtropical regions of Bolivia, on the east slope of the Andes, differ greatly in the composition of their Baccharis flora. The Yungas region includes many species found also in other tropical regions of the Andes and several species that are endemic to Bolivia and southern Peru. Species occurring in central and southern Bolivia are elsewhere often restricted to the Andes of northwestern Argentina; these regions include a striking number of species that also occur in southeastern Brazil and adjacent areas. Several Yungas-SE Brazil disjunctions suggest a partially natural origin of open vegetation at medium altitudes of the Yungas. The distribution of the different infrageneric groups suggests that the east side of the Andes between northern Bolivia and central Argentina is the original center of radiation for the genus. Hybridization was noted for a few species. Except in two cases, hybrids are restricted to areas of sympatry of both parental species andd are often fertile. The Bolivian flora includes 59 species of Baccharis (nearly 1/5 of the genus), including 31 subspecies and varieties; of these 13 species and 10 infraspecific taxa are endemic to the country. Baccharis is here divided into four subgenera and three additional unranked groups of unclear affinities; unranked groups are circumscribed within most subgenera. All generic segregates placed in the Baccharidinae (i.e., Baccharidiopsis, Heterothalamulopsis, Heterothalamus, Pseudobaccharis, Stephananthus), except Archibaccharis, are included in Baccharis. Nine new species are described (B. beckii, B. cana, B. glomerata, B. pumila, B. samensis, B. saxatilis, B. torricoi, B. woodii, B. zongoensis) and ten new subspecific taxa (B. coridifolia subsp. bicolor, B. juncea subsp. clavata, B. papillosa subsp. australis, B. papillosa subsp. chaparensis, B. papillosa subsp. integrifolia, B. papillosa subsp. kessleri, B. papillosa subsp. longipedicellata, B. papillosa subsp. yungensis, B. subalata var. vargasii, B. tola subsp. fimbriata). Twelve new combinations are proposed (B. lewisii, B. decussata subsp. jelskii, B. genistelloides subsp. crispa, B. linearifolia subsp. chilco, B. linearifolia subsp. polycephala, B. pentlandii subsp. sculpta, B. saliens var. solomonii, B. tola subsp. santelicis, B. tola var. chrysophylla, B. tola var. incarum, B. tola var. viscosissima, B. trinervis var. debilis), as well eight new combinations (B. aliena, B. caespitosa subsp. procumbens, B. densiflora subsp. perulata, B. psiadioides, B. rufidula, B. salicifolia subsp. calliprinos, B. salicifolia subsp. monoica, B. wagenitzii) for taxa not found in Bolivia (Appendix 1). A second appendix lists, with comments, names erroneously reported for Bolivia in the literature. All taxa are illustrated and mapped, and keys in English and Spanish are provided.
25027948|The genus Ourisia (formerly included in Scrophulariaceae, now assigned to the revised Plantaginaceae) occurs almost exclusively at high elevations in the southern hemisphere. It comprises 28 species (including 10 subspecies): 15 from the South American Andes, 1 from Tasmania, and 12 from New Zealand. Morphological and molecular data support recognition of two subgenera. The newly described Ourisia subg. Suffruticosae includes three suffruticose species (all Andean); Ourisia subg. Ourisia encompasses the 25 herbaceous species. Review of nomenclature showed the need for lectotypification of several names, including one now excluded from the genus: Ourisia pinnata Wallich ex Bentham [=Ellisiophyllum pinnatum (Wallich ex Bentham) Makino]. Three new combinations are proposed: Ourisia coccinea subsp. elegans, O. breviflora subsp. uniflora, and O. macrophylla subsp. lactea. Preliminary morphological and palynological evidence indicate that natural hybridization occurs among some species in New Zealand. Complete synonymies, descriptions, and range maps are provided for each species; most taxa are illustrated. A comprehensive key as well as regional keys are presented in English and Spanish. /// El gnero Ourisia (incluido anteriormente en la familia de las Scrophulariaceae y asignado ahora a la familia revisada de las Plantaginaceae) se encuentra casi exclusivamente en grandes altitudes del hemisferio sur. Comprende 28 especies (incluidas 10 subespecies): 15 de los Andes de Amrica del Sur, 1 de Tasmania y 12 de Nueva Zelandia. Los datos morfolgicos y moleculares respaldan el reconocimiento de dos subgneros. La recientemente descrita Ourisia subg. Suffruticosae incluye tres especies sufruticosas (todas andinas); la Ourisia subg. Ourisia abarca las 25 especies herbceas. Al revisar la nomenclatura qued de manifiesto la necesidad de lectotipificacin de varios nombres, incluido uno que ahora ha sido excluido del gnero: Ourisia pinnata Wallich ex Bentham [=Ellisiophyllum pinnatum (Wallich ex Bentham) Makino]. Se proponen tres combinaciones nuevas: Ourisia coccinea subsp. elegans, O. breviflora subsp. uniflora, y O. macrophylla subsp. lactea. Los indicios morfolgicos y palinolgicos preliminares indican que en algunas especies de Nueva Zelandia se produce hibridacin natural. Para cada especie se proporcionan completas sinonimias, descripciones y mapas de distribucin; se ilustra la mayora de los taxa. Se presenta en ingls y en espaol una completa clave general y claves regionales.
25027952|Claytonia (Portulacaceae) comprises 27 species, including 14 subspecies, of fibrous-rooted annuals as well as tuberous, stoloniferous, rhizomatous, and caudicose perennials, which are indigenous to eastern Asia and North America. The range extends from the mountain chains of the Altai Region of Mongolia and Kazakhstan, Lena/Kolyma, and Lake Baikal regions of Russia, to the islands of the Bering Sea and Aleutian archipelago, and east and south to Alaska, Canada, the United States, and Mexico and a southern limit in the highlands of Guatemala. Biogeographic patterns of diploid species based on x=8, 7, 6, and 5 in centers of endemism on geologic fault blocks, ancient mountain chains, and terranes suggest a boreal and not austral origin for the group. The biogeography and fossil history of Claytonia are reviewed and a preliminary phylogenetic reconstruction is presented. Characters of leaf anatomy and morphology, underground parts, flowers, fruits, chromosomes, and biochemistry were included in the study. Examination of 50,000 herbarium collections and numerous wild populations, as well as chromosomal, phytochemical, and greenhouse studies revealed the extent of interspecific and infraspecific variation. Evaluation of prior generic and infrageneric taxonomic treatments showed that the group is better treated as the single genus Claytonia. An extensive literature review and study of herbarium holdings permitted clarification of nomenclatural matters and typifications. Most species are fully illustrated and all are mapped. One new species (C. ozarkensis) is described, and two new combinations (C. multiscapa subsp. czukczorum, C. multiscapa subsp. pacifica) are proposed.
25027955|Pseuduvaria (Annonaceae) comprises 52 species of trees and treelets that are found from Myanmar to northern Australia. It is most diverse in New Guinea, where 20 species occur. The genus is characterized by the inner petals, which are usually longer than the outer petals and apically connivent to form a mitriform dome over the androecium and gynoecium; three basal apertures enable entry of pollinators. The inner petals often bear one or more adaxial glands, consisting of specialized parenchyma and modified stomata. The majority of species are dioecious (occasionally monoecious), although several species from New Guinea are either androdioecious (P. coriacea, P. costata, P. dolichonema, P. grandifolia, P. megalopus, P. pulchella) or entirely hermaphroditic (P. beccarii, P. brachyantha, P. nova-guineensis). Flowers are fly-pollinated. Several species show evidence of sapromyophily; their inner petals are dark purple or red with dark red glands, and the flowers often emit an unpleasant odor. The present monograph provides a broad synthesis of previously published information and includes discussions on morphology, ultrastructure and anatomy, cytology, ethnobotany, ecology, pollination ecology, dispersal, and phylogeny, which supplement the full descriptions and synonymies of the species treatments. Conservation status assessments are provided for each species; current IUCN red list categories and criteria are listed. Separate keys for flowering and fruiting material are included, as well as regional keys. All species are mapped and many are illustrated. Eleven species are newly described (P. acerosa, P. borneensis, P. brachyantha, P. bruneiensis, P. clemensiae, P. coriacea, P. kingiana, P. mindorensis, P. obliqua, P. parvipetala, and P. subcordata), and five new combinations are proposed (P. cymosa, P. glabrescens, P. macrocarpa, P. sessilicarpa, and P. trimera).
25027958|Harveya (Orobanchaceae) is a genus of root holoparasites native to Africa, Madagascar, and Yemen. Of 41 validly published species names attributed to Harveya, 25 apply to the 13 recognized species endemic to southern Africa. In the present study, a taxonomy of the southern African species is presented based on field and herbarium study, and a preliminary phylogenetic assessment. Sections on morphology, pollination syndromes, host ranges, and geographical distribution, as well as a key to species of southern Africa are presented. For each species treated a full synonymy and description, illustration, and range map are provided. Two new combinations are proposed: Harveya purpurea subsp. euryantha, H. purpurea subsp. sulphurea.
25027962|In the Greater Antilles, Miconia sect. Chaenopleura comprises 47 species of montane shrubs and small trees. The group is likely monophyletic and is characterized by flowers with an actinomorphic androecium of white stamens with erectly held, obovate anthers, which open by two longitudinal slits, exposing the contents of the four locules. The presence of a radially symmetrical androecium and usually white anthers are shared with the related Miconia sect. Cremanium. The other androecial features, however, are likely synapomorphies of the Antillean clade of Miconia sect. Chaenopleura. The pale blue berries and more or less smooth seeds may also be synapomorphic for this Antillean clade. Detailed observations of morphological characters relating to vegetative parts, flowers, fruits, and seeds are the bases of this taxonomic treatment, which also includes preliminary cladistic analyses. Seven subclades are evident within this Antillean species of section Chaenopleura: the crisped-hair clade (10 species, e.g., M. lanceolata, M. rigidissima, and relatives), the bullate-leaved clade (7 species, e.g., M. howardiana, M. favosa, and relatives), the lax-inflorescence clade (5 species, M. ferruginea and relatives), the densely-stellate clade (5 species, M. septentrionalis and relatives), the falcate-leaved clade (4 species, M. krugii and relatives, and 5 species if M. pteroclada is included), the small-flowered clade (3 species, M. apiculata and relatives) and a clade containing M. zanonii, M. calycina, and possibly also M. barkeri. The phylogenetic position of several species cannot be placed with confidence. Within the Antilles, species of Miconia sect. Chaenopleura occur in the Cordillera Central-Massif du Nord of Hispaniola (17 species, 8 endemic), Massif de la Selle-Sierra de Baoruco of Hispaniola (12 species, 3 endemic), Massif de la Hotte of Hispaniola (9 species, 7 endemic), Sierra de Neiba-Massif des Montagnes Noires of Hispaniola (7 species, 1 endemic), the Cordillera Septentrional of Hispaniola (4 species, none endemic), Cuba (7 species, 6 endemic), Puerto Rico (4 species, 3 endemic), and Jamaica (3 species, 3 endemic). Closely related species are usually not sympatric; they are usually either geographically or ecologically isolated, the former by far the more common condition. Interspecific hybrids are rare. Illustrations are provided for most species, and the distribution of all species is mapped.
25027965|In Australia, nineteen species of Rhodamnia Jack (Myrtaceae) are recognized, based on data from morphology and scanning electron microscopy, and are assigned to five informal groups, based primarily on the type of indumentum on the abaxial leaf surface. Stellate hairs, found in two species, appear to represent the first report of this hair type in Myrtaceae. A review of essential oil profiles is presented. In Australia Rhodamnia occurs mostly in eastern Queensland from the northern tip of Cape York Peninsula south through eastern New South Wales, although one species, R. australis, ranges from the Northern Territory to Cape York Peninsula. As circumscribed here, all Australian species are endemic to that continent apart from R. spongiosa, which extends into Papua New Guinea. Detailed descriptions, illustrations of new taxa, distribution maps, and keys are included. Lectotypes are designated for the basionyms Rhodamnia argentea, R. blairiana, R. trinervia var. glabra, and R. trinervia var. spongiosa. Four species are newly described: Rhodamnia arenaria, R. sharpeana, R. fordii, and R. hylandii.
25027969|Recent molecular phylogenetic analyses in the plant family Onagraceae support the need for revisions in the family classification. In this paper we briefly survey the history of generic and suprageneric classification in Onagraceae, summarize our knowledge of the morphological and molecular variation in the family in a phylogenetic context, and propose a revised classification that reflects that phylogeny. We include a species-level synopsis of the family, incorporating all nomenclatural changes and combinations but not full species-level synonymy. We provide descriptions of all taxa recognized for the first time, as well as tribes, genera, sections, subsections, and series. In this treatment, we recognize 22 genera in the family, subdivided into two subfamilies, subfam. Ludwigioideae (only Ludwigia) and subfam. Onagroideae (the other genera), and the latter into six tribes, two with only one genus each, three with two genera each, and one (tribe Onagreae) with 13 genera. Chromosome numbers and breeding system information are summarized, as is the geographical and ecological distribution of each taxon. For each group we list the included taxa. Many changes involve the tribe Onagreae, from which we have segregated Gongylocarpus as its own tribe, sister to the tribes Epilobieae and Onagreae, and within which we propose changes in the delimitation of Camissonia and Oenothera. Camissonia as currently defined is broadly paraphyletic; our new classification recognizes nine generic lineages (Camissonia, Camissoniopsis, Chylismia, Chylismiella, Eremothera, Eulobus, Holmgrenia, Taraxia, and Tetrapteron), which in part form a grade at the base of Oenothera. Each of these lineages is well-supported by morphological and molecular data. In contrast, molecular and morphological data both suggest the need to broaden the delimitation of Oenothera to include Calylophus, Gaura, and Stenosiphon. This redefined Oenothera, strongly supported by molecular data, is marked by at least two morphological synapomorphies: the presence of an indusium on the style, and a lobed or peltate stigma. We summarize these new generic alignments and review the morphological characters used to diagnose all tribes, genera, and sections. New taxa recognized include subfamilies Ludwigioideae and Onagroideae, two genera (Camissoniopsis and Holmgrenia), three sections (Epilobium sect. Macrocarpa, Oenothera sect. Leucocoryne, and O. sect. Xanthocoryne), and one subspecies (O. macrocarpa subsp. mexicana). All other nomenclatural novelties involve new combinations or new names; these include three genera (Chylismiella, Eremothera, and Tetrapteron), 23 sections or subsections (Chylismia sect. Lignothera; Clarkia sect. Phaeostoma subsect. Connubium, C. sect. Phaeostoma subsect. Heterogaura; Epilobium sect. Epilobiopsis; Ludwigia sect. Isnardia; Oenothera sect. Anogra, O. sect. Calylophus, O. sect. Calylophus subsect. Calylophus, O. sect. Calylophus subsect. Salpingia, O. sect. Gaura, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Campogaura, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Gaura, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Gauridium, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Schizocarya, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Stenosiphon, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Stipogaura, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Xenogaura, O. sect. Gaura subsect. Xerogaura, O. sect. Hartmannia, O. sect. Lavauxia, O. sect. Lavauxia subsect. Lavauxia, O. sect. Megapterium, and O. sect. Oenothera subsect. Candela), and 97 species or subspecies (Camissoniopsis bistorta, C. cheiranthifolia, C. cheiranthifolia subsp. suffruticosa, C. confusa, C. guadalupensis, C. guadalupensis subsp. clementiana, C. hardhamiae, C. hirtella, C. ignota, C. intermedia, C. lewisii, C. luciae, C. micrantha, C. pallida, C. pallida subsp. hallii, C. proavita, C. robusta; Chylismia atwoodii, C. brevipes subsp. arizonica, C. brevipes subsp. pallidula, C. cardiophylla subsp. cedrosensis, C. cardiophylla subsp. robusta, C. claviformis subsp. aurantiaca, C. claviformis subsp. cruciformis, C. claviformis subsp. funerea, C. claviformis subsp. integrior, C. claviformis subsp. lancifolia, C. claviformis subsp. peeblesii, C. claviformis subsp. peirsonii, C. claviformis subsp. rubescens, C. claviformis subsp. wigginsii, C. claviformis subsp. yumae, C. confertiflora, C. eastwoodiae, C. exilis, C. megalantha, C. munzii, C. scapoidea subsp. brachycarpa, C. scapoidea subsp. macrocarpa, C. scapoidea subsp. utahensis, C. specicola, C. specicola subsp. hesperia, C. walkeri subsp. tortilis; Chylismiella pterosperma; Epilobium campestre, E. subdentatum; Eremothera boothii, E. boothii subsp. alyssoides, E. boothii subsp. condensata, E. boothii subsp. decorticans, E. boothii subsp. desertorum, E. boothii subsp. intermedia, E. chamaenerioides, E. gouldii, E. minor, E. nevadensis, E. pygmaea, E. refracta; Eulobus angelorum, E. crassifolius, E. sceptrostigma; Holmgrenia andina, H. hilgardii; Ludwigia speciosa; Oenothera arida, O. berlandieri subsp. pinifolia, O. boquillensis, O. calcicola, O. cinerea, O. cinerea subsp. parksii, O. coloradensis, O. coloradensis subsp. neomexicana, O. curtiflora, O. demareei, O. filiformis, O. filiformis, O. filipes, O. gaura, O. glaucifolia, O. hartwegii subsp. fendleri, O. hartwegii subsp. filifolia, O. hartwegii subsp. maccartii, O. hartwegii subsp. pubescens, O. hexandra, O. hexandra subsp. gracilis, O. lindheimeri, O. mckelveyae, O. patriciae, O. simulans, O. sinuosa, O. suffrutescens, O. suffulta, O. suffulta subsp. nealleyi, O. triangulata, O. tubicula subsp. strigulosus, O. xenogaura; Tetrapteron graciliflorum, and T. palmeri).
25027972|Solanum section Lycopersicon (Solanaceae) includes the cultivated tomato (S. lycopersicum) and 12 additional wild relatives, endemic to western South America from Ecuador to northern Bolivia and Chile, and with two endemic species in the Galpagos Islands; weedy escaped forms of S. lycopersicum are distributed worldwide. Two species in Solanum section Juglandifolia, distributed in Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, are sister to section Lycopersicon, and two species of Solanum section Lycopersicoides, distributed in southern Peru and northern Chile, are sister to sections Lycopersicon and Juglandifolia. The delimitation and relationships of wild tomatoes have differed widely depending upon whether morphological or biological species concepts are considered more important. Our monograph summarizes recent morphological and molecular studies of section Lycopersicon, section Juglandifolia, and section Lycopersicoides, and utilizes data from herbarium specimens and observations of germplasm accessions of all species grown in gardens. We recognize four species from the previously polymorphic S. peruvianum sensu lato: S. arcanum, S. corneliomulleri, S. huaylasense, and S. peruvianum sensu stricto, and recognize section Lycopersicoides at sectional level for the first time. Full descriptions and synonymies (including designations of lectotypes), illustrations, distribution maps, and an extensive list of localities are provided for all of tomato and outgroup species.
25027975|The neotropical genus Neosprucea (Salicaceae), formerly included in Flacourtiaceae, comprises nine species of trees. Its range extends from Panama to Guyana and to southern Peru. Data on morphology, wood anatomy, pollen, and geographical distribution are presented. Morphological and molecular analyses were used to assess relationships among the species and of the genus within the family. Neosprucea includes five previously recognized species and four here newly described (N. melastomatoides, N. paterna, N. tenuisepala, and N. wilburiana). The name N. sucumbiensis is considered a synonym of N. grandiflora. The earlier transfer of N. kuhlmannii to the genus Macrothumia is maintained. For each species a full description and range map is provided; all species, except N. sararensis, are illustrated. /// El gnero neotropical Neosprucea (Salicaceae), includo anteriormente en Flacourtiaceae, comprende nueve especies de rboles. Se extiende de Panam a Guyana y al sur del Per. Se presentan datos sobre morfologa, anatoma de la madera, polen y distribucin geogrfica. Se utilizaron anlisis morfolgicos y moleculares para establecer las relaciones filogenticas entre las especies (del gnero) y del gnero en la familia. Neosprucea incluye cinco especies reconocidas anteriormente y cuatro especies nuevas aqu descritas (N. melastomatoides, N. paterna, N. tenuisepala y N. wilburiana). El nombre N. sucumbiensis se considera sinnimo de N. grandiflora. Se mantiene la transferencia anterior de N. kuhlmannii al gnero Macrothumia. Se incluyen descripciones detalladas y mapas de distribucin para cada especie; se ilustran todas las especies excepto N. sararensis.
25592351|The genus Psittacanthus is the larger of two closely related neotropical genera of Loranthaceae; the other, much smaller genus is Aetanthus. They are distinct from all other members of the family mainly through the absence of endosperm in the mature seed, the massive cotyledons having expropriated the storage function for the germinating seedling. Psittacanthus under the present coverage comprises 119 species, 51 of which are here newly described and illustrated. The latter include: Psittacanthus acevedoi, P. acuminatus, P. acutus, P. aequatorius, P. antioquiensis, P. atrolineatus, P. baguensis, P. bergii, P. bolbocephalus, P. bolivarensis, P. brachypodus, P. cajamarcanus, P. carinatus, P. carnosus, P. complanatus, P. crassicostatus, P. crassinervis, P. crassipes, P. cyclophyllus, P. dentatus, P. dillonii, P. elegans, P. geniculatus, P. gentryi, P. hatschbachii, P. kempffii, P. lophanthus, P. micrantherus, P. microphyllus, P. ophiocephalus, P. ovatus, P. panamensis, P. pascoensis, P. pentaphyllus, P. pilanthus, P. piurensis, P. quadrangularis, P. quadrifolius, P. roldanii, P. rotundatus, P. rugostylus, P. salicifolius, P. salvadorensis, P. schultesii, P. smithii, P. stergiosii, P. sulcatus, P. tenellus, P. ternatus, P. tubatus, and P. valleculanthus. Psittacanthus wurdackii, previously recognized as a variety, is elevated to species rank. One additional new combination, P. paxianus, is proposed. Psittacanthus is almost entirely continental, but has a minor representation on Jamaica and some of the Lesser Antilles. An infrageneric organization is not recognized at this time. Keys, full synonymies, detailed decriptions, and maps are presented; illustrations are provided for all species.
25592354|The genera Isolona Engl. and Monodora Dun. (Annonaceae) comprise 20 and 14 species of trees or shrubs, respectively, occurring in lowland or montane rain forests from West to East Africa; Isolona is also found in Madagascar. In a recent molecular phylogeny of the Annonaceae, Isolona and Monodora were recovered as sister genera with strong support. Both genera are remarkable for the presence of a syncarpous gynoecium, whereas the rest of Annonaceae are apocarpous; in other aspects, the two genera are morphologically very distinct. Isolona has medium-sized and generally inconspicuous flowers, varying from yellow to red. The petals are basally fused into a tube dividing into six equal-sized lobes spreading horizontally or arcing downward. Flowers of Monodora are large and conspicuous, with streaks of purple, red, or yellow on a white to cream background. The corolla consists of large outer and smaller inner petals that are only slightly fused basally. The inner petals are connivent, forming a dome covering the androecium and gynoecium. In Monodora the pollen unit is composed of four unified pollen grains (tetrads), whereas in Isolona the pollen unit is composed of solitary grains (monads). This monograph is the first taxonomic revision of both genera since 1901 and provides details on floral anatomy as well as a nearly complete species-level molecular phylogeny of both genera. Previously published relevant information on morphology, pollination biology, dispersal, palynology, and ethnobotany is reviewed. Keys to the flowering and fruiting specimens of both genera are provided. Detailed illustrations accompany the treatments for 17 species of Isolona and 12 species of Monodora. The conservation status of each species is assessed following the IUCN recommendations; just under half of the total number of species from both genera are threatened (12 species of Isolona; 4 species of Monodora).
25592358|The genus Glossoloma (Gesneriaceae; subfamily Gesnerioideae; tribe Episcieae) comprises 27 species and occurs from southern Mexico to Panama, northwestern South America, and south to Bolivia. It ranges in elevation from sea level in the Choc forests of northwestern South America to 3500 meters in the Andean cloud forests of Colombia and Ecuador. The center of diversity of Glossoloma is found in the western lowland forests in Ecuador and Colombia, where 15 species occur. The habit ranges from unbranched terrestrial subshrubs and herbs to occasionally facultative epiphytes; two species are obligate epiphytes. Nearly all species of Glossoloma have resupinate flowers with laterally compressed tubular corollas that are apically pouched. The generic circumscription of Glossoloma is based on phylogenetic analyses of morphological and molecular data from the ribosomal (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) and the intergenic (trnH-psbA) chloroplast spacer region (details of the analyses are published separately). Glossoloma includes the majority of species that had been traditionally recognized as Alloplectus, a poorly defined genus with discordant elements currently nesting in Columnea, Nematanthus, Drymonia, and the resurrected genus Crantzia. Replacing the traditional polyphyletic concept of Alloplectus with a monophyletic Glossoloma resulted in 21 new combinations, which were published previously. Five new species are proposed: Glossoloma anomalum, G. harlequinoides, G. pedunculatum, G. scandens, and G. subglabrum. A lectotype is designated for Alloplectus penduliflorus (=Glossoloma penduliflorum). Full synonymies and descriptions, and a key are provided; all species are mapped, and most are illustrated.
25592362|Artemisia subgenus Tridentatae (Asteraceae-Asteroideae-Anthemideae-Artemisiinae) comprises 13 species, including 12 subspecies, of shrubs endemic to western North America, including the coastal areas of Baja California, the grasslands of the Great Plains, the basalt scablands of the Columbia Plateau, the western shrub lands of Canada, and the warm deserts of the Colorado Plateaus. The Tridentatae lineage underwent a period of rapid diversification and expansion, especially since the last glacial period. The greatest abundance of shrubs occurs within the arid Great Basin, a cold desert that was occupied by Pleistocene lakes. Taxa apparently representing ancestral lineages (A. rigida and A. tripartita) occur outside the margins of this inland desert. In spite of the extraordinary ecological specializations among the taxa, there is relatively little genetic differentiation, and morphological differences are often subtle. Differences in soil type, temperature, and moisture regimes distinguish the habitats of species as well as subspecies. Hybridization between species is rare, although hybridization among subspecies is common where populations are sympatric or habitats have been disturbed. Morphological differences among taxa primarily include discontinuities in growth form, the shape of the crown, the structure of the inflorescence, and habit (evergreen or deciduous, "root-sprouting" or not). Differences in leaf anatomy are significant and physiologically correlated, helping to define species boundaries but of no utility in field identification. Pollen varies notably in shape and size, and may prove to be useful in distinguishing species in stratigraphic profiles. Floral morphology varies little (florets and cypselae are nearly identical), but sexual arrangement within floral heads (capitula) defines sections: sect. Tridentatae is homogamous (all florets are perfect and fertile), and sect. Nebulosae is heterogamous (central florets are perfect or sterile, marginal florets are pistillate). An expanded circumscription and the geographic range of subg. Tridentatae is proposed. In order to accommodate morphological differences while keeping alliances indicated by molecular studies, subg. Tridentatae is divided into two new sections: sect. Tridentatae (10 species) and sect. Nebulosae; the latter includes A. californica and A. nesiotica (formerly placed in subg. Artemisia), and A. filifolia (formerly placed in subg. Dracunculus). Morphology and anatomy, ploidy levels, phytogeography, and phylogeny are discussed. Full synonymies and descriptions are provided for all taxa, as well as a key, specimen citations, illustrations, and maps.
41059228|The genus Mitrephora (Annonaceae) comprises 47 species of small to medium-sized trees, growing in tropical lowland and submontane forests throughout Southeast Asia. The centers of diversity lie in Borneo, where there are 12 species, and the Philippines, where there are 11 species. The flowers are pendent and hermaphroditic, with two whorls of petals, of which the outer petals are larger. The inner petals are apically connivent over the reproductive structures, forming a partially enclosed pollination chamber with small apertures between the basal claws of the petals that enable entry by pollinators. A field study of the pollination ecology of M. heyneana in Sri Lanka (the first such study for the genus) revealed pollination by small nitidulid beetles, although it is possible that other species may be fly-pollinated. This monograph is the first comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus. The work is based on a comprehensive study of comparative morphology and anatomy, including a survey of previously published work. Conservation assessments are provided for each species, according to current IUCN Red List categories and criteria. All species are mapped and many are illustrated with line drawings and/or photographs. Separate keys for flowering and fruiting material are included, as well as regional keys. Seven new species (M. amdjahii, M. endertii, M. kostermansii, M. multifolia, M. sorsogonensis, M. sundaica, and M. uniflora) and one new combination (M. macrocarpa) are proposed.
41059147|Berlinia, a genus of tropical African trees in the subfamily Caesalpinioideae (Leguminosae), comprises 21 species, five of which were discovered during this study and previously published. A phylogeny of Berlinia based on nucleotide sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region of 14 species is presented, which places the species in two clades. The two clades appear to be ecologically differentiated: one is exclusively composed of hygrophilous species of evergreen forest, and the other contains species that in all but one case occur in habitats of lower annual rainfall. The genus is almost exclusively West and West-central African, with a center of diversity in coastal Gabon. A single species, B. orientalis, is confined to coastal East Africa. Typically, species of Berlinia are trees of lowland forest, including swamp and gallery forest formations. Red data assessments for all species indicate that eight are Vulnerable, one is Endangered, and two are Critically Endangered. A dichotomous key and a table of key characters are presented. Each species account includes nomenclature, full description, and distribution map; many species are illustrated.
41059150|The mistletoe genus Dendropemon (Loranthaceae), consisting of 31 species, is endemic to the Caribbean islands and the Bahamas. It is characterized by indeterminate inflorescences bearing paired monads; each flower is subtended by a bract and two bracteoles that are fused to various degrees, forming a cupule-like structure. A feature of Dendropemon unique in the family is the high degree of stamen dimorphism, involving alternate fertile stamens and staminodia. The genus seems most closely related to Passovia and Oryctanthus, both of which are continental in distribution, except for the presence of all three genera on Jamaica. This monograph provides a synthesis of information on Dendropemon, including keys, diagnoses, and illustrations for all species. It includes the description and illustrations for seven new species, D. angustifolius, D. dimorphus, D. elegans, D. fiiscus, D. oblanceolatus, D. polycarpus, and D. robustus.
23210353|This study represents the first attempt to evaluate generic and species limits in the South American genus Siphanthera by incorporating new information from macromorphology, pollen and seed micromorphology, chromosome cytology, a cladistic analysis, and distributional information. Available data provide a rationale for recognizing Siphanthera as a monophyletic genus of fifteen species with a bicentric distribution centered in the Brazilian Planalto, and the Guayana Highlands and contiguous areas. The monotypic genus Farringtonia has been merged with Siphanthera during this study and two new species are proposed here, S. todziae from the Amazon Basin and S. wurdackii from the Brazilian Planalto. The recent assignment of Siphanthera to the broadly defined tribe Melastomeae is called into question pending the results of a forthcoming family-wide multigene phylogenetic analysis. An evaluation of taxonomic characters used to recognize previous infrageneric groups has led to the abandonment of a formal sectional classification of the genus. Some major evolutionary trends in Siphanthera include: change from a perennial to an annual life cycle; change in foliar venation from basal acrodromous to loss of secondaries in one direction and change in the prominence of secondary veins and their pattern of divergence from the primary vein in another direction; reduction in inflorescence complexity from branched compound dichasia to congested capituliform inflorescences or few-flowered or solitary flowered inflorescences; change in petal shape from obovate with a rounded to acute base to more or less rotund petals with a clawed base; reduction in stamen number from eight fertile stamens to four fertile stamens; change in anther shape from elongate and subulate or rostrate with a small apical pore to ovoid or subrotund with a broad ventrally or dorsally inclined apical pore; and modification of capsule shape from essentially globose with a rounded apex to laterally compressed with a bilobed or notched apex. Species constituting the first diverging lineage in our cladogram suggest a possible Brazilian Planalto origin for the genus. Pathways to northward migration were opened via large areas of continuous savanna vegetation across the Amazon Basin that connected the Brazilian and Guayana Shields during climatic fluctuations of the Pleistocene. In a less likely alternative, the distribution of Siphanthera can be accounted for by vicariance of a widespread ancestor that spanned the Brazilian and Guayana Shields. In this scenario, the taxa that branch off from the first diverging clade in our phylogenetic tree could represent a geographic sequence of differentiation from the widespread ancestor and not a series of dispersal events. Present-day rain forest dominance of the Amazon Basin with its few and scattered savanna islands has largely isolated northern and southern populations of Siphanthera and appears to explain the prevailing bicentric concentration of species on the South American continent. Este estudo representa a primeira contempornea tentativa de estabelecer os limites genrico e especficos de gnero sul americano Siphanthera com a utilizao de nova informao obtida de macromorfologia, plen e semente micromorfologia, citologia de cromossomos, anlise cladstica, e informao sobre distribuio. A data angariada forneceu razo bastante para reconhecer Siphanthera como sendo um gnero monofiltico de quinze espcies com uma distribuio bicntrica caracterstica que abrange o planalto brasileiro e Guayana Highlands e reas adjacentes. O gnero monotpico Farringtonia, at ento reconhecido, passou a ser um sinnimo de Siphanthera durante este estudo, e duas espcies novas esto sendo propostas, S. todziae da bacia amaznica e S. wurdackii do planalto brasileiro. A recente designao de Siphanthera para a tribo Melastomeae, a qual  definida com amplietude,  questionvel dependendo dos resultados esperados no futuro prximo de uma anlise filogentica que abrange um grande nmero de famlias e gneros. Uma avaliao dos carcteres taxonmicos usados para reconhecer prvios agrupamentos infragenricos resultou no abandono da classificao formal das sees do gnero. Algumas das principais tendncias evolucionrias em Siphanthera incluem: mudana de perenial para o ciclo anual; mudana da disposio das veias nas folhas de acrodomos basal indo para uma direo com a perda das veias secundrias, e para outra direo com mudana na proeminncia das veias secundrias e o modo de divergncia partindo da veia principal; reduo na complexidade da inflorecncia indo de ramoso composto dicsio para aglomerada e em forma de captulo ou com poucas flores ou mesmo com flor solitria; mudana na forma das ptalas de obovata com base arredondada ou acuta para mais ou menos circular com base ligulada; reduo do nmero de estames de oito frteis para quatro frteis; mudana na forma da antera de elongada e subulada ou rostrada com um pequeno poro apical para ovoide ou subrotunda com um grande poro inclinado ventralmente ou dorsalmente; modificao na forma da cpsula de essencialmente globosa com pice arredondado para compressada lateralmente com pice bilobado e entalhado. As espcies que compem a linhagem basal em nosso cladograma sugerem a possibilidade de que a origem do gnero tenha sido no planalto brasileiro. Corredores para a migrao no sentido norte foram abertos via grandes reas de vegetao contnua de savana sobre a bacia amaznica que ligava os escudos brasileiros e guianenses durante as flutuaes de clima do Plistoceno. Alternativamente, a distribuio de Siphanthera pode ser explicada por vicariance de um ancestor que ia do escudo brasileiro ao guianense. Neste cenrio a taxa que parte da clade basal em nossa rvore filogentica poderia representar uma sequncia geogrfica do antepassado e no uma srie de casos de disperso. Presentemente a predominncia de foresta tropical que domina a bacia amaznica com suas poucas e dispersas ilhas de savana vieram isolar as populaes de Siphanthera do norte das do sul e parecem explicar a prevalncia da concetrao bicntrica de espcies no continente sulamericano.
23210357|The new genus Trichanthecium (Poaceae, Paniceae) is proposed on the basis of shared morphological characters, including presence of membranous ligules, lax and open inflorescences, ellipsoid to obovoid and pilose or glabrous spikelets, the lower glume nearly 1/2 to as long as the spikelet and (1) 3-nerved, the upper glume 35-nerved, and the upper anthecium indurate and covered with globose or elongated bicellular microhairs and simple papillae. This generic delimitation was confirmed with molecular phylogenetic studies utilizing analyses of chloroplast ndhF and rpoA sequences. Morphological characters and phylogenetic aspects of Panicum and other genera of Paniceae are discussed. Trichanthecium comprises 38 American and African species, which were previously assigned to Panicum sections Parvifolia and Verruculosa. Full synonymies and descriptions, and a key are provided; all species are mapped, and most are illustrated. Lectotypes are designated for Isachne margaritifera Chiov., I. trochainii A. Camus, Panicum carannasense Mez, P. cyanescens var. rigidiusculum Dll, P. drosocarpum Stapf, P. frederici Rendle, P. frederici var. minor Rendle, P. fulgens Stapf, P. fulgens var. pubescens Robyns, P. gracilicaule Rendle, P. helobium Mez ex Henrard, P. ianthum Stapf, P. juncifolium Stapf, P. mueense Vanderyst, P. natalense Hochst., P. plagianthum Stapf, P. pubiglume Stapf, P. schwackeanum Mez, P. sublaetum Stapf, P. subulatum Spreng. A neotype is designated for Aira distichophylla Spreng. Thirty-eight new combinations are proposed: T. arctum, T. auricomum, T. brazzavillense, T. caaguazuense, T. cyanescens, T. dinklagei, T. distichophyllum, T. filifolium, T. fonticolum, T. glaucocladum, T. gracilicaule, T. granuliferum, T. ichunense, T. machrisianum, T. margaritiferum, T. micranthum, T. mueense, T. natalense, T. nervatum, T. nervosum, T. noterophilum, T. nutabundum, T. orinocanum, T. pandum, T. parvifolium, T. petilum, T. petrense, T. polycomum, T. praealtum, T. pseudisachne, T. pyrularium, T. rivale, T. schwackeanum, T. strictissimum, T. tenellum, T. tepuianum, T. wettsteinii, T. yavitaense.
